MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Well done today.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Do you feel happy with the progress your making in the Major Championships?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I felt like I was running a marathon. It was a long run and I was exhausted. But at the same time I was doing really well coming up, so I'm happy.  
  
  Q. Do you feel though that -- you seem to be playing a little bit better each Major Championship you get under your belt. Do you feel like your making progress?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I think that was probably the best experience in the Majors and especially that I was able to stabilize my score throughout the Tournament. So I was very happy about that result.   
  
  Q. It seems that your ball flight is a little bit different, it's not as high as it was, seems like you're being able to work the ball a little better or your trajectory a little better, is that something that you focused on?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I think I have to practice my irons yesterday, I adjusted a little bit from yesterday and I tried to aim high and so then I can just drop it. So 17 and 18 I think I did really well with it.   
  
  Q. What is it like making the walk up 18 and hearing the galleries?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I think it was a little bit kind of lonely because I know Tiger was going through just at the same time I just came through here, so but next time at this time I would like to start about two hours later and then I would like to just go through exactly like Tiger did today.   
  
  Q. Where will you be playing next?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I have a tournament next week in Japan, but if I can play in the U.S. Open, that's when I'll be coming back to play.   
  
  Q. Your comfort level playing in the States, is it much higher now?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I think that, yes, especially that I was able to make the cut this year and that relieved me quite a bit so that I can just come back again and play well in the Majors.   
  
  Q. Impressive performance by the amateur as well. Do you have any comment on him?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Well I'm happy for him and I hope that he will be able to extend his score as he's coming through and as I understand that he's making the history for the Japanese amateurs.   
 So I would like to cheer him on. And I'm just happy.  
  
  Q. I know he chipped in for birdie at 7, I think. He's still playing pretty well today.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Well I think I would like to play with him and I know that he will be coming into the Tournament and playing with me in Japan, so I'm, so I'll look forward to playing with him.  
  
  Q. Do you wish they would have started the Asian Amateur sooner and then maybe you would have been here sooner?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I think I chose the professional route and that's the way to go for me and I don't think I could have come any time earlier than I came.   
  
  Q. When you're back in Japan will you be going to any of the earthquake damaged areas, because obviously everybody is aware of the great gesture that you've made.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I have a tournament starting next week and I'm going home for just the one day and then I'll practice before the Tournament, so I do not think that I can go to visit the people in the disaster area any time soon.  
  
  Q. When you say next week, you mean the Tournament is this coming week or the week after this?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Yes, the coming week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT