THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 2, 2015
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RYO ISHIKAWA: I got some luckies today.  The 11th tee shot, I drove way right, like 50 yards right, just keep on the fairway at the 10th hole and hit in 6, like 250, 260 yards from the pin and got on the green and two-putt for par.  That's how I started today.  I got some luckies.  But I played solid.  I mean, tee shot, iron shot was, I mean, better feeling, better than the last couple months. I'm just trying to find something for positive.  Yeah, hopefully get into contention this weekend, but still, 54 holes to go.  Long week maybe, so I just -- yeah, stay patient and, yeah, hopefully get it done.Q. A lot of players talk all the time if they're in rough patches, something lucky, getting some lucky breaks, and it sounds like you got that today.  Do you see that changing kind of how you've been playing?RYO ISHIKAWA: Yeah, I've been hitting driver not so well, but I just changed the driver this week to old one, which is a Big Bertha Alpha.  It works pretty well, and that driver fits my swing.  This golf course is a little bit tight golf course, and lots of trouble on your right side, so you just have to keep left side of the golf course every hole, so that's the key, and I did it today, but I don't know tomorrow.  I just have to get hard work after this coverage, go straight back to driving range and figure it out.Q. How do you handle all the attention you get in your home country of Japan, all the media attention?RYO ISHIKAWA: It's not so huge.  It's not like this.  I'm fine.  Yeah.Q. How do you feel?  Do you feel fortunate in being able to get in and get done before any potential heavy rain comes in?  Does that play into it?RYO ISHIKAWA: Yeah, I'm pretty happy with that.  I mean, we got some rain first couple holes, but that's it.  I thought the weather will be much, much worse, but yeah, we played pretty clear weather, like no wind.  It's not too hot, it's not cold.  It's very comfortable weather. The last three days, I mean, I practiced this golf course, like I played two rounds and played Wednesday round.  It was windy, but today very quiet and just nice weather.  Yeah, I don't know which weather coming this afternoon, but yeah, I'm pretty happy with what I did already before the rain coming, yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT