MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 4, 2011
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROB JOHNSTON: Good afternoon, everyone. We are so pleased and honored to have a superbly-talented young man from Japan with us today. Ryo, thank you, and thanks to all of your fellow competitors from Japan here this week for having the courage to play before your millions of fans back home in Japan, and throughout the world. 
 Despite the excitement, we welcome you back to the third visit to Augusta, and we certainly understand that all of the people affected by this recent horrific disaster will surely be on your mind. And on behalf of the Augusta National Golf Club and the Masters Tournament, we offer our encouragement certainly to you and to all of our many friends and associates in Japan during this moment of distress. 
 Thank you again for being here and you should be richly commended for your personal financial commitment to the recovery efforts in Japan. 

 Q. Is it difficult to try to get ready to play golf when all of the circumstances going on back home? Is it harder than it normally is?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I understand that many sports events in Japan or postponed or cancelled because of the quake, but at the same time, I would like to emphasize the power and energy that sports can create for those people to encourage them, and also that it's my intention to play really well; that it will be the best way to encourage people in Japan. 

 Q. How did you come to the decision to donate your entire 2011 earnings on the golf course to the Japan relief efforts? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I consulted with my family as well as my team, but eventually I decided that I would like to do it, and by doing so, I would really like to encourage those people, especially those who are going through the hardship in Japan; and hope that this will contribute to those people so that they will be encouraged and they can walk again in their life. 

 Q. I was just wondering where you were when the earthquake hit, and to what extent have you travelled around to any of the areas in Japan that have been hit hardest by this. 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I was at the Cadillac tournament, and as a routine, I always check Japanese news via the Internet, and I got to know the extent of the disaster. I wasn't able to connect with my family for a little bit, and that made me feel a little bit nervous. But also, the fact that I was away from them at that point was not the easiest thing for me. 

 Q. How has the tragedy of Japan touched you most personally? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: It's been almost three weeks or a month after the disaster, but as I see there are many media in the world reporting how the Japanese people reacted to the disaster. Even people are lining up for food and water and just lining up for three or four hours just to make it a neat line. And as I watch those things and as I listen to the world media report on the endurance of the Japanese people and how calm they were; at this point I am very proud to be Japanese, and especially looking at those people who are dealing with this hard situation in the most calm way. 

 Q. Where is your family now? Are they safe? And did you have any family or friends in the tsunami zone? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: My family is with me right now. They came here a week ago. But I have some friends, acquaintances in the disaster zone but most of my friends are doing okay. And my family is telling me on the phone, the communication, that they are doing okay, but I am so glad that they are with me here today. 

 Q. I was curious if you have spoken with any victims of the tragedy, and if so, what has been their reaction to your financial gesture? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I haven't met with any of the people who are affected by the disaster. But I hope that some day, I will be able to meet with them and not just the short-term support, but I would like to provide them with a long-term support for those people. 

 Q. Do you feel that a major championship title now does not mean a great deal in terms of life, or do you think that to win a major for Japan would be a gesture that would give a jolt to the whole country? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I believe in the power that sports can bring to those people who are affected by the disaster. Therefore, I would like to really do my best to bring the joy to those people, and I believe that if those people here, Japanese players, are doing well, they will be encouraged by the fact that the Japanese people are doing really well in the world. 

 Q. You haven't been home since the disaster, because I think you've played the last three weeks leading up to this; when do you expect to go back, and when you do, do you intend to visit some of the affected regions and are you concerned about seeing firsthand the impact? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I don't know what it's like since I haven't been there myself. And when I go back, I have three tournaments after going back to Japan. So at this point, I do not have any solid plan when I can go and visit those people. 
 But I would really love to go and visit those people and encourage them, and that's one of the reasons why I decided to donate the entire earnings this year for those people; so that I feel that I am with them and fighting with them side-by-side, although I will not be with them physically. 
 But I would love to go and visit those people who are affected by the disaster. 

 Q. What has been the hardest part about having the success you've had in Japan and having it in America? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: About golf? 

 Q. Yes. 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I haven't been producing the results, but at the same time, I know that I am playing well. I know what I'm doing is right at this point. 
 And I would love to do -- some day I would like to show to the American people how well I can play. The key is to just to really read the grass and how the course is laid out, and that's one of the things I try to concentrate on. 

 Q. If you were reading transcripts of other players to try and help with your English, whose are you reading or whose would you want to read?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I will try to use -- to get a copy of my interview, as well as the other interviews that will be taking place here and try to get copies of the transcripts so that I can just take some of the phrases which I may be able to use in the future. (Laughter).

 Q. As high-profile as you are back home in Japan, how much of a responsibility did you feel to help what was going on back there, financially or personally? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: This is my fourth year as a professional golfer, and I was supported by many sponsors. They provided me with everything I need to play golf, and whatever I earned, I spent for golf. 
 But now, as I see how those people supported me, now it's my turn to support those people who are in need, and I believe that is my responsibility. And as I recognize that, as my social status in Japan is getting higher, I believe that is one of the responsibilities, to provide for those people who are in need because I was supported before, and I would love to continue to do that as a professional.

 Q. What have your friends back home told you about the reaction among your people about the sizable donation? And have you heard from anybody from the prime minister's staff or anything of that nature? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I have received many e-mails from my friends and most of them told me, "That you made such a big decision." And I think some people just even said, "Well, that's something that only you can do." 
 I believe that I will be hearing that some more, but that's the kind of message I received from my friends. 

 Q. A golf question, if I may. This is your third time at Augusta, I believe, and they say first-timers very seldom win, but what have you learned in the last couple of years about the golf course and what it would take to win here?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: The first year, everything was new, and I had never seen such a big gallery, from even the Monday through Wednesday. Everything was a first, and I felt like it was just so quick; the week passed just so quick.
 And the second year, I was able to control myself more. But at the same time, as I played under the pressure; that I was able to make the cut to the final rounds. That pressure was so strong that I think I just failed to deal with that, the pressure. That was what I had learned from last year. 
 And this year, as I played even the practice round today, I'm so used to playing under a large crowd. I think I'm doing better and I think I'm playing much better than the last two times. 

 Q. I read a quote shortly after the tsunami that you had said you were here physically but not mentally. Going into this week and into this major; is that still the case, or do you feel differently now? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Right now, since my big decision, I'm 100 percent for playing golf. I believe that as I play, I'm connected with the people that are affected by the disaster through the donation, whatever I earn for this year. And that's why I am really fully devoting myself to golf at this point. 
 ROB JOHNSTON: Ryo, we sincerely appreciate you being here this week and we wish you the best of luck in the 75th Masters Tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT