THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 6, 2010
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Welcome, Ryo, welcome to The Barclays Scottish Open. Maybe start us off by your thoughts on playing in the Barclays Scottish Open. 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I'm looking forward to seeing this course here. Well, I notice that the greens are much better than in the past, but also the big thing is the weather. One moment you can be playing in shirt sleeves and bee too hot; the next minute you have long sleeves and it is very cold. I find that the course is very easy to play. Yesterday I saw the ground is very soft but now it's better, and the greens -- I know the greens on Thursday might be playing better. 

 Q. Would you tell us your first memories of golf in Scotland that you saw on television?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Last year for the first time I played with Tiger Woods and Lee Westwood. 

 Q. Could you tell us your first memories of golf in Scotland that you saw on television? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: He played in Turnberry for the first time in Scotland last year. Last year I just played in Turnberry the first time. I played with Tiger Woods and Lee Westwood. I really admired them before and before I was just looking, admiring the place. 

 Q. You spoke about Turnberry last year. How much will having the experience of being in Scotland once before and playing in the weather, how much will that help you next week? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: This year I'm just looking forward to playing in The Barclays Scottish Open and I would like to keep my play the same style as possible. 

 Q. Do you enjoy links golf? It's so much different from other golf and inland golf; do you enjoy that type of golf?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I like links golf, all golf -- links golf is different to playing the courses in Japan, I just feel playing in Scotland, particularly the home of golf, is very good. And also the wind and playing the ball off of the hard ground, the hardness, the hard ground, playing the hard ground is very different. It's all good for me, so I really like to play in Scotland. 

 Q. How do you feel being the centre of so much attention when you play? 
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Part of being among the media is very appreciated and also very important and appreciated because the sport of golf should be known to people in the world, and in Japan, if the Japanese Media are not here, people don't know that I've been playing in Scotland. But I found it to be very important me. 

 Q. Can you talk about the 58?
 RYO ISHIKAWA: When I made the 58 score, I had very good golf. It was a dream of a dream, and I felt that I can do any -- I can control any distance. Only one day I can just be happy. 
 Making an effort every day, 58 the score. I don't know if I can do it again or this week or one year after or next week or ten years after or never. I just know that I have to make the effort and try to -- trying every day. 

 Q. What were your emotions standing in the 18th tee that day.
 RYO ISHIKAWA: It's very difficult, really, I can't use excited, probably more cool, more controlled. This course, in particular the 18th hole, the par 4, on the right-hand side, so the tee shot is quite difficult. But I trust and I believe that I can do it. -- not going to bogey, but I'm just going to trust it so I'm just cool, calmed down at times, not excited, that's something more cool and calm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT