U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2010
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is the word pressure even in your Japanese vocabulary?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I don't know if it's the right word, but my feeling is go for it. So challenging is something to me and especially in the outside Japan tournaments it doesn't mean anything if I don't challenge things.   
  
  Q. Some of your playing partners say as long as your short game continues the way it is and your putter, you'll be right in there all weekend. What do you think?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: In February when I played at the AT&T Pebble Beach I struggled with putting. But I practiced a lot in Japan and this week I'm doing great on putting.   
  
  Q. Are you enjoying playing with Tom and did he have any special words for you?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Yesterday Tom and I discussed, talked about golf courses in Japan which is designed by him. Today Tom said to me that I will have a good future.   
  
  Q. How much more difficult do you think it will be the next two days with the pressure of the weekend at a Major, how will the atmosphere change?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I hope I can play more aggressive tomorrow and the next two days.   
 I hope I can focus on my golf, just on my golf.   
  
  Q. No. 17 was the most difficult hole on the course yesterday, it probably is again today, yet you almost holed out from the bunker yesterday and made birdie there today. What's the secret?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I like it. I like 17. I hit a 4-iron today and I couldn't see where the ball landed after the first bounce, it was just a lucky bounce.   
 The putting was very straight, straight, right in, so yesterday and today I was very lucky.   
  
  Q. You hit the ball very high. Did you work a lot on trying to control your trajectory in preparation for coming to this golf course?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: This course makes me try a lot of different shots that I'm not used to on the Japanese Tour, so a very high ball, it makes me try a high ball, low ball, chip shot. And it's also windy and there's a lot of bunkers and the greens are very hard. So it's very different than the Japanese Tour on the Japanese courses. So I'm learning. I'm learning every day. And I'm going to try to focus on my golf.   
  
  Q. Even though the course is a lot different now than February how much did it help to play here in February? How much did that help you for this tournament?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I feel that it was more difficult in February. That's how I feel.   
  
  Q. How is it more difficult in February? In what ways?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Especially the greens, the undulation and the poa annua greens.   
  
  Q. You don't think it's playing harder this week?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Well, of course. Of course, but I could keep my mind on golf this week and I'm doing that better than February.   
  
  Q. Did you hear anyone cheering for you out on the course?  
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Yeah, I heard a lot of Japanese fans. I'm very glad to hear them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT