THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2009
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Today you had a conversation with Tiger and Michael Jordan at the practice range, what did you guys say to each other?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: We had just said good morning when we first met in the morning at the practice range. But with Tiger, I saw him at the party last night and briefly spoke, and so today was just a casual good morning.   
 Mr. Jordan, I obviously introduced myself and said hello. I wasn't able to talk to him last night, and so I was really excited to get to speak with him this morning, but it was just a greeting.   
  
  Q. What impression did you have of Michael Jordan?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Mr. Jordan was really big and I saw him from a far distance yesterday. So I was really excited to get to meet him today and to speak with him briefly.   
  
  Q. You have been paired with Geoff Ogilvy, can you give us an impression on that?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: The first time I met Mr. Ogilvy was at the Taiheiyo Masters in Japan. He was very nice to me then and also coming into this week, he's been really nice to me this week. I'm just really happy to be paired with him.   
 Because I had known him in the past, I didn't know that I would get to pair with him this week, but it was great that it worked out this way and that I get to pair with him.  
 And the other players and caddies have come up me and said, "Geoff really wanted to play with you." So when I heard that, I was really, really happy. Now that we have been paired, obviously we have to back each other up; if one of us makes a bad shot, the other has to cover for the other. I think the key is going to be not making a great shot, every shot, but if we can cover for each other and if the other makes a mistake, come back with a great recovery shot. I think that's going to be the key.   
  
  Q. And also you're playing against Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker; your impression on that?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Obviously Tiger and Steve Stricker, that team is great. They are going to be very strong. But golf is a game that you just never know what will happen. Especially in a match-play situation, you just don't know what is going to happen.   
 I feel like, looking at what the players here have accomplished, I might be somebody that is not bringing a lot of credential behind me, but, I'm going to do my best and play hard till the end, and hopefully we can come out victorious.   
  
  Q. Did you and Geoff come up with a plan of attack tomorrow, who is going to hit the tee shots and what the order is; and what kind of ball did you decide you were going to use?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: We have decided on who is going to take the tee shots on certain holes, and we have decided that I'm going to take the odd holes.   
 Geoff had said that he liked the No. 2 hole par 3 and I told him that I liked the No. 5 and No. 7 holes where it's a dogleg-left, and I really felt comfortable hitting the tee shot there. So I think that will work out for us.   
 As for the ball we are going to use, Geoff's, what he uses, which is the Titleist Pro V1. In the practice round today, we used Geoff's ball, so I used his ball all day today, the Titleist Pro V1.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you had said that you wanted to play in a match later on in the day, it's obviously against a strong team. Do you have any feelings of responsibility, and how do you feel right now going into tomorrow playing against such strong opponents?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I had heard that Mr. Norman had placed mine and Geoff's name up on the board, and then Mr. Couples put the names of Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker on the board.   
 I know that for the U.S. Team, Mr. Woods and Mr. Stricker, they are going to be basically the No. 1 team, and I'm very excited because of the fact that Mr. Couples picked Mr. Woods and Mr. Stricker to be our opponents. Obviously this is going to be an important match, and I do feel that it is an important match for us. I feel that if we can win this one, maybe we can stop the American Team from getting out of their rhythm, being their top team. So I feel like it is a very important match.   
 And the key for us is going to be, like I said before, not trying to hit perfect shots every shot, since we are going to make mistakes; it's if we can -- once the other person makes the mistake, if we can cover for each other, I think that will be the key. If we can get that par when we need it, when the other person can cover for the other, and get a par, I think that's going to be what makes a difference in this match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT