THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2009
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 BERNIE McGUIRE: Thanks for coming into the pressroom. Welcome. This is your first Open Championship. You said you wanted to say something first. 
   RYO ISHIKAWA: Morning, everyone. I'm Ryo Ishikawa from Japan. I'm so happy to play in The Open Championship. I can be here because of them, friends, sponsors, media and my parents. I would like to thank them all. 
   So this is my first trip to Scotland. After I arrived last Wednesday I have been enjoying Scotland, sightseeing, looking up, big sky, fishing and hiking and so on. I also tried haggis. So very nice. Very nice taste. 
   This course is different than what I'm used to. The greens, wind, bunkers, those make me try different shots. So especially around the greens. I'm running every day. Needless to say, tomorrow is going to be big day for me. I will try my best. 
   Thank you for your attention. 

   Q. During the press conference for Tiger Woods he mentioned that if you do well in your rounds for two days you will definitely go into the third round. So what are your expectations for that?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: It's unbelievable that Tiger is talking about me. And it is like a dream come true. Ever since I got into the British Open it's like a total dream. I'm surprised to see Tiger in the same group and also fans are surprised. But needless to say, I'm also surprised.

   Q. It's tough to play like a practise, but what is your image for playing the first hole, including driver and everything?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: It's always tough to relax and to play the first hole. And of course it's more difficult to play relaxed during the British Open. I think the key point will be to be in my world, to play golf. My object is to play my golf from the first hole. 
   And it depends on the wind, but I will try to hit the driver from the first tee.

   Q. At a links course, of course there is the wind and the rain. And about the outfit, what is your style to play during the links course?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: During yesterday's practise round I wore the short sleeve and the rainwear over the long sleeve during one day. And this is my first experience to do that. And it is important to get used to this. 
   With this experience I would like to utilise this experience into Japanese tournament in the future. 

   Q. What's your objective for this tournament?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: My goal is to play four days and make the cut and try to make this tournament as wonderful as it is. The first two rounds, it's definitely a dream come true, and it's important for me to play 36 holes to be in my real world, to play golf.

   Q. It's been five days since you've arrived here. What's your satisfaction with your preparation, and what's your objective to practise today?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: For today's objective, this is just going to be the practise round for tomorrow. And I do remember 18 holes, and I'm going to practise as it is tomorrow, with the concentration for the actual tournament.
   Ever since I got here, it's just the time passes by really fast. I think that I could have come here sooner.

   Q. This is your first links course in Scotland, but ever since your elementary school you have played some course by the sea and some course that you were good at. What are you expecting here?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: With this wind I've experienced the driver shot with this kind of against wind. So with this kind of wind I think I can play my golf, but during practise round I play this course with the expected stronger winds. 
   And I think the British Open is known for the wild weather, so it's different for me to play during the bad weather my golf.

   Q. Your expectation must be high. What's your goal to be aware for this course?
   RYO ISHIKAWA: I think the key point will be communication with the caddie. And I will be nervous, so I will talk to my caddie where to hit, where not to hit. And it's important for me to prepare for those occasions. 
 End of FastScripts



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT