TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2009
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Ishikawasan, 2-under 69. A few general thoughts about your round, and then birdies, bogeys, any good saves.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: First hole, hit the driver. Hit it on the fairway and second shot, 255 yards, 3-wood. Hit in the bunker which is 25 yards from the green. Bunker shot, hit to 15 feet left and I made the putt.   
 Tee shot, driver, hit on the fairway. Second shot, 145 yards, 9-iron, and I made a 10-foot putt.   
 Hit the driver on to the fairway and second shot is 260 yard, 3-wood, and made the green and missed a 15-foot putt, but I made a birdie with a three-foot putt.   
 Tee shot, 3-iron, and hitting to the right-side bunker, which was 20 yards from the pin. And I hit sand wedge and made an eight-foot putt that I made.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: General comments about how you played overall today?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I was more relaxed compared with my first event, Northern Trust Open. The key was first hole and I could make a 15-foot birdie putt.   
 After that, normally I hit short, but I could hit solid today. So I could have putts today.   
  
  Q. There was a point on the back nine where you had a tree in front of you, and also a tree behind you. Can you talk about how you recovered from that? You seemed to recover very nicely.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Let's talk about No. 6. I hit the right side of the trees. And the tee shot was on the right side of the trees, but the ball position was not so bad. I could swing, and there is also a space to hit. So when I hit the trouble shot with driver, I could also make a good second shot from the bad position. That was the key today.   
 No. 14, I hit the left side of the trees, but the ball sits up well so that I could swing. And every time I hit in the rough, the rough was not so thick, which was lucky for him. Also, I could make a kind of lucky putt today.   
  
  Q. And how much relaxed are you compared to Northern Trust?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: For example, if the level of nervousness, level of tension, if I say I make it a number, 100 is maximum, I would say 80 was at the Northern Trust Open.   
 But this time, about half, so which means same tension as when I played the JGT (Japan Golf Tour) events. So it's a good tension.   
 The reason was I could have a clear goal today, clear purpose today compared with the last time. I was kind of vague on what to accomplish last time. It was important for him to make a good image before he hit the ball. In the practice swing, I checked everywhere to -- I need some check in my practice swing. But when I hit the ball, I don't have much to think about. I could focus on my swing and the shot. That's the reason why I could relax today.   
  
  Q. What did it mean to you to be invited to play at Bay Hill by Arnold Palmer, and what will it mean to you to meet him?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Firstly, I'm so honored to be invited to the Arnold Palmer Invitational. I am kind of surprised that Mr. Palmer knows about me.   
 So I want to go visit him and to say hi, definitely, and say thank you for the invitation.   
 I have so much respect to Mr. Palmer as a professional golfer.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT