ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2014
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you describe the way you played out there today?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   It was a pretty comfortable round for me.   And the wind is coming down.   But it's never an easy round.

Q.   Ten years ago, back for 2004 you were only 12 years old, you came over here for a junior event for the very first time and you said you absolutely loved this place, why so?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   I was here when 12 years old.   I was playing on 18th, all the way back tee.   And I hit driver and it came down the fairway and second shot was 230 yards to the green and I hit driver. 

Q.   Off of that?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes, and now I hit 4‑wood today and I'm getting older and stronger now.

Q.   For the American audience that doesn't know.   You've been known as "The Bashful Prince," so The Prince met The King.
A great round of golf, this is the best round of golf at Bay Hill, what were your keys today?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   This is a place that‑‑ this is my place for east coast.   And I have practiced pretty much here since last August.   I love this golf course.   I love the people who work here.
Everything is perfect shape, the golf course.   And the wind was come down.   So it's great condition for golf.
I'm swinging club pretty good.

Q.   I was going to say, I thought maybe the key on your second nine, you made the bogey at 14, the par‑3.   15 is a tough par‑4, you made a good birdie there.   The second shot, too?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   That's 164 yards left and I hit 8‑iron.   And put in just a straight uphill putt, about ten feet.   Yeah, I made a few putts from ten feet today.   So that's‑‑ I wish I could have made a couple of putts, but I'm still happy.

Q.   7‑under is pretty good.   Did you look at the scoreboard and see what Adam Scott shot today?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   I couldn't understand this morning.   When I play here, a little more easier than last year, definitely.   I don't know what's going to happen next three days.   I just keep doing my job.

Q.   Can you talk about some of the struggles you had to go through last year to work your way back?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Just one years ago I was a little more confusing for my short game.   But I used to love it for my short game, when I was kid.   But it's like when I was 15 years old, 16 years old.   I get longer and I hit driver pretty well.   And golf was getting easier.   So that's one of the reason for my‑‑ I was confusing for my short game last year.
But at the same time I had a little bit of back injury.   It's like one year and a half.   So that's tough time for me.   But now my body works pretty good.   And I can practice putting and chipping like two hours, three hours in a row. 

Q.   So last year you couldn't do that?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   No, I couldn't.   Five minutes for the putting; chipping ten minutes.

Q.   Lower back?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes, lower back.

Q.   How did you injure your back?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   I think‑‑ I used to love other sports, like soccer and tennis.   Too much work, too much enjoying for other things.   I used to in the track and field club, as a junior high school, and I think that's reason, I think, for the muscle like‑‑ for the back, that's not good.   Now I play just golf.   I don't play other sport for my back.   I love other sports.   I want to play other sports but‑‑

Q.   I understand.   Was that a frustrating time for you to go through the injury and not playing well?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah.   But that's part of golf.   It's like body is the most important for the professional sport player.   So that's just a piece of golf.   Bodies are just a piece of golf.   So very important.   I couldn't understand before the back injury, but now, after injury, I can understand how important my body. 

Q.   What did you think when you saw the 62 from Adam?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   This morning?   I really couldn't understand.   It's playing pretty long.   The greens are pretty fast.   But during the round, for me, the greens are pretty soft for iron, even comes up from left, it stop good.   And the grounds are firmer than I saw this morning.   It's been huge rain on Tuesday, maybe last Tuesday, but the grounds are pretty firm.   So I hit‑‑ 16th hole I hit 7‑iron into the green.   I hit driver‑‑ like low driver, and then it rolls like 15 yards.   And greens still soft.   So that's the reason for the score.   But it's still difficult.

Q.   How did you feel with your game heading into this week?   Did you feel pretty confident?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah, I've been swinging very good, couple months.   But my putting, it's not good before Honda Classic.   But after Honda, I mean I like East Coast grass more than West Coast.   I can see the line and I can see the speed. 

Q.   Did you say earlier you live here when you're in the U.S.?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes, that's the base, here.   Here, yes.   It's maybe five minutes from here.

Q.   So you practice here?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes.   Last August and September I was here and I practice a lot.   So I know the people work here.

Q.   When do you spend time here and when do you spend time in Vegas?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   The start of the season I go to Las Vegas.

Q.   Just because it's on the west side?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes.   And now to maybe end of the season, maybe stay here.   Mostly spend here.

Q.   Do you have plans to go back to Japan anytime?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yes, I want to play maybe five events in the year in Japan.   I'm going to go back to Japan maybe this year and play a couple of events there and then come back here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT