U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Mark McNulty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mr. McNulty, if you would take us through your round, the high points, of course.

MARK McNULTY:  Well, there were a couple high points.  I made a few, quite a few birdies today and a few dropped shots as well, unfortunately.  But the high point was obviously number 7 when I holed a 90 yard full sand wedge.  Went straight in the hole.  It's always nice when that happens, particularly around here because this is a tough golf course.  You never know what's going to happen.

By my standards I'm still playing, and I'm going to say the word crap, so I'm heading off to the practice tee now.  Hopefully I'll improve over the weekend with my ball striking, but it's been atrocious.
Q.  The wind has picked up a bit today.  Did that affect you?

MARK McNULTY:  Well, fortunately last week I came down on Wednesday and we had a practice round here with this wind.  It was even blowing a little bit harder then, so knowledge is crucial of that.  And it helped me a little bit there.

But it is going to make it very, very difficult for everybody, because the rough just seems to look a little bit closer to you when you're playing these shots into the wind.
Q.  The wind is supposed to pick up to as high as 30 miles per hour this afternoon, so I'm sure you appreciate the fact that you played this morning.

MARK McNULTY:  Oh, yeah, I had a break.  No question.  Because yesterday we didn't have much wind at all.  And if it does get up there a bunch, I'm thinking that the four guys a top are going to struggle a bit.

But you have to take your breaks as they come.  I think over the course of the period of time sometimes you get good breaks and bad breaks, as far as your tee time.

I'm very happy though.
Q.  Playing with Mr. Watson?

MARK McNULTY:  That was a lot of fun.  He was always a great guy to play with, and obviously it's his home state.  He deserved every clap that he got today, because he's a true champion and won a lot of Majors and a lot of golf tournaments all over the world and particularly here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT