THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Mark McNulty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   70 yesterday, 67 today, continued good play.   
MARK McNULTY:   Well just really, you know what links golf is like, you just have to try to make your pars, as many as you can and if you get lucky enough to make a few birdies, it really bodes well for you.   Really, patience, you had to be tremendously patient out there.   Going in, it's definitely a penalty, so managing my game well.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about that putt at the last, because it looked like you turned away, thinking, there's no way that's going in?  
MARK McNULTY:   I thought it was more right‑to‑left than back the other way, and when I looked, it was coming back‑‑ just inside the right.   Found a little rough on the edge of the hole and decided to go in.   
   
 Q.   A very nice back nine to boost your place on the leaderboard.   
MARK McNULTY:   It's obviously very early days and it was a fortuitous way to finish.   Tough test of golf.   I think managing your game around here is what it's all about, and you know, I would have been happy with 70 and obviously 67 is a bonus, and I take a nice position into the weekend and hopefully I can keep on managing my game the same way.  
   
 Q.   You said a 'fortuitous' finish, you didn't feel the putt was going to drop?  
MARK McNULTY:   No, I didn't.   When I looked from down the line, the other side of the hole, it looked like it might come back a little bit from the left, but overall, I looked at it again from behind the ball and it looked like it was going to, and it turned, and I thought I missed but somehow decided to find the hole.   
   
 Q.   And it means you're in a very tidy position on that board.   I know it's halfway and there's a lot to play, but it's beautiful to be up there, isn't it.   
MARK McNULTY:   You know, we all strive to be in that position on the back nine of a 72‑hole tournament on the last nine, and that's what I will continue trying to do tomorrow and certainly on Sunday, as well.   
   
 Q.   Are you relishing it?   Are you relishing the challenge of the Senior Open, as well as Royal Birkdale?  
MARK McNULTY:   Yeah, I've really always enjoyed links golf.   It fits my game.   Get a little bit of bounce and hit the ball a long way through the air.   
   
 Q.   Was there one that really epitomised links golf today, where you came off very fortunate or one where you got the bad bounce?   
MARK McNULTY:   You know, I suppose the sixth hole, it's a tough hole.   Both days, I made really good pars, and today, I pulled my tee shot a little bit into the claik, not heavy stuff but sort of three‑inch stuff and the ball was lying badly, and I chose the wrong club, went for a utility club and the wind moved it about 40 or 30 yards.   Hit a really good 6‑iron from my third to about ten feet and holed that putt for par.   
So those are the sort of things that you have to do, and when you speak to Phil Mickelson or whomever wins The Open Championship, they are going to tell you the same thing.   That when you do make a miss of a hole and you make a par, you've just got to keep on doing those sort of things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT