UBS CUP
November 19, 2004
Mark McNulty
Arnold Palmer
Gary Player
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM KELLY:  Good afternoon, everybody.  3 1/2 & 2 1/2, Rest of the World over USA after day one of the 2004 UBS Cup.

Arnold and Gary, why don't we get a comment from each of you about your stirring duel head-to-head today and the half-point you each earned against each other.

GARY PLAYER:  Well, we had a very, very good game today.  I think that was a fair reflection of the result.  I think the whole day has been good matches, very close as we sort of anticipated.  And obviously, the more close it is, the more exciting it is for television, which is important in the media, and the gallery.  So I think all in all, it was really a terrific day.
JIM KELLY:  Arnold, thoughts on your match?

ARNOLD PALMER:  It was the same match.  (Laughter.)

We had -- it was fun.  The whole thing was very nice.  If I were putting something together and it went as well as our match did today, win or lose or draw, I thought the weather was perfect.  The four guys were very good competitors.  And the match was very good, and we all made a mistake here and a mistake there.  As it turned out, our mistakes equalled our good shots and we became -- it became a draw.
JIM KELLY:  Gary, as you look at the board today, what would you say, if you look at all of the matches, what would you say would be your biggest surprise?

GARY PLAYER:  Well the biggest let-off we got today  was on 18 when Raymond and Tom Kite as a team 3-putted from pretty close.  I think that was the biggest let-off we had.   I think for Carl Mason and John Chillas, to come out here and play as well as they did, I mean, they really did extremely well, too.  Two of our teams won convincingly as some of Arnie's teams won convincingly.

I think for Carl and John to come over to another country and excel the way they did is pretty impressive.  Because it's always harder to go and play somewhere else, unless you've played that tour yearly.
JIM KELLY:  Arnold, same question to you.  As you look at all of the matches, what would you say is your biggest surprise?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I can't go far away from what Gary just said.  A couple of my teams that I thought would be strong aren't as strong and got upset.  But that doesn't change my opinion of what they are doing.  I think there's so many guys out there that are equal, and on any given day or any given time they can come alive and play very, very well.

So I must say that, you know, there was a couple of teams I thought would be stronger than they were, and I have a couple of guys that are maybe not up to their full speed simply because they have some ailments that we didn't anticipate.  So we're going to take all of that into consideration and have at it.
JIM KELLY:  By Captain's Agreement, if you recall yesterday with the toss of the coin, Gary lost and Arnold went first.  So by Captain's Agreement previously, Gary will go first today in picking for the four-ball, and there will be a toss of the coin tomorrow to set up the singles matches for Sunday.

So Gary, why don't you tee it up for the four-ball.

GARY PLAYER:   Myself and Mark.

ARNOLD PALMER:  Will play Haas and Palmer.
JIM KELLY:  So Mark McNulty and Gary Player for the Rest of the World, and Arnold and Jay Haas, 9:30, Match No. 1.

Arnold, second match at 9:45?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Okay.  My next team will be Stadler and Kite.
JIM KELLY:  Craig Stadler and Tom Kite, 45, Match 2.  Gary?

GARY PLAYER:  Okay.  Sam Torrance and Barry Lane.
JIM KELLY:  Sam Torrance, Barry Lane against Stadler and Kite at 9:45.

Gary, Match 3.

GARY PLAYER:  Rodger Davis and Peter Senior.

ARNOLD PALMER:  Will be against Hal Sutton and Tom Watson.
JIM KELLY:  Match 3 at 10:00, Hal Sutton and Tom Watson against Rodger Davis and Peter Senior.

Match 4, Arnie?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Who was that, Peter Senior and who?  It's my pick?
JIM KELLY:  Yes.

ARNOLD PALMER:  Okay.  I will do Scott Hoch and Curtis Strange.
JIM KELLY:  The two gentlemen from Wake Forest, Scott Hoch and Curtis Strange.  Gary?

GARY PLAYER:  Sorry, it was Hoch and who else?
JIM KELLY:  Curtis.

GARY PLAYER:  We'll put Carl Mason and John Chillas.
JIM KELLY:  Carl Mason and John Chillas against Hoch and Strange at 10:15.

GARY PLAYER:  Ian Woosnam and Sandy Lyle.
JIM KELLY:  Ian Woosnam, Sandy Lyle, Match 5.  Arnie?

ARNOLD PALMER: Okay.  That will be Floyd and Couples.
JIM KELLY:  Ray Floyd and Freddie Couples against Ian Woosnam and Sandy Lyle at 10:30.

So that would leave Hale and funk together again.  Right, Arnie?

ARNOLD PALMER: That appears to be the way.
JIM KELLY:  At 10:45 in Match 6.

ARNOLD PALMER:  And that's against?

GARY PLAYER: And Langer and Montgomerie.
JIM KELLY:  Bernhard Langer and Monty, Match 6 at 10:45.  So Hale Irwin and Fred Funk against Bernhard Langer and Colin Montgomerie at 10:45.  Some very interesting matches.  Questions, ladies and gentlemen?
Q.  Are you surprised at how scores stand after today?

GARY PLAYER:  It's so close, you know.  You sort of -- as I say, the big thing was the surprise was the 3-putt that Floyd and Tom Kite had.  That made the big difference.
JIM KELLY:  Had you planned on keeping Hale and funk together, or did it just turn out that way, that it wound up in Match 6?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Actually, we debated a little bit, the team members.  That's what we came up with.
JIM KELLY:  Mark, being a first-timer at the UBS Cup and coming off a great rookie year on the Champions Tour, some thoughts on the event, the golf course and playing with Gary and against Arnold.  Kind of some overall comments from you, please.

MARK McNULTY:  Well, as I mentioned last night, it was great to play with two legends, and as Gary's son, Wayne, said, it was great to have three legends in the four-ball.  Arnie, Gary and Jay battled, battled pretty good.  Anyway, I think the event so far has been great.  I've been fortunate enough to play a couple of Presidents Cups, and it's much more friendly and a little bit more banter, which is dead right.  This is how it should be.  The golf course today played magnificently.  The weather as we've said was fantastic.  I think this course can only go from strength to strength.  It will improve and Tom has done a great job.
JIM KELLY:  Basel (ph) has a little history, didn't he caddie for Nobilo in the inaugural UBS Cup?

GARY PLAYER:  He did indeed.  What's the long-range weather forecast?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Temperatures the same.  For us older people, temperatures are very important.
JIM KELLY:  Arnie, what are you going to tell your team either tonight or in the morning or both?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Not even going to talk to them.  (Laughter.)
JIM KELLY:  You're stonewalling; you're mad, right?

ARNOLD PALMER:  No.  We've already had our conversations.
JIM KELLY:  Gary, any words of wisdom for your team?

GARY PLAYER:  No, we had our conversation.  We were lucky we finished early and so we had our discussion.  Now the clubs have got to do the talking.
JIM KELLY:  Any questions, ladies and gentlemen?
Q.  Yesterday on paper the American team looked much stronger.  Any comments on that?

GARY PLAYER:  Well, that doesn't alter the situation.  I think that Arnold's team in the time of the UBS, I think this is the strongest team on paper that they have had, if you look at the names.
Q.  What does it mean having the lead going into Saturday?

GARY PLAYER:  I mean, that's like having a mile race and the guy is leading off in the first quarter of a mile; it doesn't really mean too much, does it.  When you come out -- in the horse business, you've only just come out of starting gate.
JIM KELLY:  I can report that Arnold was not being attacked by gnats in that answer.  He was concerned with some of the stuff that was flying from Gary.  (Laughter.)

I'm paraphrasing what the King said.  Any other questions?
Q.  Are you worried about your streak, your unbeaten streak as a captain at this point?

ARNOLD PALMER: It's too early to really even think about it.  I'm not concerned about the streak before or after.  If there's something to give the media something to talk about, I think it's great.
JIM KELLY:  Gary, Arnie, great match.  Mark, great playing again.  We'll see you tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT