CHAMPIONS TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 26, 2004
Mark McNulty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
MARK McNULTY:   My pleasure, Jeff. 
 
MARK McNULTY:   It was quite ironic.  You mentioned that I'm at David Leadbetter's home.  When I got back here on Monday morning, he said to me, "Gee, Mark, you're now three-for-three.  You won the regional, you won the Q-School and you won your debut event."   I just had a little giggle.  But reflections, I really obviously enjoyed the tournament.  But apart from the fact that I won, I really felt pleased and comfortable with the way I was received by everybody.  And Outback did a fantastic job in the short space of five months to get the tournament up and running.  From all accounts, pros and amateurs alike, they had a terrific week, and obviously from my standpoint, I topped it by putting the old cherry on the top. 
 
 
Q.  You heard from a couple of folks on Sunday and Monday, from friends, to congratulate you, would you care to share any of those conversations with us? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Well, obviously the first stop was one of my best friends for many years.  Nick Price called me from La  Costa; and I see, unfortunately he got beat by Monty yesterday.  And then shortly after, Retief called me and then Thomas Bjorn.  I had a good call yesterday from Ernie.  I think we've always respected one another.  I remember playing with him in a practice round when he was a young 19- or 20-year-old, a practice round at Troon, which is obviously this year's site for the British Open.  I cannot remember what year that was.  Maybe the year when Mark Calcavecchia won; that's how long ago that was.  I could see the talent that he was going to be.  So, it's nice, he's remained a good friend and he's always respected me as I have respected him.  It's nice to get calls like that.  
 
Q.  What are your first impressions of the Champions Tour setup?  As far as a player playing a course, when you've played all sorts of different setups, is it similar to what you face on the European Tour week-in and week-out as far as pin positions and everything? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   It's pretty close, to be totally honest.  I'll be honest and say this; that perceptions out in the world, outside of America, is that the Champions Tour, you play short courses.  Certainly, from how we played at Eagle Trace during the  -- in particular, at Magnolia, the first two rounds, they really had almost the same positions as they play the Disney tournament.  The last two were up a little bit.  But certainly at Eagle Trace, again, the start of the week, the course was nearly playing at full length.  And last week, the odd exception, a couple of tees and the 18th hole, when they moved it up on the last round.  The courses are 6,800 , 6,900 yards, which from anyone's book, when you're playing at sea level, that's a good length.  So there has been a misconception as to the Seniors and Champions Tour play 5,500-yard courses.  That in itself is a big plus from my side because I like a challenge.  Certainly, that presents itself well for me. 
 
Q.  What is your plan at this time as far as schedule is concerned throughout 2004? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Well, fortunately, as you and most guys know, the schedule really is good for us this year, in that you can go from the start, three weeks, one week off, three weeks, off, and there's like four and a week off and another four and a week off.  So it all bodes well that I'll just play until I get tired.  If I keep playing like I have, obviously I'll get tired quite quickly.  I think I must play as many as I can to get a feel for what I have to do in future years and get to know the golf courses; and my traveling, see how I need to do that in the future.  So I'm looking at playing a pretty full schedule, 25 tournaments.  
 
Q.  As far as living arrangements are concerned, you are going to headquarter yourself in the United States; is that correct? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Yeah, I'm going to live at Lake Nona which, as you guys all know, it's in Orlando.  I think a few of us are here, Sergio, Retief, Ernie.  David has lived here from a long time ago.  The proximity to the airport works in my favor and that's where I'm going to be. 
 
Q.  And your family, what trips might they make over here?  You've got a couple of teenage kids, I believe? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   They are at school at the university.  So it's all going to have to work in between semesters or holidays, or vacs as they call it over there.  We'll have to see how that all pans out.  I foresee no problems, whether they come from South Africa or go to England and come this way.  It's pretty easy to fly into Miami or from England into Orlando.  So I don't see that as any problem at all.  
 
Q.  Tell us a little bit about your special interests; you're an accomplished pianist?
 
MARK McNULTY:   That accomplished, I think they have kind of exaggerated that.  It's a little like the fisherman's story; you catch a six-inch fish, and by the end of the year, it's a 12-foot fish.  I would say novice is better.  I enjoy playing by ear.  I haven't much in the last year and a bit.  Obviously I've been busy playing and stuff like that.  When I get the time I'd like to, as they say, tinker, and I like music as most of us do.  The fish story is something which I've always been passionate about.  I used to have a nice collection of Koi fish.  For last eight years, I haven't had any.  I suppose when the time comes for complete retirement, I might get back into that hobby.  It requires 24 hours of constant looking at them because you've got to look after your water quality.  Art is something which I've always enjoyed and I have a few other hobbies, as well.  But keep myself out of mischief.  I think one of my best and special interests is going into the bush in Africa and being with the wildlife.  I just don't get to do that enough, but whenever I do, I cherish it.  
 
Q.  If you were at a Pro-Am function and there happened to be a piano there and the tournament director said, "Hey, Mark, come up here and play a little bit," would you take that challenge? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Possibly.  But as I said, and I'm not trying to butt out of this one at all, but I think I need to sharpen the pencil a little bit.  
 
Q.  What musical interests do you have? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Well, my background, my mother played the piano very well, and my sister the flute and piano, as well.  And if you can believe this, I started out playing the violin.  I was very good.  But my sporting activities at junior school just wiped that out because I couldn't practice enough.  Then I started to play the piano and then once again, sporting activities just over rode that.  At senior school, I started to play the piano again by ear.  So when I have played, whether it's a little bit of classical or a little bit of pop, it's mostly by ear.  
 
Q.  You've traveled all over the world, you've played in a on a lot of tours and you've met a lot of the great players from around the world, and a lot of those guys play on the Champions Tour.  Any guys in particular who you might hope might be your dinner companions or you might spend a little more time with on the Champions Tour, play practice rounds with? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Well, you know, I've been fortunate enough to know personally the bulk of the Champions Tour players who are within eight, ten years of me, upwards of course.  One sort of falls back to closer friends, Hugh Baiocchi, John Bland and guys like that who you know and have been around for a while.  But certainly there are a number of Americans who I know well, too.  Like Doug Tewell, Doug and Pam I've known for a long time from when I came and played here.  That's just to name a few.  But certainly, I think I'd have no problem sitting down with anybody.  
 
Q.  You're off this week on the Champions Tour and next week it's the MasterCard Classic outside of Mexico City.  Have you played in Mexico before?
 
MARK McNULTY:   No, I haven't.  So it's going to be another brand new adventure and I'm looking forward to it.  
 
Q.  How many different countries have you played?  Have you logged that at all? 
 
MARK McNULTY:   No, I haven't.  I was asked the other question, how many different countries have I won in, and I guess I need to get down and work that one out.  And also, how many countries I've played in.  Obviously, a hell of a lot.  (Laughing). 
 
Q.  So you're going to add one to the list next week. 
 
MARK McNULTY:   Exactly.  I look forward to that.  
 

End of FastScripts . 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT