THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2013
Mark McNulty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about what was an adventures round, a few up‑and‑downs. 
MARK McNULTY:   It certainly was.   I had a poor start with my putt this year.   Had a bit of help from Tony Johnstone last week, and I gave him a little help with his main game.   You know, I certainly putted much better today. 
I hit a few loose shots, but all in all, I'm very happy.   I've looked at some of the scores guys who have won this British Open in the past, everybody seems to shoot 70 in the first round, so that's a good omen.

Q.   There's a whole raft of birdies on the card, as well. 
MARK McNULTY:   Three birdies and three bogeys, around this course, I think this is one of the most challenging Open venues.   It's such a great golf course.   You've really got to be on your toes the whole way around. 

Q.   Unusual kind of course, isn't it, in the sense that you don't get any par 5s until deep into the back nine. 
MARK McNULTY:   Yeah, the members have a few more poor fives than we do, but it's such a challenging and such a great golf course, it's great to be here.

Q.   And you have good memories, playing in Open Championships down the years?
MARK McNULTY:   Yes, I had one or a couple of good times here but I all seem to throw a bad round in.   Hopefully this time around, I won't.

Q.   Put this into context of how you've been playing.   You said Tony's helped you out with the putter?
MARK McNULTY:   I've been playing quite nicely from tee‑to‑green.   The iron shots haven't been quite the way I want but really, for me, I've been putting poorly.   Certainly when you are at the top of our game, if you putt poorly, you're not going to get anywhere.   I can see a little green light at the end of the tunnel now, which is great.
When you look at us and you look at the young guys, they are always working in the gym, working out, and that's what you have to do.

Q.   You've always looked after yourself but are you finding you have to do yet more? 
MARK McNULTY:   I'm 60 in October this year and a few creaks and groans are coming in more so now than ever before.     I do work a little bit.   I do quite a lot of bike riding and a little bit of gym work, but I think aerobics is a big key for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT