THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
Mark McNulty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about a lovely day.   
MARK McNULTY:   That's it, lovely day.   Not too often you get three days in a row like we've had, and I'm sure the weekend is going to throw something at us.   
But you know, I kept myself out of trouble today, and that's my game plan this week, trying to strategise myself around this golf course, because as we have all seen over the years, when you play these links courses and get into these bunkers, all hell can break loose.   
But very lucky to get off to a good start, a couple of birdies and I just played very solid.   A couple of holes where I suppose I could have dropped shots on 12 and 13 when I holed good 10‑, 12‑footers for par, both of them.   Yeah, that's about it.   
But other than that, good, solid round, and I'm obviously delighted to get that sort of round out of the way first round.   
   
 Q.   And I appreciate it is only the first round, but you would have started when Bernhard Langer had already finished; so you were aware scores were possible.   
MARK McNULTY:   There's no doubt that you were aware of that, obviously 64 is a fantastic score.   I'm very happy to be very close.   But a long way to go and hopefully I'll be able to continue in the same vein.   
   
 Q.   Putting it into context, how well have you been playing?  
MARK McNULTY:   Very poorly up until about two, three weeks ago, when Nick Price and David gave me a little tip which worked out well.   Then you've got to transfer that tip into a bit of practise on the range and having played so poorly the week before our Players Championship in Pittsburgh, I then went to Pebble and finished second.   If you would have told me that was going to happen, I would have said impossible, but the right word is crap.   
When you have played the game for so long and you know how you're capable of playing, one tip can sometimes turn the whole thing around.   And I went from putting very poorly, striking very poorly, to putting the best and really hitting the ball the best.   Second is always good.   
It was a very simple tip, just being able to get some width into my backswing of the got very narrow and consequently I was a little bit over the top and no power.   Everything had gone out the window.   
You know I wouldn't say I'm out of the woods yet, because you know, this game is very fickle and got to go and practise on the range when I get the time.   
   
 Q.   How are the greens?   
MARK McNULTY:   I've got Brian Dunlop on the bag, and he was Sam's old caddie for many years and he lives here now and caddies here from time to time, and he knows these greens well, and I do, I've played a lot of British Opens and so on and so forth here.   So far I'm seeing things well and hopefully that will continue.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT