LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 14, 2020
Amir Coffey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 107, thunder 103, OT
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Amir.
Q. Tell me what this experience has been like in terms of obviously you guys are seeing each other every single day, have practice in the morning, what is it like in terms of building that chemistry and camaraderie?
AMIR COFFEY:   It's been fun.  Like you say, we're all around each other every day, every day in practice, hanging out outside of basketball.  You're just in the basketball environment 24/7.  Just getting that camaraderie with the teammates, even the coaches, has been a good deal for us.
Q. How much did you want to see Terance get a triple-double?  Strange circumstances, but what is it like to be going into your first NBA Playoffs?
AMIR COFFEY:   Oh, man, we were all pulling for him.  Those last couple timeouts, we kept mentioning to him he just needed one more.  That would have been pretty cool, he was so close.  He did a great job.  Played well tonight.
Going into my first Playoffs, I'm just (indiscernible), continuing to work, continuing to listen, just learning from this experience.
Q. What were your first impressions of Coach Rivers when you met him?  What are your impressions of him now?
AMIR COFFEY:   I mean, I've known Doc for a while, not personally, but just Doc is a head coach that's been in the league for a while now, has won championships, he's had great coaching seasons.  He's won a lot of games.
Just coming into the league, it was a blessing to be under a guy like him.
Now it shows how much of a teacher of the game he is, one of those coaches that gets into detail, lets you know when you're right or wrong.  He's a good development coach.
Q. With you and Terance playing so well tonight, what were the veterans saying to you guys throughout the game?
AMIR COFFEY:   Just keep going, being aggressive, play our game.  We played over 40 minutes out there, keep our legs, keep our mind in tune, carry on and get the win.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Amir.
AMIR COFFEY:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT