THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2015
Chad Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Chad, really turned it on there on the back nine.  Just get your comments on your day.  CHAD COLLINS: I did.  It was a tough day.  You know, we had to have the umbrella up pretty much like yesterday all day long.  Got a few putts to fall again, and that's kind of the key to the game, getting some putts to fall.  I've been struggling the last few weeks with my putter, but hitting the ball well enough to give myself a lot of opportunities, and it was nice to see a few fall.   Q.  Were the greens reading a little different than yesterday with even more rain today?  CHAD COLLINS: They were a lot slower.  Early on in the round I left myself a lot of three- to five-footers for par coming back.  I was able to make some of those.  For the most part they were just slower.  They still rolled fine.  They're getting a little spongy from the foot traffic and the softness of them, but for the most part they rolled fine, just a little bit slower with all the wetness.   Q.  What are your thoughts going into the weekend, big day tomorrow?  CHAD COLLINS: I mean, every day is a big day.  Just going to try to do the same thing I've been doing the last couple days and how I try to do every week, fairways and greens and try to make a handful of putts.   Q.  Strong finishes, good momentum going into Saturday?  CHAD COLLINS: Sure, it's a good momentum boost going into the weekend.  Got myself in decent position.  I never looked at a board, don't even know where I stand.  But I know I'm playing well, and if I can continue to make some putts, who knows what might happen.   Q.  Was it big knowing that you kind of battled the weather today?  CHAD COLLINS: It was, yeah, for sure.  You know, it was a tough day.  It was frustrating.  We had a delay and kind of had to stay in position, then come back out.  It was a grind.  You know, I made a few good grinding pars and then snuck a few birdies in coming down the stretch.   Q.  Did you agree with the delay or maybe the lack of delay beforehand?  Or you're just rolling with it?  CHAD COLLINS: I was just rolling with it.  That's pretty much what you've got to do.  It's kind of out of our control and all in their hands.  You know, it is just what it was, I guess.  There was some moisture on the greens in some low spots, but it wasn't that bad, really.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT