ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2014
Chad Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHAD COLLINS:   It was a good day.   I hit the ball pretty well.   Made a few putts.   Just all in all a good day for the most part.

Q.   Made more than a few putts.   23 of them total in the round. 
CHAD COLLINS:   Really?   I missed a few greens, had some good up‑and‑downs, a few saves.   But all in all, I was really happy with it.   I had kind of a frustrating week last week with the weather.   It's nice to have a good week with the good weather.   I think we'll continue to have good weather.   It was a good day.

Q.   Maybe you had the good end of the draw.   You had calm conditions for most of this opening round?
CHAD COLLINS:   Yeah, I think so too.   I was looking at that yesterday.   I don't think tomorrow from what I saw is going to be quite as windy in the afternoon.   So we'll see, but all in all it was a good start.

Q.   Talk about your season.   You had a great showing in Palm Springs, a Top 10 finish.   Since then some success, some frustration?
CHAD COLLINS:   Yeah, I agree.   At this point it's kind of halfway through the season.   Kind of need to get rolling.   I've had a good start to the season, but I need to finish off this second half, for sure.

Q.   Well you said you need to get rolling.   You know what they say in New Orleans, "Laissez les bons temps rouler," Let the good times roll. 
CHAD COLLINS:   Thank you.

Q.   How satisfying is it to get off to a good start? 
CHAD COLLINS:   It's very satisfying.   I'm usually not a fast starter on Thursdays.   Usually Fridays are some of my best rounds, so it's nice to kind of have a little breather going into tomorrow and the rest of the tournament.

Q.   Missed three of your last four cuts coming into the week.   What clicked here? 
CHAD COLLINS:   Ball striking was better, my short game hasn't been that well lately, which is kind of unusual for me.   My putter has kind of let me down the last few tournaments.   It kind of clicked today.   Made some good putts, had a few good saves, all in all, it was a good solid day.

Q.   How do you keep it going into Friday? 
CHAD COLLINS:   Just do the same thing I did today, basically, fairways and greens.   Get the ones up‑and‑down that I do miss, and make a few putts along the way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT