VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2010
Chad Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell me about the front nine. Obviously a 32 on this course, you've got to feel pretty good about that?  
 CHAD COLLINS: Yeah, I had a stretch there where I had three in a row. I had a save on 9. I had about a 30-footer for birdie, and ran it by about ten feet. Made that and saved the front nine. Just a solid day for the most part.   
 Back side was a little bit tougher than the front. I had a few bogeys coming back, unfortunately one on the last. Always kinds of sucks to end a round like that. All in all I'm happy with it.  
  
  Q. Overall the conditions seem to be fairly benign. Tell me how you saw them.   
 CHAD COLLINS: Yeah, wasn't a whole lot of wind. Been kind of sunny every day since we've been here. A little overcast today. The winds can get kind of swirly here. A lot of tree-lined holes and the wind comes in and swirls around. You really have to pay attention to it.  
  
  Q. You're trying to establish yourself as a player, what are your thoughts when you see Jerry Kelly and K.J. Choi playing so well? What are your thoughts when they're on the leaderboard and you're up there with them?  
 CHAD COLLINS: Yeah, it's nice to know you're playing as well as they are, some of the best players in the world. It's a good feeling. I need to keep plugging along and try to hold pace with them.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 CHAD COLLINS: It was a solid round. Expectations weren't real high coming in today, starting to come down with some of the sickness from the pollen or whatever it is. So I'm trying to get rid of that. But, you know, it's a course that suits my game. Everybody has always said, if you get a chance to play this tournament, they always thought that this would be a good tournament for me. Just kind of plug along from point A to point B, hit it pretty straight, good short game. So it's kind of right up my alley.   
 So I feel pretty comfortable here. Not a lot of drivers. I hit a lot of 3-woods. I kind of position myself for approach shots into the green. I've been putting well. The greens are flawless. The course is flawless. Kind of right where I need to be for the most part.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT