PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 14, 2010
Chad Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Take us through your round, or rounds. Just talk about your day.   
 CHAD COLLINS: The day today let's see it's early like it's going to be tomorrow, 7:10 I think we started at. Let's see. Where did I start at? I can't even remember where I started, to tell you the truth. It's been a long week.   
 I know I didn't have any bogeys. Oh, I started at -- I had a birdie putt, birdie putt on 3, had about a 5-footer and made it and went on to shoot 7-under, had an eagle on 2 last night. That was kind of nice.   
 Just a solid day and pretty solid so far. Made a birdie on 2 and made birdie on No. 5. So got about a 5, 6-foot par putt on -- what would that be, 6? Par-3, I think, so that's what I got.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHAD COLLINS: You know, I've been putting really well all year long. Short game's been really good. Bunker game's been great. I've always loved playing out of the bunkers.   
 When I haven't been striking all that well, my short game's been able to bail me out this year. A few close calls on making some cuts, like at Torrey Pines had to make about a 15, 17-footer on the last hole to make the cut and kind of keep my streak to lie with cuts made.   
 Just been putting well. I'm not real happy with the way I'm driving the ball right now. That's probably the weakest link in my game right now.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHAD COLLINS: Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Just late in the day, and I guess I'm pretty loose obviously.   
 I don't know. I don't know how to answer that. It just happened.   
 I hit a great 3-wood yesterday on two. Kind of over by the bunker, hit a 3-wood to like 12 feet, great shot. I was just trying to bang one up there near the greens, get it up-and-down and make birdie and go on, but I was able to make it in there and it's just been a good week so far.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHAD COLLINS: Yeah. I think any time you have a situation like that, especially when it's on the green or, you know, near the green, you know, I can prepare for that shot in the morning. I know exactly what distance I have. I know what type of break I have, so it's kind of smart to look at that, look it over and check it out from all angles and then when I come back out in the morning and practice before I go back out that'll probably be the last club that I hit before I go out and putt that particular putt, so just using a little bit of common sense and hopefully it pays off.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT