NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 14, 2007
Chad Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  July 14, 2007   
 THE MODERATOR:  We'd like to welcome Chad Collins to the interview room with a 1-under par, 70 today.  Chad, thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  No problem.   
 THE MODERATOR:  1-under, 70 doesn't sound like a great score on a typical week, but out here with these conditions I'm sure your pretty happy right now.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  Yeah, I definitely am.  My goal starting the day was even par.  Kurt and I were walking around the range and we're talking about how tough it was going to be.  I figured even par would be a great score  and probably move up a little bit, and I beat it by one so I'm very pleased with it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  What was the key to the round for you?   
 CHAD COLLINS:  You know, it wasn't much different than the other days.  I'm hitting a lot fairways and quite a few greens.  The greens are just so big and so undulated it's hard to get the ball really close to the hole.  Seems like the times where I did get it in there I capitalized.  There was a few that I didn't make today.   
 But all in all just hitting a lot of fairways and greens and my putters been really good for the last three weeks.  So basically that.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You had a couple near misses here the last couple years in terms of getting your PGA Tour card.  Currently 66 on the Money List, and sort of a rocky start to the season for you.   
 But you had a couple Top 15 finishes coming into this week.  Talk a little bit about your confidence level right now.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  Right.  You know, I was going through some equipment changes early on and just kind of tinkering with different drivers.  Couldn't find anything I was really comfortable with. I wasn't putting all that great.   
 I recently switched at Peek 'n Peak to a different driver and putter.  My confidence on the golf course has just totally changed.  I want to practice more.  It's more fun when I get on the greens, whereas before it was you, Oh, no, I got putt again.   
 The confidence wasn't there that I was going to make the putt.  Now I can't wait to get on the greens, which is what you want.  You know, I'm excited about playing each day.  It's fun when you're playing well and not fun when you're not.   
 That's kind of how it was early on.  Now that I am playing better I have a lot of confidence and I'm fired up and ready to go each week.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You won your first title back in 2005.  Did you put any pressure on yourself since then to try to get that second win?   
 CHAD COLLINS:  Probably so, yeah.  I mean, I think everybody is hard on theirselves out here because everybody wants to do well.  We practice hard and want it so bad that it's hard to be patient.  You want it when you want it.   
 So yeah, it's tough.  Yeah, I think I probably put too much pressure on myself instead of just going out and playing the kind of golf I know I can play and jsut letting things happen.  So, yeah, I would say so.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 CHAD COLLINS:  I think you got to be more patient and just think your way around a little bit more.  There was a few holes where I hit different clubs off the tees, but other than that there are some different lines you have to take.  Some times where you go to hug some trees or hug the bunkers because the wind is going to push it back, whereas before you just aim it down the middle and hit it.  So not a lot of difference.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Had you played here before?   
 CHAD COLLINS:  No.  This is my first time.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Take us through your card.  The birdie only No. 1.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  Yeah, driver in the fairway, pitching wedge to about 30 feet and made it.  I was just trying to 2-putt but the wind was blowing me all over the place.  Just trying to get it close and made it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on No. 6.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  6, what hole was that?  Let's see, Par 5, Par 3.  What hole is that?  I don't even know.  The second Par 5?  Okay.   
 Oh, yeah, driver in the fairway, Hybrid, pitching wedge to about 12 feet and made it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 7.   
 CHAD COLLINS:   The next hole, 5-iron off the tee.  Pitching wedge long left, chipped up, bad chip and missed the putt.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 8.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  8-iron landed perfect right in the front.  Ran right past the pin went in the back bunker and hit a bad bunker shot and didn't get up and down.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Birdie on 12.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  Hit my tee shot left in the fairway bunker, laid it up with a pitching wedge, then hit a lob wedge to about three feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 15.   
 CHAD COLLINS:  That was Hybrid off the tee, 8-iron.  I pulled it left in the bunker.  Hit a great bunker shot out to about five and a half, six feet and lipped it out and missed it.   
 Next hole I hit 3-wood, sand wedge to about ten feet, made it.  Next hole was a 5-iron to about 10, 12 feet and made it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Anything else?   
 CHAD COLLINS:  You got it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Chad.  Hope you play well tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT