SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
November 2, 2019
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BABOS-MLADENOVIC/Stosur-Zhang   
1-6, 6-4, 10-8   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Talk about how you feel now. You were very close to the final.  
ZHANG SHUAI: I'm really happy in China, we're here in this event. We made the semifinal. We were one step away from the final.   
Still I'm very happy. I have learned a lot this week. I've boosted my confidence. In the past few days, in the practice of doubles, I saw improvement in myself. I'm really positive about the future.   
It's a really good thing. I think I have more potential and I can do better. I didn't put that much attention on doubles, but here we are playing the best teams in the world, Grand Slam champions. In every match we were very close, which means there's so much potential in us. We're a very competitive team.   
We'll do better next year.   
 Q.  In the last press conference you mentioned that you couldn't beat any of the teams from the group matches. You beat several teams, so how do you feel now?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yes, my sister told me that we are the best. She actually told me some of the weaknesses of my opponent. I think that was a joke.   
Through tennis I could communicate with more players to play the best players. In several days I played many matches. We wouldn't have such an opportunity in the whole year because we would only have a few matches against those players in the whole year.   
In this event, within a week we can play so many good players in doubles. It's a very rare opportunity. The top players really bring out the best in me. I've learned a lot in this process.   
I see there's more potential in myself. Win or lose, I have improved. In the past I didn't have opportunities to play in these types of matches. I'm very positive.   
I will work harder and I hope next year I can qualify for the Shenzhen Finals.   
 Q.  Could you share with us before the tiebreak what your coach told you. What did you do well and any regrets?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I can't remember clearly what my coach said to me because I was reviewing several points in the last set. In this match I think we've done very well compared to previous matches this year. I'm really happy with my performance today.   
I've raised my game in this match compared to previous tournaments, so that's a good thing. But I'm disappointed in this result. I fully understand the spectators here wish that a Chinese player could be in the final.   
Anyway, I will work harder. I think this day will come eventually.   
 Q.  This is your last match of the season. Talk about your plan in the off-season, winter training.  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think I need to train harder, need to improve. I need to focus on my own game every day. I need to notice my weaknesses and improve myself. I hope that I can spend more time with my family.   
I need to reflect on this season, the experience, the whole process. I need time to digest, then to prep for next year for a new beginning.   
 Q.  High ranking in the doubles this year. You will be a top-seeded player in the doubles next year in the Grand Slams. Any plans for doubles matches next year?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Mixed doubles then. I'll put more energy in the mixed doubles (laughter). It's not a joke, I'm serious.   
I still want another Grand Slam next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT