CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2018
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ZHANG SHUAI/E. Mertens
6-1, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. You played her in Montreal this year, with two different results.  In today's match, she couldn't make a comeback.  What was the biggest difference from Montreal to Beijing, to the China Open?
ZHANG SHUAI: I saw some improvement if myself.  My physical condition felt better today.  More importantly in Beijing and the China Open I am always inspired by the fans, their support, which helps me raise my level in Beijing.  Every year in Beijing, I can give the best performance of the season.
I think sometimes the results of the match is only the matter of a couple of points.  On my home turf with the fans cheering for me, I can give my best performance, especially when I was down 1-3 in the first set.
Q. You mentioned that in the third set you were inspired by the fans.  You also won your challenges.  Was that very encouraging for you, which you could get some positive energy from?
ZHANG SHUAI: Well, how do I put it?  Of course, I got the positive energy.  After those couple of points, I felt I played better and better.
Q. Your match with Mertens, in the first set you were really aggressive, 6-1, while in the second set you got broken several times.  In this process, what kind of changes did you make in your tactics?
ZHANG SHUAI: Well, my opponent won a title in Wuhan in doubles, then she came late to Beijing.  At the very beginning, she was really trying to adapt to the conditions here.  There were some unforced errors from her.  It was an easy first set.  In the second set, I felt she was getting better.  I was feeling some pressure.
I tried to follow my plan, as I did in the first set, but that was not enough.  I lost some points consecutively.  I made some errors.  She hit several key winners.
I made changes in the third set.  I was more aggressive.  I felt the match really started in the third set.  It was a great performance from both of us.
Q. After the US Open, Hiroshima, there's a new coach joining your team.  Can you talk about your coach and any changes?
ZHANG SHUAI: Recently I felt my physical condition was not really up to par, especially during matches, including in practice.  I hired a new trainer, who I have worked with before.  So after the US Open, I feel that I've been playing better, with better physical condition.  I'm really happy that I can play good tennis in matches, in tournaments.  I feel really happy.
Q. Your next opponent is from Hungary, Babos.  In the previous two meetings, you won.  You had two tiebreaks in the previous two matches.  You also played her in some doubles matches.  How will you prepare for the next round?
ZHANG SHUAI: I feel in the China Open every opponent is tough.  I will do my best.  Whoever I'm facing, I will try to do my best.  Babos is ranked No. 1 in doubles.  In recent years she'd had great performances, whether in singles or doubles.  She is a really good player.
We had very close matches before.  For me, I will fight for each point, to play my best in the next round.
Q. A question about doubles.  You said you will try more doubles matches?  Any specific plans?  Do you want a long-term partner?
ZHANG SHUAI: In terms of doubles, back in the US Open I talked to Stosur to work together next year.  She doesn't really play each tournament.  My partner back in Hiroshima, we worked together well, good chemistry.  For the future, for next year, I will probably work with both of them.
I actually talked to Konta, that we would work together in Wuhan.  I want to fulfill those promises.  Starting from the Australian Open, I will work together with Stosur.
Q. Another question for doubles.  You had great results in doubles in the US Open, which was surprising to a lot of us.  By playing doubles, do you think it brings anything positive to your singles matches?
ZHANG SHUAI: I think in doubles matches I feel happier on court because I'm working with my good friends, standing on the court together.  Sometimes if one person is not doing very well, the other person can provide support, provide solutions.  I mean, we can raise each other's level.
But in singles matches, you're fighting alone.  You have to face all the problems yourself, you have to overcome all the challenges like yourself.  Like today, I won the first set, I was down in the second set.  If there were any swings in conditions, if I had support from another partner, I would be able to get the match done in straight sets.
I always feel happier in doubles.  I can always work with my partners.  We can share some laughs, chat together.  It always makes me feel relaxed.  I enjoy working together.  I really like the partnership, facing challenges, sharing honors together.  I feel this kind of teamwork is something I really enjoy.
I really like these matches.  More interesting than singles matches.
Q. I saw your pictures from the party last night.  You wore a white suit.  You looked really good.  I didn't see you in that kind of outfit before.  Did you pick out the outfit yourself?
ZHANG SHUAI: I would like to thank the China Open as well as our sponsor.  The sponsor's name is Northeast Tiger, a Chinese brand, that has been working with the China Open for the past three years.  I feel like my best moments were captured in the China Open in the previous three years.  Every time I'm at the party, I can always wear the best outfit.  I see positive feedback from the audience.
I'm a workaholic in practice.  When I have time, I work out in the gym.  I'm always practicing.  After I'm tired, I'll just relax in bed.  I don't really have time for fashion, for shopping.  I really don't know how to pick out outfits.
I would like the sponsors, the China Open, and Northeast Tiger.  They hired good designers, good makeup artists, hairstylists.  They have done it for me.
Very interesting because the suit was really tight for me.  They really squeezed me in that suit.  I hope everybody enjoyed it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT