WUHAN OPEN
September 23, 2018
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ZHANG SHUAI/S. Stosur   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You seemed to be able to move your opponent around the court with ease.  Is she a familiar opponent to you since you've played doubles together?  To what extent was this familiar ground for you?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Because I think we know each other so much, we play doubles together, we training together.  Even two days ago before the draw out, we practice.  We training together a lot times.  So I think we know each other very well.   
Also, yeah, it's funny thing.  Every time when we play doubles together, we play each other singles.  That's really tough to play against really good friend.  I try to don't think anything, just focus every point, yeah.   
I don't know.  I just know so much where she play because, yeah, we training so much together.  Sometimes before she hit, I already got feeling, yeah.  But also really feeling sad for her, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  After the match today, you played a showcase match with Li Na.  In the London Olympics, you paired with Li Na for doubles.  What kind of different feelings do you feel about Li Na?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Every time I see Li Na, I feel excited.  Li Na is my role model.  I look up to her as an athlete.  She is the pride of China as well as Asia.  Also Wuhan is a very special place for us.  This is the hometown of Li Na.  She was the pride of all the Wuhan people here.   
So as always, I'm always very excited to be able to play with her.  Every time I see her, I want to talk with her.  There's so many words I want to exchange with her.  Every time there's very limited amount of time.  Well, whenever I meet with her, I hope and I wish a happy life for her.   
 Q.  You withdrew from Guangzhou due to injury with the shoulder.  How is the injury?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I have been recovering well.  I hope I can get better.   
 Q.  This is the fifth anniversary of the Wuhan Open.  Compared to previous years, do you feel any difference?  
ZHANG SHUAI: This is the fifth year for the Wuhan Open, also my third time here.  I feel it's getting better, more well-organized.  From the feedback of players and coaches, they really like this tournament.  That is why the top players are willing to come back to compete in this tournament.   
Everywhere I can see the number five, so this signifies the fifth anniversary of the Wuhan Open.  I really like playing here, too, because every time I'm here I perform well, see good results.  I hope this year I can play better, another good performance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tomorrow is China's mid autumn festival.  Your mom was here tonight.  Any plans for tomorrow for the festival?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I actually don't know which day is the mid autumn festival.  To me all the festivals, all those holidays, I don't really remember the days.  For us, we're competing every week.  I look up to the sky, and I see, wow, the moon is full.  In one or two days it's probably coming.   
I'm really happy to celebrate the festival here in Wuhan.  I hope all the friends will enjoy this festival, enjoy the festival in Wuhan as well as the Wuhan Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT