CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 24, 2017
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel?  What is bothering you?  Why did you have to withdraw?  
ZHANG SHUAI: My arm, yeah.  My right arm from yesterday when I play, already feeling really painful.  So, yeah, I can't 100% on court today.  So, yeah, I need some rest and treatment.   
 Q.  Was it bothering you when you came here already, but just not bad, and got worse?  Did it happen during the match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: During the match yesterday, the second match.  This why when I'm 5-3 up, I miss a lot.  I have no any feeling my right arm.  It's already tough to play.   
But I tried my best.  I won the match, but cannot play any more, yeah.  But I did a lot of treatment last night.  This morning I feeling better.  But when I'm on court warm up, is still painful.   
I don't want more worse, yeah.   
 Q.  Is this something that's going to require surgery or just rest?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No, no, I just need some rest.  I have same problem three years ago in Cincinnati.  I have same feeling.  So I'm almost half year cannot play.  I want keep play US Open and whole season.  So better rest now, I think.   
 Q.  You talked about the balls bouncing high here.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that part of it?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, for sure.  When every time they change, change court, change ball, no easy.  So I have no time to get feeling because Sunday night I just come here, so...  I play Monday.   
Yeah, I play good, but I'm so surprised I play good, yeah.   
 Q.  You said you actually did try to warm up today, and it just hurt too much?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, after warmup, I decide to, yeah, cannot play.  My coach also feeling.  Because when I'm play, the ball is not going.  When I'm try to do something, but it's no working, yeah.   
 Q.  You said you played better here than you thought you were going to play?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah.  Before I come here, I thought, Oh.  Because Saturday I still in China, play another tournament.  So it's impossible play here Monday.  So I think this is why all the Chinese player didn't come, because everyone is no chance play like this.   
But I think, yeah, before coming my coach said, Oh, if you feeling really tired, maybe withdraw this tournament.   
I say, Yeah, maybe this good idea.   
But when I'm come, I play against Kvitova.  I like play against her (laughter).  Also I can learn a lot.  I have, yeah, nothing to lose.   
I just try, because if I don't come here, I have go New York.  So many player there.  I want practice, maybe no court.  So I say, Maybe I can practice here.  Maybe is no bad.   
So I try to on court and I won (smiling).   
 Q.  Will you go to New York now?  What is your plan for the next few days?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Tomorrow.  I have few day off, yeah, before US Open when my arm 100% recover.   
 Q.  Are you in doubles as well there or just singles?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I have both there.   
 Q.  You're going to play doubles there, you think?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  You're not worried that might be too much for your arm?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, this why last time, three years ago, after my injury, I didn't play so much doubles.  This why I focus singles.  I can't play so much.   
But in Grand Slam, I want to play both, yeah.  Maybe one day I can win.   
 Q.  You think three or four days now for recovery?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, I think so.  In last 10 days, I play seven, eight matches.  So, yeah, I think for everyone is too much.  In Grand Slam, you have one day play, one day off.  But in national game in China, I play five day, I play five match, five single match.  This is very, very difficult for me now because I'm not young any more (smiling).   
 Q.  When was the last time the arm bothered you?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Three years ago, yeah.   
 Q.  Does this feel similar to that injury?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah.  Yesterday I already feeling, yeah, similar, really similar.  I talking to my coach.  I feeling not so good, yeah.   
 Q.  Is it the shoulder or the biceps?  
ZHANG SHUAI: My arm (indicating biceps), yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT