HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 5, 2016
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/Z. Shuai   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.   
 Q.  One question:  Over the past few years you're trying to become a more aggressive player.  Kvitova is one of the top aggressive players in the world.  What difference do you see between you and what do you think of your performance today?  Did you do your best?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yes, we know that Kvitova is one of the top aggressive players.  She's the top one because she can finish the game before you are even picking up.   
 Q.  Although you have more games to go before the end of this year, this is pretty much the end of the season.  We know that your coach mentioned that for the next season there will be no pressure on you.  What is your expectation for the next season?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I will just keep enjoying playing tennis.   
 Q.  This is the end of the season, and you mentioned during the off-season you will be practicing more.  I would like to know, where you going to make the most improvement?  
ZHANG SHUAI: All of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  I'm just curious, after the year you've had, how do you sum up 2016?  What did you make of your week in Zhuhai after so many great wins and making the semifinal?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I'm pretty happy about myself for the year.   
I just have one more announcement to make.  I just got an SMS text message from a friend yesterday and got me very upset and guilty actually.  I won't mention the name and the content; however, I would like to say that we are having this wonderful event in such a beautiful city in Zhuhai.   
I don't want to ruin the event because of me or because of what I said about the moving or talking audience during the game.  After the game during the press conference, I have never actually encountered so many questions on just one single issue.  I know there was a huge media coverage after the press conference as well, so I feel very guilty and upset.   
Also, I don't believe the staff member of the event should be the ones to be blamed.  They're all innocent and they have done a lot.  They're taking responsibilities that they should not take.   
I believe that both for myself and for my dear media friends, can we please stay positive for the future events and help the events, because it's such a rare opportunity to have this event in China.  We know how much our sponsor and the Association of Tennis in China spent for the establishment and construction of this tennis center.  I really don't want the event to be ruined because of me or you or anyone here.   
All we want for the Chinese tennis industry to become better.  That's why I would like to say that I like all the staff members here.  They have done a great job.  I saw their efforts.  I saw the court here, the surroundings here.  Everything here is amazing, so let's stay positive.   
What happened during the matches here also happened in other countries as well.  I always do the same.  I'm not just doing it here.  Any it also never happened that so many questions were asked for just one single issue during the press conference after any given match.   
So we are all in this tennis world.  I am the player and you're journalists.  Again, let's try our best to make China's tennis a better world.  Let's all work towards that goal.   
I have always been me.  I don't have that temper because of my loss.  Just because what I said or just because you asked.  I don't want this to be the reason why anyone else got blamed.  Let's respect each other.  We know that, again, many staff members, because of what was said and what we did, they were taking responsibilities that they should not take.   
Again, we're in such a beautiful city.  Let's stay positive and respect each other.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT