SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 31, 2019
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STOSUR-ZHANG/Siniakova-Krejcikova   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  You're in the semis. Walk us through the last match. You actually saved seven set points in the second set.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yes, we had a really good beginning in the first set, very aggressive. All of the preparation, all the tactics were implemented. During the match, at the very beginning, there were many points that were very close. Three or four times we could have won the points. We encouraged each other because we knew they were playing really well.   
We were not able to get the one key point in the first set.   
But in the second set, we wanted to be as aggressive as we were in the first set. We could have done better. We were also surprised when we were down 1-5. We were able to overturn the score. Our opponents are very strong with very good serves.   
First of all, I think my partner did really, really well today. That is the key to our success.   
 Q.  The highlight of this season was the Australian Open. The second half of this year was not as good as the first half. How do you up your game for this tournament?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Indeed, after the Australian Open, after Miami, the second half of the season went a little bit down because we had to balance between singles and doubles. On the clay and the grass, the transition was a little bit tough. I wasn't playing very well in the second half of the season. My partner wasn't doing very well due to various factors.   
We were very close to victory, just several points away. We've been on the tour consistently. We didn't really have time to prepare for doubles. Most of the time we were engaged with singles.   
For the Finals, we had an extra several days to practice. With those several days, it was really helpful. We were able to actually explore our potential, focus on our doubles, our partnership.   
It was a big supplies when we won the Grand Slam at the Australian Open because we didn't really have targeted practice. Here in the Finals, there are many good teams. Also strong singles players who are in doubles in this competitive environment.   
We would not be able to go very far without much practice. So we're facing bigger challenges ahead. We have need more targeted practice to raise our level.   
 Q.  First loss, then two consecutive wins. How did you adjust your mentality?  
ZHANG SHUAI: We've been very good and consistent. We know every player, every team is very strong. They have been very consistent during the season.   
Apart from the first part of this year, I feel all the other teams have been out-performing this season. What we have been doing is to try to do our best, to actually try our best in each game, each match.   
 Q.  After the first loss, then the two wins here, you're in the semis. What changes have you felt in terms of mentality?  
ZHANG SHUAI: When we saw the draw, or even before the draw, when we looked at the other seven teams, I was talking to Chan, it was a very tough draw. It felt like we could not beat any of the teams here.   
In our group, I couldn't beat of the three teams in my group. That was my feeling. My partner and I were encouraging each other. I said, We just need to do our best.   
When we've met those teams in previous tournaments, it was usually in quarterfinals or semifinals. We have all the champions of the Grand Slams here, four different teams in the four different Grand Slams. They're here in the Finals.   
I'm sure it's going to be very tough. To win each match, we have to beat these champions, these very strong teams. We both understand the situation, but we were very lucky to be on my home turf with my sponsor Gemdale sponsoring this event and also having the support of our fans and attention from the journalists, media, Chinese fans.   
We have a lot of support from different areas. We're very lucky to be able to make it to the semis.   
 Q.  Are you following the red group? Do you know who you're facing in the semis? Are you preparing for the next match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Because we're already qualified for the semis, I need to look at the next match. I understand we will be facing the defending champions in the next match.   
But in previous days, I wasn't really following the results of the other group because we have to focus on ourselves, we have to focus on our game in order to qualify. Most of the attention was on us. It was all about us, how to adjust ourselves.   
Yesterday we went to visit a very high-tech drone company. We went to a kindergarten to visit children. So actually that helped us take my mind off tennis, to help us relax a little bit, to focus on other things in our careers, in our world. This is a very good aspect of this tournament.   
 Q.  You've been good friends with Sam for many years. When you were a younger player and Sam was already a Grand Slam champion, she was willing to partner with you. Now Sam is becoming more senior, you are taking on a bigger role on court. Are you facing more challenges in terms of adjustment of tactics or giving ideas in the matches?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I'm relying more on Sam. She is more protective. She puts me under her wing. I feel that playing with her, I feel more comfortable, am in my comfort zone, whereas she is the one on the front lines facing challenges, giving ideas of how to break through in terms of expertise, experience.   
She is definitely a stronger player. Without her performance, we wouldn't be able to be in the top four in the semis. I feel she is a stronger player on our team. Win or loss, I think this is a very close partnership. We take the responsibility, be it win or lose.   
When we perform well, we can do our duties, take on our responsibilities. We will implement our tactics and plans to guarantee a win. I like playing on a team in the group events, doubles, mixed doubles. I like this atmosphere. Each individual is contributing her part to this group, to this event.   
I feel like this partnership, this feeling of being in a community, I'm not fighting alone. I'm not really distinguishing between who us stronger, who is weaker. We rely on each other.   
 Q.  You won a Grand Slam this year, now you're in a semis. Between the singles and doubles, is there motivation for each other?  
ZHANG SHUAI: First of all, this year, we've had a stronger team. We have a good team, good physio, fitness coach. My team is very supportive. Starting from Wimbledon, I've had a lot of treatment and great support from my team.   
Physically speaking in this very intense schedule, I was able to stay fit, play my game. That was very important. This year I'm playing singles as well as doubles, mixed. It was a great challenge to me, physically speaking.   
I'm not a very strong player. With my parents as well as the support of my friends, be it here or other countries, they send me text messages, they watch my matches, they give me encouragement every day. This is a great source of inspiration. My progress every day is a result of my team, including the national team, as well as the tennis association of China. They are providing great support on a daily basis.   
This year you can tell that we can get good results from each Chinese player on the tour. In our professional lives, we are reaching new heights for each individual player. This is thanks to the support of the tennis association as well as the national team.   
In previous years we thought we didn't get that much support. We were only fighting alone against the professional players with really good team support. Now we have seen the transformation. Even when we are playing singles, it feels like we are fighting as a team.   
I feel a lot of support. Of course, there are ups and downs. We have advantages on different surfaces. On the courts when we feel like we have an advantage, we can make a breakthrough. I think this is a strong foundation for a good result for next year, the Olympics, and future years.   
 Q.  Watching your match, no matter what happens, you are always very positive. Which is the more optimistic one, which one gives out encouragement?  
ZHANG SHUAI: When we are together, we are both very positive. When we look at each other, we always smile as each other. Without the other one on court, I would be blaming myself. I would be losing a lot of support from my partner.   
When we have each other, we draw strength in each other. We know we can be a really strong team. This is a great support from the partner. I feel inspiration and positive energy from her.   
 Q.  In the Australian Open, it was Sam's home turf. Now in Shenzhen it is your home turf. Both are high-level events. Are there any changes in your roles on court?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Luckily in both countries we feel like we have a lot of fans. We feel like we're on home turf in both Australia and China. Some fans will actually say things in Chinese, but Sam understands even though it is in Chinese.   
We're committed to each match. We're very focused on the match. We are not distracted by any other factors. When we were at a disadvantage in the match, we feel the support from our fans as well as the cheers from our fans. This is great support.   
This is why we have good results in Australia as well as in China.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT