THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2019
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/Zhang Shuai   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk about how you felt, what happened in the match today.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Oh, I really happy I can make the quarterfinals and play on Court 1 against the, yeah, former No. 1.   
Today I have really good start.  I make, like, 4-1, 40-15 I think.  Yeah, I try my best, play -- try to play more winners.  But after the 4-1, I make more mistake I think.   
But she find really good rhythm after the few games.  Also, yeah, I just nothing did wrong, I just try my best.  Anyway, really happy this year Wimbledon, yeah.   
 Q.  The first set, was it one of your best ever?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No.  Many time I play like this (smiling).   
 Q.  Especially against Simona?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, last two time -- that's why last two time I won the match.  Last two time I did, I think, almost same thing but for the whole match like this.  That's why I won.  But this time I only play short time.   
But anyway, I wish her can win the tournament because she's the best player I like, yeah.   
 Q.  What was the key of the match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think everything start to change from 4-1.  I play really well.  But she tried to make the more deep and tried to -- because she really good defend.  Also I didn't play well 4-1 after two games.  So I think that's the big different.   
If I can play better, even I didn't win the 4-1 and the next game, my serving game, I also didn't play well in the also serve with the double-fault last point.   
But anyway, yeah, the match finish.  I just, yeah, try some thing improve for the next time.   
 Q.  You say you would like her to win the title.  You said you like her.  Why do you like her?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I like her not only because she play good tennis, because she's great person.   
 Q.  How is she a great person?  
ZHANG SHUAI: You can see her eye how nice.  And also, yeah, when I'm win, beat her twice, she still very nice to me.   
She's No. 1, but she always try to helping the Romania, some player play doubles together.  Even if she's really tired, already play one long match singles, a lot of player decide to retire for the doubles, save more energy for the next day singles.  She never do that.  She always try hard in helping a lot the same country the player.   
Also she's, you know, like the hero in Romania.  Whole country, right?  Because tried her best to win the Fed Cup.  Even lost.  That's why I so respect to her, yeah.  I think for us country, we really need someone like her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT