CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2018
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/Zhang Shuai   
3-6, 6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  When you were 5-3 up in the third set, you had many opportunities.  Looking back, what could you work onto improve to win that match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I feel like the match today, I played my best.  I was able to bring up my best game, especially at the very beginning I could say I gave 100%.   
Well, in the end it was very hard for me to change anything because I did my best, I tried everything.  Well, after the previous matches, how do I put it, I felt some pain in my abdomen.  I could not do a more powerful second serve.   
Actually, that was why I double-faulted in the match yesterday.  That was something I expected.  I knew it would happen.  It was very hard for me to change anything on court.   
However, in this week I was able to win several matches with good performances.  I was able to play good tennis compared to previous months.  This is something I'm really happy about.   
There are many things I could improve.   
 Q.  Talk about the last game.  You challenged one point.  If you continued playing that game, would that change the whole match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Personally speaking, I do not like to make assumptions.  You are not able to change what has happened.   
I think when I was leading 5-3 or 5-4, if I could have done better to finish the match at that point, or at the beginning of the second set when I was leading, if I could have done better at that point I wouldn't be forced to face the situation of the last game, to make assumptions.   
I think I've done my best.  I will keep fighting.   
 Q.  Could you talk about how you and your coach made the game plan?  What did you talk about when you asked for your coach during the match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Nothing particularly.  Every match I try to do my best.  When I'm facing a Grand Slam champion, but every day your facing a Grand Slam champion, a top-10 player or former world No. 1.  If you don't raise your own level, by focusing on your opponent, by thinking about game plan, by responding to different tactics, you won't be able to defeat your opponents by doing so.   
I'm really happy that I was able to play my best.  I was able to fight against top players in matches consecutively.  In those matches, I was able to withstand the pressure.   
In previous matches, I was more aggressive.  In today's match, I admit Osaka's ability, capacity, it's stronger in power, and most of her serves are above 180, even above 190.  Under these circumstances, I was able to do my best, the best I can.  I was able to stay in the rallies, to return the balls.  Most of the time I think during the match I did very well.   
 Q.  I would say congratulations to you.  During the national holiday, many people were holding your posters to cheer for you.  What do you want to say to them?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I'm very grateful.  I would like to thank all the audience members for coming to the court, cheering for me during the national holiday.   
After several rounds, every match I played against top players.  Without your support, I wouldn't be able to be here today.  A big thank you to everyone, to all the fans who have been supporting me all the way along.  My friends from childhood, they have come here from different places.  They sent me text messages in the morning, told me they were on the road from Tianjin.  They came here to cheer for me.   
I'm really moved.  It is because of their support that I could hold on when I am down, when I'm facing setbacks.  This is what has motivated me.  I felt extremely tired two times or three times during the match.  I was able to go on to the end of the match because of the support from the fans and the crowd.   
 Q.  Back in 2016 you also made it to the final eight in the China Open.  How does it feel like being back in the top eight again?  Did it feel different?  
ZHANG SHUAI: During the past years, I saw my improvement, I saw my progress in my career.  Compared to 2016, on court I see stronger players.  Players now are more aggressive, more powerful.  This poses great challenges to myself.   
Back then, when Konta served, every serve was above 160, 170, I thought she was very powerful, very aggressive.  Well, playing now, starting from the first round, most of the serves from Mertens were above 170, 180.  In the second round, Babos served above 180, 190.  Yesterday my opponent served a little bit more slowly, however she had three Grand Slam titles.   
Well, today when I was playing Osaka, when I saw the speed of my serve was only 150, but I tried my best.  I definitely see the difference.  A few years back I saw more technical players.  But now most of the players were powerful and aggressive.   
Under these circumstances, I was able to come to the top eight of the China Open.  That was more difficult to do.  I hope I have more opportunities to make bigger achievements in the China Open.  I hope I can do better next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT