AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Steph Kyriacou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Making your major debut here this week at the AIG Women's Open.  A nice round out there for you today with a few birdies.  Very tough conditions.  Can you tell us how you're feeling with your 2-over par first round?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with my round.  I left a few shots out there but if you told me at the beginning of the day I was going to have 2-over, I'd be stoked.  Yeah, did I leave a few shots out there, so hopefully tomorrow just fix those mistakes and put myself in contention.
Q. A birdie on the famous The Postage Stamp.  Can you talk to us about that?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   Oh, my God, that tee shot is so scary.  Yeah, the wind was coming off the left and I had a little wedge.  I was hoping I wouldn't miss the green.  I had a perfect number.  I put it to about 5-foot and holed the putt.  Felt good.
Q. This is your first major championship.  Can you tell us how you're feeling on the first tee today?  Maybe obviously a few nerves?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   Yeah, definitely nervous.  I think I was more nervous last week than this week to be honest because back at my home course it does get a bit windy so I was kind of used to these conditions.  Maybe not this extreme, but yeah, I was okay.  But I was definitely nervous on my first tee shot.
Q. 2020 has been quite the year for you, you had that breakthrough win as an amateur on the LET and then you decided to turn pro, this is thanks to COVID now just your third championship as a professional golfer.  Can you talk to us about your year and what you've been going through and how tough maybe lockdown was particularly for you?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   I think during Bonville, I was peaking and played the week after, didn't play great and then I was meant to go so Saudi Arabia and unfortunately a couple days before, we found out it was canceled.
So I've just been practising.  I've been playing money games with a few of the boys back home which is kind of good.  Keeps a competitive atmosphere but that's pretty much it.  It kind of sucked that it all came as soon as I turn pro but I get an extra year I guess on the LET, so I'm pretty excited.
Q. No scoreboards out there, and at one moment on 10, you were the only person under par leading the field.  What do you think about that?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   That's pretty cool.  It's only ten holes in but I guess it would be pretty cool if I knew.  Probably would have got nervous and done something silly.
Q. Tell us about your dad on the bag.  He's quite reserved out there.  What sort of things does he say to keep you going?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   I think he gets more nervous than me.  Usually he's pretty talkative but when he gets nervous he doesn't talk at all.  He was pretty quiet out there, but no, it's pretty special having him on the bag and we work well together on course, so it's good.
Q. What about preparing for this sort of weather?  You say there's wind at your home course in Australia but what about the temperature out here?  Is it too cold for you or how are you doing with it?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   This is fine.  I think our winters are like your summers.  If I came here in winter I would probably struggle, but this is okay.  It's kind of like winter now, so it's okay.  It's fine.
Q. What about support from Aussie golf?  I see you're still wearing a hat.  Have you got a lot of people cheering you on from back home round?
STEPH KYRIACOU:   Yeah, I have so many friends and family, they have all sent me some nice messages.  They sent me messages last week, so I've got a very supportive team back at home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT