GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 27, 2006
Dakoda Dowd
Kelly Jo Dowd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A birdie on the first hole, how did that help your confidence and your state of mind?

DAKODA DOWD:  It made everything go a lot easier, as if I got like a double on the first hole or something.  It just made me a little bit more confident and made me breathe a little bit easier.
Q.  How long    inaudible?

DAKODA DOWD:  I looked over at my mom quite a bit, not my dad too much    sorry, Dad.  Yeah, I looked over at my mom every shot, saw her smile, that felt good.
Q.  Did making the "bird" on 1, did that make it seem more like a real round, as opposed to this unusual event type round that you were out there, you know, facing?

DAKODA DOWD:  It did.  It's just all super surreal and I'm just thankful to be here.
Q.  How did you enjoy your playing partners?

DAKODA DOWD:  They were so nice.  They treated me just like I was one of them.  They talked to me, had normal conversations and everything.  They were very great to me.
Q.  Could you talk about shooting 74, just how that is and if that came close to your expectations, and just the final number.

DAKODA DOWD:  You know, I didn't really have too many expectations except to go out there and have a great time and look over and see my mom.

It did feel good shooting 74.  Like I said, I'm just really happy to be here, just a great opportunity.
Q.  How confident

DAKODA DOWD:  I was hitting the ball really good.  I had a good time.  My putting was pretty    it all kind of was just really good today.
Q.  What was the most difficult part of the course for you, what shot?

DAKODA DOWD:  The last hole.  I had this uphill shot and I kind of like chunked it, didn't make the green.  But, it's okay.
Q.  What time did you get up?  Did you have trouble sleeping last night, did you feel like you were having a normal pre round routine this morning    inaudible?

DAKODA DOWD:  I slept like a baby.  I slept good.  Instead of going to bed at 4 o'clock, so I went to bed at like 12 o'clock, so good job, yeah.  It was really nice waking up and seeing a rainbow, though.  Kind of topped the morning off.
Q.  How nervous were you off the first tee, and when did you feel yourself finally settling down?

DAKODA DOWD:  I settled down around like 18th hole.  I was nervous the whole entire time basically.  I was having a good time.  The girls were making me feel at ease.  It all was just a great experience.
Q.  Could you describe your feelings and emotions when it all got started and when Dakoda hit the ball for the first time?

KELLY JO DOWD:  I was pretty overwhelmed.  We've been waiting for this opportunity for a long time and thankful to have it.  You can dream and think about things as much as you want to, but when you're in the moment it's a lot different.  I started bawling, I knew I would.  I told you guys a thousand times and I just started balling.  Dakoda says to me, "Mom, don't cry."

I'm like, "Okay, I've got it together."

DAKODA DOWD:  I don't get how women cry when they are happy.  Who cries when they are happy?  (Laughter).

KELLY JO DOWD:  I cry all the time when I'm happy.  Ask your dad.  I cry all the time when I'm happy; do I not, darlin'?
Q.  How did it feel to be out there for all 18 holes, you've been here and seen bits and pieces of Dakoda's round, but today was the first day you went the full 18, what was that like for you?

KELLY JO DOWD:  It just felt great.  Just the adrenaline to get through everything, it was amazing.  I almost felt like my old self today, I really did.  I was just so happy to be there to see every stroke, every everything.  It's an amazing thing to be a part of quite honestly God knows and you all know that I'm very happy to be here to experience this.
Q.  What are you going to do to celebrate?

KELLY JO DOWD:  Going dancing tonight, darlin', and guess what, you're coming with me.  (Laughter).

DAKODA DOWD:  We're going to Disney World!  (Laughter).
Q.  The first tee shot, you even drove it past the two pros, what was that like?

DAKODA DOWD:  I had all of this adrenaline rushing everything and, I was really excited so I think that kind of helped me a little bit.  It felt really good to get it off the tee, no matter how I did just to get it off the tee.
Q.  From the moment that you knew she was going to come to this tournament and the month long build up and the anticipation, just how therapeutic has that been for and you how therapeutic was today for your spirit?

KELLY JO DOWD:  Once again, I need to make up a new vocabulary word.  It means the world to me.  I didn't have any idea when this first took place how much people were going to embrace us.  And I can't say enough, thank you, to everybody, for that, the love, the prayers and the support, it's been amazing for me.  As I said, I feel very normal today.  So I'm hoping, or praying, that maybe one day I can consider myself normal.  And God knows this has been a bonus for me a thousand percent.
Q.  The bunny ears, it's only natural for you probably now to think, maybe, about playing the weekend after 74.  I know that wasn't    it's not the reason for being here, but is that going to seep into your mind a little bit tonight, that you have a shot of maybe sticking around?

DAKODA DOWD:  There is no way I'm going to think about that.  I'm just here to have a great time and whatever happens, happens.  But this is just an amazing experience no matter what.
Q.  How did your dad handle the round today?

DAKODA DOWD:  He was ADD.  He was walking back and forth.  He didn't throw his arms at me when I hit a bad shot.  He was okay.

Thank you.

KELLY JO DOWD:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT