BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 23, 2003
Ty Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Playing in the rain, may as well be able to make a little money doing it.

TY TRYON:   Exactly.  It's very wet but I was actually managing things.  Scores were a little higher. 


Q.  How did your game go this weekend?  What do you think worked for you? 

TY TRYON:   I kind of just played within myself this week.   Didn't get ahead of myself and start thinking.  Every other week, I have been like a few under and just started thinking ahead, and that gets me in a bad situation.  This week, I putted well, driving well and played pretty well.


Q.  How about being at home, what difference does that make? 

TY TRYON:   It's a big advantage, to sleep in your own bed, get up a little bit less early than usual.  Going to go back now and get in the hot tub.


Q.  What's it feel like to be a golfer having a great tournament, looking up on board and seeing Tiger Woods blowing everybody right out? 

TY TRYON:   I don't know what he's going to shoot today but it's pretty amazing.  If I can come close to shooting what he shot today I would be happy, but 19Â  -, 20-under, what he's shooting, it's unbelievable.  This is a tough golf course.  These are best players in the world just shows how good he is.


Q.  Talk about your first paycheck?

TY TRYON:   I'm glad to make a little dough this week. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

TY TRYON:   I'm just maturing, I think.  My game is getting better and I'm working real hard.  It was a little rough when I came out and I've turned into a lot better player. 


Q.  Was it pressure from other people's expectations or was it self-pressure, to succeed immediately?

TY TRYON:   I think it was not really my pressure, it became that, but I knew it was a long process.  That's the way it goes.  I think I've been trying to get better and I had a good week this week.


Q.  Do you think golf could be a pretty good way to make a living?

TY TRYON:   I love it.  It's tough, not the easiest thing in the world being out here in the rain, but better than a lot of other things.  I love to do it and that's what matters.


Q.  Inaudible?

TY TRYON:   I don't know if it's frustrating.  I'm just happy to make some money.  Tiger is great, it's all good to me, whatever, for now at least. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT