GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2002
Ty Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TY TRYON: I am real happy.  I had a tough hole on 18, had a bad lie in the rough, it happened to me two times today. 

Q.   After the mayhem in Phoenix, are you feeling more comfortable?
TY TRYON: I felt a lot more comfortable.  I felt much more confident.

Q.   A change for you mentally?
TY TRYON: I am just trying to do what I used to do, kind of go out there and hit the ball.  (Inaudible).

Q.   (Inaudible)
TY TRYON: I birdied like three of the last four until 18, I hit a great drive -- I was hitting it good on the backside.  I had such a bad lie in the rough, I had 9-iron.  I laid up with a lob wedge (inaudible) then I laid up almost in the bunker again because the ball went nowhere.  It was a tough hole.  I had a great finish.  I am excited for tomorrow.

Q.   (Inaudible) on the rough you had problems on the 18?
TY TRYON: Yeah, I'd hit a great shot on the center.  I'd be through the fairway, I couldn't even see my ball.  I hit a lob wedge had like 95 yards to the hole, I hit it like 120 yards over the green.  I got up and down. 

Q.   What hole was that?
TY TRYON: 15. 

Q.   Overall how would you judge your day?
TY TRYON: I had a pretty good day.  I had a lot of fun.  I am proud of myself the way I battled through it.  I am excited too because I started hitting the ball really solid, hit a lot of good shots.  (Inaudible).

Q.   Kind of cool out there?
TY TRYON: Yeah, a little cool out there. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TY TRYON: Actually on No. 3 I hit it in the water with a drive.  I dropped -- like 185 yards away I had a drop in between two trees, like two palm trees in the rough.  I hit this 5-iron, this saved my round, I think.  After my drop I was 1-over.  I hit it 185 through the trees like out of the rough over the water.  That saved par somehow. 

Q.   3rd hole you said?
TY TRYON: Yeah.

Q.   You'd throw out that front nine, you'd be set?
TY TRYON: Yeah, I mean, experienced a lot on the front.
I thought I would be happy. I had an early tee time; for Miami I thought it would be hot.  Just like Phoenix, but it didn't happen.  It wasn't that cold.  It wasn't that windy.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT