THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2001
Ty Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

TY TRYON:   Brought everything, because I knew I could make the cut.  I just played a solid round.  I was pretty confident because I played well in the qualifier, and why not, you know.  I didn't want to just put a negative tone in the beginning.


Q.  What did you shoot in the qualifier?

TY TRYON:   70. 


Q.  What was the most important hole for you today? 

TY TRYON:   The 1st hole.  That first tee shot, just rip it down the center, birdieing it.  That was great.


Q.  Did you hit driver all four days? 

TY TRYON:   Yeah. 


Q.  What was your e-mail address before this? 

TY TRYON: ProQuick, like becoming a professional quickly.  You know, it was actually Michael Jordan's  -- like basketball shoes.  I guess, like after a while, I was 11, 12, 13  -- and then it was like, professional quick, so, you know what I'm saying.  So I think I want to become a pro as fast as I can.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

TY TRYON:   I like a lot of them, really.  A lot of the golfers, Lehman is a really nice guy.


Q.  Would Daly be the guy  --

TY TRYON:   That's pretty cool.  I mean Long John Daly, so many stories about him and all and he's a really nice guy. 


Q.  When did you start playing and what's the lowest score you've ever shot? 

TY TRYON:   I started playing when I was  -- fooling around, whacking the ball around probably 2 or something.  And I shot a 65 .


Q.  First 65?

TY TRYON:   Two years ago, AJJ Boys Championship, one of our majors.  I shot that twice, actually, in that tournament in Dallas. 


Q.  Do you have spring break coming up? 

TY TRYON:   Yeah, I do, actually, April. 


Q.  And the golf team is going down to L.A. tomorrow?

TY TRYON:   L.A., san  Diego. 


Q.  What courses are you playing? 

TY TRYON:   Torrey Pines  -- I think Torrey Pines. 


Q.  Riviera? 

TY TRYON:   No.  Not Riviera.  Mission Hills. 


Q.  So you're out at, what, 6:45 in the morning from Orlando? 

TY TRYON:   Yeah.  It will be great.


Q.  To L.A.?

TY TRYON:   L.A..


Q.  Did you do some school homework while you're here?

TY TRYON:   I have to do a lot this coming week because I'm not going to be at school.  I have to do a lot and get it done.


Q.  When do you go back?  When is your first day?

TY TRYON:   Monday.  Hopefully I can get back for Bay Hill so I can go watch the guys, and I'll be like, "Hey, what's up, guys." 


Q.  Too late for an exemption there at Bay Hill? 

TY TRYON:   Yeah, even  -- yeah, there's no way.  It's an Invitational.  The PGA TOUR is awesome, but I'm not ready for it yet.  There's a lot of stuff going on.  The round is not really over, it's like you have got to go from here to there and keep going.


Q.  So you'll have a tremendous appreciation what the guys are doing?

TY TRYON:   Oh, yeah, definitely.  It's great.  The players are awesome, just world-class.  They handle everything really well.  A lot of nice guys out here.


Q.  You finished fourth in the state?

TY TRYON:   Yeah. 


Q.  Who beat you?

TY TRYON:   Tyler Leon, a friend of mine who goes to the Leadbetter Academy.  He shot 9-under.  I shot 5-under.  I had a bad hole on the par 4 -- (inaudible).


Q.  What do you think you and your folks are going to be talking about when you drive back to Orlando tonight?

TY TRYON:   I think I'm driving my own car back because I drove my own car down and they are driving their car back.  I'll probably be just like driving and thinking the whole way. 


Q.  Were you surprised to ever make the cut on the PGA TOUR?

TY TRYON:   Not really.  I wasn't surprised.  I mean, I just went out and played my game, really.  I knew I could play I just tried to focus on the holes and not really let the hoopla get in my head. 


Q.  PGA TOUR doesn't keep specific records for the youngest player to participate, but we do know that Tiger Woods was just 16 years, two months when he qualified for the '92 Nissan open.  How does it feel to be in such lofty company?

TY TRYON:   That's great.  Tiger is the man.  Best golfer in the world. 


Q.  Tiger has been credited with everything from generating greater interest in the sport to raising the level of play on the tour.  What impact has his brilliant young career had on you? 

TY TRYON:   I really kind of like a hero, you know what I'm saying.  All he's done for golf, just the way he's brought the sport into mainstream, you know what I'm saying.  The crowds are wild and there are tons of people and it's great.


Q.  Do you think the record-setting performances that have been registered this year are a direct result of Tiger's stellar play over the last few years?

TY TRYON:   I definitely think so.  It seems like  -- I think he has raised the bar for the guys.  Guys were kind of comfortable where they were before he came, and now he's got them moving a little bit, working harder and stuff like that.Can a a


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT