THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 9, 2001
Ty Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TY TRYON:   First of all, I'm incredibly happy right now and just  -- if I didn't finish so bad, I would probably be crazy right now, but I just finished really bad.  So that puts a little damper on my happiness. 
 

Q.  If you were not playing here, what would you be doing on a normal weekend back home? 
 
TY TRYON:   Weekend?  Playing golf.  Hanging out.  Playing golf.  
 

Q.  It's been a bumpy ride, but 4-under, what's your feeling as that putt drops and you go fish it out?
 
TY TRYON:   I was just really happy the round was over.  I was just ready for it to get in the hole. 
 

Q.  Did you know at 9-under, two shots off the lead, were you watching the scoreboard?
 
TY TRYON:   I knew I was 9-under, but I didn't know I was second place.  I was just looking to see the leaders.  My name wasn't even up there.  They kind of put mine with "others."   
 

Q.  How did you sleep last night? 
 
TY TRYON:   Really well.  I had ten hours of sleep. 
 

Q.  Is that more than usual?
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah.  
 

Q.  Will you be more relaxed tomorrow, do you think? 
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah, definitely.  Because I can just go out and  -- I mean, I've got the hard part done, I think.  I can just go and play as good as I can, really. 
 

Q.  Your goal was to make the cut.  You've made it; and now what?
 
TY TRYON:   I want to go as low as I possibly can and I want to have a good time and enjoy it.   This is a lifetime experience.  The next few weeks, I'm going to be playing some Junior tournaments and stuff like that.  So I just want to remember I've been here and just enjoy the memory. 
 

Q.  Will you try and qualify in any more tournaments this year? 
 
TY TRYON:   I don't think so.  Maybe one more.   I'm not really sure.  I don't think so.  
 

Q.  Any players say anything to you, like on the range or going around, "go get 'em," something like that? 
 
TY TRYON:   Jeremy Anderson actually left me a note in my locker, said like great job, stuff like that, keep it up, which is just I tried to do and I was doing for a while.  
 

Q.  What's the neatest thing that's happened to you the last two days? 
 
TY TRYON:   Probably signing autographs.  It's so weird.  And like turning people down, I feel like so bad. 
 

Q.  Have you ever done that before? 
 
TY TRYON:   No.  Well, maybe before as a Junior tournament as a little kid. 
 

Q.  You were turning them down? 
 
TY TRYON:   At the turn.  
 

Q.  You were signing at the turn?
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah, I guess  -- I was signing at the turn.  
 

Q.  Kids were asking you for balls, too? 
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah, balls.  And I had like my ball in my pocket and I'm like, "I need my ball." 
 

Q.  How many balls did you have?
 
TY TRYON:   Five.  
 

Q.  You didn't have any to spare?
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah.  The back nine, the way I played, I needed those balls.  
 

Q.  The three birdies in a row on the back that got you to 9-under, did you shake off that bogey on 10 that quickly?
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah, I did.  My caddy tried to really just get me back level-headed, and I made a real good putt from off the fringe on 11.  And then 12, I made a good putt about 15, 20 feet on that par 5 and I chipped up there about a foot behind the green.  I had a 2-iron over the green and so I was really  -- I mean, I was pumped.  I was just really doing great.  And on No.  -- it was 14, the par  3, I hit 8-iron like 190 but I heard Adam Scott hit 9-iron.  But I flew over the green back there.  It was just like six inches high and my ball was kind of an inch when I hit it and that kind of set off the bogey trend. 
 

Q.  What was it like for you on the back nine with all of the ups and downs? 
 
TY TRYON:   Totally up and down.  At the end of the front nine, I actually missed some greens and I got some really  -- like No.  18, I hit my drive in the left bunker and my second shot in the hazard over there.  I like hit up in the fringe and rolled in the hazard and hit a bunker shot like out of the hazard three feet and made par.  
 

Q.  Was it just all mud?
 
TY TRYON:   All mud.  I hit like a bunker shot out of the mud. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TY TRYON:   Actually I jumped in there, running in there, and I almost sunk; my foot went down.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TY TRYON:   That was about 25 feet from off the fringe.  I had to putt from like ten feet of fringe.  
 

Q.  How long was the putt on 7, the par putt? 
 
TY TRYON:   7, yeah, probably seven feet.  Yeah, because I played 10 first.  
 

Q.  Most of the Juniors who have played in TOUR events have gotten in recently through sponsors exemptions and then they have all missed the cut.  How satisfying is it knowing that you have earned your way in here and then to stay?
 
TY TRYON:   It just feels great -- sponsor exemptions, like, "What's that kid doing here or something,"  and I haven't really felt that this week from the players.  And making the cut is just  -- I feel like I've been on a long road to get here. 
 

Q.  You've done something Tiger has never done.  Obviously, he's the litmus test for every person young or old.  What do you think about that? 
 
TY TRYON:   Oh, man, it's just  -- kind of at the right place at the right time.  I just needed to play a good round.  That's what I needed to.  I mean, Tiger has done incredible things.  This is just one thing he hasn't done.  I just feel really good about this.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TY TRYON:  William Augustus Tryon, IV.  But I've always been called Ty since I was born.  That other name is a little, I don't know  -- I don't like it.  
 

Q.  Augusta? 
 
TY TRYON:   Augustus.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT