THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 8, 2001
Ty Tryon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TY TRYON:   Well, first of all, I'm just incredibly happy to be here, just to play a PGA tournament, and I just had a great time out there.  I really just enjoyed it.   Playing well is definitely a plus, but it was awesome.  I had a lot of fun.  
 

Q.  Did you ever have a sense when you came out here this was going to be a special day for you did you ever think, "I could go low"? 
 
TY TRYON:   I was playing pretty well in the practice rounds and hitting pretty well.  I mean, I really had no idea, to tell you the truth.  I didn't know how the course was going to be, during the tournament how I was going to feel and all.  I tried to play my own game.  I tried to take out the PGA part of the tournament and play it like a normal golf course and that helped. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TY TRYON:   I was pretty nervous.  I probably hit a 2-iron, but I just felt like hitting driver.  Because it was my first pro tournament, I just wanted to rip a driver down there. 
 

Q.  So you didn't realize you birdied the last three holes until you saw your card?
 
TY TRYON:   I know it sounds weird.  I really didn't even know and I looked and it was like, "Gees, that's pretty awesome."    
 

Q.  What was your goal this week?
 
TY TRYON:   My goal is just to get a lot of experience.  I really just want to make  -- that was my goal coming in today.  Now, do as good as I can, I guess.   I birdied 4, the p-a-r  5.  I hit it close  -- I made actually a 30-footer on 4.  That was pretty good.  
 
TY TRYON:   Sand wedge.  Little pitch shot.  Just drained it. 
 
TY TRYON:   5, I hit 6-iron about six or seven feet and I made a birdie there. 8, I hit a really good 6-iron.  It was a little down wind, it was like 215 and it went over the green, the edge of the green and right over the pin and I chipped it about five feet and I missed it.  No.  9, I hit a really solid drive and I hit in the front bunker with a 3-iron, got up -and-down. 10, I hit a drive down the left-hand side of the bunker left.  Hit a really good bunker shot out.  9-iron about 25 feet and 3-putted.  14, I hit a driver down the left side into the hill, kind of.  Hit 3-wood on the front of the green and got it up-and-down.  16, I hit a pretty solid drive on the left side.  Caught the bunker.  Pulled out a 3-iron from the front bunker.  Hit a really good shot and it plugged the lip of the bunker; hit the green and bounced back.  Hit a bunker shot rolled over the edge of the green and I made about a 15-footer. 17, I hit a 9-iron and hit it about three feet for birdie.  18, I hit 2-iron and 7-iron back to 15, 20 feet and made it.  
 

Q.  Did you feel momentum building? 
 
TY TRYON:   Definitely.  I mean, I kind of felt a little more pumped up.  The last hole I had 188 to the pin.  I hit 2-iron off the tee and I hit 7-iron right there.  It was a little downwind still, but that's not my normal yardage.  
 

Q.  What would you be doing if you had not qualified in today where would you be?  Would you be in school?
 
TY TRYON:   Probably making up schoolwork for all the days I missed. 
 

Q.  What grade are you? ? 
 
TY TRYON:   Tenth.  
 

Q.  You won the PGA Junior, PGA National?
 
TY TRYON:   Yes.  
 

Q.  By 10?  10 shots? 
 
TY TRYON:   Yeah.  
 

Q.  What did you do in the state high school?
 
TY TRYON:   I got fourth I think.  I shot 72-67.  I played well.  The scores were pretty low.  Our team  -- we lost to two other schools down in Bradenton. 
 

Q.  Is it, I mean is it like mind-boggling to go from that to this? 
 
TY TRYON:   Oh, yeah.  Going back is going to be even more mind-boggling.  
 

Q.  Are they going to treat you any different?
 
TY TRYON:   I don't know.  We'll see.  
 

Q.  What are the limitations of your game, if you have any? 
 
TY TRYON:   I just need to keep working on everything, just getting better and hitting straighter off the tee.  Getting longer off the tee.  Better my irons.  My putting  -- putting is a lot tougher out here.  You can make some putts, but the greens are ten times faster than the greens I play.  I walked some long putts quite a ways by; so I need to work on that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT