MLS CUP
November 22, 2009
Bruce Arena
Landon Donovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the MLS Cup 2009 postgame press conference. Joining us now are L.A. Galaxy head coach Bruce Arena and mid fielder Landon Donovan. We'll start with an opening comment from the head coach.   
 BRUCE ARENA: Well, you know, the end of a long year. Unfortunate that we couldn't win in the penalty kick shootout. I think both goalkeepers were tremendous. Absolutely outstanding.   
 I thought that Josh Saunders was remarkable that he had to make two big saves to keep us alive there. You know, I think the second half Salt Lake played well. I think it was a tough night that the field conditions would be the wet field. It was a sloppy game. I think both teams were awfully tired at the end of regulation, certainly in the overtimes. It was just a battle of attrition.   
 I don't think at either end there were a whole lot of chances tonight. The soccer wasn't that good at times. I just think the conditions were difficult tonight with the cold weather, the wet field and the wind at times. But, you know, we didn't play well enough over 120 minutes to win the game. When you get into the shootout, anything can happen, and certainly we came out at the short end tonight.   
 But congratulations to Salt Lake. Our players, our team, our organization had a great year. Can't be disappointed. I think we did a great job in turning our team around, and Landon had a fabulous year. He's been a great captain and leader. I applaud our guys. It was a very good season for the Galaxy.   
  
  Q. What happened in the second half to the Galaxy to make you have some control at the game? Took the lead at halftime. And then also if you could describe on what happened on the penalty kick that you took?   
 LANDON DONOVAN: We knew in the second half that they were going to throw a lot at us, and they did a good job of moving the ball and putting us under pressure. I'm not quite sure what happened on their goal. It was pretty sloppy. But in the end they probably deserved to get a goal at some point.   
 The penalty I hit like I hit any penalty. I made sure he was going the other way, and I closed my body. I just put it in the air. You know, it's probably partially due to tired legs and not concentrating in that moment.   
  
  Q. Could you talk a little about the play of Jeff Saunders and stepping into that difficult position?   
 ReplaceName1: He.  
 BRUCE ARENA: He played great. And one of the difficulties both teams had there was the substitution pattern. Certainly in our case having to use one substitution for goalkeeper is never good. But those are the cards that were dealt to us.   
 But I think Josh Saunders did a fabulous job. Both teams were exhausted. You know, we wanted to manage the substitutions in the second half. When the first one had to be used on Rick, it handcuffed us a little bit, because we had a couple of other guys that were hurting physically. Then obviously Omar had to come out, so that was difficult.   
 But to answer your question, Saunders was great tonight. Can't argue that. Did a fabulous job in the shootout.   
  
  Q. I was wondering if you could talk about Dema? Certainly he was expected to start.   
 BRUCE ARENA: Dema came down with maybe it's a viral infection this week. He was pretty ill. He started to respond yesterday where he started feeling better, but to start him today would have been a real issue. He would not have had a full tank, and we had to make that decision.   
 And certainly we were going to actually put him in around the 70-minute mark. But then when we had had to make the change with the goalkeeper and then they he got the goal, we didn't want to make a change for defensive purposes. We were a little bit handcuffed there. But he was able to play tonight in a reserve role if we called on him, but, unfortunately, he got ill.   
  
  Q. Was there any other illness on the team because Landon made the comment that week that David had been ill as well?   
 BRUCE ARENA: You know, this time of year there's a lot, and this weather here is a little bit difficult. Certainly colds and both teams probably had a few players under the weather, but that's all part of it.   
  
  Q. Would you say your team was fully fit?   
 BRUCE ARENA: What's your definition of fully fit?   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 BRUCE ARENA: There are probably very few players that are 100% this time of the year. No he was obviously a little bit hobbled. Certainly wasn't 100%.   
  
  Q. Watching what Rimando did last week, was there any game plan as far as trying to get to him if there were any vulnerabilities? Was there any preparation in that regard?   
 BRUCE ARENA: Yeah. Obviously in practice and penalty kicks for however long the playoffs have been going on. Penalty kicks are every player is quite capable of making a penalty, and he's just dealing with the pressure and putting it away. You know, at the end of 120 minutes, it's tough on players. They're tired.   
 Goalkeepers, I thought both goalkeepers were great. What more can you say? I thought they both saved two penalties tonight, that's pretty remarkable. They did a great job.   
  
  Q. Can you just describe the setting? Everyone knew it was going to be something unique, something special here in Seattle, and just your observations playing in this place?   
 BRUCE ARENA: Well, I think the city of Seattle really embraced the MLS Cup. It's a beautiful stadium. I think it was a great moment for MLS. You know, what more can I say? I played here and lived here in the '70s, and professional soccer should never have left Seattle. I think the pacific northwest is a fabulous geographic area for professional soccer, and I'm happy it's back.   
 I remember the on old days of the King Dome, going to games and watching the sound. I think Seattle's always been a great city for professional soccer.   
 I'm happy it's back. They really embraced this MLS Cup, and embraced the season and the team, and it's a fantastic story for MLS.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT