NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: TRAIL BLAZERS vs CLIPPERS
April 17, 2016
DeAndre Jordan
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Clippers - 115, Trail Blazers - 95   
 Q.  DeAndre, what did you think about Blake's performance tonight?  
DEANDRE JORDAN: I thought he was great.  He scored the ball when he needed to score.  He rebounded well, defended well, he got guys open looks.  He's such a big key and a big part of our offense and our defense, so if he plays like that, we're a great team.   
 Q.  Did you feel anything different from where the team is now versus last year or the previous years in the playoffs?  As far as attitude, understanding, anything different?  
DEANDRE JORDAN: I feel like we're a lot more mature.  We've gone through a lot of ups and downs in the postseason and we've learned a lot on just how to execute and be locked in for 48 total minutes.  We've done a better job with that and we've got to continue to get better.   
 Q.  We've been kind of like waiting weeks it seems for the playoffs to start, and then you have a really good performance with a 20-point win.  How gratifying is it to come out that way?  
CHRIS PAUL: For us, it's just about the win when we get to the playoffs.  It doesn't matter if it's by one or it's by 20.  It's a tough team over there.  They're going to come back Game 2, making adjustments, but for us it was good to get our first win at home.   
 Q.  DeAndre, what did you think of them using the intentional fouling so late in the game even with how large the lead was?  
DEANDRE JORDAN: Oh, it was fine.  My thing is my teammates give me confidence when I'm up there, and I'm comfortable up there.  Just if I make both, miss both, whatever it is, we're going to come down and try to get a stop.  When we get stops, the strategy doesn't really work as much, so we've got to get stops whenever I miss, and I'll take the shot.   
 Q.  It's a tall order to guard Damian Lillard, but talk about being able to filter him into a guy like DeAndre Jordan as the defensive anchor, and D.J., touch upon your defensive effort tonight?  
CHRIS PAUL: It's tough.  Dam's a handful.  He's got the pull up, he's got the drive, he's got all that along with C.J. McCollum.  When you've got to us the Defensive Player of the Year in D.J. and you have Blake back there too, it makes it that much easier knowing that you can crowd him sometimes and send him into those shot blockers.   
DEANDRE JORDAN: I think the same thing.  I think we did a pretty good job in there on their scorers.  Their guards are going to have the ball in their hands a lot of times.  Our coverages that we were in, we rely on each other.  So we've got to continue to be on a string and continue to talk and just cover for each other.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT