PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Tony Elliott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH ELLIOTT: I think that's what separates Coach Swinney and his vision.  And he's showing everybody that, yes, you can win at a high level.  You can receive all the accolades you want; but at the end of the day, that's not what defines you.  And what really defines us is the way that all these young men that are here interviewing today already have their college degrees.   
These guys have upheld the standard of staying out of trouble.  And they're all going to be good fathers and husbands.  And I think that's what separates our program.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) question about Deshaun.  He said he's finalized his decision, but he'll let us know.  Have you had conversations with him?  
COACH ELLIOTT: That's Deshaun's decision.  I'm extremely grateful to Deshaun Watson because he's made me a better person and he's made me a better coach.  He's put Clemson into the position that we're in.   
So he owes us nothing else.  And obviously if he decides he wants to come back -- the greatest thing about it, he's already put himself in position.  He already has his college degree.   
He's put himself in the position, if he wants to move on to the next level.  So that's on him.  I won't talk about it.  The only conversation I'll have with him is, hey, understand that when you make that decision, if you do decide you want to move on, surround yourself with good people, because there's going to be a lot of people that -- you're a little bit insulated here at Clemson because of the environment, the culture we have, but when you step into that arena, there's going to be a lot of people that are going to want to prey on your good heart.   
And you gotta make sure that you understand how to say no when you need to say yes and make sure that you continue to chase what it is that you've been chasing right here.  I don't think he's chasing stats.  I don't think he's chasing numbers or awards.   
I think he's chasing just the satisfaction of knowing that he's the best that he could possibly be.  And if he does that, if he moves on to the next level, I think he'll be one of the best that ever played.   
 Q.  What are your memories from last time (indiscernible)?  
COACH ELLIOTT: The last memory I have is having to stand up in that locker room and address an offensive unit that gave everything that they had that came up a little bit short.   
That's been my motivation all year and telling those guys that I don't want to be in that position where I've got to figure out what to say to you after a game like that.  That's one of the biggest memories.   
And also, too, just taking a moment to realize how fortunate and how special it is to be in this position, in this place, and have this opportunity with a group of coaches that I love, that I truly appreciate, and a group of players that I truly love and appreciate.   
 Q.  Is the coaching staff using that as motivation this week while you're back here (indiscernible) bringing back muscle memory?  
COACH ELLIOTT: I don't think we're going to that extent.  Really all we've said is, hey, we have an opportunity to change the outcome in that locker room after the game.   
We know how we felt afterwards.  But the biggest thing is let's understand why we didn't have an opportunity to celebrate after that game.   
And it was nothing big.  It was little things.   
It was your leverage on a kickoff return.  It's Deshaun just following through on that sprint out and hitting Hunter Renfrow when he's wide open.   
Wayne Gallman, don't squeeze the pocket too quick on a simple inside zone handoff.  Just focusing on those little things and paying attention to detail so we can have the ultimate outcome that we want.   
 Q.  Special teams played a factor in both playoff games last year.  Why do you think that is?  
COACH ELLIOTT: Coach Swinney challenged -- and one of the things that I love about Coach Swinney, he's got vision.  He's always putting things into perspective.   
One of the things he challenged our entire team, we finished towards the bottom of the ACC in special teams rankings that year.  So we had to change that this year.   
And you've noticed that our kickoff coverage team has been better.  We've been more productive on kickoff return.  We had some punt returns early in the season that almost went the distance.   
So I think everybody has bought in and decided to give a little bit more to special teams.  You're seeing that not only are we doing better, but those guys are making a difference in each and every game that we play in.   
 Q.  As the guy who coaches running backs, what was your reaction to (indiscernible)?  
COACH ELLIOTT: I don't know the factors behind it.  And it's not fair for me to speak on it.  And I respect their decisions.  I understand that everybody's gotta do what's best for them.  And I wish them the best, but I don't know enough about it to really have an opinion.   
 Q.  Is there something you know about that, people say it's going to become a trend (indiscernible) is that part of it?  
COACH ELLIOTT: I don't know.  I think that every year you get something new in college football.  And I think there's a trend.  And hopefully it will cycle back, because again college is -- there's purity of the game.  It's all about the team.   
And I don't want to see it transition into where it's more of the pro mentality, where it's an individual game, because I think that's what makes football so special, is just the unity of the team, the bonds that you have, the relationships that you have.  But, again, I don't know their situation, so I can't speak on it.   
 Q.  That being said, how do you help (indiscernible) whether or not they're going to make it to the next level.  The goal is to make it to the next level.  How do you help them enjoy a time in their life that (indiscernible) that will say I wish I could go back?  From your vantage point, what can you say or do that helps them enjoy this process along the way?  
COACH ELLIOTT: I think that it starts with how they see me interact with my wife, how they see me interact with my children.  See me as not just a football coach but as a father and husband.   
When I have opportunities, don't just always talk about football.  Talk about real life.  Educate them on their finances, what the future's going to look like, so that they can kind of see, man, maybe I'm not quite ready for that, maybe I want to take a bit of time and enjoy these couple of years.   
And just share my experiences with them.  But at the same time, too, help them to understand what it takes to truly be successful.   
I think a lot of the guys with aspirations to go to the NFL, they don't know what it's about.  They don't realize it's a job and it's 7.00 a.m. to 5 every day, and you've got to be a regular person.  When you're in college, you have no bills, just enjoy this and don't be in a rush, don't be in a rush to grow up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT