ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Rob Oppenheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The gallery you had following you all day, they were rowdy but fun. Just talk about that.  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, you don't get to play many events where you live, so it's always special to be here playing at the Arnold Palmer Invitational in front of friend and family. It was a tough day out there. The course was playing very difficult and I didn't have my best day, but I think having them there pushing me along it definitely helped.   
 Q.  Your career as a whole you've been doing this for 20 years now and you haven't given up. What do you have to say about that?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, I got a good support system. Guys out here are cheering me on. That's part of what keeps me going, and the belief and these guys having the confidence in me. And yeah, it's a fun journey. I love doing it and I think you got to love it to play golf as long as I have and I've had some success but some up-and-downs. But I love doing it.   
 Q.  What's your message besides just the passion to those that do have long careers? And here we are, you're playing some of your best golf, if not your best golf of your professional career.  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, I do. I feel healthy. I feel like I'm playing some of the best golf of my life and even though I'm 40, I still feel like there's plenty of golf left. And as long as you believe in yourself and work hard, you never know what can happen. So hopefully we can have a good weekend and keep this going for some other events as a whole.   
 Q.  As for Rollins as a whole, what did that do to shape you as the golfer you are today?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Growing up in the northeast, growing up in Boston area, came down here that's when I really started playing golf. And Coach Frakes, who is here today, he's pushed me and it's been just -- it was a great school, loved going there, and I still live here today because I never left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT