NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Rob Oppenheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rob Oppenheim, closing the day at 67, tied for tenth.  Solid playing.  Overall this week how would you assess the week and what was working well?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, you know, I played well on the weekend.  I shot 8-under on the weekend.  So that was great.  Once the greens got a little softer, for me it helped me being able to hold the greens.  Coming here on Tuesday they were some of the firmest greens I've ever seen, and the rain changed the golf course quite a bit.  Today the wind's up, so it played pretty tough.  It was pretty out there.  Four-under is really good.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  And coming off last week you kind of struggled on the weekend, I guess.  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah.  You could say that.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular you had to fine tune in your game?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: You know, I didn't do anything different.  It was disappointing, you know, I shot five-over last Sunday when I had a chance -- if I had a hot day, I could have had a chance to get my TOUR card, and I didn't get it done.  But that's what's great about golf, you always have an opportunity to bounce back and put it in the past this week.  And to shoot bogey free, 4-under on this difficult golf course was pretty happy with that.  So it's a good bounceback and good start to the playoffs.   
 Q.  With the finals coming, talk about the importance of getting off to that good start.  How would you describe that importance?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah.  100 percent, yeah.  I mean that's kind of how I've started in the past, to be honest with you.  I've never really gotten off to a good start in the playoffs, so I've always had to do something great in the last event.  I'm not sure where I'll finish up, but it's a good start, like you said, and hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  Last year in Columbus, you left 26th on the Money List and unfortunately didn't get the chance.  I guess three weeks here.  So you don't need to worry about three in a row being rained out.  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah.  That's a long shot that would happen.  It's nice to take a week off next week and finish like this.  It'll make that week enjoyable.   
 Q.  Any plans for the off week or a lot of rest?  
ROB OPPENHEIM: Just watch my Patriots on Thursday night.  Opening game of the NFL.  Looking forward to that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT