FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2016
Rob Oppenheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The elder statesman of the PGA TOUR rookie class.  36 years of age.  Really nice number out there today.  How good was that number in your opinion?
ROB OPPENHEIM: I played solid.  It was a good day.  I 3-putted the last, you never like finishing like that, but I'll take it.  Very happy with the start.  You got to get your birdies on the North Course.  I know the South Course's a little more difficult, I haven't seen the scores, but definitely happy with the start.
Q. You mentioned your age of 36 years of age.  You've been trying a long time to be a member on the PGA TOUR and finally, you achieved that goal by graduating from the WEB.COM TOUR.  What has it wasn't been like for you, professionally and personally out here as a member?
ROB OPPENHEIM: It's been great.  I've been working a long time to be here and to finally get my opportunity, trying to make the most of it, and, yeah, it's a great experience.  I'm happy to be here.
Q. A few more days like this, you will make the best of it.  Congratulations.
ROB OPPENHEIM: Thank you very much.
Q. Well done 5-under 67, lovely way to start this Farmers Insurance Open.
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, it's definitely a good start.  I really like the golf course.  Perfect conditions out there.  I guess you got to get the North Course, it's probably a little easier, I haven't seen the scores, but it's good to get off to a good start.
Q. Believe it or not, the scoring has actually been quite high considering the North Course.  Your 5-under has been the pick of the round out there.  Maybe someone has come in with a 6-under just after you.  But tell us about your day.  You had an eagle on 14?
ROB OPPENHEIM: Yeah, I chipped one in there.  That always helps.  Solid round.  I hit it in the fairway, which was the key out there.  The rough is thick.  If you're in the rough -- the greens are difficult.  I stayed below the pin a lot so I could be aggressive with the putts.
If you're above the pin, three, four feet, you're just trickling it, because it's difficult to putt.  The greens have a slot of slope, they're fast.  But, yeah, I stayed below the pin and was able to roll some in.
Q. You're one of the oldest rookie on the PGA TOUR history, one of the oldest, 36 years young.  What's it like for you coming off the WEB.COM finals where you got that last card by virtue of Lucas Glover missing that putt on 18.  You were heading home.  You had to drive back.  How has your PGA TOUR rookie season been?
ROB OPPENHEIM: It's amazing.  Someone else can do that -- it's such a fine line, the difference between I would be in Panama right now starting the WEB.COM season.  But I'm happy to be here and it's a great learning experience.  It's been tough so far, we have been playing a lot of different golf courses, three courses last week, two courses this week.  But it's great, I've been working a long time to be here and I'm happy and excited for the opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT