NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 6, 2019
Mike Soroka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Braves - 3, Cardinals - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mike Soroka.   
 Q.  You don't have much margin for error when Wainwright's pitching like that, do you?  
MIKE SOROKA: No, but you really can't think about that. If anything you come in knowing that you probably won't. He's been one of the staples in the postseason for a long time. He's been fun to watch as a fan before I even got to professional baseball.   
It comes from watching guys like him to be able to kind of put yourself in their shoes and understand you might be there one day. And to get the opportunity to pitch against him in a game like this was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  A lot was working tonight, especially when you retire 17 straight. What specifically -- was that your peak and your reaction in the ninth when Dansby and Duvall come through?  
MIKE SOROKA: Everything was going. It was one of those days where everything shows up to play. You kind of gotta take advantage of those days. Come out early, understand what's working. We mixed right away. Kind of put them on their heels and just kept going after them.   
So we just stayed in rhythm. Mac and I did an amazing job of switching things up when we needed to and understanding their plan and how we were going to execute ours.   
But sitting there, eighth, ninth inning I was definitely much more nervous than I was out on the mound -- heart beating out of my chest after being on nothing but caffeine and adrenaline most of today is a lot of fun. And seeing these guys rally and come back so many times over the last couple of years, even, knowing that it's always a possibility and somebody's -- it's likely going to be a new hero. That's pretty cool, too.   
 Q.  You've experienced a lot this year in your rookie season. Was there anything that felt different today? And how did you deal with it if there was?  
MIKE SOROKA: I will say it's really the first time that nothing else matters but to get the win for your team. We can say that we won that game and really feeling like we went out there as a team to battle. You just want to do it for the guys next to you.   
And I think prior to that you make your debut, everything's about going out there, throwing quality innings, all these kind of things and now that just doesn't matter. None of the previous starts you made this season matter. It's all about going out there and getting the win.   
Really just putting all that adrenaline to use and trying to put everything I had through my spots.   
 Q.  After you missed the postseason last year, when you were injured, you come into your first postseason game, it's a packed house on the road facing Adam Wainwright, how do you stay so calm? Is that something you've been blessed with in your athletic career?  
MIKE SOROKA: Yeah, maybe a little bit. I do think a lot of it comes from my dad's calmness around sports in general. We never have been the type to get too high or too low.   
It's maybe one of those things you learn having thrown high-leverage games for Baseball Canada when you're 16, 17 and you're overmatched to know that you can do it.   
So it's one of those things where I know if I'm not calm I won't execute. It won't matter if I give a little extra for 95 or 96 if it's over the plate. These guys are the best of the best. If you understand and you know that if you don't calm down, it's not going to go well. So to me I just don't really have a choice but to be calm.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT