PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL MEDIA DAY
October 20, 2016
Scott Rueck
Sydney Wiese
Gabriella Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH RUECK: Well, I'm here today with veterans Sydney Wiese and Gabriella Hanson.  Hi, everybody.  Excited to be here.  Excited to get kicked off with another great year of PAC-12 basketball.   
This conference is unbelievable, and as you prepare your team for it, and you know, I think we're 12 practices in, and you've got so many things to prepare for, and your mind goes to so many different things on where you start, and you think about all the different styles of play that you're going to see down the stretch and throughout the PAC-12 season, it's really daunting, and it's an honor to be a part of.   
I'm excited about this group.  I'm excited about what we've accomplished in the past, of course, and I know that's a lot of the questions I've faced today have related to that.   
What I'm most excited about is that that culture that these two right here have been a part of in building, the leadership that this group has as we've faced the season with a lot of new pieces and a lot of new places but with a culture that expects success and knows what it takes to get there and amazing people throughout our roster and throughout our program.   
We're excited about the challenges to come this year, and I can't wait to watch this group grow together and become a great, great team.   
 Q.  Last year when people were talking about, and the year before, as well, the quote, I'm happy that people know about us, but we knew about us all year long, or we've known about us all year long.  Now after last year, there can be no question that people know Oregon State basketball; what's going to be new this year?  
STUDENT-ATHLETE: Well, first of all, it's different not having the seniors around.  You know, they've been -- they're our best friends.  We've been with them pretty much every day for the past three years, so to not have them on the court is different.  But like Coach said, we're so excited to have these freshmen on campus, to be working with them, practicing with them now.  And the veterans, the returners, it's just a fun team to be a part of regardless of who's here.   
So we're looking forward to putting all the pieces together and seeing what we can make out of it.  There's a lot of unknowns that we're working with.  This is our first time really having to go back and teach the foundation.  We really haven't had to do that the past couple years, so that gives us so many possibilities to see what our strengths are, what we can do, different lineups, different things that we can do on defense, take more risks.  So it's a lot of trial and error that we're going to be going through, but it's going to be a lot of fun, and our group is normally up for the challenge.  We will be again this year.   
STUDENT-ATHLETE: And while I think a lot of things are different, there's still some things that are the same.  That goes off of what we give to each other every day.  That's always been the same.  That's the culture that we've established.   
So we've had great seniors in the past leave such great examples about what it means, what your senior year means, what you give to your team, and so our seniors now, along with our fellow senior Colby, we've had the best example of that.  We're going to do all the things we can do, control all the things we can control, and that's our effort every day, and what we bring, our energy, our wisdom, our experience every day.  It's different, but those things never change.   
COACH RUECK: Well, I think exactly what Gabbi said.  The championship culture that's been instilled and has grown over these past six years is in place.  And so then the pieces sometimes are different, and some of those things we don't know yet.  That's part of this puzzle is we have some people in places that haven't been there yet.  I'm not exactly sure exactly what our five will be, where I knew exactly what Ruth was going to be, what's Bre Brown going to be like this year.  She obviously has a significant role, didn't get a lot of minutes last year.  What's Maria going to be like in that role if she is the starter.  What is our 4 going to be.   
There's some things that we still don't know, and so that's the beauty of it.  It's this puzzle that comes together, and it's based upon this culture that has been created by these leaders right here.   
And so I know we're in good hands.  I know that this group always handles adversity in an incredible way.  That's the reason we've done what we've done is because the character of this program is flat-out elite, and this group is identical in that way.   
This gym, our practices have been like every day is a huge step forward.  You can't always say that.  To have that opportunity to coach a team that that's the case is unbelievable.   
Yeah, so we're going to be an exciting team to watch.  I think we need to get out and run a little more if you want to get to schematic stuff.  We will be a great defensive team because we always are, and we have to be again, and that's important as we're finding our way offensively.   
 Q.  Scott, this is not your first rodeo making it that far, and you obviously won a national championship at the D-III level.  
COACH RUECK: Thank you for that.   
 Q.  What is the one constant that you remember from that and the year after that you have to bring this year that you actually know while you're trying to figure out all the pieces that you just alluded to, what is the one constant you will bring with you from your time at George Fox?  
COACH RUECK: Yeah, interesting question.  The following year was the strangest year of my career because we went 32-0, you couldn't do better, so you started the year knowing that you were going to fail.  You to go 31-1 and it's not as good as 32-0.  It was a strange environment.   
This team does not have that.  What I've learned is basically this group is as hungry and understands how hard it is because of their experiences with some tough losses over the last few years to where we have to operate with an edge to us from day one, and I think when we look around the room, we see that there's not a lot -- there are people missing from that run, and so that puts -- like I like to refer to as a healthy fear.  It puts a healthy fear in you like let's go, we need to step up.   
Every team has great accountability within it, a caring environment that has accountability, and that's what they provide.  For that I'm very confident that this group has that ability and will reach their potential this year.   
 Q.  I wanted to talk about obviously congratulations, it's a great accomplishment for everyone getting to the Final Four.  Mike Neighbors said he doesn't wear his ring when he goes out recruiting.  Do you?  
COACH RUECK: No, I can't even lift it.  No, I'm teasing.  No, I do not wear my ring.   
 Q.  Why?  
COACH RUECK: I feel like -- in my own opinion, it's a little pretentious, first off.  And it's not about the past, it's about what's next.  And so I will be honest, there's times where I'll wear it at home because it just feels good, and so that's the honest truth.  But no, I will not wear it out in public, and that's kind of the reason.   
It's like, I want you to -- if I'm recruiting, want to choose us because of who we are, what we're going to do.  Certainly they know what we've done, and they don't need to see that.  They want to see a coach that's moving forward instead of in the past, and that's just my comfort zone.  No offense to anybody that wears their rings, though.   
 Q.  In addition to your staff, Associate Head Coach Brian Holsinger, why that hire and what does he bring to your program?  
COACH RUECK: Brian is a veteran coach, and we've competed against him for a long time in the recruiting trails and on the court, and I respect what he's done.  I know he's been mentored very well.  He knows our conference.   
And we need -- recruiting is the name of this game.  Brian has recruited internationally.  I think that's a vital component for every program to have moving forward, and so he's got a proven track record.  We've had great discussions over the years just out recruiting, and last year actually just when he was out of the game on the phone, just talking about his philosophy from an X and O standpoint, and I believe in that, as well.   
I think we align very well, in every way actually, and the ultimate thing that I loved hearing was the families that he has recruited in comparison to -- in competition with us swear by him, and any time you would hear those things, you know the core of someone.   
And so no decision at this level is ever made flippantly.  Everything is well-researched.  It better be any way, and this was one of those.  So we're really excited to have Brian and Stacy, as well, and their family to our program.   
 Q.  Sydney, you could have been the last couple years I think a bigger scorer, but you didn't need to be because of the talent that was surrounding you and the senior class that's left.  What do you think your scoring role will need to be this year to be as successful as you want to be, and will it change because -- or does it need to change?  
SYDNEY WIESE: I think I'll just have to remain aggressive, whatever that calls for, whether it's creating for others or for myself, just reading the game, and I'm still surrounded by very talented people.  We lost a great group of seniors, but we're still -- we reloaded.  We haven't lost any type of talent.   
So it's going to be fun to see people, like coach was talking about, see people in new roles that they haven't necessarily been in yet and see what we can create out of that.  So I'm not sure -- I mean, any given night, anyone can score, and that's what's so special about this group is we can fire off of all cylinders.   
So of course I have to do what I have to do, be aggressive and create for my teammates, but it's just as long as we get the wins, that's what it's about.   
 Q.  Coach, you guys have the No. 16 recruiting class coming into this year, according to ESPN, and you're one of five PAC-12 schools in the top 20.  Just curious kind of how you've seen the PAC-12 recruiting landscape change and kind of grow over the past few years, and especially after last year with yourself and Washington making the Final Four?  
COACH RUECK: Well, it's exciting.  There's a reason our RPI is No. 1.  We've been keeping talent West.  We've been acquiring talent from the East, and I think it's directly related to the coaching in our conference.  I think if you look up and down this conference, it's coached at an elite level.  There's proven coaches everywhere, and when you have that, you have consistency, you have proven, who doesn't want to be a part of it.  You look at the universities that make up this conference, why wouldn't someone want to be a part of it.   
Yeah, it's exciting.  It's just exciting to see.  You know every night is going to be a war, and it's not getting easier.  I'm proud of everyone in this conference that we can say that.  This is the No. 1 RPI, you can't argue with it, so I can sit and tell you, we've coached against a lot of difference conferences, a lot of different competition.  It's an absolute war every night.  Yeah, I don't see that slowing down, either.   
 Q.  Speaking of RPI and height level of competition, I think it was Kelly Graves who was talking about how kids now don't look to go to the East Coast, they say home on the West Coast.  Can you talk about that in terms of your program and home grown talent from the Pacific Northwest staying on the West Coast?  
COACH RUECK: Yeah, I think if you've got a great local option, why not.  There was a time, and I can just give you a personal example, you look at Tennessee's roster right now, they have three Oregonians on it.  We played against them in our gym last year and there were three Oregonians on our team coming out of high school we hadn't won yet.  There was a vision of winning, and thankfully they wanted to be a part of that.  Those students at the time said I want to go to a storied program, and when they left, I couldn't argue.   
I also said, next time we have somebody like that come through, I want to be in a position for them to stay, and Katie McWilliams commits to us and signs with us, and then hopefully that will continue.  And so our job is to be a great local option because my parents sit two rows behind me; who wouldn't want that?  Who wouldn't want your family to be a part if there's a great option right there.   
You look at all the schools in the northwest, you look at all the schools throughout our conference, why leave if you can get it done right here and represent.  There's nothing like representing the West on a national stage if you're from the West.  It's a beautiful thing if it can happen.   
 Q.  Are there things about coming off of a Final Four season, small things, how people react to you when you're trying to schedule now, or being in community in Corvallis and how people react to you, what are some of the small things that are different about being a Final Four team rather than just the basketball stuff?  
COACH RUECK: Well, our tip-off dinner was sold out.  That was beautiful.  We had a waiting list for our tip-off dinner this year.  The excitement is at an all-time high, season tickets are way ahead of schedule or where they've been.  It's hard to hide.   
These two have probably felt the same thing I have.  You get on that stage, what the PAC-12 network does for us is incredible, and so many people -- that changed the game a few years ago.  And then you get on the national stage, and now you can't really walk through the airport without somebody saying whatever, and it's awesome, go coach, go Beavs, whatever, or hey, coach.  Who doesn't want that?  So those things have changed.   
There's differences in recruiting, of course.  You know, more people return your phone calls than maybe previously, and so all good things.  You know, our success within it depends solely on our character and not getting caught up in those things that don't matter and can't help us progress.  That's the biggest hurdle through any success.   
 Q.  Gabbi and Sydney, you guys are obviously on a Final Four team and watching your program grow.  Now you've had a taste.  What do you have to do as leaders and players to help your younger players get back -- it's hard to get back, but get back to where -- because you're preseason No. 5.  I know you're not happy with that.  What do you have to do to get back there?  
SYDNEY WIESE: Well, I think you just don't forget the process of where we ended.  Yeah, we ended so great, but all the things we did up until that point, you can't forget those lessons we've learned and the hardships we've gone through.  So our job as leaders is just to be that voice in saying like, look, this is not an easy task.  It's super fun, and we had a great time doing it, but the process of it all is very intense.   
So any way we can help them with that process I think is super beneficial because that's what we had as freshmen.  Even if you don't make it to the Final Four, whatever, this conference is so tough and so long and so gritty, we've got to get through that first.   
We're just resources to them.  We're here for them as much as we can be, but we're also going to go off that experience.   
And look, we played one of the best, if not the best women's college basketball team to ever play that game from UConn.  We look at them and say, what they have is what we need, and that's five scorers, that's five defenders, that's a tight culture, that's just so many aspects of their team we could really draw from, and it's so different when you're playing against them than when you're watching them.  We had a great experience from that.   
GABRIELLA HANSON: I think accountability is a big thing for our group.  We are a voice, and we need to be a voice for our freshmen.  They need to hear us probably more than they need to hear Coach Pruitt sometimes because we're the ones out there.  Obviously Coach Rueck is our guide and he puts us in the right positions, but we have to make sure that we put ourselves in the right positions, as well.   
So the freshmen might not know better at this point.  They have never been in this position.  So using our experience, using our voices and our perspectives, that's how we can help guys them and not lose sight, like Gabbi said, of the process along the way, that you can't skip to the end result.   
You have to go through the preparation and the daily grind of practice and getting rest, getting treatment, doing all these things right, respecting authority, respecting your teammates, loving each other, all these little things that add up and can have the opportunity or give you the opportunity to eventually get to whatever your team's potential is.   
 Q.  The team that ended your season, Connecticut, has run out of All-American players temporarily.  What does it mean for women's college basketball now that they are a little -- not quite as strong perhaps as they have been, and how does that open things up?  How many teams do you see have a legitimate shot at a national championship this year?  
COACH RUECK: That's a good question.  I have not gone through and listed them or have a number in my mind specifically.  As I think about it, I think what it does is it just gives everybody hope.  You're starting the year with hope that maybe they're not quite as strong, that more people have a shot.   
I don't know if that's good or not.  I think for everybody, we all want to rise to where they were, and they certainly set the bar.  I'm in no way ruling them out from just doing the same thing they've been doing.  Who knows.  That's what they do.  So for everybody else, it's an opportunity, and so I think everybody starts with that vision.  Hey, if they've dropped a little bit, are you going to be the team that's ready to step forward, whether it's five, six, ten?  We'll see as the season goes.  I don't know what exactly that number is.   
I know it's hard to get there.  I know there's just a few coaches that have gotten their teams there and a few programs that have, so I think you're looking at that number right there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT