NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ROCKIES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 11, 2007
Doug Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  You guys have seen these guys so often, going back to spring training, couple blocks apart.  Is it contingent on you to change your game?  Are the hitters going to change their game?  Who makes the most adjustments and how do you do that?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  I think this year I've only faced them once or twice.  So I'm going to do my regular research on these guys, and just execute a plan and go in there and do the best I can.   
  
  Q.  Bob Melvin described your style as rope-a-dope for the time you take.  Is all that so you can make sure mechanics are in order or is it to keep the hitters off balance so they don't get locked into the timing at the plate?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  I think you've got them both right there.  I think the slower I am the better my mechanics are, the more consistent I am.  It may put the better to sleep while I'm up there.  So if I get them off balance, that's what pitching is.  I think a lot of it has to do with my mechanics.  If I stay back as long as possible, the more chance if I miss I'll miss down.   
  
  Q.  Doug, when you studied what Jamie Moyer did last week, he was so effective at Coors Field last week.  Will you carefully look at that tape?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  No, I won't.  I know he was effective but he's always been effective the way he pitches.  He's more of a crafty lefty.  I would rather watch either Ted Lilly against him or Andy Pettitte or somebody that throws a little bit more inside, because that's my game.  I throw inside a lot more than a Glavin or Moyer or somebody like that.   
  
  Q.  Obviously they activated Taveras yesterday.  How does that change the lineup having him at the top of lineup and moving Tulowitzki down?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  You've got to keep him off the bases because his single will turn into a double pretty easily.  He's quick.  And he will make stuff happen.  He'll put the ball in play.  And the defense really has to be on their toes.  And look for the soft-hit balls that you can't really do much about.   
 But just try to get the ball as fast as you can to first base, that's all you can do.  And also on the defense perspective, he's one of the fastest out there in baseball.  And he may rob a few hits from us or whatever.  But he's a good player all the way around.   
 And as long as he's healthy now so hopefully we just keep him at first base or not keep him on the bases at all.   
  
  Q.  How familiar are you with Ubaldo Jimenez who you'll be facing?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  I don't think I've ever faced him before.  I don't really know him all that well.  I know he throws 100.  And I know he's got a good hook, too.  But he's in the Big Leagues for a reason.   
 He does throw the ball really hard.  Mostly you see relievers that throw that hard and can't last very long.  But the times he's pitched against us, he's throwing 100 in the 5th and 6th inning.  So he's a good pitcher.   
 Hopefully I'll have confidence putting the bunt out there.   
  
  Q.  How much did you know about this team or its players when you got traded here?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  I didn't know much about it at all.  I knew they had obviously the Cy Young.  I knew they had Tony because when I got traded over Tony Clark texted me right away, said it would be nice for you to be on our team instead of me facing you and getting those cutters on the hand.  It was a warm welcome right away.  I felt very comfortable in spring training, even though I was pretty much on the shelf after the first day, PFPs.  But just a real young team, I didn't know who was going to be on the team.  I had no idea anyway at the time.   
 And these guys are just showing a lot of discipline up at the plate.  And they've done a real good job.  Real patient at the plate.  And able to execute what they need to be done and to win ball games.   
  
  Q.  You've been in the Majors for a while now and have some innings under your belt.  Can you imagine pitching at this level being a rookie, Micah or some of the other rookies?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  I guess to get it over early in your career, get some experience under you, is always going to help for the next time you're there.  I couldn't imagine myself, no.  I always, when I was younger, just in regular games, I'd always try to overthrow and try to do too much.  And I wasn't very successful in my early years in the Big Leagues.   
 But as I got older, more mature and everything, things came around.  And I believe that these kids will only get better as time goes.  You bring up Micah Owings, the guy, not only can he pitch, but he can actually -- he rakes.  He's fun to watch take DP.  He's fun to watch at the plate during a game you always know something is going to happen and have something that special that young he keeps a great head on his shoulders and he's the real deal.   
 And I think he'll have a long career as long as he stays healthy.   
  
  Q.  Have you pitched on three days rest in your career?  If so, what are the differences in that short of a rest in terms of physical health, command, all that stuff?   
 DOUG DAVIS:  This late in the season, no I have not, obviously, pitched on three days rest.  But I have done it maybe three times in my career.  You just do less throwing in between starts.  You give yourself more time to recover and not throw that bullpen in between and just go out there with being confident in your mechanics and how you pitched the last time you were out.  Right now, I mean, I would be able to do it.  I wouldn't have a problem doing it.   
 Like I said, I would just X out the bullpen in between and I feel like that I could be effective.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Doug.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT