U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Shintaro Ban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's talk about the comeback.  Things didn't look great heading to the back side.  What turned it on for you?
SHINTARO BAN: I mean, just at that point I was 2-down through, I think, 13, or 2-down through 10, and then just made a really nice putt on 11.  Then after that, I was missing more greens and would just try to convert as much as I can.  At one point it did seem like the match was in his favor.  But just kind of stuck to the basics with some swing thoughts and started hitting a little more greens, and then after that, the short game kind of took care of itself, and that really helped me out, especially my last eight holes were 4-under.  I mean, having a strong comeback like that, couldn't ask for better.
Q. How long was that putt at 11?
SHINTARO BAN: 11 was about 12 to 15 feet, but it turned 90 degrees.
Q. And that kind of like got you going?
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, that kind of got me going.  I missed small greens here and there, but just chipped them to about three to five feet and converted everything, and then whenever I had a birdie opportunity, I took advantage of it.
Q. How about 14, the par-5?
SHINTARO BAN: So he hit his third shot in the bunker on the left, and I put mine safely in the middle of the green, and he hit it eight to about eight feet.  It was a really good bunker shot.  But I had about probably a 30, 35-footer, and it just trickled in.  That got it to tie up.  The next hole I stuck it to about three, four feet, made that.  And then made a great up-and-down on the next hole after that.  I hit it short of the green, a little on the right side, not very ideal, gave myself a nice eight-, nine-footer for par and converted.  Then got up-and-down on 17 --
Q. Pretty good bunker shot there.
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, that was really good.  That was about three feet.  And then last hole, made about a 15-, 16-footer.
Q. Did you lay up in back of him on purpose on 18?
SHINTARO BAN: Not really.  It was an uncomfortable yardage.  Some areas are pretty gray, but I thought (indiscernible).
Q. And then the last putt, how did you read it?
SHINTARO BAN: I read it just probably just outside right edge.  If anything, right edge.
Q. Now that you've played stroke play and match play on Pebble, how does Pebble set up for match play?
SHINTARO BAN: It's tough.  I mean, it can be (indiscernible).  But it's definitely a mental test.  It's not easy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT