U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Shintaro Ban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with Shintaro Ban after a 70 at Pebble Beach.  Safely into match play with your good scores.  Tell us a little bit about your round.  What was strong about it?  
SHINTARO BAN: Today, I mean, I thought just had the fight going for me.  Even though I felt like there were a couple holes I could have made some really high scores, I still had a good chance to put up still a good score.  Yeah, especially hole 1 and 2.  Those two holes could for sure be easily doubles.   
Right after that, just picked up momentum on hole No. 3.  Hit it to about a foot, and then hit it to about five to six feet on No.4.   
Hole No. 5 I just kind of made a bomb.  That just kept me going throughout the round.   
I got off to a solid start.  Just started hitting fairways and greens.  Yesterday was a bit shaky with my ball striking, but kind of figured out something today and just everything seemed to be decently well.   
 Q.  You used the word fight to describe the way you played.  
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that your mentality usually?  
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, to me, golf is like, especially for a tournament, like it's over til it's over.  But like giving up during mid-round, that's pretty bogus.   
So I've always had the attitude or our family always had the attitude to always fight until the very end and just kind of see what happens after that.   
 Q.  So do you consider this a semi home game?  
SHINTARO BAN: In a sense, yeah, because I didn't have to travel far.  You know, I'm only in San Jose; about an hour 15 away.  I didn't have to hop on a flight like a lot of the other guys.   
Yeah, I've played Spyglass a lot because of the NCGA Match Play.  This is my first time playing Pebble in a tournament.  I've played it a few times earlier this year, so that kind of gave me a head start.   
 Q.  Do you feel like having a morning round today and having a good score and getting to rest a little bit for tomorrow is a big help?  
SHINTARO BAN: Yes.  I think it's a really big help.  Definitely a bonus for getting that kind of wave.  Thinking about it, if I had to tee off in the later round and you already know what the projected cut is, no matter what, it's still going to be in your mind kind of thing.   
Yeah, I was very fortunate enough to get an afternoon wave yesterday and got the morning wave today.  Didn't have to think about it, and now I can just rest.   
 Q.  You like match play?  
SHINTARO BAN: I love match play.  I mean, I've had some success here and there, but obviously the U.S. Am is a different game, especially with the top players in the world.   
Just see how it goes from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT