U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Shintaro Ban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about fighting back.  You had that double bogey on 6 --
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, that was a definite mistake.  I should have punched out there.  But after that, yeah, just on the back nine, kind of refreshed a little bit and started -- just started to sticking to the game plan a little bit, just fairways and greens, and kind of got it done that way.
Q. You got yourself back into this thing on the back.
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, 3-under on the back nine will never hurt.
Q. You started on 11; how did you birdie that hole?
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, 11, I hit a drive into the first cut, had about 215, 220 in there, and just hit a really good approach shot, and it just -- it was pin high with the top bunker on the left, and it was pretty simple from then on.  And also the next hole, 12, hit it in the right rough, built some momentum by making like a 20-footer for par, and then since then it just kind of carried on and hit a great approach shot on 16 and just trickled that ball in there.  It was pretty fast.
Q. What did you hit into 16?
SHINTARO BAN: I hit a pitching wedge in.  It was a really good drive down the middle and set myself up well and had a good yardage into it and just put it a little past the hole and came down to about 15, 20 feet and just tapped it and just hoped.
Q. Not a lot of birdies on the finishing hole, too.
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, birdied 16 and 18, 2-under in the last three, you can't ask for more, and just glad I got it done.
Q. Obviously anything red is good; how do you feel about where you stand now?
SHINTARO BAN: Oh, I feel -- yeah, obviously any score under par around these two courses is really tough, and you can sit well, so feeling good for tomorrow.
Q. Does this feel like a home game for you?
SHINTARO BAN: Kind of.  Funny story:  The past four years I've been first alternate.  I played well in the qualifiers, just always one short, and NCGA actually hosts another tournament during the same time, and it's called the NCGA match play, and they host it out here at Spyglass.  That's such a fun tournament, and luckily I won it in 2016 and then I was in the finals last year and lost by one, but coming out here, playing the practice round, felt pretty comfortable, and then I played Pebble a few times earlier this year, so yeah, not too bad.
Q. So mentally you're in a good state of mind?
SHINTARO BAN: Yeah, yeah, definitely.  Definitely had the jitters, obviously.  I mean, it's the U.S. Am, biggest amateur tournament in the world, but got the jitters out of the way for the first six, seven holes and just kind of carried momentum through there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT