ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: STANFORD v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2012
Zach Ertz
Drew Terrell
David Yankey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   David, can you talk about the year you've had where you've had to play guard and tackle?   Is there much of an adjust between the two? 
DAVID YANKEY:   Yeah, it was a little tough early in the season switching from guard to tackle.   As the season has gone on, I've gotten better at it.   It's been fun being able to play both.   I've really enjoyed it. 

Q.   Zach, can you talk about the three straight BCS games, the feeling of having gone through this twice before in terms of comfort level is any different than the previous two years in?
ZACH ERTZ:   I think Coach Shaw does a great foundation of laying out what we're going to do.   We get the schedule early so we know what we're going to be doing each day.   The schedule was similar to last year. 
The meaning of this game is a little different than the last two.   Even though we were 10‑1, whatever our records were last year, this is the one we kind of play for.   The Rose Bowl is the most important game because every season we set out we want to win the PAC‑12 championship.   Even though we play in the BCS games, this one means a little more to us. 

Q.   For anybody.   Can you talk about the Badger defense, what you see for it, what you're doing to prepare? 
DREW TERRELL:   I think they're really similar to us.   They're accustom to defending power.   They're a physical group playing in the Big Ten, a conference that predominantly loves to run the football.
It's going to be a physical football game.   As long as we execute and do what we're supposed to do, make the plays when they're there, I think we'll be successful. 

Q.   A little bit off topic.   Can you talk about the Beef Bowl last night?   How are you feeling this morning? 
ZACH ERTZ:   The Beef Bowl was a very fun event.   I think Josh Garnett had about one cow to him.   He had, like, seven or eight pieces and said he could have kept going.   We ran out of time. 
As for myself, I only had two pieces.   I was talking to the Wisconsin players, they said they would feel sluggish if they ate too much.   I kind of tried to stay away from that. 
DREW TERRELL:   It was funny.   I think all three of us were at Josh's table, or Zach and I were at Josh's table, we were cheering him on because we knew he was our only hope that is in the competition.   We heard a Wisconsin ate eight pieces last year.   We knew Josh was the only guy that could have.   Like Josh said, he finished with eight pieces.   It was great food, a fun night and a lot of fun. 

Q.   For Zach and Drew, what changed when Kevin became your starting quarterback? 
ZACH ERTZ:   I think when Kevin started, it kind of added an extra dimension to offense.   His ability to scramble on third down, just keep drives alive was big for our offense.   We knew we had something special in Kevin, and it kind of evolved throughout the year.
DREW TERRELL:   As far as our play‑calling and our approach to the game, I don't think much changed.   Like Zach said, Kevin's ability to keep things alive and use his legs, get out of the pocket, something that our offense needed, and kind of provided us with a spark. 
A lot of us refer to Kevin as a "baller."   He's a guy that on game day goes out there and creates play.   It's like he's been doing his whole life, since he was eight years old, play football, let the game come naturally to him.   He's done an incredible job of that, not letting the mental side of the game get to him, the pressure or hype. 
He's been incredibly poised.   He definitely provided us with a spark that's brought us to this point. 

Q.   For any of you guys.   Can you talk about the two early losses, then the seven‑game win streak, how the team as a whole overcame that adversity. 
ZACH ERTZ:   I think the first two losses were kind of uncharacteristic for us.   As an offense, we played poorly in both games.   We wanted to prove the doubters wrong and prove to the country that our offense was the real deal. 
As an offense, in those two games we sputtered.   Those two losses kind of shaped this team.   A lot of people doubted us after those games.   But we stayed to the script, just kept doing what we were doing. 

Q.   Zach, a lot of times bigger tight ends have to stay in and block a lot.   How nice is it for you to be a featured part of this offense through your career?
ZACH ERTZ:   I like the blocking aspect a lot, too.   In this offense, you kind of have to be a run blocker first to get on the field, have the ability to play without the ball. 
Being one of the primary receivers in this offense is fun, too.   We got a lot of good play‑makers like Drew and Jamal, and, obviously, Stepfan is the key player in this offense, just being able to move all three of us around, Levine, myself and Drew, gives us a lot of versatility. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT