TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 30, 2012
Taylor Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played against some spread teams this year.   Anybody that kind of resembles Collin Klein?   
TAYLOR HART:   Like a quarterback like him?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
TAYLOR HART:   I can't remember Stanford's quarterback's name, but I would say he resembles him pretty well.   
They both can run very well.   I guess that would be the closest resemblance I can think of.   What they can do is also throw the ball, then run the ball.   Poses threats for our defense.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to be most prepared for against that offense?  
TAYLOR HART:   Prepared that they do a lot of things, but you got to be prepared that the quarterback is going to run.   You got to know that at any moment they can have a designed play for him to run or he can run on his own.   
Collin Klein poses a lot of threats and you have to be prepared for him.   
   
 Q.   Discipline?  
TAYLOR HART:   Definitely.   
   
 Q.   Talk about Dion a little bit.   
TAYLOR HART:   He's a great person, toughness.   He's a smart player.   The athleticism he has makes him a great football player and a great person.   
   
 Q.   What about just playing up there with him?   What have you noticed about his playing ability?  
TAYLOR HART:   You could see it out there on the field.   What he does is special.   He can go out there in coverage, can pass‑rush off the end.   What he can do is something I've never seen before.   
   
 Q.   Got done interviewing your coach.   He's very unique.   Got to be fun to play for him.   Tell me about him, what he's like on a day‑to‑day basis.   
TAYLOR HART:   Coach is always fired up.   Everyone will tell you this.   He's just a great person to be around.   I've been with him.   He recruited me here.   He's a great guy.   He's a great friend.   He's shown us what it really means to be an Oregon football player.   
He's just a great person, love being around him every day.   
   
 Q.   He said when you meet at the beginning of the year, he doesn't talk about football much, but being a good person off the field.   Is that something he talks about?  
TAYLOR HART:   I think he'd rather us be a good person than a great football player.   That's something that I really love about him.   He's almost that fatherly figure outside of our family.   He shows you how to act.   He's just a great person, a great coach.   
   
 Q.   I heard if you need a fill‑in on defense, he'll hop in.   Is that true?  
TAYLOR HART:   Not quite sure I've seen it.   I'm sure he'd love to.   He'll do it all for us.   
   
 Q.   Never get 100% healthy even with a month off.   Does that 35 days give you a chance to get your legs back?   
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, with our treatment staff here, it's amazing.   With this much time, we can really get as close to 100% as we can.   These days off just really help us a lot.   
   
 Q.   Do you think with what you have done this year, even with a loss to Stanford, your defense has more than proven their value?  
TAYLOR HART:   The defense, we've proven we can play with the big guys.   You know we're not just an offensive team.   We can do good things on defense, as well.   
   
 Q.   That's kind of a big step because a lot of times the offense dominates the discussion so much.   
TAYLOR HART:   It's a nice thing.   Obviously we want to help the offense, help this team as much as we can.   
   
 Q.   Has that been something that you talk about as a defense, Let's do our part, let's make sure we're playing up to the level?  
TAYLOR HART:   We want to play to the highest of our ability.   If we can hold a team to zero, we know our offense is going to score.   It's a great thing because we know our offense is a great weapon to have.   As a defense, it's really special.   
   
 Q.   What about Clay, what stands out to you most of about him?  
TAYLOR HART:   He's a great friend.   I was roommates with him.   He's just a great player and a great person, just like everyone.   
But he's got that special thing, I don't know what to say, but he's a great player.   He always comes to work early.   He's a great guy.   
   
 Q.   What's his flaw?   
TAYLOR HART:   I don't think he has a flaw.   I've never been able to find it.   Maybe he doesn't like doing dishes, that's about it (laughter).   
I can't find a flaw with that guy.   
   
 Q.   He was a messy guy?  
TAYLOR HART:   Not that messy.   That's the only thing I can think of, maybe he left a couple dishes out.   
   
 Q.   To see the tackle totals he's gotten in the last couple years, healthy and consistent enough to perform?  
TAYLOR HART:   What he can do, I remember in the Stanford game, like 20 tackles.   For him to stay healthy through all of that, it's a great thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT