ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Taylor Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You redshirted?
TAYLOR HART:   Yes, redshirted my first year.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Do you think there's anything you got out of it.   Any familiarity for you?   Can you put anything (inaudible)‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   I got to see how the system works.   How it all‑‑ how everyone does it and what practice should look like.   And so it's not‑‑

Q.   What about the‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   I mean, definitely.   I mean, with all of the events that we get to do and how to handle it all with everything.   And it's fun and it was nice to see it my freshman year, too.

Q.   Business trip?   Mentally totally different for you? 
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, now that I'm playing.   I'm here to win the game. 

Q.   For you guys defensively, played pretty well in the last Bowl game.   Were you taking satisfaction in that (inaudible) ‑
TAYLOR HART:   You know what I mean, I see it as a team game.   And coming in with that loss, it just shows that we're a team and obviously our defense is going to try to do the best we can for offense. 

Q.   Do you see any similarity between the quarterbacks Newton, can you talk about it in that vein?
TAYLOR HART:   He's a very athletic quarterback.   He definitely can run the ball just like Newton and Pryor could.   And it's similar.   I don't think he's as tall.   But he's very similar quarterback.   He can use his feet and his arm.

Q.   Anything new you can take from that as you continue‑‑ you kind of knew there were big guys up front.   He scored a lot of touchdowns.   Anything more you're able to take from the film?
TAYLOR HART:   These extra weeks, you just get to really see how they move and what they're tendencies are.   So obviously they're a big offensive line.   But these weeks gives you the extra time that's very helpful for our defense.

Q.   How much different, do you anticipate going into Monday, going in four times, being prepared like regular season games?
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, it feels like we get to put in place our game plan and just keep practicing and practicing it until we perfect it. 

Q.   One of the questions has been (inaudible) I don't know if you name or the number.   But how do you prepare for might happen there?   Does it matter much?
TAYLOR HART:   It's kind of happened to us before when centers come back or we've had that‑‑ I can't remember what game it was‑‑ but we prepared for both guys.   They're pretty similar in what they do.   But obviously I watched film on both guys just to make sure who is going to come and who is going to play.

Q.   So are you saying (inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Nothing huge.   Nothing major.

Q.   Starting to sound like the practices went pretty well. 
TAYLOR HART:   Okay. 

Q.   Is this the best offense‑‑ toughest? 
TAYLOR HART:   Toughest, I'd say Stanford.   That was a great team.   They were good.

Q.   Even when you were forcing turnovers?
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah.   I think that obviously we came in with a good game plan, but they were a tough offense to slow down.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   It's been a long time. 

Q.   What you're up against. 
TAYLOR HART:   I can't remember.

Q.   But there have been times?
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, at times when offensive linemen are hurt and they come back. 

Q.   Tailback and quarterback? 
TAYLOR HART:   Probably the tailback and obviously their running game is a big part of their offense.   So if we can slow that down then we can go to the quarterback and try and slow him down.

Q.   As you look at it, what do you think that (inaudible)‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   You know, just stay to our game plan and try and slow down their running game and make them a passing team. 

Q.   They're less effective as a predominantly passing team than they are‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   I wouldn't say that.   They're obviously good.   They've got great receivers, and their quarterback can throw the ball.   If you can take one thing away from them to make them a one‑dimensional team.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   It means a lot.   Obviously we're going to prepare in practice for these big guys and stay low on them. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Someone that's never met him? 

Q.   His personality, his energy level. 
TAYLOR HART:   It's very‑‑ you know, he's always upbeat.   Never going to put you down.   Always going to keep putting you up.   Great guy, great coach to be around.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah.   He's got a little craziness in him.   I think every coach does.   He definitely keeps the energy up for our team.

Q.   He struck me as a guy who is aggressive, looks at the defense.   I wonder if his personality is kind of meshed with the way you guys play?
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, you could say that.   He's an aggressive coach.   And he's not afraid to call a blitz. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   The buildup was big.   The way we practice and play, we just try to move on.   And I felt like we did.

Q.   On their offensive line, typical Wisconsin, big?
TAYLOR HART:   They're definitely a big offensive line but they can move.   So that's usually when you get big guys, they can't move so well but they can definitely move.

Q.   Especially for like a college kid playing, how much do you and other players like the coaches, people you need to‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   It's a huge part.   It's big.   They try and teach us how to become men and take us to the next level in our lives.   They show us new things, and they definitely, Coach Azz, I've been able to spend a lot of time with him and he tells us a lot of things and Coach Aliotto, I feel I can go to any coach and usually talk to them about anything.

Q.   Not necessarily talking about them, but when you see what happened with Penn State and Ohio State, when the coaches don't do what you expect, doing the right thing.   What happens when the coaches don't live up to the expectations, doing the right thing?
TAYLOR HART:   Obviously any person wants someone to do the right thing.   So any coach, hopefully, do the right thing, if they tell us that.

Q.   Is it especially hard for a player when you look up to them?
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, I mean, you trust them.   And they tell us something, we're going to do it.   And just see them as role models, when they tell us something, we're going to believe it.

Q.   Biggest factor (inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Both obviously.   Ball's a great running back.   It would be great if we could slow him down.   In the past they had a chance at running the ball.   So there's a lot of things that the offense does.

Q.   Asked you if you played in the game two years ago, anything that you can take from it?
TAYLOR HART:   It was my redshirt learn.   I got to learn.   I was on scout squad.   I got to learn what offense does and everything and know what it takes to come to these games and prepare for them.   So I got to see everything before.   And now I'm playing in the game.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Too much is‑‑

Q.   Is too much made about those losses?   I mean there's a lot of talk you guys really have to‑‑
TAYLOR HART:   I mean, we want to win the game.   We want to win every game.   And so we're going to do what we can to go out there and win the game.

Q.   Were you surprised at all about Barkley?
TAYLOR HART:   I mean, not really.   I heard that.   I wasn't like shocked or stunned, obviously.   You know, he could have been a high Draft pick, I heard. 
But he said he wanted to finish what he started.

Q.   Did you read what he said or did you hear what he said?
TAYLOR HART:   I just heard, someone texted me that Barkley was staying.

Q.   What was your emotion?   Were you pissed? 
TAYLOR HART:   No, you know, take it as a great challenge.   And so he's going to come back and we'll get one more year with him.

Q.   (Inaudible) is that something that you can understand?   You're going to be in that position one day.   Does it seem crazy to you that somebody could do that or would do that?
TAYLOR HART:   You know, it's his decision.   But obviously, I mean, maybe he wants to get more education and stick with his team and his team obviously, they haven't been able to go to a Bowl game.   And I feel that's probably what he wants to do. 

Q.   Do you think you guys have‑‑ do you have any kind of advantage over them in the fact that you can practice, something that will benefit you guys at some point?
TAYLOR HART:   I don't see why.   We get to play one more time.   Just another chance for us to build our skills up.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   They have a lot of things they do that obviously with their offensive line they can really make big holes for their running back to run through and obviously the running back's great and great vision of where any hole is for him to run through.   And then obviously the passing attack with the threat of him running the ball also.

Q.   Do you guys ever wish they took longer, gave you more time to rest?
TAYLOR HART:   Gives us another chance to play more.   I feel like we practice at such a high pace and we sub out and defensive line especially, and I feel like we always got our wind.

Q.   How is it?
TAYLOR HART:   Fun. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TAYLOR HART:   Went there two years ago. 

Q.   You are? 
TAYLOR HART:   A redshirt sophomore.

Q.   So this is your second?
TAYLOR HART:   I went to‑‑ so this will be my third one.   Second one playing again.

Q.   BCS game?
TAYLOR HART:   Not a bad way to start.   Not a bad way to start. 

Q.   Where are you from originally?
TAYLOR HART:   From the Portland area, Oregon.   Tualatin.   

Q.   Do you have family coming down?
TAYLOR HART:   My mom's side lives down here.   My aunt and uncle, four of them, and my dad is coming down with his friends.   And then my girlfriend and his dad are coming. 

Q.   Did you get questions about your uniform?
TAYLOR HART:   One question.   I was surprised.   These are all new.

Q.   What's the difference between them?
TAYLOR HART:   The numbers.   They're just different colors.   And our helmet is all chrome.

Q.   What do you attribute to the win?   What do you think?   So we didn't have any competition this year.   What do you think? 
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah, we came‑‑

Q.   Came to play.   Looked like Stanford forgot to show up.   You guys played well.   You guys played very well. 
TAYLOR HART:   Yeah.   It was fun.   It was a fun game. 
FastScripts by ASAP Sports







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT