NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Luke Kennard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about what you'll bring to the Pistons, please.  
LUKE KENNARD: First off, thank you to the Pistons for giving me this opportunity.  You know, it's a dream come true.  I'm sure guys have said that, but it really is.  I worked my entire life for a moment like this, and to be able to go to Detroit and make an impact any way I can, I'm just looking forward to it, and it's a great opportunity.   
 Q.  Luke, when you look at the Detroit Pistons, a team that's just right there in terms of being really a good playoff team, do you feel like you're the missing piece?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, I think what I can bring to them is a big thing.  I'm a competitor.  I love to win.  Like I said, I'm just excited for it.   
It's close to home, being from Ohio, and I'm really, really excited, and it's going to be a fun journey with them.   
 Q.  Are you ready to be a rookie for Stan Van Gundy?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, I am.  I think playing under him gives me a great opportunity to learn and develop as a player, so I'm really looking forward to that.   
 Q.  The Pistons have Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, who also likes to shoot the three ball.  So how exciting is it for you to move into an offense that is already fit around a player like you, and how much do you think that can help your game?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, well, I'm going in to learn and to learn from the veterans like him and the other guys will allow me to mature as a player, and to be able to play that way, like you said, it fits me.  So I think it gives me a good opportunity to help make an impact and allow us to make that next step.   
 Q.  You've got two years in at Duke.  Are you going to finish up your education through the summers?  Is there a game plan for that?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, I'd love to.  I think getting a degree from Duke is one of my -- it'll be a priority for me.  Any chance I'm able to go back and work towards that, I'll really look forward to.   
 Q.  Detroit is on the way up, the big three auto makers are doing well.  Is your agent going to be speaking to any of them, endorsement deals?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, no, I'm not sure.  We'll see.  Maybe.   
 Q.  What is the most important thing you learned from Coach K, not on the court but off the court?  
LUKE KENNARD: Yeah, I think just to live in the moment.  This is a big moment, so I'm just enjoying it, taking it all in, and yeah, that's basically what he taught me over the years.  You know, by doing that, I have fun.  I enjoy it, and this is just a great opportunity, so I'm definitely living in the moment right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT