ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Iga Swiatek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/I. Swiatek
6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. She played very well today.  What did you find the toughest about this match?
IGA SWIATEK: I guess everything because I wasn't playing my game.  I had a problem with just putting the ball in court.  So I guess that was because of stress and lack of experience, but it's natural.
And, yeah, it's a good experience for me.  And I'll remember that match.  I'll learn from it even though it lasted, like, 40 minutes.
Q. When you say lack of experience, what did you feel like was especially new for you today?
IGA SWIATEK: Well, I don't know.  It was just -- I wasn't like -- I wasn't in that match with my head, you know?  I felt like I wasn't controlling anything.  But I guess that's because that was my first time playing on a big court, Philippe Chatrier.
And I don't know.  I guess next time should be better.
Q. Before the match you said you need to learn from Halep's patience.  So what is your biggest takeaway from this match?  Did you learn something else from her?
IGA SWIATEK: Well, obviously it's different playing with players such as Simona and watching her on TV.  So I finally got a chance to feel her game.
And I was surprised by -- well, the biggest thing I was surprised about was her, like, ability to play in the direction that I wasn't prepared for.  I felt like she was going to play cross and she played line, and I wasn't ready for that.
So I guess -- I don't know.  I guess, like, mentally maybe I wasn't ready.  But that's normal thing, I mean, I'm so young and I'll have a lot of opportunities to learn.
So I'm not even mad or anything because I know that most of the balls I missed today, I played them in on practice.  So that was just stress thing.
Q. You have watched Halep for a long time.  What sort of struck you about how different it is being on court with her besides just her patterns, you said.  But was it a different feeling being there?
IGA SWIATEK: Well, you know, everything was different.  I mean, watching the player you have always watched on TV, like, your whole childhood, it's just a bit weird.  And, well, if I want to play on a level like that and be in fourth round of Grand Slam, I have to get used to that.
So, yeah, that was first time, but there's going to be a lot more matches, so I'll learn from every.
Q. And you're back to school now; is that right?
IGA SWIATEK: Sorry?
Q. Are you going back to school now?
IGA SWIATEK: Yeah, yeah.  We're going back to Poland.  And we're going to practice for grass season and, yeah, I'll come back to school to finish it.
Q. How much more school do you have left to do?
IGA SWIATEK: I just have to pass some tests, like, six of them, and then I'm done for the year.
Q. And then are you graduating?
IGA SWIATEK: No.  I still have one more year, but we have summer holidays.
Q. In spite of your defeat, what do you think about your tournament?
IGA SWIATEK: It's been great.  I mean, yeah, on every match I had something to learn.
And on first round, I have to deal with stress.
On second round, I had to deal with -- well, on second round, I played very well, and I'm just happy that I managed to have my focus on a top level most of the match.  So that was kind of new for me and that was a good experience.
And third round, I had to come back from 0-6, so that was amazing match also for me.
And even though I lost in this match, I also learn.  So every match was important, and I'm very happy about the tournament.
Q. A lot of big players have lost in this tournament.  Do you think Simona is the absolute favorite?
IGA SWIATEK: Yeah, I mean, she won last year.  So, yeah, probably she's the biggest player right now.  I hope she win.
Q. Just to clarify, so you have one more year of high school left after this year?
IGA SWIATEK: Yeah.
Q. And then I was curious last time too about your Dolphins hat.
IGA SWIATEK: Yeah.  I'm not a fan.  I was in Miami and we played on the stadium this year, so I just bought a hat.  I don't even know why.
It's kind of our team thing to buy a hat from every place that we've been in the States.  So yeah, I got Dolphins.
Q. What other hats have you gotten?
IGA SWIATEK: Well, we have LA, Alabama, Mississippi, and Charleston.  Yeah.  So we have, like, five or six, and we're going to get more from every state.
Q. Are you hoping to get Wimbledon wildcard?
IGA SWIATEK: Yes, of course.  I mean, of course I'm hoping.  But I don't know if I'm going to get it or if it's possible, so we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT