NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
David Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left is David Taylor of Penn State, 31‑1 on the year.   David, first question would be, Kyle was in here saying he was trying to steal your dreams and you're going to be trying to steal his.   Do you have a similar view of it?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I would say it's pretty simple.   He's going to do something no one is going to do, and I'm trying to do something that no one is going to do.   
   
 Q.   This is the first time I had a chance to call you about this "main event" being the very last match and the first time it's ever done.   Your thoughts and what happened in that match how do you hurt yourself?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I got the wind knocked out of me.   He was doing crazy stuff and I want to be sure I was ready to go when the whistle got blown again and I didn't want to take anything for granted, so I wanted to take a bit of time.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DAVID TAYLOR:   I think everybody has looked forward to it all season, mostly you guys.   But it's something that doesn't happen very often, obviously they're changing the event.   It's a lot of pressure that Kyle is going to have to deal with over the next day and a half or day.   
I'm taking the role as the guy who is not supposed to win, which is weird for me.   I have the next day to relax and I have nothing to lose out there.   I'm just going for another national title and to me it's simple I've got to go out and score points.   
   
 Q.   What will you do tomorrow to keep a train of thought and just prepare yourself for that match?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I'm just going to be myself.   Get up in the morning, get a good match in before weigh‑ins, weigh in, relax, watch matches and be myself.   I'm a happy, go‑lucky.   I'm always smiling, nothing changes until tomorrow night around 10:00.   
   
 Q.   David, two NCAA Tournaments in a row now where you get on a roll.   Can you explain the momentum you carry, or is it a clean slate for every different one?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I don't know what to tell you, I get in this tournament and something happens where I have to pin people.   I'm not complaining.   This is a tournament where bonus points are everything, and they're preached by every coach.   You don't realize how important bonus points can be.   They can makeup All‑Americans and in tournament when you only have five guys left those extra bonus points are going to give us extra points that keep up with guys that have extra men in the tournament.   So getting those two extra points means so much.   
   
 Q.   David, your previous matches have been low‑scoring.   Does your match tomorrow night need to be more high scoring?   Do you have to try more stuff?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I just got to go out and wrestle my match more than I have before.   I believe I can win a 3‑2 match.   I know I'm better than him in the top and bottom position and our feet and the more I open him up the more I can exploit those weaknesses, and I'm confident in my ability more than I have been in the last two matches.   I'm looking forward to the opportunity more than anything else.   
   
 Q.   Kyle was saying you guys talked at the Southern Scuffle match and you guys talk, win or lose, do you go back to being friends?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   I think in wrestling you always have friends.   We'll be on teams in the future.   We will be competing for teams in the future but no matter what happens tomorrow night someone is not going to be very happy.   
You can't take one thing and hold it over someone's life.   We will be training partners in the future making Olympic teams.   
So with that being said, gotta go out and do what I do best and that's all I can focus on at this point.   
   
 Q.   Third match in the National Finals, can you take us through what you will do?   
DAVID TAYLOR:   We will shake hands.   There is going to be a lot of wrestling done, and I'm going to get my hand raised at the end, that's what I've been thinking about all season.   Scuffle was a good match and the All‑American match was good, but when it's all said and done everybody is going to remember what happens.   Tomorrow night I envision getting my hand raised every day after practice and that won't change.   I'm ready for that vision to become a reality.   
THE MODERATOR:   David, congratulations and good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT