U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
David Gee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got to sign a scorecard in the U.S. Open, but not quite the way you had planned.
DEVIN GEE: Not quite the way he had hoped, but certainly a fun experience.  Fun to have the members here and the excitement around that.  Pretty neat.  Obviously, an unforgettable experience, to say the least.
Justin was incredible out there.  Obviously, it's a little bit different for them to have a marker out with them.  I can't tell you how much I appreciate how hospitable he was out there.
Q. When did you learn you were going to be a marker?
DEVIN GEE: Robbie Zalzneck mentioned to me I could be a marker, either Bob or myself, earlier in the week, depending if there was an odd number that made the cut.  Fortunately, Bob is in the Fox booth.  So once again, I'm the benefactor of Bob.
Last night Robbie called me and said, Hey, be ready to go around 10:00.  I don't know if I was ready, but I was present.  So it was a lot of fun.
Q. Did you sort of let go of the notion of playing in the Open once the sectional qualifying was done?  Did you even entertain the thought of being maybe a marker that would have to go in?
DEVIN GEE: Yeah, I think so, yeah.  Obviously, that's much different than competing in an Open, what I did right there.  I kept thinking about poor Bob in 1983, standing up on that 1st tee in front of all of his members with a Toney Penna driver, a third of the size of mine.  Pretty neat to almost be able to relate to that.
Q. Last question.  For you and Mr. Hicks, how did you all play today?
DEVIN GEE: Well, I did not play very well.  I tried to stay out of his way the best I could.  I'm sure he didn't play as well as he would have liked, but he was a true gentleman out there, a true professional.  So yeah.
Q. If anybody knows the course, it's going to be you, right?
DEVIN GEE: Yeah.  It's certainly a hard golf course out there.  We're used to playing those green speeds, but I'm used to having five or six guys on my swat team when we're playing it that fast.  A little bit different putting it in the hole when you're on your own like that, but it was fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT