PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 5, 2013
Max Alverio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your expectations this week for the PR Open?  
MAX ALVERIO:   My expectations are trying to play golf and not think so much about making the cut. Obviously this year I feel more mature as a player thanks to the PGA Tour Latinoamerica. I have learned a lot playing these tournaments. They have tremendous players, the best players not only in Latin America but of most of Central America.  
   
 Q.   How have these tournaments prepared you for getting here?  
MAX ALVERIO:   In experience, of course this is the highest level, making the cut in this tour is not easy, but it is equally difficult to make the cut in those tours. To play and go from plane to plane, tournament to tournament and have confidence to play, I have been doing that for many years but with the Tour of the Americas. Now that it is with the PGA Tour Latioamerica and the PGA Tour Latinoamerica is more strict about playing, points and qualifying and because the goal is to get to Web.com it makes you more mentally prepared. When I returned to Puerto Rico for the Puerto Rico Classic I did not feel nervous going into the tournament because had played four consecutive tournaments, so I had made cuts, I was familiar with the environment, I knew some of the players and when I got here, many of the players also knew me. I see those tournaments as a spectacular preparation for this week. I felt comfortable and I had no problems making the cut of the Puerto Rico Classic. I was actually pretty high up the leader board in the first round. I feel ready thanks to that tour.  
   
 Q.   When you got here, did you feel like you had nothing to worry about or had the anxiety already taken over?  
MAX ALVERIO:   I think so, when you come to your own country, you want to play well. I did not have the best two rounds on Saturday and Sunday at the Puerto Rico Classic, but it did help me gain more experience, so I kept improving and getting better. I played really good in a Tournament in Mexico, I did a lot of birdies and I got pretty high up the leaderboard, so I gained a lot of confidence. Confidence is really all you need in this sport, confidence is everything. If you look at the best players in the world, the Tiger Woodses of the world, the Camilo Villegases, it is all about confidence.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT