WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 6, 2020
Sue Bird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Seattle Storm 92, Las Vegas Aces 59
Q. Being one of the last two teams, especially given players like Stewie who we just heard from, but players like Angel were very vocal coming into the bubble about social injustice, and now you're the last two teams standing.  What's your message about being able to carry that platform throughout the season?
SUE BIRD:   Yeah, being the last two teams standing -- probably just the last two to continue to kind of have this moment, right, having a mic in front of our faces, to be on live TV and to be able to have that platform; and so as the last two teams, we definitely wanted to just continue the message,  continue to say her name.
Obviously everybody knows why we came here.  I think we did, looking back, an incredible job of being activists, of organizing -- I was going to say push the needle, I don't know if that's the right term for it but it's sometimes hard.  I said this the other day, it's sometimes hard to know the impact you're having, but there's actually been moments we've been able to see it.
I'm just so proud of this league, these players, it's amazing.  In some ways, it's an honor to be part of the last two teams standing and an honor to continue spreading the message we started.
When did we get here, June, July -- what we started July 6.  So that's all it's been.  That's what it means.
Q. In 2014, to 2015, those were down years but resulted it you guys drafting Jewell Lloyd and Breanna Stewart.  Talk about their performances in these Finals.  I thought they were better than in 2018.
SUE BIRD:   Yeah, I think they were to be honest.  You know, I've always said it.  When your physical ability starts to peak as your experience and your mentality surrounding the game, that's when the special games and the special moments and the special seasons really start to show themselves.
With Stewie and Jewell, their talent is really insane.  I mean, when you think about it, the things they can do on the basketball court, they are the next generation.  I mean, they are the now generation, but they are also the next generation for the next five, ten, fifteen, who knows how many years.
So now what you're seeing is that talent, like I said, start to peak with their experience and their talent on how they approach things.  They don't make the mistakes they made two years ago.  They are way more prepared from a mental standpoint and a physical standpoint than they were two years ago.
So it's kind of scary when you think about it because they are still so young.
Q. We talked before the postseason and I asked you that same deal:  Is this team the best team that you've ever been on, in the moment, obviously, I get it, you didn't want to answer because it was in the moment.  Now, obviously the season just ended but is this the best team that you've been on, and can you answer the dynasty question now?  Have you guys got something special going on here?
SUE BIRD:   Honestly, it's hard to answer both questions.  You're really putting me in a tough spot with that first question.  It's not really fair.
One thing I'll say is given the elite level of Stewie and Jewell, and given their age, yeah, I mean, this team -- and it's not just them.  That's the other part.  This is definitely I think one of the deepest teams by far, one of the deepest Storm teams I've ever been on.  You're putting me in a really tough spot there.  I'm not sure you're going to get one out of me on this one.
As far as the dynasty goes, Minnesota set that mark high.  They are a team that their core group won four in however many years, like six, seven years.  So might have some work to do to get up there, but not many teams have won is, I think Phoenix has been a team that's won twice in three years.
So we're close, but not quite there.
Q. I'm going to try to get you to say something nice about yourself.  Houston and Minnesota had a core group, as you say.  Both of them did.  The only common denominator for Seattle's four championships is you, and that's over a long period of time.  Is that the thing maybe when you finally look back on your career that you'll have the most pride in is that longevity and to be able to win with different people?
SUE BIRD:   Yeah, I was actually asked a question, maybe about a year ago, and it was kind of along the same lines but it was more so like what something -- it's very similar, but what's something that people wouldn't think of that you're proud of, right.  It's easy to say winning and Olympic Gold medals and championships and all that stuff.
But I think the fact that I've been able to do it in different decades, with the same franchise, not many people can say that.  And to your point, there are core groups that have anywhere from a two- to four- to six- to maybe a ten-year run, but I've been here for technically 19 seasons, 17 that I've played, and to kind of be able to recreate that magic with different groups -- two obviously with Lauren and we were the core and two have been Stewie and Jewell, a core, and you can throw AC in there, as well.
To recreate it over time and stay at a high level over time is definitely something I'm proud of because it hasn't been easy.  These last -- I had surgery like May of 2019 and it's been a little over a year.  It's been hard.  This is the one time I'm not going to sugarcoat it.  It's been hard.  A lot of ups, a lot of downs.
I think the hardest part about being an older player is when there's that down physically, you start to question whether you can do it anymore.  You start to question why you're doing it.  You start to question if it's worth it because it can be hard.
But this is when I have to give credit to my circle, I guess, you know, whether it's someone like Megan [Rapinoe], someone like Suzanne and beyond who helped me get through those down moments.  Because it's not like -- you don't lose belief.  You still believe in yourself.  You know what you're capable of doing.  Just is your body going to let do you it.
I don't even know.  Now I'm ranting.  I think the point is, the fact that I'm sitting here, I think I'm having this in-shock moment because it doesn't really feel real that we just won, and that I was able to contribute in the way that I did, but it is 100 percent something that when it's all said and done, I will be incredibly proud of that from 2002 to 2020, I was able to win four times with the same franchise.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT