WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 9, 2010
Sue Bird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. You're 29, an elder statesman. 
 SUE BIRD: Yeah. 

 Q. Talk about if you have to take on a different personality with this now. 
 SUE BIRD: You know, being a point guard I think in a way I'm lucky. By nature of my position, you know, I've been a leader throughout my whole career. It's always been something that's been expected of me. 
 So now that I'm the oldest, it's nothing that's new, it's something different. I will say I've been fortunate to be on a lot of USA Basketball teams, to learn, to watch, to be a part of it, to see how Lisa carried herself day in and day out throughout the Olympics, throughout the World Championships. 
 I'm glad I witnessed that. Now I'm the older player. So now hopefully I can do the same thing to the younger players. 

 Q. What was it like the first time at Athens? Had you done it so long, 'I've been there, done that'? 
 SUE BIRD: You know, the one big differences is just international play, the way these teams play, the way the referees call the game, the rules. That type of thing was the biggest difference for me. 
 That's why I went overseas. After my first Olympics, I realized in order to be a good player internationally, I wanted to go over there and learn the game and be a part of it. Now that I've been doing that, I feel comfortable, I know what to expect in international play. It is different. 
 The WNBA is the best competition in the world, no doubt. But you're not playing against other WNBA players; you're playing against a different style. It's great to learn that style before going against it.

 Q. What do you expect from this weekend? 
 SUE BIRD: I'm expecting a good turnout. I know the Connecticut fans, they're always great during All-Star Games here. I know that part is going to be amazing. 
 As far as our team goes, for us it's a training. We're here to get some things done, learn the plays, learn each other, get comfortable, hopefully put on a good show, but also get something out of it for USA Basketball. 
 As far as the All-Stars go, I know they're going to want to put on a good show. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 SUE BIRD: The minute you step on the court, it does. A lot of the things are the same. 

 Q. How has he changed? 
 SUE BIRD: His coaching style, I guess, for USA Basketball right now is a little different. He doesn't have the time, so he's a little bit more laid back. What he teaches us, he doesn't have to repeat. We're going to learn and soak it up, get things accomplished quickly because we have to. 
 Definitely because of the short amount of time, he's a little more laid back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT