WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 9, 2005
Sue Bird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SUE BIRD:  Obviously you guys know this, but this is definitely by far in my opinion the best All-Star Game that the WNBA has put on yet.  I've been privileged to be a part of, well if last year doesn't count, I guess three of them.  As far as I'm concerned, this one's the best.  It was so much fun to be out there and play with those ladies, the best in the world, so it was good.  I'm glad I could be a part of it. 

Q.  A lot has been made, and for good reason, the younger players coming into this league, you and Diana; what is it like playing with some of the older players, after playing with them in the Olympics, Sheryl, Dawn? 

SUE BIRD:  Yeah, there's a reason why Sheryl, Dawn, like you named, Lisa, why they have been the faces of women's basketball, the best.  They are the reason why when I come to these All-Star games, I get very excited, especially with the Olympics.  But these All-Star games are fun because you have a chance to get to know them.  Players like Yolanda Griffith, Walker, players who I might not know any other way but to come to an All-Star Game, hang out with them, see how they conduct themselves, it's a lot of fun.  I know they are older, experienced, but they joke around just as much as the younger players, so it's enjoyable. 

Q.  Can you talk about coming back from your broken nose and how hard it's been coming back?  Have you lost your confidence a little bit?  It looked like you were having a lot of fun out there today. 

SUE BIRD:  Yeah, the broken nose is just more of an annoying thing than it is something that hinders you.  You just have to deal with it.  For me, my team was on a road trip, and because I also broke my cheek, I had to get a new mask made, I couldn't use the one that I used last year and then I had to get my nose fixed so I had to have surgery.  There was probably two weeks where I just didn't do anything.  I couldn't really do anything.  I couldn't touch a basketball, the team was on the road and then when they finally got back, I had surgery so I still could not do anything.  I think those two weeks were good for me because I was resting, but at the same time, I definitely, I don't know if I lost my confidence, but I definitely was just, you know, you get out of sync.  So now I'm finally starting to get back into it.   Wearing that mask is an adjustment and I think I am starting to get used to it.  I still dribble off my knee and my feet every once in awhile, but that's just extra turnovers for me. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT