NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Sue Bird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SUE BIRD: That experience playing in Queens on the playgrounds and then later on I've played a game or two in the city as well.  And when you're a female you're trying to earn people's respect.  At the same time, I don't really care if they respect me or not, I'm just going to out there and have fun and play. It's always the same reaction.  First you step on the court.  They see a girl.  They are like, oh, a girl.  They take you lightly.  You hit a couple of jumpers and they take you more seriously.  And by the end they are asking you where you played and all this stuff.  It's like the same story every time.   Q.  Is there -- obviously you went to school --  SUE BIRD: Yeah.   Q.  -- a different style per girl?  Is there a Queens style?  SUE BIRD: I'm not sure.  I don't think so.  I think generally it's all pretty similar, in my experience.  I'm not sure about that.   Q.  When you play on the playground, maybe different from when you play in the WNBA.  What may be your style, your attitude that's different?  SUE BIRD: I don't know.  I think my game is more for a WNBA game than it might be for a playground game.  I think when you're playing at the playground, just hanging out, you're trying to have a good time.  Like I said, be creative.  Go out there and do your thing.  There's not much thought involved.  Go out there and play.  It's really like basketball at its core.  It's fun that way.  Just playing.   Q.  What was it like being part of the basketball culture in Connecticut?  So many great players --  SUE BIRD: That was amazing.  I'm really thankful that I can say that I played there and I went there and I was part of that family.  Because like you said, so many great players, both men and women, came out of that school.  It was fun while I was there.  I'm proud to say I was part of it few.   Q.  You won New York Player of the Year your senior year?  SUE BIRD: You're asking me about something a long time ago.   Q.  Do you remember what it was like to be recognized amongst all the great players?  SUE BIRD: Yeah, I knew -- looking back -- I don't know if I knew it then, but looking back I know my name will kind of be amongst all New York greats, whether it's men's basketball, women's basketball.  And I'm happy to say I had that opportunity and it was great.  I was on a really good team my senior year.  It wasn't just me. To be recognized like that is always an honor.  I know when you go back in the record books, it's going to have a list of names, and there's going to be some impressive names on there.  It's pretty cool that my name will be on it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT