U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2018
Sophie Hausmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round a little bit.
SOPHIE HAUSMANN: I mean, I hit the ball okay, but compared to yesterday, not as consistent.  And got a little bit kind of -- yeah, didn't have the touch on the greens right away because I felt like it was a little bit faster than yesterday afternoon, obviously.
So I started out with a bogey on 2, but then made consistent pars.  I said, okay, it's all good, just try to make some birdies later on, just one shot at a time, and it worked out.  Even on the back nine, there were some up-and-downs, some really good up-and-downs, but also hit the ball -- made a couple bad shots followed by really good shots.  So yeah, it was not boring out there.  It was fun.  Yeah, it was consistent, but yeah -- it was okay.  It was a good round, yeah.
Q. How do you feel like the course fits your eye this week?
SOPHIE HAUSMANN: I really like the course.  I mean, obviously it looks pretty.  It's a beautiful course.  But also for my game, because I kind of hit it quite far.  So the par-5s if you hit a good drive and a good second one, you can reach them, but you have to be kind of careful where you want to miss it.  The par-3s are good.  Like you have some long irons and some shorter ones.  So I feel like it fits pretty well.  And the greens are good but not too -- they have some slope but not too bad.  So I feel like I really like it.  I feel like it fits me very well.
Q. Coming here, first Women's Am, what does it mean to you to advance to match play?
SOPHIE HAUSMANN: Oh, definitely.  I got here -- I qualified for it, so I was like, okay, that's the first step.  And then the British Am, kind of the same, like you play two rounds of stroke play and then match play, so I said, okay, play two good rounds and just treat it as a stroke play tournament first and then go because we all know it's a different game from now on.  But it's fun.  I'm really excited about it.  I like the course, the people here.  So yeah, I'm excited to play tomorrow.
Q. What's your mindset going into the round of 64 tomorrow?
SOPHIE HAUSMANN: I mean, obviously it's match play, so you have maybe to think sometimes a little bit different.  But I just want to play my game, and I know I can make a lot of birdies out there.  Whoever I'm playing against has to make birdies, too, and if I adjust to the player, we will see.  But yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT