ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2003
Martin Lel
Margaret Okayo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Margaret, did you think you gave it  -- breaking the course record by two minutes did you think (inaudible)?

MARGARET OKAYO:  No.  First I all, I come in here alone because first of all, I thank the Lord and the sponsors who were in the race.  You are the ones who make the race to be great.  I didn't know I was going to break my own record but I was just trying to do my best.  (Inaudible).

Q.   Did you intend to break the record when you came here?  Did you hope to?

MARGARET OKAYO:  I know I was just going but when I finish (inaudible).

Q.   During the race you felt good?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I was feeling fine. 

Q.   When you came into the race was your plan to go sort of 15, 16 miles?  You remember when you won the previous time you went very early.  Was that the same plan this year?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I say that the marathon of 2001 I started to push from 16 miles.  Today I said let me try to see if I can make it again. 

Q.   When you started pushing at 16 miles, last time there was nobody with you when you made that push.  This time you had Lornah and Catherine still with you.  You made a second push? 

MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I make the second push to see whether they are going to respond, but by good luck I went, they didn't push again. 

Q.   Were you confident, Margaret, in those last five miles that you were going to win or did you think Lornah or Catherine could come back at you?

MARGARET OKAYO:  I was not sure whether they were to come but I was just laying on my own legs.  Fortunately, lucky I was the winner.

Q.   Did you have any pain or distress in the park?  Hurt at all?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Excuse me?

Q.   Did you hurt in last three miles?  

MARGARET OKAYO:  I was just going but I don't know whether it was -- I was just going, like, it was the fast one mile.

Q.   Early in the race there were 20 people all the way across, 25, was it difficult running with so many people around you?

MARTIN LEL:  Yes, for sure, it was very difficult for me to run with them because, marathon was very strong so I was back of them because 10 of them were very strong, so I had to work on myself as the race is going.

Q.   You kept looking back.  Were you afraid of somebody stepping on you?

MARTIN LEL:  Sorry? 

Q.   You were running, looking back  --

MARTIN LEL:  Yes, when I was 13 miles I was being stepped on by a Kenyan guy, at the same time when I was looking back, I was being scared to see how my champions of last year was still around so I been scared of them, so I had to look  -- thought they were still close, so for sure they were still close. 

Q.   Margaret, (inaudible) will you compete in Japan?

MARGARET OKAYO:  I don't know whether I will go or not, but I hope I would. 

Q.   You'd like to run in the Olympics are you saying?

MARGARET OKAYO:  I hope so.  I am going to try.  I don't know if I will make them or not, but I am going to try.

Q.   When you made your move late in the race were you surprised at how quickly Rodgers Rop dropped back?  He was with you for so long then all of a sudden he is gone?

MARTIN LEL:  Yes, when I was trying to walk with my friend Rodgers Rop, I thought he was very strong so I was really scared, so when I tried to strike one step, I had to see whether it could really react.  As long as I try to sprint I didn't see any reaction, so I had to push and I saw that I was lucky enough to be in front.

Q.   What was it like to cross?  What did you feel inside when you crossed the line that first time and then, Margaret, you have done this before.  Did it feel different?

MARTIN LEL:  With me I was very grateful because I didn't think I would win the race because I understand that this race, being the biggest race all over the world, so I was being scared, or surprised for me to find out that I really won the race. 

Q.   How important is Italy, training in Italy for you?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Most of the year I stay in Italy because it is comfortable for me to concentrate on my training.

MARTIN LEL:  Yes, sometimes I train in Italy for some time and sometimes I train in Kenya. 

Q.   The question was, you won here two years ago you set a course record then.  Obviously it's exciting to win New York.  You come back.  How different is it to win the second time as well as breaking your own record?  In your heart, how did you feel ?  Did you feel different this year winning?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, because I was training for this race.  When I finished, I was very happy.  I was excited to cut the rope on the finishing line. 

Q.   We saw you go down and we thought you were going to pray and kiss the ground but you didn't kiss the ground.  What were you thinking then?

MARGARET OKAYO:  I was praying to God because he is there for me for all the time coming to the finishing line. 

Q.   How proud are you for your country and do you look at your countrymen as competitors?

MARGARET OKAYO:  We are excited for winning here, also on behalf of Fila, our sponsors, $100,000 to the Street Children to help for the orphans from here. 

MARTIN LEL:  With me I am also very happy because for sure we are representing our country.  We're given the opportunity to assist the orphan children who are not able to assist themselves and also to the young children.

Q.   When you dropped Rodgers Rop, you took a loss across then you sort of surged.  Someone you know like a friend, do you feel some for them at all as you say good-bye?

MARTIN LEL:  No.  You know, for sure when I took Rodgers Rop, I was excited because I didn't know whether I would be able to drop him.  It was a surprise to me when I drop him.  At the same time I was really happy because I didn't saw that I would be able to win the race. 

Q.   When you dropped Rodgers decisively when you did, what goes through your mind?  You know you are 400 meters from the finish line, what goes through your mind?

MARTIN LEL:  For sure I was very happy because in my mind I was near to Rodgers Rop because for sure we are about to finish, and then when I was trying to check Rodgers Rop.  He was still close, so we had to fight and at the end.  But fortunately when I saw him  -- when we were about 25 miles, my surprise, I tried to look back and Rodgers Rop was a bit behind so I was happy and I tried to sprint one more stint to see whether he can get there.  But for sure, I was lucky enough to be in the front of him.

Q.   Was your heart pounding as you came down that last 200 meters?

MARTIN LEL:  I was really, really happy. 

Q.   On a day when 3 women broke the course record.  (Inaudible) the women were much more aggressive than the men with their race today.  But the men were all 1:05 at halfway.  Were you surprised that no one was aggressive or was that the race you anticipated?

MARTIN LEL:  Sorry? 

Q.   Surprised that nobody took out the first half of the race faster?

MARTIN LEL:  Yes, for sure the fastest half of the race, (inaudible) there was no one to push because everywhere was, let us say, that they were nearing each other, that's why anyone cannot try to take off or try to go in front.  At the same time maybe the problem was (inaudible) we had to go by the pacemakers.  Maybe that's the reason why the first half was a bit slow. 

Q.   Did you feel a little neglected since you have never really got the recognition having won New York and Boston; others have gotten a lot more attention.  Did you ever feel a little bit upset by that?  Because obviously you are obviously one of the premier marathon runners in the world, particularly having won here twice and set two course records?

MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I am excited for that one because when I come for New York, it is even if I go for, I will do my best because I want to come here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT