KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Alex Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Kansas State - 42, Baylor - 21   
 Q.  How did it feel?  
ALEX BARNES: It felt really good.  It was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  That's it?  That's all you got to say?  
ALEX BARNES: It's all good.   
 Q.  I know you guys use a lot of running backs.  What's the plan going in, because you had one carry in the first half, and then in the third quarter, it's all you?  
ALEX BARNES: Yeah, we're not really sure.  It's kind of unpredictable, but whoever is in there, we know that we're really just going to try to tear it up.  And our O-line has been killing it, so it was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Talk about the rhythm you got into in the second half.  
ALEX BARNES: Yeah, I just kind of slowed down.  With game reps, the more you get, the more it starts to slow down.  You start to see what they're doing and see how you can counter it.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Four touchdowns, most by a freshman in K State football history, a running back, how important is that?  Your name's in the record books.  
ALEX BARNES: That's pretty cool.   
 Q.  On the touchdown run, when you kind of hurdled the guy, did you see that coming or was it just instinct?  
ALEX BARNES: I didn't know what happened, it was so quick, I just kind of reacted and fell in the end zone.   
 Q.  Did it help to get a whole half to yourself?  
ALEX BARNES: Helped with what?   
 Q.  Just confidence, continue to be in there.  Was it easier with that much time?  
ALEX BARNES: I just felt like I got in a rhythm.  Our O-line was really opening up holes.  That guy right there, Terrale Johnson, he told me he got my back and he knows I always got his, so it's no big deal when he's in there.   
 Q.  Did you know coming down here that you would be rushing for 129 yards and putting that many points up on the board?  
ALEX BARNES: I knew that we as a unit would have a big day on the ground, so I didn't realize that it would be me specifically, but I knew that we were going to get it done.   
 Q.  Coach talked about going with the hot hand.  Was that it today?  You were just having so much success that they decided to stick with you.  
ALEX BARNES: I guess, yeah.  I can't speak for him.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you guys started to wear them down as the game went on in the second half?  
ALEX BARNES: Yeah, they started to get a little bruised up and they weren't really liking us coming down hill as much as we were so we took advantage of that.   
 Q.  How much fun is that?  
ALEX BARNES: It's a lot of fun, sir.   
 Q.  Is that your mentality when you get in there, just to kind of punish the other people?  
ALEX BARNES: You got to start off that way, let them know that you're here, you're ready to play and that you're not really messing around.  After that you can just kind of read it from there.   
 Q.  How satisfying is it to be a part of a win like that?  
ALEX BARNES: It felt really good to get bowl eligible to do that for Mike.  I know it was a really emotional game for him and it's good to get that done.   
 Q.  The play with the hurdle, have you ever done something like that in practice?  
ALEX BARNES: No, not in practice.  We don't go low at practice.   
 Q.  How much of a confidence booster is that for you?  
ALEX BARNES: It's about the same.  Our confidence has really been there this whole time.  The O-line trusts me, I trust them, we got each other's backs and it's just sort of a relationship like that.   
 Q.  Does it mean anything more when you look and see that the coach's trusting you in the game to give you 19 carries?  
ALEX BARNES: That means a lot.  Really, them putting faith in me, me being so young, yeah, that really helps with my confidence there, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT