MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2007
Ashley Davis
Jeff Mittie
Adrianne Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR:  Coach Mittie will be here in a moment.  We can start with questions for Adrianne or Ashley. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your performance in the second half and what your mindset was. 
 ADRIANNE ROSS:  Basically my mindset the second half was to do totally opposite to what I did the first half, and that was to keep my composure and be patient.  Obviously it worked, but I dug myself to big of a hole in the first half to make the second half to be worth anything. 

 Q.  Do you think the game was decided in the first half when you struggled there over basically the first 15 minutes? 
 ADRIANNE ROSS:  I didn't understand the question. 

 Q.  Do you think the game was decided in the first half when you went cold for the first 12 minutes? 
 ASHLEY DAVIS:  I don't think it necessarily was decided in the first half.  I think we dug ourselves a hole in the first half.  Offensively we weren't just clicking, getting our normal good shots that we usually get. 
 I do think we struggled in the first half, but I don't think the game was over at all. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the emotion of seeing that shot trickle in at the end. 
 ADRIANNE ROSS:  At the end?  I just remember watching the Air Force shot with Colorado State.  I was like, Man, that must really suck because both teams played hard.  Then de'ja vu and it happened to us. 
 Credit to them, you know, for not rushing down the court and getting a wild one like Coach Mittie said.  All we can do is put that behind us and go from there. 

 Q.  What are the next few days going to be like until you find out your post-season fate? 
 ASHLEY DAVIS:  I think the next couple days it's going to be hard, hoping we'll get in the tournament.  We've been there pretty much every year since I've been here.  That's definitely one of our goals going into the season. 
 I guess now it's just practice, stay in shape, just get some shots up, hope to see our name come up on Selection Sunday. 

 Q.  What do you think the biggest feather in your cap is if you were to make a pitch to the selection committee? 
 ADRIANNE ROSS:  Well, usually we win the first round, so put us in there.  We'll get up there and stir up some trouble. 
 I mean, we're a tournament team.  This game is uncharacteristic because we like tournament play, short warmups, get in there and give it your all.  We just didn't get it started the way we wanted to get it started. 
 I think bouncing back from tonight, taking these couple days, seeing if our name comes up on Sunday, keeping our fingers crossed, we put a lot of hard work into it.  I think we'll get refocused and we'll find our niche that got us here in the tournament the last couple years. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, ladies.  Questions for Coach Mittie. 

 Q.  What are the next few days going to be like for you? 
 COACH MITTIE:  You're asking me right after the game.  I don't know.  We'll get back home, probably take a couple days off, just kind of maybe get a workout or two in, just kind of stay in shape for selection.  I think it's Monday, isn't it?  So we'll wait on that and see where we go from there. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the second half when Adrianne led you guys back, Helen contributed, Jen, as well? 
 COACH MITTIE:  I thought we had a lot of players play well in the second half, I really did.  Adrianne was quick off the dribble, made some good reads in motion.  We had better movement.  She hit some big shots. 
 Helen I thought hit some big shots.  Jenna kind of cleaned up the scraps.  I thought we were big on the glass.  We didn't give them many second looks.  But they didn't miss many shots tonight.  There wasn't a whole lot of opportunities for them to rebound.  I thought we did a solid job on the glass.  I thought we fought hard. 
 Unfortunately, we did dig ourselves a hole.  I thought in the first half we did not play well at all.  I did not think we did things necessary to be a good team in the first half. 

 Q.  What was that? 
 COACH MITTIE:  We showed a lot of impatience, a lack of composure, things that we've talked about for a long time - too long really.  This is not a young basketball team.  We're 31 games in.  These should not be things we're still talking about, which is one of the reasons why we're sitting here talking about a loss. 

 Q.  Do you think you have made enough of a case to go to the tournament? 
 COACH MITTIE:  You know, probably out of all the years, I have less of a feel for this year than any of 'em.  I think it's going to be real -- things will have to fall right, I think.  I don't know.  I mean, like I said, out of all the years, I probably have less of a feel for this year's tournament stuff than any year because I think the RPI's been a little bit different.  Last year our RPI was so good.  This year our RPI has really been upper 40s, low 50s.  That's a tough spot to be in. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, coach. 
 COACH MITTIE:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT