DAVIS CUP QUALIFYING: USA VS UZBEKISTAN
March 6, 2020
Taylor Fritz
Captain Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. FRITZ/S. Fayziev
Team USA - 2
Team Uzbekistan - 0
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (Question off mic for Mardy about the team.)
CAPTAIN FISH: It's ideal, for sure. You know, this is why we have come to the Bryans' position quite a lot over the years. And I, for one, am glad on their last one to give them the chance to clinch the tie, and I'm sure these guys are, too.
These guys played great today. First match was really impressive by Reilly. And Taylor, not knowing too much about his opponent, came out and played pretty impressive tennis. These guys keep getting better and better every time I see them live, and they're building something special as far as the team is concerned.
Q. How satisfied are you just overall? Great couple matches, great four sets of tennis from these guys today?
CAPTAIN FISH: Yeah, pretty ideal, for sure. Like I said, these guys, the youngsters are all really, really close, genuinely. So it's fun to sort of be alongside watching them, like I said, build something.
You know, I think they can win this competition multiple times, and there is no doubt in my mind that they're going to get over the top at some point, and hopefully soon.
Q. Taylor, against someone, he's ranked 500, but it's never easy to play someone you've got very little intel on. So what was your approach out there on court?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Well, just looking at results and stuff. You know, it impressed me some of the scores he had in previous Davis Cup ties. It looked like his best tennis and best results were in the ties.
I believe he took a set off Krajinovic and played a close two sets with Lajovic. So after seeing that, I knew that I was just going to have to really get ready to play my best tennis.
My plan was just to press him early on with my power so he couldn't really kind of get into the match or like kind of get going. So I was trying to press him as much as possible with my power. I thought I did a great job with it.
Q. Did you get momentum just from watching Reilly's match before you? Did that fire you up?
TAYLOR FRITZ: It's definitely, like -- yeah, I think it probably eases me a bit, just he takes care of business. You know, now I've just gotta go out and take care of business.
Sometimes it can be trouble when you start thinking about the worst-case scenario, so if Reilly were to lose and then I'll be thinking if I lose, you know, what it means.
It eases me a bit. He takes care of business, and it pumps me up and I'm definitely ready to go out there and do the same thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT