MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 29, 2013
Michael Wacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you've made a bunch of starts already this postseason, but having your team's season on the line tomorrow night, do you think there will be any different nerves going into this game?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     No, I don't think anything will be much different.   I just try to approach every game the same.   I don't think it's going to be too much different.   We know the next two games are must wins.   It all starts with me tomorrow night.     
   
 Q.   Some of the Red Sox players have said they're very eager to see what the atmosphere will be here tomorrow night, a lot of anticipation, a lot of excitement.   From your experience in Games 1 and 2, but what do you expect it to be like?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     I imagine it's going to be crazy, but I'm not going to pay any attention to it.   I'll keep going about my business the way I have been in all my starts this year.   And not worry about the crowd, and just get locked in with Yadi behind the plate and just make my pitches.  
   
 Q.   Obviously David Ortiz has been hitting almost everything pitched to him.   Do you think you guys need to change your approach to him and what are your plans with him tomorrow?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     I can't really tell you my plan on how I'm going to pitch him.   But, yeah, he's a great hitter.   He's a tough out, that's for sure.   I guess we'll see how I pitch him tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Who would you say are some of the pitchers you particularly watched while you were growing up, whether at age 10 or age 21?   Would you say they're guys you modeled yourself after or more just enjoyed watching?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     I mean, I wouldn't say there's a particular pitcher, really.   I mean, I watched Roger Clemens growing up quite a bit.   Mainly I just liked the way he went about his business, like the competitive side about him on the mound.   I really liked that.   The way he was a bulldog out there.   And he just never gave in, really.   And won some big games and stuff.   That's just kind of how I'd like to go about it.  
   
 Q.   We all know you're sitting on a plane, but if you were here, what kind of things would you be doing to get ready for this start?   And how is this going to affect you going into tomorrow?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     I mean, I wouldn't be doing anything, really.   Just going to grab something to eat and then just hanging out in my hotel room, really.   Nothing too crazy.  
   
 Q.   Even though you're a rookie pitcher and there's going to be a lot of pressure on you tomorrow, do you actually relish and look forward to this opportunity?  
MICHAEL WACHA:     Oh, yeah.   I mean, whenever the opportunity presents itself, I try to take advantage of it.   So that's the way I've been my whole life, really.   So this is another opportunity that I'm going to try to take advantage of and get a win for this ballclub.   
It's going to be a lot of fun tomorrow, just really looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Mike told us you've been on the plane for a couple of hours.   What's the atmosphere and the attitude of everybody on the plane? Does this seem like one more bizarre thing in what's been a pretty bizarre World Series?  
MICHAEL WACHA:   Everyone is just watching movies.   They've got dinner on here for us and stuff.   Everyone is just walking around.   Nobody is in a bad mood or anything like that.   The attitude is pretty good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT