NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 20, 2017
Carl Hagelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Question about the PK.)  
CARL HAGELIN: I think yesterday we took a step in the right direction, for sure, in terms of how aggressive we were.  We did a good job of clearing the puck every time we had the chance.  You don't want to give those guys too many opportunities.   
But last game we took a few too many penalties, but found a way to kill them off.   
 Q.  Didn't necessarily look like yourself the first couple games.  Can you tell us, was it a big step for you last night?  
CARL HAGELIN: It was definitely a step in the right direction.  I felt like my legs were moving the way they need to in a series like this.  Hopefully build off that and play better next game.   
 Q.  Part of it is about managing minutes right now, not overexerting yourself?  
CARL HAGELIN: Yes and no.  I think as a player, you want to be out there as much as possible, try to be a difference-maker when you're out there.   
 Q.  Was there an emphasis last night on trying to create some offense from below the dots?  Seemed like that was something you did working the puck behind the net.  
CARL HAGELIN: I don't know if we really talked about that.  We just knew we had to play better in the offensive zone, whether that's creating offense from below the goal line or giving up to our "D" and having them move around on the blueline.  I think we did a good job of both things there.   
I think we definitely got to pucks, then it's easier to play.  We were more aggressive in the O-zone.  That's why we spent more time there.   
 Q.  Is it hard not getting caught up in the emotional rollercoaster of a playoff series?  You've been good at bouncing back.  
CARL HAGELIN: Yeah, I think that's why we have a group of guys that have done it before.  We know what it takes in the playoffs.  We know you're going to have good games, bad games.  You just have to have a short memory.  You got to come out the day after and skate or whatever, a day off, not think about hockey.  When the puck drops in the next game, it's going to be a new story out there.   
Each game tells its own story.  You have to be ready for whatever it throws at you.   
 Q.  Has that been particularly hard this series?  Seems like the team that loses comes back and wins the next night.  
CARL HAGELIN: Yeah, this series especially, every game has told a different story.  That's why it's 2-2 right now.   
But we're looking forward to going home and playing Pittsburgh in front of our fans.  It's time for us to take two games in a row here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT