NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: LIGHTNING v PENGUINS
May 25, 2016
Carl Hagelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Carl, you played in quite a few of these Game 7s. What can you recall from your past experiences that can maybe help you in Game 7? 
CARL HAGELIN: I think, first of all, you've just got to go out and play. That's what it comes down to. Going to be a lot of emotion and a lot of intensity from both teams. As a team, we have to go out there and be composed and play the best we can. 

Q. You have to play the right way. Sometimes you're playing scared to lose. I guess this is not what to do. 
CARL HAGELIN: Yeah, this is not the time to play scared. I think, when we're being aggressive, playing in the offensive zone, that's when we're at our best. Our team knows that. We know that we have to push the pace. 

Q. It doesn't have anything to do with this team, but you talk about playing scared, is that something you maybe felt you guys were guilty of last year when you were in this position? Is that a regret you maybe can fix? 
CARL HAGELIN: Last year I was with the Rangers, and now I'm here. I think that game we didn't play good at all. It was one of those games where we had nothing. This is a different team. This is a team that really believes in one another and believes that we can score a goal and be a threat offensively when we do the right things. At the same time, we can shut things down.

Q. Is that belief in this group stronger than ever right now? 
CARL HAGELIN: Yeah, we're a confident group. We know what we can do. We know it's going to be a close game tomorrow. Two really good teams going at it. Just got to make sure we're at it from the start.

Q. You guys battled down the stretch to have a right to play in front of your fans. Are you guys looking forward to being back in front of them for this game? 
CARL HAGELIN: We're excited. We've been playing a lot of good games at home. The fans really get into it. Just overall, it's fun to play. It's a lot of energy, energy coming from the fans, and overall a great intensity.

Q. In this situation, do you allow yourself -- have you in the past, do you allow yourself now -- to take a moment to kind of realize what this is, what this means, and how you have an opportunity to do something that not a lot of people get to do? 
CARL HAGELIN: Yeah, like you said, I've been in this situation quite a bit, a lot of Game 7s, and I've been on the right side a lot of times. You can just see in the locker room, when you win those games, the four games, you feel like there's something special in that people are tense, but they're not scared. I think that's what it comes down to. You have that mindset that you're going to win. You know it's going to take a lot. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT