NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 23, 2014
Carl Hagelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Carl, how do you guys stay from getting frustrated from last night?   You had so many chances, so many opportunities and nothing seemed like it stopped, and then scoring late in the third period to send it into overtime? 
CARL HAGELIN:   Yeah, their goalie played well, but I think we're a resilient group.   All year we lose a game or win a game, and we always come back the game after and play well.   We try to stay at an even keel and don't worry too much about what happened last game.   But we definitely scored in our chances.

Q.   What have you learned in two games about Dustin Tokarski?   I'm sure you didn't know too much before this.   What have you figured out? 
CARL HAGELIN:   Just like any other goalie he's really good at stopping the puck when he can see it.   He comes out pretty far.   He's really aggressive at the shooter, but at the same time he made good saves when we made lateral plays.   Overall, he's a good goalie.

Q.   Carl, what was it‑‑ your line had a pretty good night last night.   You guys were flying.   Anything you guys saw differently in the last game to the other one? 
CARL HAGELIN:   I think we made a few more plays in the neutral zone.   We were holding on to pucks a little bit more, and that's when we created chances.   Again, I think we're on their "D" a little bit more, which made them turn it over.   I think overall their line was clicking a bit more than it did the first two games.

Q.   A big difference between going up 3‑1 and dealing with a win on Sunday or going back to Montreal with 2‑2 and a loss.   Can you describe the sense of urgency going into Game 4? 
CARL HAGELIN:   Yeah, our plan is to win the next game.   There is no doubt about it.   We're in a good situation right now.   We've just got to go out there and do everything we can to get a 3‑1 lead.   We can't think of Game 5 or Game 6.   We have to think about Game 4 and try to get that win.

Q.   You guys obviously came into this series preparing for Carey Price.   Has Tokarski surprised you? 
CARL HAGELIN:   Not really.   We knew who he was before.   Just never played against him, but he's been good at every level he's been at.   You know, any goalie in this league is going to be a good goalie.   Last night he stood on his head.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT