NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v CARDINALS
October 11, 2014
Lance Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right, questions for Lance Lynn. 

Q.   Lance, could you share how different a pitcher you are now in the NLCS versus who you were in 2011? 
LANCE LYNN:   In 2011, I was a reliever, so a lot of different approach.   I was a rookie in 2011, so I really didn't know what I was doing.   I was just along for the ride. 
Now being this is my fourth straight NLCS, I have a little bit of a clue what's going on.   Still don't have it figured out, but I'm looking forward to this one. 

Q.   Lance, you've talked a lot before about how much impact Carpenter had on you in your career.   What are the most impactful pieces of advice that he gave you and anything in particular about pitching on this sort of stage? 
LANCE LYNN:   I don't know if he plans on writing a book, so I'm not going to give any of his secrets away.   But he was very good to me in my career.   He had a lot of things he went through and he was able to share them with me, so when I would go through them or‑‑ and/or if I haven't gone through them yet, I'll know how to do it.   So he was a verybig impact on my career. 

Q.   Lance, last year and the year before you talked about trying to set up your during‑the‑season workouts and being able to maintain strength.   Do you think you did a much better job of that, a stupendously better job of that this year?   How does that put your energy level or health at this time of year that's different than in the past? 
LANCE LYNN:   I think every year in this league, you're going to figure out things that are going to help you throughout the year, and that's part of growing up, learning your body, learning what you need to do through a 162‑game season.   And every year I've gotten better at that. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
LANCE LYNN:   You feel good.   It's October.   You're excited.   You're going to feel good no matter what. 

Q.   How much does your confidence change over these seasons?   Is it just more of a comfort as you learn your body and learn differently how to pitch, that kind of thing? 
LANCE LYNN:   Confidence has never been a problem, that's for sure.   I just go out and pitch, I don't worry about anything.   Pretty simple. 

Q.   Lance, what do you remember about your Game5 start in the NLCS against the Giants two years ago, and how much did the sting of that stick with you? 
LANCE LYNN:   I know that we had a chance to win that series and I didn't get the job done.   Whenever you don't get the job done, it definitely is something that you don't forget. 

Q.   Lance, we spoke this season about Lackey and you watching him as a fan or watching him as a young pitcher.   I wonder if Peavy is in that equation, as well?   Is that a guy that you look to, and pitchers of that ilk, the guys who show emotion and can be fiery on the mound if you naturally gravitated toward them? 
LANCE LYNN:   The even‑keel person that I am, I don't pay attention to those guys, so I'm just going about me and worrying about myself and that's all you can do. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Lance.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT