MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 22, 2011
Lance Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 St. Louis Cardinals 16
  Texas Rangers   7 
   
  Q. You talked earlier about how you were taking a deep breath and trying to keep everything simple, not let anything get too big for you in the series. How big was it for you tonight in an extended role?  
 LANCE LYNN: You know, Tony gave me the ball and he has a lot of confidence in me. That goes a long way for me knowing that the manager has a lot of confidence in me to let me go out there and try to get multiple outs. You know, he told me when I came in, "take a deep breath and do what you do," and that's all I could do was do what I can control.   
  
  Q. How tough of a situation is that to walk into when teams are scoring three runs every inning and all of a sudden you go in there, too, and try to have to restore a little bit of order on the pitching side?  
 LANCE LYNN: You know, that's what this game is all about, who's going to be the guy that comes in and is able to get multiple innings in a game like that because both offenses were on tonight. Somebody had to come in and try to calm the storm, I guess, and I was able to make a couple pitches, and I actually got away with some pitches, too. So to be able to come in and get a couple outs there and not have to go in our bullpen any deeper, I felt like that was good movement on the rest of the series.   
  
  Q. You had the extended layoff before the postseason. Was there ever a point when you doubted you'd be able to pitch again this year and have you surprised yourself with how strong you came back immediately?   
 LANCE LYNN: You know, I always wanted to pitch and always felt like I was going to be able to get back. And to have the faith of the manager and the front office to give me this opportunity is great, and I'm just glad that I'm able to be a part of this and be productive, and that's all I'm going to do from here on is try to do the best I can, and whenever I get the opportunity, just try to get outs.   
  
  Q. As a teammate of Albert's, when you see a performance like that, do you just ask yourself, how do pitchers ever get this guy out?   
 LANCE LYNN: I mean, yeah. You see him tonight, he was locked in tonight. That's great for us. You know, you never want to be the pitcher to face him when he's locked in because you're definitely going to have to try to make some pitches on him. I'm just happy tonight that we were able to do what we were doing. It was also fun to watch him do what he did tonight and just to be a teammate of his when he did something like that, that's something I'm going to be able to tell my kids and grandkids that I actually witnessed that in person.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT