NL DIVISION SERIES: PIRATES v CARDINALS
October 3, 2013
Lance Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is this last 24 hours like when you have to wait to get out on the mound?   
LANCE LYNN:   It's exciting.   This is what you play all year for is the postseason, the start of a new season now.   
Looking forward to the game today, watch Adam work, and kind of put together a game plan as the game goes on and through the night for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you put much stock in home/road splits?   Do you think there is anything to a pitcher being more successful at home, or do you think that changes from year to year, day and night against the opponent, or is there something to it?   
LANCE LYNN:   There might be.   You see all the splits.   Some guys are better at home, better on the road.   Hitters are the same way.   But it's just part of the game.   Some people see the ball better at certain places.   Some pitchers feel more comfortable at certain places.   But I have the luxury of throwing in front of the home crowd here, and I'm excited about it.  
   
 Q.   You spoke last month about a meeting that Carpenter and Wainwright had with a lot of you guys early in the month.   Can you speak to the impact of that meeting?   Because it seemed it was right about that time that your results started turning around.   
LANCE LYNN:   I wasn't a part of that meeting.   That was the day I was starting.   But I was able to get the gist of it in more of a one‑on‑one meeting with those two.   Also, Jake Westbrook.   Those guys have been great all year.   Chris hasn't been able to throw a pitch for us all year, but he's been a big part of the team helping not only myself, but some of the other younger pitchers that are coming up and doing some good things for us.   
When you have guys like that that you can lean on to get through the rough times and/or the grind of the season and teach you how to maybe do things the proper way at this time of the year, it's a good thing to have.  
   
 Q.   Some pitchers say when the postseason starts they try to convince themselves it's a regular season.   Do you do that?   If so, how do you convince yourself?   
LANCE LYNN:   I mean, when it's all said and done, this is what you're looking for.   So to be here at this time, you know what it's all about.   It's get the job done, help your team win.   It doesn't matter if it's regular season, postseason, whatever it may be.   You're just thinking about one thing, and that is getting the job done for your team and giving them a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Have you been able to identify anything from your last few starts that helped you kind of turn things around last month?   
LANCE LYNN:   Yeah, they were better than the month before, and that's pretty much it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT