AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2017
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. WATSON/D. Cibulkova   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Yesterday it was very windy.  Today your service game was really strong.  Were you pleased with how that came about?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, definitely.  I think the long match yesterday really helped my form today.  I didn't feel tired or anything coming in today.  I was actually really happy I was on the schedule again.   
I felt good on the court yesterday, but because of the windy conditions, it makes it a lot tougher to serve.  You know, you have to go for bigger targets because it's harder to be precise when it's windy.   
Today it wasn't, so I just felt everything came together and I played really well.   
 Q.  Best win of the year?  
HEATHER WATSON: I guess so.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Good timing, as well.  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah (smiling).   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
HEATHER WATSON: No, exactly.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy the crowd?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I did.  They're really loud this year.  Extra loud, I think.  I love it.  The atmosphere is great.  I just am really enjoying playing at the moment.   
 Q.  You obviously pushed Svitolina pretty close.  Did you feel that win was coming for a while?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I felt really good in my match against Svitolina.  I felt like I had loads of opportunities in the match.  It was quite similar to the match against Tsurenko with break points and game points but just wasn't able to convert.  But as far as like striking the ball and my tennis, I felt really good.  So I was gutted to not get through that one.   
And then Nottingham the week before when I played Alison, it was also the same.  I felt good on the court but just didn't get the result.  Now I feel like it's coming together.   
 Q.  Can I ask your opinion about something controversial that John McEnroe said this morning?  He said if Serena was in the men's she would be ranked 700.  Just wondering about your opinion.  
HEATHER WATSON: I don't think it's really relevant.  It's two different games, men and women.  There is a reason we don't compete against each other.   
It doesn't really matter where Serena is ranked, because she's incredible for women's tennis and in the game of tennis, and she's accomplished so much.   
So I think it's pretty irrelevant asking that question.  And, yeah, that's it, really.  I don't really see the point.  Men are bigger, stronger, quicker, like that's just how they're made.  So it doesn't -- it's just silly.   
 Q.  You know Dan pretty well.  What's your reaction to the news last week?  
HEATHER WATSON: It's a shame.  Dan's really come together the last year or two and been playing some great tennis.  Really climbed up the rankings.   
But he's made a mistake and he'll just have to deal and accept the consequences.   
 Q.  Have you spoken to him about it?  
HEATHER WATSON: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT