AEGON CLASSIC
June 13, 2016
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. WATSON/C. Giorgi   
6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Heather Watson, please.   
 Q.  You must be really relieved to have gotten that out of the way now?  
HEATHER WATSON: Uhm, I'm not relieved.  I'm pleased with my performance today, especially from last week.  I didn't play well at all last week.  I didn't feel my game had adapted to the grass yet.   
Today, the opponent I played is a real tricky one.  She doesn't give you any rhythm.  She'll hit a lot of winners, but she'll make some mistakes as well.  So it's tough.   
I was just really pleased with how positive I was, especially in the second set when I was breakpoints down.  I thought those games in the end turned out to be very crucial.   
And, Yeah, I can't remember ever winning a match in Birmingham.  I haven't in the last couple of years, for sure.   
Oh, no, I have.  I have, like, five years ago, but, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you think you were going to get on at all today, because it was a long wait?  
HEATHER WATSON: It was strange, like, when the first match was going to be on soon, I didn't feel like I had a match that day.  It felt like I had a lounge-around, hang-out day.  It was so odd.  I had to put myself in a corner and kind of get focused.   
You're really used to your time management before a match.  You're going to wake up at this time, breakfast at this time, car at this time, warmup at this time.  It was just like I did all that, and then I'm just hanging back, got no idea when I'm play.   
It was a bit strange.  But I did okay.   
 Q.  What was the big difference today between this performance and last week in Nottingham?  
HEATHER WATSON: I think mentally, it was the biggest difference.  I was a bit up and down in Nottingham and was getting a bit frustrated with myself.  Today I thought I kept my cool very well.   
 Q.  At one point it looked like you were making things a bit hard for yourself.  You kept giving away a lot of breakpoints and then having to save them.  Was it actually a good lesson for what comes next?  
HEATHER WATSON: You mean on my serve?   
 Q.  Yeah, on your serve.  You seemed to be having problems hanging onto it?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, in the second set I did there, because my first-serve percentage dropped.  I was starting the points with my second serve.  I knew that in my mind, but I couldn't figure out what I was doing wrong on my serve, why I was missing my first serves, and I figured it out.  It was my legs.  I just needed to push off more.   
When I needed it in that last game, it was there.   
 Q.  We asked Madison what she does in a rain break, and it was between sleeping and breaking people's fingers in card games.  What do you do in the rain breaks that isn't violent?  
HEATHER WATSON: Today I was doing a lot of taking pictures of people sleeping, so I can use them later on when I need them (smiling).  I won't show you.  They'll get so mad.  A bit of eating and sleeping a few Snapchat filters.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT