INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 11, 2016
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/H. Watson   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had such a good start.  What happened after that?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I did.  I felt pretty flawless at the beginning, and then I remember being 40-15 up at 4-Love and she changed her game, started hitting a few loopy balls, which was smart.   
Yeah, I thought after that my level dropped a bit, but also I thought she improved a lot from there.  I still had my chances to close to, you know, hold at 4-All, but I thought that from then on she just played very well, her balls were very deep, and every time I'd set myself up in a point she'd just put the ball in a really awkward position for me.   
So, yeah, I started great and didn't feel as well as I had hoped, but I tried my best with what I had today.   
 Q.  What's your verdict overall on the week?  You have had some decent wins, haven't you?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah.  The good thing is I have had a lot of matches, and I'm feeling very comfortable on the clay now.   
So I would have loved to have gone further here, because I felt like I was playing great, but I'll take the positives and hopefully I can have another good week before the French.   
 Q.  And what are your plans between now and Paris?  
HEATHER WATSON: I haven't decided yet.  Oh, I know I'm going to play Strasbourg next week, but I haven't decided whether I'm going to go home before it or not.   
 Q.  Could you tell us what ambitions you've got for the Olympics?  I know it's a rather complicated process to get there.  Are you holding out hopes to still get there?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, that's the plan is to just get there, basically.   
 Q.  You have had a good association was Roland Garros.  It's been a pretty decent tournament for you over the years.  Do you always kind of look forward to it?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah.  I have never been past second round, but I have been in quallies I think maybe three or four times and qualified every time.   
So I do like the courts there, and I feel -- yeah, I feel like I have had good tournaments there.   
 Q.  Have you played before in the week before the French?  
HEATHER WATSON: Never, because I have been in quallies most of the time.  I think last year was one of the only times I wasn't, one of two times maybe.   
 Q.  Was part of the thinking to try and just get a few more ranking points with the Olympics in mind?  
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, and also because I missed Prague, the first tournament of the clay for me.  Just the more matches, the better.  I feel that I always play better with more matches.   
 Q.  As we discussed the other day, you're pretty much on the edge of Olympic qualification.  Hopefully you'll get sufficient points between now and June 6.  What are your thoughts on the fact that some quite well-known players haven't fulfilled their Fed Cup obligations and they might be allowed dispensation?  What are your thoughts on that?  
HEATHER WATSON: And they might be allowed to what?   
 Q.  Well, they might still be allowed to play the Olympics even though they haven't played the requisite  amount of Fed Cup matches because they're injured or whatever.  
HEATHER WATSON: Oh, I didn't know -- I thought you had to play a certain amount to be eligible to play the Olympics.  I thought that was it.  I didn't know...   
 Q.  Wozniacki, for example, hasn't played because she's injured.  
HEATHER WATSON: And she'll be allowed to play the Olympics?   
 Q.  As it's looking.  She already says she's going to carry the flag.  
HEATHER WATSON: Oh, I didn't know any of this.   
Well, I'm not really sure what to say, but if there's rules, then you should stick to rules.  You shouldn't change your mind just for certain people.  Or if you do, you have to be fair to everybody.   
But, yeah, I'll have to look into it.  I'm not sure how many Fed Cups you're supposed to play, but I know I have played every one that I could.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT