AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 23, 2015
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







H. WATSON/E. Svitolina
  3‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What's the shake of the day?
HEATHER WATSON:   Oh, it's not my favorite flavor today.   It's vanilla.

Q.   What's your favorite?
HEATHER WATSON:   Chocolate.

Q.   Emotional finish for you.   What was it about that final sort of set that brought on those emotions? 
HEATHER WATSON:   I just ‑‑I have been, you know, like I have said, I haven't really had the best time in the clay court season and have been finding a few things tough. 
So this week was kind of like a new start for me and I just really, I don't know, I've got a lot of emotion in me right now.   I think on the court it shows.   I'm kind of getting mad at myself sometimes, but I'm also very positive when I win the point. 
I think also the crowd today was louder than I think I have ever heard them here at Eastbourne for one of my matches.   I just loved every minute of it.

Q.   Players can sometimes get overcome by emotions.   Do you think that's actually helping you at the moment?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   Usually I just try and stay neutral and not show too much emotion, but right now, you know, getting frustrated with myself is not distracting me at all.   I just let it out and then I'm refocused for the next point.   I think I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing.

Q.   Do you remember having that kind of reaction at the end of a match before?
HEATHER WATSON:   No, no.   I think this is the first time, and I can't really explain to you why, but it just means a lot to me right now.

Q.   It was a big win.   Sloane next.   This is your surface, really.   So do you feel you have an advantage on grass now?
HEATHER WATSON:   I really like grass.   I don't think many people would say that it would be my favorite surface, but I really think it is.   I think it suits my game well.   I'm very low to the court. 
I really look forward to playing here again.   We have actually already played twice this year, so this will be our third meeting.   Yeah, I'm going to have to play really good tennis.   She's a great player.

Q.   Does it make it even better that you came from behind to win?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   I think also just being out on the court that long really helped me, and I think I just started playing better as the match went on.   I started serving better, started returning better and playing off the ground better. 
Coming through, that's great for me and I get another match on the grass before Wimbledon.

Q.   Is that something to look at maybe making a fast start tomorrow?
HEATHER WATSON:   Absolutely.   I wanted to make a faster start today.   I hadn't planned for it to go long.
But, you know, I have played Svitolina at Fed Cup and it was kind of the same.   We had a really long match.   I think our games kind of make the match long no matter what.
But, yeah, I will definitely have to get off to a good start and play well.

Q.   When you were playing in Paris, your elbow, you looked very inhibited when you were serving.   You were serving very well today.   How much confidence do you take now that the elbow is rightfully back?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, I think that I will play a bit of a different role.   I feel fully fit.   And especially after today, playing with that tennis, I feel really good going into tomorrow.   It was a long match.   I will have to recover and make sure I get a good night's sleep, eat well, and make sure I'm fully prepared for tomorrow.

Q.   Did you manage to watch any of Jo Konta's match earlier?
HEATHER WATSON:   I did and I was really, really impressed.   I have always known Jo can play brilliant.   I think it's now finally coming out now.
She played amazing and just throughout the whole match, and I'm just really proud of her.

Q.   It was a good day for British tennis all‑around, really. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Definitely.   I don't know how any boys have done.

Q.   For the females.   Women.   Yes. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, I think it's a great day.   I think that was her first top‑10 win, and that's a huge achievement.   I don't know who she has next, but whoever it is... 

Q.   Muguruza. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Okay.   I'm sure she will give her a good run. 

Q.   Do you remember what it was like when you had your first top‑10 win?
HEATHER WATSON:   It wasn't that long ago.   Yeah, I don't know.   People talk about top‑10 wins.   But, you know, I have played players that have dropped out of the top 10 for one week, beat them, and they have gone back the next week. 
All the girls in the top 50, even top 75, can play tennis.   On their day, I feel like a lot of players can play like a top‑10er.   So, you know, it's a real achievement.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT