AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 22, 2015
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 H. WATSON/V. Lepchenko
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Looked like you were playing a much more patient day today, not necessarily as aggressive as you were trying to be in Birmingham.   Is that the plan?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Definitely.   I was definitely not as aggressive as probably I'd like to be, but I thought I was making too many errors today.   So I played to win.   I competed.   I used what I had today.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy that Diego is back with you this week?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Absolutely.   Really missed him last week.   He needed a break from me, though.   
   
 Q.   How difficult were the conditions?   Windy and the sun was a problem, wasn't it?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, it wasn't too windy.   I think yesterday was very windy for tennis.   But today was fine.   
But, yeah, I couldn't really see the ball at some point, because half the court was in the shade; half was in the sun.   When you'd toss the ball up, it would be bright in the sun but it would come to the court and I would just kind of lose it.  
   
 Q.   This is grass.   Wimbledon is obviously grass.   But is this a good guide to form for Wimbledon with the conditions being so different?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I think it is.   Yeah, the conditions are very different but grass is the surface.   The ball is bouncing very low.   It's quite quick.   It's completely different to clay.   
I think a lot of players find the transition quite difficult.   It takes a few weeks to get into it.   But I think it is quite a good guide.  
   
 Q.   How important is it for your confidence to get that grass court win under your belt?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I was super, super motivated today.   I don't know.   I just felt really good and excited to play.  
I think maybe because I haven't played that many matches recently, and especially just being here at home, I always feel extra motivated.  
   
 Q.   Is the elbow completely right now?   Everything okay?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, elbow is fine.   I served a lot better here than I did in Birmingham, I thought.   I had a lot more pace on the ball, and I was absolutely fine throughout the match.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your doubles in Birmingham.   You were almost down and out with Simona.   You came back.   What was it like to play with her?   Did that help getting that win even though you didn't go on any further?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I thought playing doubles there was very important for me personally, just because I wanted more matches on the grass and especially the way I played in my singles.   
I was really looking forward to playing with Simona.   I played terrible in the first set.   It was all my fault that we lost it that easily.   But she was so patient with me, really supportive, and then I managed to pick up my game and I thought we were a great team.   It was unfortunate that we couldn't play the next match.  
   
 Q.   Your opponent today was making some very distinct sounds.   Did that put you off at all?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I honestly didn't realize.   What were they?   
   
 Q.   It was quite high pitched and long.   
HEATHER WATSON:   Was it?   No, the only time I noticed she was doing this like breathing thing on some points, but that's it.   I didn't even...   
   
 Q.   You were just focused?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is there ever a reluctance to play this week, given the fact there is Wimbledon next week?   We talked to Andy earlier and the guys and they wouldn't dream of playing the week before.   
HEATHER WATSON:   The week before?   Yeah, I think Andy and I are a bit different (smiling).   
He has obviously been very, very consistent in all the slams for a very long time.   I'm not there yet, so for me getting as many matches as possible before a Grand Slam is important.   
I totally understand those guys taking the week off before, because they usually have a lot of matches to come.   For me, I like to have matches under my belt, wins, because especially because I don't play as many as them.   Hopefully soon I am.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT