AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 16, 2015
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KRUNIC/H. Watson
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Sorry about the result.   Do you think the elbow injury that you withdrew with last week was a contributory factor today?   
HEATHER WATSON:   I don't think it's why I lost today.   I'm still looking after it, still managing it, but I lost today because I just played really poorly.   I made way too many unforced errors and was very inconsistent.   
Yeah, just couldn't relax and find my rhythm.   Just didn't feel comfortable.   
   
 Q.   Will you go to Eastbourne?   Obviously you need to put in a good show before Wimbledon.   
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, I'm definitely going to Eastbourne.   Just going to look after my body, stay healthy, and I look forward to definitely playing better.   
   
 Q.   Does this put you under more pressure for Eastbourne?   How does it affect your Wimbledon preparations?  
HEATHER WATSON:   No, definitely not.   I look forward to playing Eastbourne.   I love playing there.   I usually play pretty well there, so looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Were you still feeling the elbow today?   You said it was not a massive contributing factor, but was it still sore when you were playing?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I'm still just managing it and looking after it.   But, yeah, just got to make sure it's all right for Wimbledon in the end.  
   
 Q.   You said you didn't feel relaxed out there.   Any reason for that?   Have you tried to analyze why that was?   
HEATHER WATSON:   I haven't yet because I've literally just come off the court and got some food.   I'll definitely sit down with my coach and go through the match and try and figure out why I was so stressed and just make sure it doesn't happen again.  
   
 Q.   Do you notice when you're out there you kind of get a feeling very early on that that's the case and things aren't quite clicking?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Usually I'll always go out with some nerves and butterflies, and within a game or two they're gone and I'm in the match and I feel good.  
But today I just felt it throughout the whole match.   From beginning until end I would probably say.   It got worse as the match went on.   
   
 Q.   You're confident the elbow will be fully fixed, healed by the time Wimbledon comes around?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   Like I said, I'm just looking after it, making sure I feel good, managing it, and I'm definitely going to Eastbourne and definitely going to Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   You sometimes learn more from losing than winning.   I know you've just come off and you said too many unforced errors, but was there anything else you could put your finger on?   
HEATHER WATSON:   I definitely think from this match I've got a lot to learn.   But apart from that, I mean, Aleksandra played really well.   She especially played well on important points and made me play that extra ball.   I would end up hitting on error or she would hit a great defensive ball.  
She played well when she needed to, but I definitely gave away a lot of freebies.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you were hoping for a run here.   How do you plan your week now?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I've still got doubles tomorrow with Simona.   I look forward to playing with her.   We've never played together before.  
And also just the fact that I'll be out there again in another match situation, and hopefully I can improve some of the things I didn't do to well today tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT