ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. STEPHENS/H. Watson  6-2, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Hard luck, Heather.  Would've appeared that the right arm was something of a problem.  Can you just tell us what the issue was?  HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I mean, I've had this with my arm for a week and a bit now, but it wasn't the reason I lost today.  I felt fine.  I had it all taped up and I took some painkillers before the match. But it was just me really.  I was just pretty sluggish and slow out there.  Finally after like a set and a bit I finally got into it, but at that point it was kind of a little bit too late. Yeah, would've been a tough battle to get all the way back.   Q.  What is the problem?  Is it a muscular injury at the top or elbow?  HEATHER WATSON: I think just have a bit of rest now and should be all fine.  Just need to take care of myself. When you play week in and week out with your right arm over and over again, it's going to take some beating.   Q.  You did seem like you began to get going sort of three or four games into the second set.  Can you put any explanation on the slow start?  HEATHER WATSON: Not really.  I did a good warmup before the match.  I was ready.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I just wasn't moving.  I tried making some balls, then I tried hitting winners, but I just wasn't getting the balance right at all.  I was missing too early or I was too defensive.   Q.  You had a really good record against her going in; you've still got a good record against her.  Did you feel she played better or differently today or was it more you?  HEATHER WATSON: I think it was more me today.  I think I was giving away a lot of free points.  Made a lot of unforced errors. Obviously she played well and did what she needed to do.  I felt her balls were -- she had some really heavy balls which pushed me back in the beginning and kind of made me think. But I think I was just very inconsistent today.   Q.  We talked before the tournament about that balance between you trying to become a more aggressive player and a being a consistent player.  Do you feel this is a bit of a transition phase to some extent because your results have been very good in some patches this year, and then wobbly other patches.  HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I guess so.  Now that I'm starting to play more aggressive I'm actually starting to have more up and down results, which maybe is a good thing.  I don't know. But, yeah, I'm disappointed I lost today.  I thought it was a good opportunity for me, but I wasn't able to take it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT