DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2015
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. KOZLOVA/H. Watson
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   We are concerned about you.   Can you explain what your problem is?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   Well, when I got here I was feeling like I was getting sick, and I tried to take some Vitamin C to stop it.   Then yesterday I had a fever, temperature, so I was just in my room the whole day to try and rest up and get ready for today.
I woke up today actually feeling a little bit better.   Still not great, but I felt like I could go out there and have a good chance.
I had my game plan to play aggressive tennis, keep points short, knew what I wanted to do.   In the beginning of the second set I started to get this pain in both of my feet.   I thought it was just like maybe some cramp or something, just very slight, and as that set went on it just started getting worse and worse to the point where like it was agony to just touch. 
Still don't really know what it was.   Maybe, you know, yesterday I took loads of anti‑inflammatories, painkillers, stuff to get better for today for whatever I've got, virus, I don't know. 
So I don't know.   Maybe that's something to do with how I felt and it trying to tell me to stop or my body just, that was like a defense mechanism.
I don't know.   It's feeling definitely better now than it was towards the end of the match, but, yeah, just definitely not my day physically.

Q.   What have the medical staff told you about that discomfort?   They said it could be a result of... 
HEATHER WATSON:   I have a few different opinions, so I don't really know.   The fact that it's getting better now is a positive, and maybe it was cramp‑like but it was different.   It was a different sort of sensation, kind of ‑‑it went from like feeling like a bit of cramp to being a sharp pain.   But, yeah, definitely not my day physically.

Q.   Silly question probably, but you're not using orthotics in your shoes or anything?
HEATHER WATSON:   No.   I am using new shoes.   I don't use orthotics.   I never have.   I have never had any problems with my feet, so, you know, if it ain't broke, don't try and fix it.
But I don't know, you know.   I have been wearing those shoes for two weeks now and had no problems.   I'm not sure.   Maybe it could be.   Maybe not.   Maybe I do need orthotics now.

Q.   Are you given any sort of medical guidelines on how many anti‑inflammatories, so forth, you should take?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   We get told to take, I think it's just like one pack three times a day with your meal.   That's what I did.   I just took the regular stuff.

Q.   Is it a matter of rest for you now or are you going to start back playing again?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I find the Fed Cup week quite tiring, so coming into here I guess my immune system was low, and I must have caught something.
Like I said, I did feel better than yesterday.   Yesterday I was just horrific.   I had a towel next to me in my room because I was like sweating so much and then I was cold.   Yeah, I felt horrible. 
Today I definitely felt better.   I felt I still had a chance today to win.   She played very well.   At the end she got a bit nervous and I thought, you know, this is my chance to come back, but my feet just didn't let me.

Q.   We always ask you this, but could it be connected to the glandular fever?
HEATHER WATSON:   No, I think it's literally a cold or a fever or whatever it was, and that was a very different feeling.   I didn't have all of...(pointing to nose and sinuses). 

Q.   What have been your global movements since Fed Cup?   Where did you go?
HEATHER WATSON:   Since Fed Cup, came back to London, then came to here.   I guess it's just weather change and travel and a lot of matches in Fed Cup.

Q.   Tennis‑wise, do you feel any concern?   Because you have had such a fantastic junior career.   Do you feel you've lived up to the potential that you were supposed to?
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I feel like I have just gradually, my career has just been going up.   I mean, I have had a few ups and downs, few bumps in the road.   Still going up.   Last week I was at my career high, and I feel like there is so much more I can improve on and so many things I can do better.   I think that's just really positive for the future.

Q.   Can you say what these things are, what you can do better?
HEATHER WATSON:   Oh, well, there's bits in every single part of my game.   You know, something I have been working on a lot is my footwork in cutting the angles, playing more positively, moving forward.

Q.   You have had a bit of a rough time health‑wise with glandular fever, what happened in Australia, now obviously here.   Do you think that if you were to take time out or took time away from the game to get yourself fully healthy and then you came back, would that be something you would consider from here?
HEATHER WATSON:   I genuinely think I have just been really unlucky in this little spell and it's just all come at the wrong times.   Touch wood, I have never had any massive injuries apart from the glands.   I have just been pretty unlucky.   I have had a few niggles here and there, but, yeah, just bad timing.

Q.   Laura has had to pull out for her projected comeback. 
HEATHER WATSON:   When was her projected comeback? 

Q.   Next week.   Have you had much dialogue with her?   You have been struggling with health things.   She's been struggling with injury things.   It's been unfortunate.
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, we don't talk about that together, but when I was training in the offseason in Florida she was there so I saw her a bit. 
But, yeah, I mean, it's not a fun thing to talk about, so we don't usually talk about that.   We went to the movies and stuff like that, but, you know, none of that stuff.
But she must be having a really tough time being away from the game.

Q.   She's quite a bouncy character. 
HEATHER WATSON:   She is.

Q.   You know her as well as anybody.   Is she still up? 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I'm sure she's frustrated with not being back already and not being back when she wanted to be back.   But with injuries like that and being out for so long, you've got to play it smart and not rush, even though you probably want to.

Q.   Did you hit together in Florida or work out together?
HEATHER WATSON:   No, she was ‑‑I mean, she wasn't hitting very much. 

Q.   We were told she was hitting. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I don't... 

Q.   When was this?   I've got you now (smiling). 
HEATHER WATSON:   No, we had different training schedules.

Q.   So what do you girls talk about?
HEATHER WATSON:   Boys (laughter). TV shows and all that rubbish. 

Q.   What movies did you see?
HEATHER WATSON:   We watched the ‑‑it's not called A Cinderella Story but something like that with the comedian Chris‑something.   Do you know which one I'm talking about? 

Q.   It must have made a big impression on you. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, I didn't think it was that great.   (Laughter.)

Q.             Did you get a chance to hit with Martina since she's here?
HEATHER WATSON:   I haven't hit with Martina, no.

Q.   Did you get a chance to talk to her in the locker room?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, she was in the lift the other day.   We were talking about not having to use the key cards for the floor that we are on, so that was good.

Q.   Anything about tennis?
HEATHER WATSON:   No.

Q.   Are you in the doubles here?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, with Erakovic. 

Q.   And do you know when you're playing?
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, it will be tomorrow.   I'm going to do what I did yesterday now and just hibernate in my room, take medication to get better, and from the way my feet are feeling now, I think tomorrow they should be okay.   I think it must have been just like a body defense thing, and they just went into cramp.

Q.   It wasn't anything to do with the heat?   It was really hot out there. 
HEATHER WATSON:   No, I wasn't bothered by the heat today, actually, surprisingly with how I have been feeling.   I was okay.   I have the ice towel to just stay cool, but it wasn't bothering me.

Q.   So burning or cramping?
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, it felt like it was cramping at first, but it didn't go away and it just got worse and worse.   Then when I called the trainer, her touching my feet lightly was agonizing.   It was really sore.

Q.   Talking about boys, do you like the same kind of boys?   Are you going to fight over them?
HEATHER WATSON:   No, we have different taste in boys, which is a good thing.

Q.   Who is your taste of a young star?
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I don't have a certain type.   I like all types (smiling).

Q.   And Laura?
HEATHER WATSON:   Laura, I think everybody knows her crush is Cam Newton.   He's an American football player. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT