WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2014
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us your big hopes for Wimbledon this year and what you make of your draw.   
HEATHER WATSON:   I'm really looking forward to playing.   I feel positive and confident and just really enjoying my tennis at the moment and playing.   
I play Ajla Tomljanovic first round, which is a tough first‑round match.   But also I'm looking forward to it.   I haven't played her on the pro circuit yet.   I have in juniors a few times.   
But, yeah, looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   She had good results in Paris.   Did you see any of that match?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I didn't see any of it actually.   But, yeah, that's a good result from her.   
But it's a new tournament, completely different surface, and I had a good result last week, too (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Are you aware of more attention or pressure on you as the main focus of British women's tennis?  
HEATHER WATSON:   No, not really.   I'm just focusing on preparing as best as I can on practicing hard ahead of the tournament, just getting as ready as I possibly can.   
I'm not really thinking about anything else.   
   
 Q.   Are you aware of more attention on you this year?  
HEATHER WATSON:   No, because I'm focused on all those things and just getting as ready as I can for my match.   
I'm not really thinking of anything else.   I'm just trying to eat right, sleep right, practice, look after my body, and make sure I'm 100% for Tuesday.   
   
 Q.   What is a good result for you in this tournament?   Second round?   Third round?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I'm just looking at getting past my first match.   It's very tough.   Just go from there.   
If I just keep doing the right things, I'm sure the results will come.  
   
 Q.   Are your routines any different the night before a Grand Slam?   Anything you do differently?   Any superstitions?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I keep the same routine between every tournament.   I make sure I'm in bed.   I make sure I have 10 and a half, 11 hours before my alarm goes off from when my head hits the pillow.   
The dish I always have for dinner is pasta the night before, because I always feel like that gives me the most energy for the next day.   
I always make a list of things to do the next day so I don't have to stress about it.   I have it right there, and I'm not thinking about it before I go to sleep.  
   
 Q.   Have you given up on the smoked salmon?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I just had smoked salmon for lunch, and I'm sure I'm going to have it for breakfast tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How inspiring was Andy's win last year for you?   And where were you when he won it?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I don't know where I was.   I don't remember.   
But it was a huge win for Andy and I think the country.   Everybody just got behind him.   He did brilliant to come through after, you know, being in quite a few slam finals.   
I mean, he'd won the U.S. before he'd won Wimbledon, but it just all seemed to be coming together.   
I remember watching it.   I remember watching the year before, the speech with him upset.   Then seeing last year was brilliant.   
   
 Q.   Was it a boost for British tennis to have a home Grand Slam winner?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I think it's great and it's inspiring.   Lots of young players, but also myself, I was inspired by it.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How much of your performance this year will be dedicated to Elena Baltacha?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, it's tough losing Bally.   But I think everybody's still got her in their thoughts.   We did the Rally for Bally, which I think worked out really well.   
You know, every time I play, I mean, there's always memories of her every tournament.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that her spirit will be with you and looking down on you, wishing you the best?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   I'm sure she is, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You're closing in on the top 50 again now.   Is that a target to get there this tournament, or are you looking longer term, top 50, top 30?   What's the goal for you at the moment?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Actually, my last goal was top 70 by end of May.   I was 69 by June 2nd, so I was happy with that.   
And now I'm just trying to reach my next goals.   You know, I won't put all of my ranking on this one tournament, no, but obviously I'd like to do well.   
But, like I said, I'm just going to focus on my first match.   When I focus on playing well and doing the right things in my matches, the ranking and all that will come.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence do you have this year compared to last year, particularly after a week like Eastbourne where you fought back?   What is your state of mind at the moment?  
HEATHER WATSON:   My state of mind is very different to last year.   Last year I was kind of‑‑ I don't know, I wasn't confident.   I'd come back from being away for a long time.   You lose the feel of playing matches, of winning.   It's tough.   
I kind of was kind of dreading going out on court, like, Oh, God, how am I going to do?   
But this year I'm confident.   I know what I'm doing.   I've got it in my mind.   I visualize it.   All positive thoughts.   
   
 Q.   Do you visualize winning when you go to bed at night?  
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   If I accidentally visualize losing, I say, Have a stop it.   Visualize winning.   
   
 Q.   So you actually go to bed on Sunday night and dream about winning your first match?  
HEATHER WATSON:   I'm not sure I'll dream about it, but I'll have a positive thought before I go to sleep.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT