AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What is your frame of mind at the moment?
HEATHER WATSON:   I'm feeling very positive, very happy, enjoying my tennis, and playing well.

Q.   It's been a difficult period for you.   How did you cope with that?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, that was last year.   I feel like this year has been pretty good, and, yeah, last year feels like so long ago now and I'm not really even thinking back to it.

Q.   Have you got the same momentum going, you think?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yes, definitely.   I have been working really hard all throughout this year, actually, nonstop and feeling very good.

Q.   How do you feel on grass after you got back from Paris?
HEATHER WATSON:   The first week practicing on it I was kind of, you know, not used to it, not playing that well.   My timing wasn't great.
By Birmingham, better, starting to feel it again.   But now this week I'm feeling very good.   I'm seeing the ball very early and quick and making good contact.

Q.   What kinds of adjustments do you have to make in switching from clay to grass?
HEATHER WATSON:   I think just the level of the ball is different and also the speed, and your footwork is very different especially from clay to grass.
I was watching Dimitrov against Lopez yesterday, and Dimitrov is sliding everywhere (smiling).   I thought, well, it works for him. 
But, yeah, just getting used to how quick it is, where the ball is.   Instead of hitting it up here, you're down here, and just the movement is very different.

Q.   Do you find that certain parts of your body hurt from the change?
HEATHER WATSON:   Absolutely.   Last week I was so, so sore after my match.   I always get sore on my left hip and butt area.   Yeah. 

Q.   How did you enjoy the Rally 4 Bally?
HEATHER WATSON:   It was so much fun yesterday.   I hope we raised a lot of money for Bally, and I thought Vika was awesome.   She was so, so funny. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT