AEGON CLASSIC
June 10, 2014
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. WOZNIAK/H. Watson
  2‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4
MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q.   Commiserations.   How did that get away from you when you seemed to be on top? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   About the middle of the second set I stopped serving as well, so I was serving second serves and starting on the defense.
  So then I got pushed back and wasn't playing as aggressive as I wanted to.   She definitely improved her game.   At the beginning she was making a lot of unforced errors, and then third set she played unbelievable.   She was hitting lines and net cords.   There wasn't much I could do. 
  But I just tried my best to hang in there.   Wasn't able to finish it, but, again, I don't feel I did too much wrong.   She just played very well on the important points.
Q.   Has to be heartbreaking when you've held match points though. 
  HEATHER WATSON:   It happens.   I've beat people when they've been up and vice versa.   It's just a part of tennis.   That's the way it goes.
  There is no clock on it, so, yeah. 
Q.   You had some words of support I guess for Andy hiring a female coach, and the girl you played today has a female coach also, Tauziat.   Could you elaborate on that?   Why do you think that can be a totally awesome choice for a player?
  HEATHER WATSON:   I think I don't really care if your male or female.   I don't see the big deal.   Everybody is a making a big deal out of being female. 
Q.   Do you think the standard here is improving? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   Well, the standard this year is definitely a lot higher.   It's a bigger tournament, and a lot harder because a lot of the bigger players want to play.   It's worth more points and money, so definitely going to be harder. 
Q.   Your plans now?   Stay here and play doubles and then Eastbourne? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, definitely doubles and then straight on to Eastbourne.
Q.   Is this a big setback in your Wimbledon preparations? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   No, it's just a match.   You know, I'm still alive.   I'll play another one next week.   I'll play another one even maybe tomorrow.   No big deal.
Q.   Any positives you can take out of today's match, particularly that first set?
  HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   For my first match on the grass, I thought it wasn't too bad.   I did get a lot of time out there.
Q.   (No microphone.)
  HEATHER WATSON:   I think definitely the serve helps, especially with me, because it already sets you up for the point.   But if something is not working, you've got to find a way around it. 
Q.   How do you feel about being British No. 1? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   I'm more focused on the bigger picture:   the WTA rankings.   That's my main goal. 
Q.   What's it like just in general playing on a surface you probably didn't grow up on?   Even being British it's still a bit of a rare thing.   How do you adjust? 
  HEATHER WATSON:   It's hard to adjust, but it's the same for everybody.   Everybody has to go through the same thing coming from clay to grass, and nobody really plays on grass regularly. 
Q.   Do you have any words of advice for Johanna Konta?   She plays Aleksandra in the next round. 
  HEATHER WATSON:   I'm sure she'll play well, like she did today, and it'll be a good match. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT