BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 7, 2014
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/H. Watson
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You were much closer to her than you have been before.   You looked very frustrated by the end. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, I was definitely a lot more frustrated today, but I knew it was going to be a tough match, as it always is.   But I think today was a lot different compared to the other times I played her.
I felt I was right in there, I had my chances, and I didn't feel I played that well today.   It was actually quite windy in there on the center court.   The wind was blowing one way.   I struggled with my serve a bit.
But even though you have to play with what you have on the day, I felt I still could have come through and won that first set if I would have played certain points better and not given away a lot of free points. 
But I'm a lot more positive about this time that I played her than the last few times.

Q.   When you take on that level, that standard, what do you learn from where your level is at the moment compared to, say, six months ago?   What do you take from this to move on?
HEATHER WATSON:   Well, I felt she just played better in the right times today, but I felt we ‑‑we have got quite similar games, but I was right there with her.   I just gave a lot of free points away today.
But it happens, and you've got to work with what you've got.

Q.   It's been a great start of the season for you.   You look confident. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, good start to the season.   I'm enjoying 2014, that's for sure.   A lot more than 2013. 
For me now going on, all I can do is go up in the rankings, make points, do well.   And I feel like with my tennis I'm just, since the beginning of the year, since the first match, I'm just improving as every match goes along, and I'm starting to play better and better each tournament.
I'll go back to Florida tomorrow and get some good training in before Miami.   I'm really looking forward to playing there.   I have done well there in the past.   I love the courts and I'm very motivated.

Q.   Obviously nice to be given a wildcard. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, very nice (smiling). 

Q.   Playing on your home patch, as well, isn't it?
HEATHER WATSON:   Kind of.   You have to drive about three‑and‑a‑half hours.

Q.   That's nothing in America. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah (smiling). 

Q.   Did you have anything to do with Laura linking up with Mauricio? 
HEATHER WATSON:   Did I have anything to do with it? 

Q.   Did you talk to her or... 
HEATHER WATSON:   No, no, no.   I had nothing to do with it.   She let me know actually ‑‑ like two days ago she just sent me a message to let me know.   I wished her all the best, and I think it will work out well.

Q.   So you think they make a good match?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   I don't know what they will be up to, but I'm sure it will work out well. 

Q.   Obviously terrible news this morning about Bally.   I'm sure that you'll want to say something about that. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, it's not very nice news to hear, and it must be so tough for her.   I just wish her all the best.   A good recovery.   We'll all be thinking of her.

Q.   She's someone that you have obviously known very well, played Fed Cup well, been around the tour. 
HEATHER WATSON:   I played doubles with her and won Fed Cup in Sweden.   Yeah, I have been around her a lot.   And especially being British and British tennis, all of us girls are very close.   We will be sending our thoughts and prayers out to her.

Q.   She's a real fighting spirit, which is going to help enormously, isn't it?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, she has. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT