AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2012
Laura Robson
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HUBER‑RAYMOND/Robson‑Watson
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You held your own against one of the best teams there has been in the last decade.   You must be pretty pleased with that. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yes.   (Smiling.)   We're pleased with how we played, but we came out today wanting to win the match.   We didn't go in thinking, oh, they're the No. 1 team in the world, and we're just going to try and get a few games. 
We went in trying to win it.   We ended up playing quite well.   We had a few very small chances but weren't able to get them today.
But it's great, because it shows us that we're right there with them.   I think we're a great doubles team and we work great together.

Q.   Pretty good support for you out there today?
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah.   Playing in England, we always get support, so it's great to have a few tournaments on the grass every year.   Yeah.   That's about it, really.   Had some good tournaments like this.

Q.   Wanting to do well against a team like that and wanting to play well is different than actually being able to do it.   Did you surprise yourselves in any way?
LAURA ROBSON:   Not at all.   You know, we played really well the other day against Safarova and Pavlyuchenkova.   In general, we play really well as a team, so we were confident going into it, the No. 1 team in the world, but we always thought if we played well and stayed aggressive and be brave at the net then we've definitely got a chance. 
Well, for me, I think we both think that, you know, if we put a little bit more work into the doubles, we're definitely right there with them, because they've been working on this for years and years.   We've only just started playing together, and we're already playing like that.   So there are so many things that can be worked on. 

Q.   As far as some strategy and strokes, how do you complement each other?   Why are you good together? 
HEATHER WATSON:   First of all, we get along so well as friends, and I think that's the key for a good doubles partnership.   Second of all, our games complement each other.   Like with Laura's big serve, I'll be ready at the net, and we're working on it vice versa, as well, me improving my serve and Laura being more active at the net.   We did that a lot today.   I thought it worked really well.
Yeah, just mainly we get along so well.   We know what we want to do.   We always say to each other on the court, I've got your back, you know, in case the other one misses the shot.   (Smiling.)   But it's good.

Q.   How much opportunity are you going to get to play together? 
LAURA ROBSON:   Well, we're definitely playing Wimbledon together, so hopefully we'll do really well there.
HEATHER WATSON:   It depends on our schedules.
LAURA ROBSON:   I need to get my doubles ranking up to be able to keep up with Heather. 

Q.   Looked like there was a bit of chat with the umpire after the match.   Could you overhear what Liezel was saying to the ump?
HEATHER WATSON:   I just think it was unnecessary.   She had won the match, and I don't really know what she was talking about, but... 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, for some reason I think she thought that we started serving the wrong way, and, I mean, the umpire didn't know what she was going on about, either, to be honest. 
But, yeah.   Who cares? 

Q.   We'll ask them. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Yeah, I'm quite interested to know what she was complaining about.
HEATHER WATSON:   The ref was getting pretty annoyed, too.   (Smiling.)

Q.   When did you last play each other in singles?
LAURA ROBSON:   We've only ever played each other once. 
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah.   Barnstaple?
LAURA ROBSON:   Barnstaple.

Q.   Were you playing doubles together then?
HEATHER WATSON:   Yeah, we played doubles there the same day. 
LAURA ROBSON:   Same day.

Q.   What was that like when you were actually playing against each other then?
HEATHER WATSON:   Just like we both take it as any other match, you know.   It doesn't matter who's on the other side of the net.   We play to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT