ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Heather Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/H. Watson
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you tell us about the turnaround in the second set after it was a pretty tough first set.
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I felt like in the match today it was very up and down for me.  Slow start.  Sort of found my way.  Same in that second set being 4-1 down, fighting back to 4-All.  I thought -- I was very happy with parts, but also very disappointed with other parts.
I had glimpses of playing well, but I just wasn't consistent throughout the match.  And when it was important at 4-All, I just made a few too many errors.
And just today, I didn't serve as well as I have been.
Q. You seemed to be pretty frustrated and, to be fair, so was Mertens.  She didn't have a particularly great day.  What was of it about her game that was frustrating you so much today?
HEATHER WATSON: I think I was more frustrated with myself that I was giving away so many free points.  And just on the serve, as well, mainly for me.
But, yeah, I think what she did very well is just made me play that extra ball very often.  And, I mean, it works when you are pretty inconsistent.
Q. What's your schedule for the grass and what kind of mindset are you going to be going into that?
HEATHER WATSON: Well, I'm definitely feeling a lot more positive than I was a couple of weeks ago.  I am happy with how I'm playing, how I'm feeling.
And I'm playing -- it depends how I do in doubles here, but I'm signed in to play Surbiton, and then Nottingham, Birmingham, Eastbourne, Wimbledon, which is fine for me, because it's easy playing at home.
But, yeah, I'm feeling positive and confident and I love playing on the grass.
Q. Have you learned anything about your game in your time here at Roland Garros?  You touched on the inconsistency.  I guess that's frustrating, but any positives to take from this year's tournament?
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I would say I was inconsistent just because I haven't had enough match play recently.  But I'm doing all the right things and I'm pleased with that, and I know that will come.
But, yeah, it's positive.  I'm playing well.  I'm happy.  I've won a few matches.
Q. A little bit about playing with Tatjana in the doubles.  How did that come about and how are you enjoying it?
HEATHER WATSON: Well, I played with her in Acapulco this year, and we won that tournament together.  We've played a few times before that as well.  And she's a good friend of mine.  We get on really well.
And, yeah, just really enjoy it with her.  And I think we do well because we have good fighting spirit, and we complement each other's games well.
Q. You were saying there were certain things that disappointed you about your game today.  Which specific things do you think you need to work on as it stands at the moment?
HEATHER WATSON: Just too many errors today, and I was very up and down.  Like, I would get on a hot streak and win a couple games, and then I would just make four unforced errors, and that needs to change.
And also just my serve today.  I had a low first-serve percentage and wasn't getting as many free points as I would have liked.
Q. Just on that subject, so you served really well in the first match with nine aces.  What happened today for the serve to go off?  Was it you lost your rhythm or balance or what was it exactly?
HEATHER WATSON: Yeah, I did.  And I would say the other day I served better than I normally serve.  So I wouldn't say that's how I normally serve.  I would say that was a very good day.
And today it's just different conditions.  Also, it's a different opponent.  It's different serving after playing, like, a ten-ball rally than just serving after somebody's just missed your return.  So it's just a different situation.
Q. In the buildup to Wimbledon, we know there's always a lot of focus on the British players.  I'm just wondering what your thoughts are on that?  Do you enjoy it?  Do you thrive on it?  Do you wish it would just go away, and does it affect you at all?  And do you think expectations sometimes are unrealistic in terms of perhaps how we look at our sportsman and women and what we hope they achieve at Wimbledon?
HEATHER WATSON: I would say I feel a bit more pressure, and it affects me in a positive way.  I think I enjoy it.  I enjoy the bit of attention and the support that I get at home.  I just really enjoy the whole aspect of it.
Q. And where should expectations be set, particularly for you?
HEATHER WATSON: I'm actually going to talk to my coach after this and set my goals for the grass court season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT