CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 11, 2015
Gigi Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Back again, another year at the Portland Classic. Any different feelings from where you're at at this point last year? 
GIGI STOLL: Definitely a lot calmer coming out here and practicing. Just really excited again to be out here and just to perform pretty well.

Q. Did your play last year making the cut, pretty solid finish out there, does that give you more confidence when you came here? Were you like, oh, I can actually do this? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, definitely making the cut was a big deal last year and really important to me. Just coming out here, I have higher expectations now that I've made the cut.

Q. What are your expectations for this year? 
GIGI STOLL: Just, honestly right now it's just to play better golf than I did last year; that is my big expectation.

Q. Course thoughts in general? I know this is not your home course, but you've played here a couple times before. What do you like about this course? 
GIGI STOLL: This course is really similar to my home course. It's a traditional course. I'm just really excited to play because it's in fantastic condition right now and the greens are rolling really smooth, the fairways are amazing. It's just going to be a good track this week.

Q. You had quite the support group come out for you last year, same amount expected this year, maybe more? Who all have you got coming? 
GIGI STOLL: A lot of friends and family, hopefully some more, some new faces. Hopefully, just a good amount of people to come support me.

Q. We were talking a little bit about it yesterday. Can you just go through that again? You said you were there at 6:30? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, I was there at 6:30 waiting. I warmed up a little bit, hit some putts, had breakfast and then just kind of waited around. But at 1 o'clock I knew that the field was full. I still waited just to see if anything happened until the last tee time, but nothing happened.

Q. What time did you guys leave the course? 
GIGI STOLL: I think we left about 2:45.

Q. Then you just hauled it over here? 
GIGI STOLL: Came over here and played nine holes, yep, long day.

Q. Nice. Just you and your dad? Who got to drive? 
GIGI STOLL: My dad drove. I didn't want to drive. My caddie who is going to be out here this week also waited all day yesterday.

Q. Is that Chris? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, he was out here.

Q. So he's going to work here also? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah.

Q. You had Bill Winter, right, last year? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah.

Q. He was pretty helpful? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, he was very helpful on the greens because this is his home course and he's a good player, so it was a good advantage to have him on the bag last year.

Q. Playing this last year, do you think that helps you this year now know what to expect since you've sort of gone through it already? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, this being my third LPGA event, I have a little bit of knowledge on how it plays and how the LPGA players compete.

Q. Also, I think I read that at one time when you were a little kid you were a standard bearer for this and now you're playing in it. That's kind of cool, right? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, yeah. It's a lot of fun to be back here and actually in the field instead of carrying the little board, but it's going to be a lot of fun.

Q. Also tomorrow you're paired with Stacy Lewis, No. 1 in the world. That's got to be pretty awesome too?
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, I'm really excited just to see her habits and how she plays up close. That will be a lot of fun.

Q. What sort of things can you learn by playing with somebody like that? 
GIGI STOLL: Just the little things like how she practices short game and putting and just little things.

Q. Did you play in the Pro‑Am last year? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, I did.

Q. Who did you play with? 
GIGI STOLL: I don't remember her name (laughing). I don't.

Q. Stacy Lewis is a brand name. 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, that will be interesting and really fun.

Q. How many more days until you leave for Tucson? 
GIGI STOLL: I leave Monday.

Q. No, seriously? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, so when I make the cut, I'll leave Monday.

Q. Are you all packed and stuff? 
GIGI STOLL: I'm getting there. I'm getting there. It's a process. My room is a little bigger than my half a dorm room, so I'm getting there.

Q. How much are you looking forward to that experience too coming up? 
GIGI STOLL: I'm really excited. It's going to be a whole different kind of golf, college golf. To have a team and practice with other really good players, the competition on my team will be really good as well as the Pac‑12 will be really strong.

Q. I know you've had to work at it a lot. Is it still fun though? It hasn't turned into a job yet, right? 
GIGI STOLL: No, it's not a job yet. It is a lot of work and the dedication that it takes. But when I am competing, it's a lot of fun.

Q. Do you have a sense of what the college life is going to be like? Your time allocation and how much time you get to spend training and practicing and get all your school work in? 
GIGI STOLL: I've talked to a lot of players. It's a big commitment, obviously, but I have a pretty good sense of what it's going to be like.

Q. What do you anticipate‑‑ how do you anticipate it going, because it is a pretty abrupt change? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, it's going to be very different, but I think it's something I'm ready for, and I'm really looking forward to the change.

Q. Is it kind of neat that‑‑ I'm not saying you guys will get in‑‑ but the NCAA Tournament is actually back here in Oregon this year? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, I saw that. I've played Eugene Country Club quite a bit, and that would be really fun to be able to compete there in an NCAA Tournament.

Q. Do you have a sense of how your game will transfer out into college golf? Will you still be a super long hitter or will you be a little bit longer than the field? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, I mean, the college players are going to be much better than what I've been playing against here in Oregon in high school. It puts things into perspective as well. A lot of players in college will be coming on the LPGA Tour. Even this week shows a lot that my game has a lot of places to improve, and college will definitely help me get there.

Q. Do you know when your first tournament is? 
GIGI STOLL: September 27th. Yep, in Florida.

Q. Oh, wow. 
GIGI STOLL: Yep.

Q. Have you picked a major? 
GIGI STOLL: I haven't. No, I'm going in undecided. Undecided.

Q. Do you have any more bucket list items before you leave on Monday? 
GIGI STOLL: I'm really just trying to see a lot of my friends before I leave. Just to have lunch and dinner and stuff with them before I go.

Q. Have you been able to work at all with the Arizona coach? 
GIGI STOLL: Not yet, not yet. I mean, we stay in touch, but I haven't been able to work with him yet.

Q. You got to play with one of your future roommates. 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, she's in the Women's AM. I just saw her. We had dinner the other night. So I'm really excited. She's staying a couple doors down in the dorms, so we'll be having a lot of fun.

Q. So that was a nice thing to get to do that? 
GIGI STOLL: Yeah, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT