PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 31, 2014
Gigi Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was 18 kind of everything you thought it would be and more?
GIGI STOLL:   Yeah, it was awesome just walking down the fairway, seeing all my friends and having the big applause, and it was just everything I could manage.

Q.   Did you have any idea Monday when you were teeing it up first‑time qualifier you'd be 1‑under sitting here on Sunday and made the cut?
GIGI STOLL:   I mean that was definitely a goal of mine.   I didn't know what it would take to reach that goal, but you know, just on Friday, hitting the pin on the last hole and making that birdie to make the cut on the dot was just absolutely everything I could have asked for.
Didn't even play my best on Friday, but just to be able to make the cut and play on Sunday in front of all my friends and family, it's amazing.

Q.   What did you learn from this week?
GIGI STOLL:   I learned that I'm pretty close to having what it takes, you know, just a lot of practice, that my goals that I've‑‑ my goals are doable, for sure.   And that's to be out here, you know, as a pro.   And it's very doable.

Q.   So what, you have senior year coming up?
GIGI STOLL:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   What do you take into senior year now?   Will you have so much more confidence going into amateur events?
GIGI STOLL:   Absolutely, yeah.   A lot of confidence, and just to know that I can compete with the best, I should be able to compete with all the amateurs here in Oregon.

Q.   I heard one of your friends say school on Wednesday?
GIGI STOLL:   Yeah.   Unfortunately.   I have to go get school supplies.

Q.   How do you go back to high school after coming out here and having fans cheering you on and everything?
GIGI STOLL:   Just go back to being a normal kid.   You know, just go be a senior.

Q.   What was it like hitting balls on the range next to Suzann and some of the bigger players out here?
GIGI STOLL:   It's incredible.   I mean just to be able to watch them play and play with really great players.   Just to be able to watch their games a little bit and see how they play, it's really fun to watch.

Q.   What was the difference in their game and yours this week?
GIGI STOLL:   Probably short game.

Q.   Short game?
GIGI STOLL:   Yeah, definitely, just being able to get up‑and‑down from 100 yards about every time, that's pretty much the key right there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT