FRYS.COM OPEN
October 22, 2009
Bob Heintz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Bob Heintz into the interview room here at the Frys.com Open after a 6-under par 64. Bob, just get you to comment on the day. Got started there with four birdies in the first five holes. Just a great day overall.  
 BOB HEINTZ: Yeah, it's funny, I was telling myself before I started that, you know, this golf course visually gives me some problems, specifically off the tee. So I just said, you know, Just be real patient today.   
 Then I go out and birdie four of the first five. I didn't know what to do, you know. I'm like, all right. What do we do now? We started off being patient.  
 So then I hooked it in the woods on 15 and had to chip it out of a bush. So that almost settled me down a little bit and reminded me of a couple of the swing keys I'm trying to work on, most specifically just really finishing into my left side aggressively.  
 JOHN BUSH: You opened up last week with a 63, and went on to finish in the top 20 in Las Vegas. You also enter this week with six straight-made cuts. Talk a little bit about your goals here for the end of the year.   
 BOB HEINTZ: Goals are pretty obvious, I guess. I'm trying not to really look at the Money List. I don't really look at it. If I was over $1 million I would look at it and smile every day. But, you know, when you're where I am, I don't think it really helps you to -- you know, I'm aware of numbers. I know I need a half million dollars before I even think about 125. Okay?   
 So do you start a week going, I'm gonna make a half million dollars, or do you just come out and try to do the things you've been doing to make a few cuts in a row. So I'm trying not to the focus on that, but I am aware of it.  
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. Questions.  
  
  Q. You were an economics major at Yale; is that right?   
 BOB HEINTZ: That's correct.  
  
  Q. So are you the best golfer ever to come out of Yale?  
 BOB HEINTZ: I cannot say that. Actually, I would disagree with you. There's a book out now by two historians from Yale. It talks about the entire history of Yale golf. In my opinion, Jeff Switzer (ph) is the best golfer to ever come out of Yale University. You can look that up if you want. But in the time of Jones, he was an absolute stud.   
 No, I'm not the best.  
  
  Q. What would you be doing if you didn't play golf for a living?  
 BOB HEINTZ: I try no to think about it too much. There's a -- I used to be a rap fan, and Will Smith used to have a song that says, No, Plan B; it distracts from Plan A.   
 I try not to go there. I've discussed it with some alums, one of whom is in the banking business. They told me to not even call them until I'm ready to quit, when I really know I'm ready to quit golf. Because nobody wants to invest in me if I'm gonna, say, after a year come back and try to play again.   
 I sure would like eventually be able to find a job where I can use the golf in a business setting. You know, some large corporation wants me to go out and entertain their clients every week, I could probably handle doing that for a living.  
  
  Q. Didn't you work as a financial analyst at one time?  
 BOB HEINTZ: Yes. That was Raymond James Financial, and Mr. James was trying to apply cost accounting to the processing of financial transactions. Like, you know -- if you want me to go deeper, I can. It was not my invention, but I was a cog in that wheel.   
 We counted money down to the penny, basically. So I was not analyzing companies and making stock predictions. It was more of a kind of a back-office money -- bean counter.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BOB HEINTZ: (Laughter.) If I let my brain go numbers, I'll go crazy. I'm a big puzzle guy. It's Thursday, too. I really like talking to you guys, but we don't want to get too fired up on Thursday.   
  
  Q. Some of the guys are coming in and saying the conditions are almost like playing indoors.  
 BOB HEINTZ: Yeah, there was occasional gusts. But for the most part, a solidly struck ball, there wasn't enough wind to really make a significant impact. It didn't dry the greens out to a great degree, so you were generally able to hold the greens. Although the ball did start to release towards the end of the round.   
 Probably the hardest wind I had all day enabled me to hit a 7-iron about 180 yards on No. 8. That's not -- normally I'm mid-60s there, so we did get a couple of gusts here and there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT