TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 29, 2013
Lache Seastrunk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How bad was it at points with the injury?   How bad was the groin when it first got injured?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   They said I pulled my groin from my bone at the top.   You know how severe that is?   It can actually set you back a long, long time.   I partially tore it, so it didn't take that long. 

Q.   A lot of the injuries is a reason why you kind of changed late in the season.   How much more explosive are we going to see this offense with everybody back healthy?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   It's going to be like a track meet.   The only thing I can say is that we're not counting nobody out.   UCF is a great team.   They have an outstanding defense. 
We're going to be prepared to play.   It's going to be a dogfight.

Q.   Baylor is a team that everybody talks about running the ball. 
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   It starts with the running game.   Bryce Petty is a great quarterback.   They do throw it over the top.   But we're just here to win games. 

Q.   Glasco was saying Spencer probably isn't going to play.   Does that change anything?   Or you're used to that now?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   Spencer has not been practicing.   But we miss Spencer, love Spencer.   He's going to be a great player when he comes back. 

Q.   This culmination, growing up around this program, seeing what Baylor used to be, now you're in a BCS game, can you put into words the transformation this program made?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   I think it speaks for itself.   It's not for me to say.   We went from no bowl games to the Alamo Bowl to the Holiday Bowl, now to the BCS bowl. 

Q.   What's next?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   National championship (smiling). 

Q.   How big a difference is having Tevin back?   What will that do for the offense?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   They got to worry about him instead of me and Bryce.   That's great.   Thank you for coming back, I love you for that (laughter). 
I'm happy to see him.   He's moving around, running around like he's the old TB. 

Q.   Do you think that will help you get back to the way you were playing offensively a month ago or so?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   When you're missing a lot of people, it takes a toll.   You're used to guys out there making threats.   You can see a dramatic change. 
He opens everybody up because he stretches the field vertically.   They forget about the guys in the back like me. 

Q.   You were confident in Bryce at the start of the season.   Was he maybe even better than you thought he would be? 
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   We never thought that Bryce wasn't going to hold up to what he's capable of.   Bryce is a really great quarterback.   We never counted him out.   I'm kind of surprised at the question. 

Q.   What does he do maybe even to help you out?   What kind of things does he do to open up things for you?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   Well, we both got to do the exact same calls.   He's making calls. 
He makes sure I'm lined up in the right spot.   I'll be in mid game, I'll forget where I'm supposed to be lined up at (smiling). 

Q.   That's when he's tugging on you?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   He's a point man (laughter). 

Q.   What is it like to be in a bowl like this?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   Bowl game is a bowl game.   We're not worried about the significance of the bowl game.   People are talking about, This is a big bowl.   A bowl game is a bowl game.   Whether it's the national championship or the Cici's Pizza Bowl, I don't know what it is. 
We're just going to keep playing because we're not going to let it distract us from our goal.

Q.   How important is it to win this game?
LACHE SEASTRUNK:   It's really important.   We'll be 12‑1.   That's the best in Baylor history.   We're trying to live by the tradition, especially for us and the seniors. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT