NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Nick Suriano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
133 Pounds   
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little bit about your match and the excitement that goes into being in a national championship match.   
NICK SURIANO: It feels great.  I just came back from a guy who beat me earlier in the season, top guy, world-class guy, and it feels good.  Kind of lost for words.  A lot of adversity, a lot of negativity I overcame.   
 Q.  Nick, you called out, I'm not sure intentionally, but you called out Micic a couple times this year, whether it was in Vegas or the Big Tens.  Did you do that to try to get in his head?  
NICK SURIANO: No, I said what I think, honestly, and I think he was trying to play it safe.  I've been there before.  Last year I was hospitalized, I couldn't move.  Nine days I was straightened out.   
So I don't know his situation.  He's a hell of a competitor.  It was a great match.  I thought I could have done some things better, and I'm happy, man.  I feel great.   
 Q.  What has changed from when you went (indiscernible)?  
NICK SURIANO: My mentality, my drive, remembering my story, remembering where I came from.  You know, I kind of went out there like I had to hold on to something, but this time I came out like I got something to prove for me, my family, Rutgers, my support team.  I just did what I needed to do.   
 Q.  Nick, it seemed like a lot of guys kind of try to take emotion out of it and be as calm and collected as possible.  It seems like you thrive on your emotions and you're very emotionally in tune with yourself.  Can you talk a little bit about that?  
NICK SURIANO: Yeah, I'd say I'm just -- I'm driven.  I'm aware.  And I'm up for any challenge at any time.  I've never ducked a fight ever.  I've been saying that.  And it's been my day.  It's been my week.  The last couple weeks I've been doing what I do best.  It's a lot of hard work.   
 Q.  If you had a low point this year, it started when you wrestled Fix.  Can you talk about what that match did for you and what you did for those two weeks to get over that?  
NICK SURIANO: Since that match, I wasn't where I needed to be.  I let things get in my head a little bit psychologically.  I started worrying about the wrong things.   
I fixed my wrestling.  I fixed my mindset.  I didn't forgot where I come from.  I stuck by my family.  I listened to my pops, my dad, my No. 1 coach, and I got Rutgers, all state, positive people behind me, and there's nothing better than inspiring the youth, and for me, it's just about overcoming adversity, overcoming adversity and never quitting.   
 Q.  You've talked a lot about adversity and mindset.  What does it take to be able to make that shift and go from the negativity to the positivity and have the kind of performance you did tonight?  
NICK SURIANO: Yeah, you know, we all have negative moments in our lives where we find negative things instead of focusing on the positive, instead of focusing on working harder, getting better, getting stronger, we focus on dwelling, and I was worried about the past.  It happens.  If you want to be great, you want to be good, you've got to think big.   
You've got to look ahead, and that's what I did, and I'm hungry and I'm blessed.  I'm happy to be back, and hopefully my teammate, Anthony Ashnault, does his thing, we make history again, two finalists from New Jersey, two champs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT