NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2018
Nick Suriano
Spencer Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
125 POUNDS   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Nick Suriano from Rutgers.   
 Q.  Nick, you knew that Darian did not like to score much.  What did you think was the key?  I guess you got the escape.  And you realized he was not going to be able to score on you or what?  
NICK SURIANO: I've wrestled him before last season.  Got him on a good take down after an escape.  He's real swift and he is hard to grab.  And he knows how to wrestle on the outside, play the line a little bit.   
 Q.  What did you think of his decision to take neutral in the third?  
NICK SURIANO: I wasn't threatened by it because I knew I could wrestle at any position if it comes to that.  I figure at what period it is I got a real good shot on the line.  He was running to the line and I couldn't keep him in.  So I knew I could score if I get on legs.  I didn't score there.  But I didn't feel threatened one bit.   
 Q.  A lot goes on this offseason.  Obviously you go from Penn State to Rutgers.  And a year ago not being able to really compete in the NCAA Tournament, and now to the NCAA Finals.  Talk about that a little.  
NICK SURIANO: Crazy, it's been a crazy ride.  I've dreamed of this.  I remember watching all these guys on TV.  Some of these guys.  Now I'm here.  I set my mind to do it.  I got one more match.  Highly anticipated.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm blessed to represent Rutgers.  I'm happy it worked out for me, and now I'm here.   
 Q.  Have you thought about what this means to Rutgers wrestling to be the first finalist?  
NICK SURIANO: It's awesome.  I'm glad I'm the one to lead the way.  I think there's going to be more to come.  Hopefully Jersey's pumped.  We're wrestling a competitor, world champ, all the accolades.  I've faced him before.   
It's another match.  I really believe I'm the best and we're going to scrap tomorrow.  And hopefully Rutgers is fired up.   
 Q.  What is your history with Spencer Lee?  
NICK SURIANO: Beat him my freshman year of high school.  He beat me the next year.  We trained a little bit in the summer at a camp.  He was in my weight in Midlands.  I know about him.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Nick.  We're joined by Spencer Lee from Iowa.   
 Q.  Spencer, can you kind of walk us through that scramble in the third period?  You got in on a shot and then what happened?  
SPENCER LEE: I hit like almost like a low shot.  Got in between his legs.  I kind of stood up and I threw his leg off to cut the corner, and he held on hard.  I was fighting like any competitor would do.  And I just, like, pulled his legs up and ran him over.   
And I got the danger zone points.  And he like wasn't -- he wasn't letting go.  And I just sat on it hard and ended up getting the fall.   
 Q.  After the quarterfinals, you talked about the improvement of wrestling (indiscernible) in all positions.  Between the flurry in the first period and that fall to end it, how much is that a product of wrestling through those positions that you were talking about?  
SPENCER LEE: I think it has everything to do with it, just believing in yourself and your training and focusing on wrestling every position as hard as you can because if you don't against an opponent as good as that one, he'll capitalize on you.  And I knew I had to step it up for today.   
 Q.  Before you got the pin, though, looked like you were in trouble, that you were falling back.  But for some reason you were able to change the momentum and actually pushed him back against the edge and circle around.  Where did that come from?  
SPENCER LEE: The coaches was telling you, Spencer, you've got to wrestle, you have to wrestle.  This is your match.  You know, you trained for this.  And instead of backing out, almost taking the easy way out, the coaches were telling me, you've got to make it hard not only on yourself but your opponent but mostly yourself, because at the end of the day you're really training for yourself.  You're looking in that mirror, make sure you tell yourself, I did everything I did to be the best I can be.   
 Q.  You've been on a lot of big stages before in your life.  How does this compare to that feeling of wrestling Nato in the semis?  
SPENCER LEE: He's an amazing opponent, nothing but respect for each other.  To be able to wrestle him on that big of a stage is almost an honor for me.  But to do that with that many fans screaming and yelling, whether it's against you or for you, it still excites you and it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  You haven't taken Nathan down in either of your first two matchups.  What were you able to change in your approach, was it mental?  
SPENCER LEE: I give him a lot of respect because, like I said earlier, he's a great opponent.  I think I almost gave him too much respect and I was almost giving myself -- not the opportunity to score.  And I think the difference in this match was believing in my offense and knowing this is a stage where you can't really hold back and save anything that you have.  You've got to use everything you've got.   
 Q.  Do you feel getting to the Finals right now is just kind of one more step in confirming that pulling the redshirt was the right move?  
SPENCER LEE: Yeah, I mean, at this point I don't think it really is like a question.  It's more of what can I do to better myself and hope to represent my university the best I can?   
 Q.  Talk about being able to turn him on top there in the first and really open things up, and you go out and get a score.  Not only had he not been able to do that, but turn him on top and go up 4-0 so early.  
SPENCER LEE: I believe the coaches were telling me put him down hard once you get takedown and they believed in my opportunity, my ability to be able to turn him and I believe in everything the coaches told me and I went out there, executed what I believed was the right thing to do in that situation.   
 Q.  I see you didn't wrestle with the brace this entire weekend.  How much has that helped your cause?  
SPENCER LEE: I don't know if it helped that much.  Maybe it was mental, I'm not sure.  But I'm glad that my knee is healthy enough to not have to wrestle with the brace.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT