NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: QUICKEN LOANS 400
June 15, 2014
Alba Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KERRY THARP:   Joining us now is Alba Colon, and she's a Chevrolet program manager for the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series.   As we know, the Michigan International Speedway last summer instituted the Heritage Trophy that they present twice a year to the winning manufacturer in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series race here at Michigan International Speedway, and it's a big deal.   That's a beautiful trophy, and Chevrolet will hang on to that trophy at least until August.   But congratulations, Alba.   Jimmie wins for the first time here at Michigan, but Chevrolet certainly continues to assert itself as just a first‑class manufacturer.   Just talk about what it means to win here today at Michigan. 
ALBA COLON:   Thank you, Kerry, and thank you, everybody.   First of all, I don't think that we're planning to return the trophy for many years to come.   No, first of all, thank you very much for having me here today. 
This is a big deal.   It's a big deal for Chevrolet and especially it's a really big deal to win at your home track in our backyard, so we are very excited.   In the past, you know, this track hasn't been that great for our Chevy teams, you know, so to be here today and be able to win and dominate, and having Jimmie, who has tried many times to win at this track, and he had some unfortunate luck the last year, and to be able to be some dominant here and to have other six drivers for a total of seven drivers in the top 10 is really great. 
Trust me, there's a lot of work that goes on behind everything that we are doing here, not only us but the other manufacturers, and it's great to have friendly competition and to be able to bring this trophy home to our office, and looking forward to the next August race to see how things go. 

Q.   Some of the competitors from your competition were in here earlier and were basically saying that particularly Hendrick Motorsports and Chevrolet seem to be very much ahead of the game with the new rules package this year, and it'll be difficult catching up.   I know that trophy is important to you, but how do you see your chances going forward to get the other trophy at the end of the season? 
ALBA COLON:   Thanks for your question.   You know, the season is young.   This is race No.15 of 36, and we have seen for many seasons that you can be hot, cold at different times of the year.   We have been working very, very hard to be where we are today.   We're still working on stuff for the future, and of course to get ready for the Chase, what is important, you know, and we are taking it one race at a time. 
It's great we won today, but next week we have a brand new race that we need to get ready, and one race at a time until we can get both trophies, the manufacturer's and the driver's championship.   But do not discount anybody yet.   All the other teams are doing good, and I know that they are working hard, also, one race at a time, to be able to claim both prizes in Homestead. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT