NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 10, 2019
Bob Myers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Golden State - 106, Toronto - 105
BOB MYERS: Kevin, it's an Achilles injury.  I don't know the extent of it.  He'll have a MRI tomorrow.  Prior to coming back he went through four weeks with a medical team, and it was thorough and it was experts and multiple MRIs and multiple doctors, and we felt good about the process.
He was cleared to play tonight; that was a collaborative decision.  I don't believe there's anybody to blame, but I understand in this world and if you have to, you can blame me.  I run our basketball operations department.  And to tell you something about Kevin Durant, Kevin Durant loves to play basketball, and the people that questioned whether he wanted to get back to this team were wrong.
And I'm not here to -- he's one of the most misunderstood people.  He's a good teammate, he's a good person, it's not fair.  I'm lucky to know him.  I don't know -- I don't have all the information on what really the extent of what it all means until we get a MRI, but the people that worked with him and cleared him are good people, they're good people.
Q. With all due respect, what's your reason to say to point the finger at you?
BOB MYERS: Because I am the president of basketball.  If you have to.  I don't think there's anybody to blame, but I get it, that stuff happens.  I hope nobody does, I don't think it should land on anybody, but if you feel like you need to...
Q. Can you just talk about Kevin's emotions and how he's feeling right now?
BOB MYERS: Sports is, it's people, sports is people.  I know Kevin takes a lot of hits sometimes, but he just wants to play basketball and right now he can't.  Basketball has gotten him through his life.  So it means, I don't know that we can all understand how much it means to him.  He just wants to play basketball with his teammates and compete.
Q. Initially you guys diagnosed him with a calf injury, was that the pure, full-out extent?  Was it a calf injury now, what happened tonight equated to an Achilles injury?
BOB MYERS: The initial injury was a calf injury.  This is not a calf injury.  I'm not a doctor, I don't know how those are related or not, but it's a different injury.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT