GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 10, 2016
Stephen Curry
Greg Grulikowski
Bob Myers
Steve Nash
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to Oracle Arena, the home of the defending World Champion Golden State Warriors.  We are here for such a special occasion, I think we did this last year as well, the 2015-2016 Kia MVP Award presentation.  This is all part of the partnership between the NBA and KIA Motors America for nine years, and this is the crowning moment of the on-court performance awards for the MVP, topping them all.  And you'll notice a KIA Sorento given away by the MVP, that is all part of the courtesy of Kia and part of today's event.   
Now before we get rolling, want to welcome the Warrior owners, Joe Lacob and Peter Guber are here, the team President and chief operating officer, Rick Welts is alongside, and the Mayor of Oakland, Libby Schaaf is here.   
On the stage from the western region for KIA Motors America, Greg Grulikowski, he's the man with the hardware.  The Executive of the Year in 2015, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors, Bob Myers, and the 2015-2016 Coach of the Year, Steve Kerr.   
He led the league in scoring in free-throw percentage, in three pointers, setting a new league record at 402.  He's only the fourth player to average 30 points, 6 assists, 5 rebounds, 2 steals, he led the Warriors to the NBA record of 73-9, the highest win total ever.  He won the award a year ago and becomes only the 11th man in NBA history to win back-to-back MVPs.   
Last night his playing status was questionable.  Now there are no questions.  The first unanimous MVP in NBA history, the 2015-2016 Kia NBA Most Valuable Player, Stephen Curry.   
A year ago, Steve Kerr coined the phrase, Strength in Numbers, so the Curry family comes out in numbers.  So before we get rolling, say hello to Dell Curry and Sonya Curry seated in the front row.  Steph's wife Ayesha with Riley and Ryan, future TV stars.  His sister, Sydel and Seth Curry from the Sacramento Kings, Seth is also here.   
Now we have one empty seat on the stage, and if you've been around the Warriors we like to do something a little special.  I have a surprise for the MVP.  In the guards in NBA history back-to-back MVPs a lot of them go by one name, you think of Magic, you think of Michael, and you think of this man, from Santa Clara, the Bay Area's own, from the Phoenix Suns, back-to-back MVP Award winner and the player development consultant for the Golden State Warriors, Steve Nash is here.   
Now all of the guests have things to say about Stephen Curry, but it's these gentlemen on either side, the players and coaches of the Golden State Warriors, what do they have to say about what we watched No. 30 do on a regular basis?   
[Video Playing]   
So as we begin the program, this guy always starts with the same thing.  Bob Myers built this championship team, but on that defending run right now, these gentlemen on both sides, phenomenally talented players, Larry Riley left him one building piece to start with and that was Stephen Curry, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors, Bob Myers.   
BOB MYERS: All right.  Kind of stole my idea there.  But when I got hired five years ago, little over five years ago by Joe and Peter, I was fortunate enough to inherit two people.  I think one was Steph and one was Eric Housen, I think that's the only people left from when I retired.  And it's every GM's dream to inherit someone like Eric who shows up to work every day, and to have Steph as kind of a throw-in piece, it's a great gift to start a team from.   
I know, Steph, you don't get a lot of accolades and a lot of people don't know about you, but you've helped us a little bit -- not a lot, but a little bit -- get to where we are today.  So it's an honor of mine.  I actually called Larry Riley on the way over who did draft you, and I said, Are you sure he was the right guy at 7, because wasn't there anybody else there?   
For us, and all of the people that grew up watching the Warriors and are fans now, not only in the Bay Area but around the country and the world, it's a privilege.  I said it last night after the game, we should all appreciate this, appreciate this time, appreciate this moment because life is happening fast, and we should all be thankful for what you're giving us, what you're giving me, what you're giving our whole community.   
Lot of people look at success and figure what is success?  What is your definition of success?  Is it this?  Is it the banner that's behind us back there?  Is it money, fame?   
My definition of success is what's sitting here in front of you, and it's the people that know you the best that love you the most.  And I think you are the epitome of someone who is loved the most by the people that know you the best.  And I know you're loved by a lot of people that don't know you, but the ones that know you love you the most, and that's a true testament because there are a lot of people that are well known and have accomplished a lot of things, but their family doesn't love them or their friends don't love them, and you are the antithesis of that.  You are someone that it is very hard not to like you.  I find it impossible.   
I'm not trying to, but I keep waiting, but I don't see it.  I haven't seen it.  Maybe Ayesha can fill us in on some stuff that he does (laughing).  But really I think the journey of this franchise, this organization and the success that we've had is tremendous and it's something we'll all remember.  But what will last is the relationships that you've built, the people you've touched.   
I know I speak on behalf of the entire Warriors fan base, organization, ownership and management, everyone that steps in our offices every day.  They appreciate you.  You are revered and it's deserved.  It is absolutely deserved.  There is nothing fake about you.  You are as authentic as they come, and that is my favorite quality, my two favorite qualities, the authenticity and humility.  And man, you could stumble on both those and people wouldn't care, but you are the true epitome of both of those, so I thank you.   
I will look back on this time watching you earn your second MVP with great appreciation, because you make going to work every day for me a true joy.  A lot of days I don't talk to you, a lot of days we walk by each other, but knowing you're there and knowing you're working for us and working for this community is something that matters quite a bit.  It matters to me.   
So I'm thrilled.  This is something you've earned and something you deserve.  And on behalf of the entire organization, congratulations to you and your family.  Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: You get to be Coach of the Year by making phenomenal decisions and you think about Steve Kerr's playing and coaching arc.  72 wins as a player with the Bulls, coaches the team to 73-9 and then finds off the bench 44 points in a playoff game to win in a key playoff series.  So that's how you get to be Coach of the Year, and he is our Coach of the Year, Steve Kerr.   
STEVE KERR: Thank you, I woke up this morning wondering what I'm going to say today because I'm asked about Steph literally every day, and I think I've said everything I can say.  So really what I started thinking about is just how improbable this whole journey has been.   
And I thought back to the first time I saw you play live.  I was working with the Suns.  Q and I were working for the Suns too, and we went up to Anaheim and you were at Davidson.  I think you were a sophomore, so 2007 sound about right?  So we were in the midst of our Steve Nash era in Phoenix, and we were mesmerized by your play, but you were about 6'1" and 145, and there were questions at the time.  Were you good enough, were you going to make it?  And Q and I loved your game.  It was fun.   
We started talking how is he going to fit in the league, and all these questions.  After the game I ran into Dell and Sonya in the hallway.   
You guys may remember this.   
Dell and I had played against each other for many years, we didn't know each other well, but we said hi.  He introduced me to Sonya, and Sonya's first question is, "Do you think Steph can make it in the NBA?"  And I'll never forget that because nine years later being the unanimous MVP of the league, which has never been done before, how did that happen in nine years?  Your own mom didn't know you'd make it in the league.  Now you've got a banner behind us, two of these trophies, this is incredibly improbable.   
But there is a reason.  There's a reason it's happened.  A big part of the reason is right in front of you, the incredible family you have, the determination you have.  Winning the MVP last year wasn't enough.  You came back this year dramatically better.  That's amazing.  How does that happen?  It has to be something inside.   
And I think what makes you special, Steph, is obviously you've got a lot of God-given talent, but it's the determination, it's the love for the game.  There is no agenda.  It's just I want to get better.  There is no agenda, and every day you come in and you work.  What that means to our coaching staff is our jobs are incredibly easy because you set a tone for the whole organization, and we've got a team full of guys who work and want to get better every day.   
I think the other thing, the other reason this has happened is your incredible confidence.  I've seen very, very few players that possess the confidence that Steph has.  I don't know if you know this, he was 0 for 10 from the three-point line last night.  He made his 11th, and he shimmied down the sideline.   
I turned to Luke, I said, "Luke, is he shimmying?"  He's 1 for 11 from three.  So you better believe in yourself when you're shimmying at 1 for 11.  But the belief, the confidence, the determination, the work ethic, it's all accumulated over the course of time and here we are, unanimous MVP, back-to-back and a world champion, congrats, Steph.  You're amazing.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, so everybody taking notes here?  Bob doesn't talk to Steph every day, and Steve just outed his mom for not believing in him.  This is terrific so far.   
So, this is the good part.  Greg Grulikowski, when you work for Kia and you fly around, everyone wants to see you.  Steph was happy to see his family, his bosses, our owners, his teammates, but when the man is carrying the MVP trophy, that's the guy you want to see.  So let's have the official presentation.  Greg Grulikowski from Kia Motors, and the presentation of the Kia 2015-2016 MVP trophy.   
GREG GRULIKOWSKI: Thank you.  This is a very exciting time for the NBA, and also an exciting time for Kia as we continue to accelerate our growth in the United States and globally.  Over the last 20 years and since Kia has entered the U.S. market, Kia has experienced the largest sales increase of any automotive brand thanks in part to our tremendous partnership with the NBA.   
Kia has proudly served as the league's official automotive partner for nine seasons and is also the official vehicle of the Golden State Warriors, during that time we've transformed the brand into a recognized leader in design, quality, technology, and value.  Today, Kia is one of the auto industries most success stories, great success stories, delivering world class vehicles in every segment we compete in from subcompact to luxury to electric, and we're just getting started.   
Just as we seek excellence in achievement on the road, the Kia NBA Performance Awards celebrate the league's top performance on the court, including the Defensive Player of the Year, the Sixth Man Award, the Most Improved Player, the Rookie of the Year, and the reason we're here today, the Kia Most Valuable Player of the Year Award.  As true fans of basketball and the NBA, and on behalf of all Kia team members and retailers nationwide, it is my honor to present Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors of the 2015-2016 Kia Most Valuable Player of the Year award.   
STEPHEN CURRY: Thank you very much.   
GREG GRULIKOWSKI: As part of the this prestigious award, I'm delighted to donate a 2016 Kia Sorento to Covenant House California on Steph's behalf.   
STEPHEN CURRY: Thank you very much.   
THE MODERATOR: Steph, if you would stay here for a second, and if Steve Nash would bring up the twin from a year ago.  We've played professional sports in our country for well over a century, and there are only 39 men in all of the professional sports that have ever won back-to-back MVPs, 11 in the NBA, and two of them are right here.  Many of them have a Bay Area flavor when you think of Barry Bonds and Joe Montana as well.   
So, Steve, couple questions in terms of what's it like to welcome Steph to this exclusive club?  And these are the only two gentlemen in the history of the NBA to be members of the 50% from the field, 45% on threes, and 90% free throwing ever in a season, these two, the back-to-back MVPs.  So, Steve, winning two, and then once you win one, how do you win a second one?   
STEVE NASH: Well, we welcome them with open arms.  Obviously, it's not lost upon me.  He makes me look really good joining our club.  I think you could say the same thing about a lot of MVPs, that they will their team to victory.  They're leaders.  They come and they're professional every day and they excel.  But one of the things I think of when I think of Steph is that when we look at our league and our game, you can see over a ten maybe 20-year period how the game has evolved and changed.  But I've never seen it evolve in six months like he's shown us this year with the dexterity and ability to shoot quickly from all over the court, in any direction, the speed and range has changed the game of basketball.   
I think it's a testament to his joy and love of the game and how hard he's worked.  It will be interesting to see how kids are inspired by his play.   
 Q.  As a player consultant, when you worked with Steph, did you just stop the fight at his one MVP and dare him to win a second?  
STEVE NASH: It's been weird.  I haven't had to say a word to him.  It's been the easiest job, and it's a pleasure to watch him go to work every other night.   
THE MODERATOR: Steve, thanks for coming, we appreciate it.   
So Bob Myers doesn't talk to him, and Steve Nash and Coach Kerr doesn't talk to him either.  No one talks to the back-to-back MVP apparently, except his teammates and us.   
A three-time All-Star, an NBA world champion, a back-to-back MVP, it is his floor now, Stephen Curry.   
STEPHEN CURRY: This is an unbelievable honor.  I want to thank everybody for being here to celebrate this with me.  It's been a very fun year.  Obviously, we've accomplished a lot, and to be in the middle of a playoff run and out here competing and striving for another banner, to stop and celebrate all that went into going into this award, it is definitely special.  And I want to take the time to celebrate it and thank the people that have helped me get here and kind of just look back and reflect a little bit.   
So first I want to thank Kia and everybody, all the sports writers and journalists who voted for me this year for this award.  I looked at the list of everybody who has won an MVP before, and they're legends.  Guys that their names are household names and they jump off the page.  And to be the first unanimous MVP Award winner is something that I don't even know how to put into words.   
Guys have been thanking me all day and I don't really know what to say.  It's a huge honor and something that obviously I'll remember for the rest of my life.  But it's just something that I'm out here playing the game and doing what I love to do and what I've been blessed to do and given the talent to do.  You never know exactly how it's going to unfold, and you just have that faith and drive to have this and have that special attachment to be the first unanimous MVP Award winner it's definitely special.  So thank you guys for voting for me.   
I want to thank God, obviously for the health, for the talent he's given me, for my family who supports me, for the things that basketball's taught me on and off the court.  For the people that I've been able to meet through the game of basketball.  I've been blessed in that regard through and through.  So I'm just thankful for this opportunity to play the game that I love and share that with the world, really.   
I want to thank my wife, Ayesha.  Like I said last year, none of this is possible without you.  You've given me the opportunity to go out here and work as hard as I do, spend the hours I need to do it at the gym to practice for games, on the road, all the while holding down the house and doing the little things that keep our family going.   
You've given our two daughters an example to look up to as they grow up, and I don't take that for granted at all.  It's definitely special to watch you do what you do every single day, the strength that you have, the patience that you have, whether I have a good game or not, you're the same person every single day, and that means a lot to me to be able to come home and share a life with you.  So thank you very much for who you are.   
To my parents, Seth, Sydel, my sister who is not here with us, you guys are my rock, my support, my encouragement.  I thank you for all that you've done for me growing up and the  encouragement you continue to give me.   
I'm blessed to have such a tight-knit family that we can talk about anything.  Whether we talk frequently or not since we're on separate ends of the country, there are a lot of moving parts and we always stay tight and find that center and that ground that keeps us together.  And I think that's something that's very special, so thank you guys for who you are as well.   
I have a bunch of other friends, my in-laws are here.  You guys as well, thank you very much for obviously having Ayesha, but the support that you've given me as well.  It takes a village to raise two beautiful daughters, and with the pace of life that we have, you guys play a significant role in that.  Knowing your faith and your view in life that will be passed on to my kids as well is definitely special, so thank you very much.   
To all the other family who are here, Octagon, Drake, Sophia everybody in front of me, Miss Carolyn, who, man, I could talk about you for days.  To be able to know my kids are safe when we're out of the house is definitely a special moment.  So all of you play into who I am and allow me to do what I do.  So thank you very much and thank you for being here as well.   
To the Warriors organization, Joe, Peter, the entire front office staff, all the workers that work upstairs at our facility who keep this thing moving, this train moving every single day, this is a great organization to play for.  I think we're definitely on the right path to being one of those historic teams that people remember for a very long time.   
Obviously we love to do what we do on the court and we want to drive that train.  But you guys make it fun to be a Warrior, and leave our imprint not only on the NBA but the sports world in general.  So thank you guys for everything, and let's keep this thing going.   
Bob Myers, I want to specifically thank you.  Just who you are as a person and the way that you've put this team together obviously you had a lot of help, but just your vision on what a championship basketball team is, is something that should be highly noted.  You obviously won Executive of the Year last year, but it goes way beyond that award.  It's something that I think we see every single day.  You value character, you value hard work, like you talked about, and you genuinely care for each one of us as individuals on and off the court.   
The conversations that we do have when you want to talk to me, we talk about family and we talk about parenting and we talk about the challenges of what we do for a living, and it's refreshing to get that kind of advice from somebody that's in the same kind of situation that is away from the family a lot and has two daughters.   
I'm a young parent and want to be the best dad that I can be, and to be able to have somebody to bounce that off of is definitely special.  Being the fact that you show up for an MRI at 8:30 in the morning when you have a family of your own that you could be taking care of just speaks volumes to what you've put into this thing, And that is contagious throughout the whole organization.  So thank you very much for who you are as a person and for not only the decisions you make on the court, but how you care for each individual player.   
Coach Kerr, Luke, you guys put us in great positions to be successful and you put together a great staff.  I know I speak for my teammates, we love coming to play for you guys every single day.  We know it's going to be fun and we're going to be challenged.  You're going to break a clipboard every once in a while.   
It's just a great atmosphere to be a part of as a player.  The freedom that you give us but also the responsibility, the appropriate fear is definitely something that has sparked this journey the last two years.  So we obviously have nine more wins to get, but this is something special because of you two guys and the staff that you put together.   
I want to specifically talk about Q and Nick right quick.  You guys make working out and getting shots up and improving on my game every single day fun.  The inside jokes that we have, the play lists that you make, Nick, the different drills that Q comes up with.   
Sometimes I walk over to Q and I just walk over to him and dribble him the basketball and say, "Q, what you want to do today?"  And he'll have some random name for a drill that he either knows of or he's making up, I don't even know.  But I believe him and so we're going to do it.  And usually we end up getting up 100 or 200 shots whatever, we're having fun.   
Throughout the course of an 82-game schedule, it can get monotonous, you can get complacent, but you guys bring that spark every single day when I walk over to my hoop and get ready to work out.  So thank you guys for bringing that joy to what I do and the drive to get better every single day.   
Brandon and Blake as well, you're here, you guys do the same thing for me, so thank you very much.   
My teammates, man these last few weeks being out killed me not being able to be out there with y'all competing.  Seeing how much sacrifice y'all make every single day, the things that go into it, preparing your bodies, preparing your minds for battle every single night.  You guys inspire me to keep getting better so we can get the most out of every single night.   
Every single one of us has different personalities and different roles on the team, but we have such a great combination that it's obviously work, but I think we need to appreciate what we have right now.  We want to keep it together, and obviously want to see the end of this year out and finish our job and achieve our goal.  But I hope we take a moment every single day when we come into the practice facility or come into games we appreciate the bond that we have and how much fun we have going out there and playing every single day.   
Like a night like last night where things might not be going our way, we find a way to get it done, and that's been our MO every single game this year.   
Regardless of what happens down the stretch of the season, we will be a team that will be remembered for what we accomplished.  No team has done what these 15 guys on this stage have done in the history of the game.  Just think about that.  And when we're in it and it's hard to wrap your mind around that, but to be appreciative, I think, of what we have here and all that it takes to make that happen.  It's a special time.   
I know going into the locker room, all the jokes, and the guys we have a group text, it's just a fun group of guys, man.  It's just fun.  I think that's what makes us special.  So I appreciate all your sacrifices and making me -- this trophy wouldn't be sitting here without you guys.  So let's keep it going, let's win the Championship and find a way to get it done and really set our place in history with the opportunity that we have in front of us.   
Talking about this year in general, it's totally different from last year.  It's a different journey, there are different expectations, there were different pressures, different ups and downs.  But the year really just aiming to get better and to achieve what people might not have thought we deserved last year.  And I think for us and for me especially, it was one of those things where no matter how great people tell you you are or how lucky or inadequate critics say you are, whatever drives you inside and whenever you find that will to keep going, it's about not being complacent and always trying to get better, no matter how hard that mission might be.   
I know my family and people that have been around me will attest to that, it's not an easy task.  It's not something that you can just wake up and do.  You have to push yourself and find what it is that motivates you and hold on to that every single day.  That is something I'm very proud of and very appreciative of of the people that helped me get to this place.   
I tried to surround myself with people that push me, that motivate me, that keep me focused on the right things in this life.  I have that on this stage right here.  I have that in my family, and for that, I'm extremely blessed and extremely thankful for that.  This is a crazy world, and to have that kind of guidance and motivation, it's definitely allowed me to do what I do on and off the court.   
So that's kind of my message is to not be complacent.  People thought I couldn't be back here on this stage, and I tried to push myself and tried to achieve what could not be achieved, and that's something I'm very, very proud of.  So thank you very much for this award.  Thank you for supporting us every single day, and let's go win a championship.   
THE MODERATOR: So, Steph, before we start the official press conference, we have a Kia social media question, and this is from Dante on Twitter.  Dante must be Sonya's Twitter handle, it says what do you need to improve on from now on?   
STEPHEN CURRY: I mean, I don't know.  I never really put the physical kind of pressures on myself or anything like that.  Maybe my assist to turnover ratio.  I'm really critical on myself, I'll say that.  But no specifics.  Just try to do what I do well now and even better next year.   
THE MODERATOR: Now for the media portion Raymond Ridder will conduct The Q & A.   
RAYMOND RIDDER: Real quick I wanted to acknowledge that two weeks ago Steph won another award.  The Magic Johnson Award that is given annually from the media every year to the most media-friendly and accessible player in the NBA.  So on behalf of my department and all the media folks that work with him all year long, we want to thank him for that honor as well.   
 Q.  So much of this during the season people have tried to maybe define you or think about your place in basketball, what you mean to the game, whether it's the critics that you mentioned, former players, current players, people that support you every day.  How would you define what you do for this game, and how would you like to be remembered when it's all said and done?  
STEPHEN CURRY: I don't know.  I never really set out to change the game.  I never thought that that would happen in my career.  I didn't know how to describe that.  But what I want to do is just be myself.  How I play the game is how I know how to play the game.  It's what I work on every single day.  I know it inspired a lot of maybe the next generation, a lot of people who love the game of basketball, value the skill of it, value the fact that you can work every single day to get better.   
There is a God-given ability and talents and things like that, but when everybody can take a ball and shoot it and do dribble moves and things like that and play the game, but you've got to be able to put the time in and work.  That's how I got here and that's how I continue to get better every single day.   
So I want to be remembered as somebody that worked hard and got the most out of my potential and talent and pushed the envelope.  I never really, like I said, I never really expected to change the game or spark a new way to play the game, because that's the way I know how to play, and that's what was in me when I started the game back when I was 5.   
 Q.  Does the scare that happened in Houston two weeks ago give you any kind of different perspective on this award or not at all?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Not the award, but it makes me appreciate the game, because when I fell it could have been significantly worse.  I feel blessed to have gotten the (Indiscernible) after my MRI and being able to be back on the court as of yesterday.  So every single game I try not to take for granted because you never know what could happen.  A wet spot on the floor kind of put a scare in myself, so you never know inside those lines what might happen.   
So you try to just stay in the moment, enjoy the opportunity that you have right in front of you, and you can live with that.   
 Q.  How is the knee today?  And that was a pretty spectacular introduction to an MVP press conference last night.  Did you surprise yourself?  But first how's the knee?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It's sore.  My body is a little fatigued, but that's to be expected.  I think I'm in pretty good shape right now for what I need to do tomorrow night.  But I wasn't surprised.  I knew, I guess all the work that I put in to just getting back on the court and what the athletic training staff here at the Warriors and the plan that we had to get back on the court strong and ready to play, I knew I was ready for that moment.   
I didn't know how my wind was going to be.  I didn't know how the game was going to unfold or whatnot, just got to be prepared for anything.  Like Coach said, I missed my first ten threes and finally saw one go in and that kind of sparked what happened in the fourth and in overtime.  But kind of just hold on to that preparation from this past summer through the whole course of the regular season, so once you get your rhythm back hopefully my confidence would take over and we do what we do.   
 Q.  Last year you talked about how you and the team had more work to do.  How did winning a championship last year affect your mentality going into the summer and into the season?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It motivated us to keep getting better.  I know I worked -- I probably worked harder this summer than I have any other summer just knowing how good it felt to one, win this award, and two win an NBA Championship that we wanted to do it again.  I think that's a great feeling getting on that podium and celebrating with the team, with all the hard work that goes into it.   
So we're on that mission right now.  It's not going to be easy.  It's not going to be a cake walk at all, but I feel like we're very prepared for that moment and we'll take it one step at a time.  Obviously worry about tomorrow's game.   
Draymond said it best.  The feeling, for lack of a better term, is intoxicating.  He said it a little stronger than I did, but it's a great feeling to have.  That's something that we want to experience again.   
 Q.  You're obviously a champion on the court, but you're also a champion off the court.  What advice do you give to the boys and girls who want to be like Steph Curry?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Find what you're passionate about in this life.  Everybody's given a certain skillset, a certain talent, a certain passion.  To hold on to that and work as hard as you can to being the best that you can at what you feel like your place in this world is and what your role is.  I learned at an early age that basketball is something I'd love to do every single day.  But like every single person, they're a great journalist, they're a great commentator, there are great doctors, everybody's great at something, just to find that and to work as hard as you can.  I don't think it's as simple as that, but it's something that you can hold on to.  Find what you're passionate about in this life and just work at it.   
 Q.  What does it take to be great today?  
STEPHEN CURRY: That's a great question.  You've got to be unselfish, know that the team is bigger than individual success.  You've got to have that trust in each other.  You've got to care about each other and be committed to whatever your goal is as a team.  Everybody has a role and everybody has a part in the team's success.   
So we are a great testament of that, all 15 guys on this stage.  We understand what it means to be a collective unit and to have fun doing what you do and playing for each other.  Good things usually happen when you have that mindset.   
THE MODERATOR: When you start getting grilled by kids, that means the press conference is over.  So that's it.   
Steph, if you would join the people from Kia in the Covenant House, the charity of your choice, for the presentation of the Kia Sorento, Bill Bedrossian, CEO of Covenant House is here, so the photo op with the MVP.  Covenant House is a non-profit agency whose mission is to reach out to at-risk homeless youth and offer them hope and opportunity to turn their lives around.  Covenant House of California helps abused and neglected youth who have no one else and nowhere else to turn.  We're sure they'll put the Kia to good use.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT