WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2004
Amanda Janes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  You seemed to sort of storm ahead in the first set.
 
AMANDA JANES:  Uh-hmm.  
 
Q.  But then the rain delay came. 
 
AMANDA JANES:  Uh-hmm.  
 
Q.  That seemed to be sort of a bit of a turning point.  Sugiyama came out a bit stronger.
 
AMANDA JANES:  I think she did definitely come out a bit stronger.  I was very pleased with the way I was playing.  She certainly came out with a much more forceful game plan whereby she came into net.  She wasn't coming into net, so then she was coming into net a lot.  I think I was able to hold my serve to get the set.  But she was sharper, much sharper in the second set.  All the things that I had been doing in the first set, I was still trying to impose my game, but I wasn't able to do it to the level I had been, which I think showed .   That's really the difference. But I felt sharp again when I came out for the third set after the second rain delay.  I was really pleased to get that service game.  But I think, again, I didn't  -- she had a higher level, I think, that I couldn't quite attain.  
 
Q.  Overall, are you pleased?
 
AMANDA JANES:  I'm very disappointed (smiling).  It's never much fun to lose a match.  But I think, you know, I respect Ai Sugiyama.  She played a very good match.  You have to look at her ranking and whatever.  But I felt I was close and I could have maybe  -- I'd liked to have turned things around a bit in that third set, and I find that disappointing.  But I was never given the chance to, so... 
 
Q.  Didn't look like there were 235 places between the rankings.
 
AMANDA JANES:  Thank you (laughing).  No, it didn't feel like it to me either.  I certainly wasn't thinking about, "Oh, my gosh, I'm 200-and-whatever, she's, you know, 11."  That wasn't really something that bothered me.  I was more concerned about trying to play my game well.  In that respect, I am pleased because I feel like I did all I could, it just wasn't good enough.  So I've worked very hard, but it wasn't enough, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's not a bad idea to go on to another level then?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, because you can see the level that you're aiming for.  And in that respect, it is very inspiring.  But it's also frustrating because I feel I've worked very hard, and I've worked up to peak for this.  And you get the chance, and it's very easy to put a lot of pressure on yourself.  I don't think that's why I lost, but, you know, it's disappointing.  
 
Q.  With your performance and Anne Keothavong's win, what does that say for the future of British women's tennis?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Anne won, did she?  Oh, that's very good, yeah.  That's a good win.  I think the British women, you know, just need positive wins like that so that you can, you know, make everyone believe that we are capable of competing at a higher level.  I'm glad Anne's won, because it does show that.  And, hopefully, the other British girls will go out and get some more wins.  Because I think it does create a positive atmosphere and a positive feeling about the women's game that maybe is often lacking.  
 
Q.  Overall, did your Wimbledon debut live up to expectations?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, yes (smiling).  Yes, I mean, I train here all the time, so it feels very much  -- while I've been training here recently, I've always been thinking, "Oh, gosh, what court will I play on?  Which one will it be?"  Certainly, it's been a long time waiting for it at 26 (smiling). 
 
Q.  Longer than most.
 
AMANDA JANES:  I don't think I've broke any records or anything, but it makes it more special having waited that bit longer.  
 
Q.  Was your mum watching?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, yes.  I had a lot of support, which is great. 
 
Q.  Who else was?
 
AMANDA JANES:  My father was there, both my brothers, my fiance and, yes, I think a couple of friends from university, so... 
 
Q.  Your wedding reception is going to be at the club?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, it's next July. 
 
Q.  After the tournament?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, it's the second Saturday, the 16th. 
 
Q.  And you're going to be getting married at St.  Mary's?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes, yes. 
 
Q.  What's your fiance's name?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Dominick.  
 
Q.  Have you spoken to your mother since...
 
AMANDA JANES:  I haven't had a chance because I've been off giving a urine sample.  So I haven't had a chance to do anything yet (smiling).  But after the last rain break, you know, I sort of said, "I'm 3-2 down, 30-40."  She said, "Don't panic, you know, just go for it.  If it doesn't work, it doesn't work for you."  I think I felt I did go for it, but it actually just really didn't work.  She maybe didn't let it work.  
 
Q.  You actually saved that point, didn't you?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yes.  I know, I know.  It was great (laughing).  I felt great at 3-All.  Then, yeah, it just seemed to go away very quickly after that.  
 
Q.  Did you have any contact with Lucie Ahl after that, because she took a set off of Ai last year?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Yeah, I did know that, yeah.  They had a long match, didn't they?  She was  - I remember seeing her after that match  - she was pretty disappointed. No, I didn't.  But I had seen Ai Sugiyama at Eastbourne last week, so I sort of had seen her performance a bit. 
 
Q.  Did you work with anyone else other than your mother?  Did you work with Barry?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Barry Cowan's been helping me quite a bit recently.  He's been a great help, as has Chris Clark.  He's been helpful, too.  My mother, it takes a load off her.  Otherwise, I think -- she likes to have a break now and again. 
 
Q.  Any specific tips from your mother or from Barry about playing here in this particular tournament? 
 
AMANDA JANES:  Dear, specific tips.  I think they both wanted me to stay focused and aggressive, sort of imposing my game, really.  No, and try -- and try and enjoy it, not let it all  -- you know, in the second set I felt I could have let things get on top of me, "Oh, no, I'm not carrying on as I did in the first."  So I tried to relax and enjoy the experience a bit. 
 
Q.  And what's next?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Good question.  I had hoped that, you know, if I could have done something here, that my ranking would go up and I would be able to, you know, enter the bigger tournaments and look to play on the hard courts in America.  There's still no reason why I can't do that, it just means that, you know, still my ranking will stay as it is.  I had hoped, you know, to sort of break the 200 mark.  But I just have to work at the level I am, and maybe that's a realistic level.  I just have to work away at that (smiling). 
 
Q.  You plan to be back next year?
 
AMANDA JANES:  Well, yes, I hope so (smiling).  I hope so, yeah.  Hopefully, not with a wildcard.  That would be ideal. But we'll see. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT