OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Trevon Bradford
Jake Luton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 48, Oregon State - 17
OREGON STATE INTERVIEW
Q. Jake, what were your general thoughts about what happened to you guys tonight?
JAKE LUTON: We got beat, plain and simple, on both sides of the ball.  We got outworked, outexecuted and just beat in every fashion.
Q. Does that surprise you?  Did you think going in that it would be more competitive?
JAKE LUTON: I mean, of course, I didn't go in it thinking we'd be beat like we did.  It's really, really frustrating.  Hurts a lot right now.  So we're going to have to really work hard to bounce back from this.
Q. Jake, do you have any idea why the offensive seemed sort of out of sync the first quarter or first half or so?
JAKE LUTON: I don't have any one thing that comes to mind right now.  I have to watch the tape on it.  But I think Stanford did a really good job of coming out and kind of playing our hand and making us do something that maybe we're not used to doing.  They did a good job.
Q. The touchdown, first touchdown you had, was that a play that you guys had seen on film, because looked like you pump faked one way.  And was open by a million miles?
JAKE LUTON: Yeah, it's a play we've worked on throughout the season quite a bit.  Thought we'd be able to get a good look for it and Trevon did a good job of getting open, really open.
Q. What did you see on that?  What happened on that play, when you broke from the line, was it just (inaudible)?
TREVON BRADFORD: Jake just did a good job of looking off the safety.  He bit on the outside route on the other side, and I think they might have just blown their coverage, left me open in the middle of the field.
Q. You guys -- score at halftime, probably looked a little momentum going into the second half.  What did you feel at halftime and what happened in the second half?
TREVON BRADFORD: I mean we had the ball to start the third quarter.  We felt good at halftime.  Obviously we didn't play the way we wanted to play in the first half.  We thought if we could go down and score, we get right back in the game.  You guys saw it:  We just didn't play very well the second half at all.
Q. Does this game feel like a bit of a setback?  Seemed like you achieved a little momentum week by week.  And this one just didn't seem (inaudible)?
JAKE LUTON: I wouldn't call it a setback, no.  I don't think so.  I think we're going to come back and work hard just like we have been.  And I don't think we're going to skip a beat coming back next week.  Stanford just did a good job this week.  But I wouldn't call it a setback, no.
Q. Trevon, did you feel -- it's hard to lose almost every week.  Is the morale okay with this club?
TREVON BRADFORD: I mean, yeah, the morale is okay.  Nobody likes to lose.  We prepared the right way to win, obviously.  Like I said, nobody likes to lose.  It is what it is.
Q. What did you each personally take away from this game that you could use next game?
JAKE LUTON: I mean, I'll have to watch it and go look at it.  Right now it's just frustrating.  And I mean that's kind of where I'm at right now.  There isn't anything from an execution standpoint that really comes to mind right now.  It's just more -- emotionally, mentally this one hurt today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT