AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v RED SOX
October 15, 2007
Kenny Lofton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you take us back to your first at-bat.  You're barely out of the dugout, the crowd is chanting your name.  Was that the extra power you needed to get it over the fence?  Take us through that at-bat and the atmosphere and everything. 
 KENNY LOFTON:  I don't know.  The fans are pretty excited when I come up to the plate, and that's a good thing for me.  I just try to enjoy it.  And I also try to do something.  Once you've got the fans out there cheering for you, you want to make something happen, and I just wanted to try to be aggressive at that point, and I got lucky. 

 Q.  How much do you relish this leadership role that in the postseason you've kind of been the leader? 
 KENNY LOFTON:  I think I just go out there and just try to tell guys to just play the game the way it's supposed to be played and have fun with it, and I think that's where these guys are starting to understand that even though it's the playoffs and it's a situation where you're going to do or die in this situation, I said, have fun with it because you might not have the opportunity again.  So just relish it and enjoy it. 
 And I think these guys are doing it, and I feel like I'm glad to be the guy going out there that's been through this before and able to tell these guys what it takes. 

 Q.  In '95 it was Plunk, Assenmacher and Mesa, now you've got Lewis, Betancourt, Perez, Borowski.  Can you just talk about the importance of having a back-end bullpen like that, especially lineups like this and the Yankees? 
 KENNY LOFTON:  It's always good to have a good bullpen, and in the playoffs, every game can be 2-1, 3-1, and today 4-2, but these guys, they just go out there and they throw strikes, and that's the good thing about it.  When you have guys that throw strikes, you have a good opportunity where the hitter gets behind in the count and he ends up swinging at stuff he might not normally swing at. 
 But we have some guys that go out there and they work hard.  They've been doing it ever since I've been here. 

 Q.  Garko was saying that he could see a gleam in your eyes and a hop in your step, and for quite a while you've been saying you've been just missing home runs and tonight you put it all together.  Can you comment on that? 
 KENNY LOFTON:  Yeah, there's been some pitches that I've been missing over this postseason, and the guys, they've been ragging me for it ever since I've been here.  I haven't had a home run and I had seven before I got here.  These guys have been saying, you've got to get one home run. 
 I told Garko yesterday, I keep missing them, I don't know what's going on.  I said, one day I'm going to square one up and it's going to go out, and it happened today. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT