MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Kenny Lofton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How excited were you to start off a game by getting things moving by getting a hit
and getting on base right away?

KENNY LOFTON: Basically that's what I try to do is start things going, and it kind of
worked out for me the first thing, and I ended up getting some runs. Usually the team that
scores first is the team that wins, I was trying to do my job and get on.

Q. You're an exciting player, Kenny, and do you enjoy having a showcase for your skills
like this, and showcasing them in a game like this?

KENNY LOFTON: Basically I like the big games, I like the games where you have millions
and millions of people watching you. That's what I strive for is the big games, I try to
do whatever I can do to try to show my abilities during that time. I always look at these
games as fun, exciting, and I'm trying to do my best.

Q. Did you enjoy having two of your teammates in the starting line-up and doing what
you did in the first inning?

KENNY LOFTON: I not only enjoyed two, I enjoyed three guys out there with me. It was
fun having them out there with me. Once I got on the base and I saw Manny come to the
plate, this was kind of fun. I'm kind of used to seeing Manny come to the plate when I'm
on base, it was fun to have it done at the All-Star Game.

Q. Would you talk about the first inning, two of your teammates get on, and you
manufacture that first run?

KENNY LOFTON: I think we were basically showing the world what Cleveland is all about
at this point. And I get on and still Manny gets on and Tony brings me in. That's what the
Cleveland Indians are or have been doing all year.

Q. Did it seem that the game was almost secondary this year, because of all the
pre-game ceremonies and activities surrounding the game?

KENNY LOFTON: It was kind of fun, actually, to see all that happening. And you have to
see all those guys that have played before you, and these guys are Hall of Famers, guys
who have done a whole lot for the game. And you sit here and say what we're doing right
now, we have done nothing to what those guys have done on the field, and you're right it's
pretty exciting. And you had the F-10's come by, and almost blew up the whole stadium.

Q. What did you think about those planes, Kenny, your reaction on television looked a
little painful in your ears?

KENNY LOFTON: To be honest, they scared the heck out of me, it really did.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT