NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
Adriana Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: Thank you very much I am still very happy with the victory. I don't
know yet in which restaurant we are going to celebrate, but my coach is here, my family
and a lot of people that have supported me are here and we will celebrate with them. 
 
Q. Who is your teacher?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: Gomez. 
 
Q. About 4 miles you caught up the front. You ran with her for a long time. Why did you
stay with her? Was it a little mental? Were you trying to break her? Were you happy with
the pace?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: When I saw that she led I went I caught up with her to follow the
pace and I felt very strong, so I thought I could win the race by there and decided to go
after that. 
 
Q. What did you learn last year that helped you win today?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: Last year I realized that the New York City Marathon is similar to
what I train that gave me a lot of confidence to train better in that course in that type
of terrain to come back an win it here. 
 
Q. After you time here you have the qualifying time to represent Mexico in the Olympics
what are your plans for the future and the Mexican press wants to know when exactly are
you arriving in Mexico City?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: I believe that after my time here I am more than qualified for the
Olympics. I will be training and preparing and focusing to run in a good race at the
Olympic games. I don't know when I will go back to Mexico city. 
 
Q. Are you planning to run another marathon before the Olympics? Will you run a spring
marathon or will you just focus now on the Olympic marathon?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: Probably my coach is the one that decide the program, probably but I
don't know yet. 
 
Q. When you made -- when you went away from Fiacconi, were you putting any extra
pressure to break away then or was just Fiacconi just slowing down?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: I was trying to push harder to make sure I win the race. 
 
Q. Were you surprised that no one was able to keep the pace with you, that you were
alone and so far out there at the end of the race?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: I was surprised but I concentrated on my pace, on my own rhythm and
that is what took me to the victory. 
 
Q. You said that what you learned last year was that the New York City Marathon course
is something like where you train which begs the question: Where do you train? Do you have
five bridges near your house?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: I train normally in the volcano, Tuluca (sic), which is for your
information 12,000 feet in elevation. I also train in the Oketal (sic) or the Desert of
the Lions outside of Mexico City which is very up and down and they go there and they do
loops anywhere from 30 minutes to two hours. 
 
Q. You said on TV, did we understand you correctly, that the wind bothered you so much
that without it you may have run 2:20 and broken the world record today --
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: It was very windy out there and I run by myself. I believe that I
could run the course record if the conditions were better. I am hoping to come back next
year to do it. 
 
Q. How was your training and strategy different from this year or last year to this
year? What made the difference?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: Basically this year I trained more in the mountains. I went to the
volcano more than last year. When I finished second here last year my confidence level
went up the roof. After that race, I was talking about winning races not necessarily being
top 5 or going for a fast time. I did try to win London. London she made the break and
ended up second in 2:24. At the press conference I said I no longer am going to go in the
race trying to run a fast time or to finish in the top 3, that in this race I was going to
try to win the race. 
 
Q. What is going through your mind when Franca makes the incredible push at the very
beginning of the race, what is going through your mind and how were you able to keep
yourself calm during that time?
 
 ADRIANA FERNANDEZ: I thought that if I let her go farther -- open a bigger gap I would
gain confidence and maybe win the race from the beginning. I decided to catch up with her,
stay with her and then make a push on her own. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT