BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 29, 2005
Andre Fabre
Christophe Soumillon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  For sure.  The ground is good for him, was a disappointment in the mile and fillie, same fillie didn't like the soft ground like this.  I know that she would like the ground, sometimes ground, but the horse in the in good form.  Never know before the race how we can do. We know that number one in the gates goes in front and make the pace for the other horse.  So I try with my trainer, try to start and see how goes the race, and don't go too fast with the horse, don't stop his balance.  He needs to always have a good race, never pull him to go in behind, because his balance is going shortly and he can no go in back after.

CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  The horse improve a lot.  When I rode him for the first time, I went to the manager of the stable, was probably a very good horse, but it was little bit short to go three weeks before the Arc.  One race in the Arc to win the race, probably the capacity to win.  But it's a very hard thing to stay with one year no race, and then make a first start in three weeks after going in the Arc, like a Breeder's Cup.  It's a very tough race.  If you are not 100 percent form, it's very hard to go to the post in the race.  He was behind all the time and finish strongly.  The run was soft for him.  It was a good thing.

CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  The thing normally in Europe, when we start, we try to follow the lead horse, the rabbit, like you say, don't let him go too far in front.  Today I didn't want kill my horse to follow him in the start, because the pace was strong enough on my horse.  When I feeling good in the back straight, I let him breathe well.  When the horse going back on the rider, I let him go and when he pass the rabbit.  He takes a lot the rider, he feels good today.  That's why I let him just go in the turn and let him go to the post, because he wants to gallop today.

ANDRE FABRE:  It was a horse light racer this year, a fresh horse, an obviously enough way to come to New York.  I was very confident after he won in the Arc.  He need it a little bit.

ANDRE FABRE:  Well, he acts on any ground, because he run very well, also, the ground was faster.  He's a strong galloper, today's condition favored him.

CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  Not me.

ANDRE FABRE:  He run Schalinderham (ph) one of the older traditional farms in Europe, successful through the year.  I think he's one of the best horses they bred there.  By the German sire Munson, he's a typical representative of a German breeding, staying horses lot of power, acting on any ground with big hearts.

ANDRE FABRE:  He will stay in training and he will go for all the big international events around the mile and a half.

ANDRE FABRE:  Probably stay in Europe or America.

ANDRE FABRE:  I think he had a training setback when he was at the farm in Germany, and he didn't find the proper condition since he came to France.

ANDRE FABRE:  Three months ago he came on the farm.

ANDRE FABRE:  My only instruction was to make a lot of use of the horse.  I knew he could follow any pace and take the lead if nobody was there.

CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  Yeah, it's a good thing for us, but the race today, I think it's doing to have good performance from the European horses because the track is soft and the pace was good and today there was good European horses.  To come back was one of the best horses in Europe.  As was the best two months ago, I think it was a very hard race today.  Shirocco today very easy.  I think big champions, that's why it's quality probably high.

ANDRE FABRE:  I think one of the major things your position was not exactly the same.  And, of course, it wasn't only third race of the year.

ANDRE FABRE:  I think only American courses will do any horses.  I'm happy to go.

ANDRE FABRE:  It is important.  The horse wants to be in the race.  He's not a horse needs to be covered.  He doesn't want to get in trouble because he has a huge stride.

ANDRE FABRE:  Easiest ride, he has to break well.

CHRISTOPHE SOUMILLON:  For sure a very easy ride if you put anybody on.  You wait like I do on the opposite side of the straight, you need to know when you need to start with him, because you can not start 1,000-meter before the post.  The horse was the best today.  That's why you win.  I need to go, sorry.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT