WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2014
Samantha Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/S. Murray
  6/1, 6/0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was a tough match for you.   That missed volley in the fourth game at the start of the first set, is that shot still in your mind?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Uhm, yeah, it was a missed opportunity for that game.   But it's just a basic error.   I thought the ball was going out, decided to leave it, then changed my mind. 
I forgot about it and got on with it afterwards.

Q.   In a parallel universe you could have won the first four games.   They were all very tight. 
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, I had a few chances on her serve the first game.   And, yeah, the third game, as well, I think I had a few breakpoints.   Couldn't just quite convert them.

Q.   You hit some fantastic first shots there.   Is that something you could take from today and look again on the video?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, there were definitely some good points in there.   I tried to play my game and be aggressive.   I think I managed to play my game.   I just didn't execute it well enough. 

Q.   What is it like being out there, massive arena like that?   Is it pretty hard to take in?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   It was a great experience.   I've been on the court only before as a fan.   It was nice to go out. 
I think I settled quite well at the beginning.   I really enjoyed playing on a court like that. 

Q.   There were a few comments on Twitter about your black ankle supports.   Can you tell us why you chose that color?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I've worn those black ankle braces for about 10 years.   Just something I always do. 

Q.   Who have you watched here then as a fan? 
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I've been here so many years.   I've watched all the top players play.   Yeah, I'm a big tennis fan. 

Q.   The opportunity to be where you really want to be then, it's got to be huge?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, it was a great opportunity, really good experience to play someone of her level.   She's by far the highest player I've played. 
It was really good just to experience what that's like, playing someone of her standard who really comes at you to just see how I deal with it.

Q.   As well as being the classiest player you've ever played against, is she the loudest, as well?   Much is made of Sharapova's volume, shall we say. 
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   You know, I think that's something you notice more watching than playing against.   To be honest, I didn't really notice it a whole lot playing. 

Q.   The circumstances when you came as a fan to Court1, were you here with friends or school or something?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I've been all the time growing up with my family.   I came once with my school, as well.   My family always come each year. 
Yeah, it's just a really great event to come be a part of.

Q.   When you walked into the accreditation office back in 2007, did you handle Sharapova's pass at all?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I don't remember that.   It's more like players' guests, things like that. 

Q.   You attended Northwestern for four years and graduated?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, I graduated 2010. 

Q.   Pretty rare that a woman attends a U.S. college plays at this level.   Why did you decide to go there?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I wasn't sure exactly what I wanted to do when I finished school.   I thought I might want to play, but I also wanted to continue my education. 
I went to Northwestern for the tennis.   I loved it.   I knew I wanted to play tennis when I came back.   That was all I could think of doing.

Q.   Anyone else in the college ranks that are playing pros that you competed against?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   There's a few Americans, a few American girls that play.   Falconi, Sanchez.   I played against them a few times. 

Q.   You mentioned having gone to Northwestern.   What are your thoughts about the football players and the union effort that's going on there?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   That's not actually something I know a whole lot about.   I don't really understand American football.

Q.   What are your thoughts as far as college athletes and whether there should be changes in the system for them?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I think tennis as a college sport is very different from, like, college football.   As a tennis athlete, we never really had any of the same issues that I've heard the football players bring up. 
I'm not really sure about how it's going to work with them. 

Q.   What single memory will you take away from today?   What pleased you most about the hour you were on court today?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I think I'll take the good points from it.   There were definitely some points where I troubled her.   I think my game can match up against the best players.   I just need to get better at executing. 

Q.   You went for it, didn't you, in terms of your groundstrokes?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah.   I think against someone as good as Sharapova, she's never going to give it to you.   You have to go out and play and try and take it from her.   That's what I set out to do.

Q.   Does that whet the appetite to stay this high in the rankings?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Absolutely.   Everybody wants to play the better tournaments.   You just got to keep climbing the rankings.   I'm going to have to go back to playing more lower tournaments to try and build my ranking and get back here on my own right.

Q.   Acing Sharapova, is that the sort of memory that can carry you through some of those backwater tournaments?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, there were a few aces in there (laughter). 

Q.   What does  £27,000 mean to someone like you?   It's more than total prize money in some events you've played. 
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, it's a big help for the rest of the year.   It lets you travel more.   It's not so much strain in deciding where to play. 
The money definitely helps in being able to build a schedule that's right for your tennis rather than having to worry financially whether you're able to go to those tournaments.

Q.   Where are you scheduled next to play?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I'm not completely sure yet.   I'll go over to Canada or the States, maybe Istanbul. 

Q.   When you're making decisions about those things, how much of it is money‑driven to make the books balance?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I try to do it more based on tennis.   Obviously that's the better way to go about it.   That's why this helps, as well. 
But now I look at it more in terms of where I feel comfortable playing, where the best opportunities are, and try and get in as good of tournaments as possible.

Q.   Have you had to make any compromises in the past?   It can be quite hard, can't it?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   Yeah, it definitely can be hard.   I think I'm at a slight advantage in that I've only been playing three‑and‑a‑half years, where some girls that have been at my sort of level for more years have suffered financially for longer. 
I also had a job before when I was at university, so that helped me get started, whereas people who played full‑time for longer don't have that backing to start off. 

Q.   What was your job?
SAMANTHA MURRAY:   I used to coach while I was playing and studying, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT