UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
D.J. Monroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for D.J. Monroe.   

Q.   After five years, you still seem like that little freshman I saw play.   It's been a rollercoaster career for you here.   
D.J. MONROE:   Yes, it has.   I've went from wide receiver to runningback, back to wide receiver, kind of back to runningback.   Now I'm just a little bit of both.   
I mean, I've accepted my role as a player on the team.   At this point I'm just doing whatever it takes to win, not really worrying about the whole position thing.   

Q.   How would you describe yourself on the team? 
D.J. MONROE:   I have no idea.   But I'm definitely not calm on the field.   I am just one of those guys that gets into the game.   I get to jumping and hollering, I'm so into it.   I don't know what you would call that.   I just stay into it, to be honest with you.   

Q.   Do you embrace being the guy that sets the example for everybody on the team in general, you have to be versatile, do what you're asked to do? 
D.J. MONROE:   I get what you're saying.   
Yeah, like if I'm getting the ball or if I'm not, I try to show people that I can block, I can catch the ball, I can carry the ball, go in, run a motion.   Yeah, I can do it all.   You got to set that example because you have some freshmen that come in and don't absolutely understand their role.   Then when you show someone, Hey, this is how you do it, they get a chance to do it, they understand that you're not doing it just because they want you to, you're also actually helping the team.   

Q.   Accepting your role, is that the only thing that's changed this year? 
D.J. MONROE:   I took it into myself not to run track the second half of outdoors.   I just wanted to come back to the team and be more of a leader.   I also lift weights really hard with (indiscernible) this year off-season, this summer, me, Mal and Joe and Gray decided to work at 12:00, the hottest part of the day.   It wasn't no fake weight being put on, it was real weight.   

Q.   Were there times when you weren't maybe as involved as outsiders thought, accepting your role? 
D.J. MONROE:   I wasn't never a selfish player.   I've never been a selfish player.   I didn't really buy into it, to be honest with you.   Everybody would like more touches, more playing time.   
As long as we winning games, they doing the same thing I could do on the field, it really doesn't matter to me.   I just want to win for the University of Texas.   

Q.   Do you know how much fans want you to have the ball?   Have you heard the talk about, He's the one player we got to get the ball? 
D.J. MONROE:   I do know about the talk.   I got friends and I got family.   They talk about it all the time.   
I really don't buy into it, to be honest with you.   I know I have fans out there.   I appreciate all the fans that I do have.   That's why every time I get in, I try to make the best of my carries whenever I'm in the game.   That's why I celebrate with the fans when I do score.   

Q.   It's been nearly a month since you played at home.   How is this game different from the New Mexico game? 
D.J. MONROE:   I think it's going to be different.   You have two top-10 teams coming in.   I think it's going to be a shootout.   I think everybody wants to see this game.   Texas Longhorns are going to come and perform.   I hope the Mountaineers do.   

Q.   (No microphone.) 
D.J. MONROE:   I wouldn't want a game like that.   It was nice they had a shootout, but we don't look forward to having a shootout.   

Q.   How much more do you appreciate the touches you get now as a senior given the turmoil sometimes that you went through trying to find a position?   Seems like you're a guy that seizes the moment.   
D.J. MONROE:   You know, if you think about it, University of Texas has always been like that.   In '07, you had Chris and Jamal.   They split roles.   Every time Jamal got in, he made it happen.   Every time Chris got in, he made it happen.   
That's why I never got mad at it.   It's always been that way.   You can't change something that's always been going in.   When I do get in, I take full advantage of my time in, try to score a touchdown.   

Q.   (No microphone.) 
D.J. MONROE:   I don't know, to be honest with you.   I didn't know how to react to it.   I knew that was my third touchdown.   I wasn't sure if it was a record because I couldn't remember.   I was pretty excited about it.   
I just think everybody (indiscernible) house party, I thank them first before I took the credit.   Those guys be there for me blood, sweat and tears.   I've always told them, Just get on your man and hold on and I'll do the rest.   

Q.   Does your freshman year seem like yesterday or a long time ago? 
D.J. MONROE:   To be honest with you, it just seem like yesterday.   Flew by fast.   I can't believe I have a couple months to get done with school, have a degree, go into the real world.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, D.J.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT