U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2019
Rick Cloninger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about this one. I mean, does all your experience in these help you when you get to this point?  
RICK CLONINGER: Well, it did coming down the stretch. I hit a couple two, three poor drives today where I got a little quick. Had to kind of kind of mettle myself down a little bit and said, and do what you do.   
Hit some balls solid. The last four or five holes I played I hit the ball very well. Steve is a great player, and you know you got to -- he's not going to give you a lot. Today he struggled a little bit with his putter, which was a big surprise.   
Just glad to get through. I played well when I needed to. The three or four shots coming down the stretch were really big.   
 Q.  I assume you've met up with him.  
RICK CLONINGER: Oh, yeah. We've played a lot together and share a part-time teacher as well. So, yeah.   
 Q.  Just a couple things about the round. You birdied 8 to go 2-up. Tell me about that birdie there.  
RICK CLONINGER: Well, you know, it was basically because -- I hit it in there about 7, eight feet, but Steve didn't get up and down there and conceded; you know, made a six or eight, seven-footer. It was a putt I thought I was going to make, but getting 2-up lead at that juncture was a really big deal.   
 Q.  And then later on went 3-up on the par-5, 14.  
RICK CLONINGER: Again, he was out -- not out of the hole -- but struggling to make par, I'm sitting there right under the hole ten feet. It made him have to hit a better shot from where he was and the ball ran through the green into the rough.   
Those were two pretty big turning points. And then the shot on 15 was a really big deal, because he hit it in there about eight, nine feet looking straight up the hill, and I hit inside of it and we both made birdies in order for me to keep what I got.   
At that point in time, he was going to make sure he makes a birdie to beat me. You know, he makes a great birdie; on 16 and 17 we both hit really good shots. His ball was just off the edge from going in, so it was a game of inches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT