U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2019
Rick Cloninger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you made that putt at 9, which was a real bomb, did you think, This may be my day?
RICK CLONINGER: Yeah, but I wasn't driving the ball well. You know, I was really struggling with the tee ball. And whatever it is, I hit three very poor tee shots on the back side. All three got me in trouble.
Maybe it's the legs are a little weak. I'm a little tired right now. 36 today and 36 yesterday. It may have stepped in there. I generally feel like I'm in pretty good shape, but it's obvious with those three swings they were the poorest swings I made all week. I didn't hit any like that all week.
So it is, but that's what match play is all about. During this match he played better than I did. I had my chance. I let it get away.
Q. On the 7-iron, what was the distance and what exactly --
RICK CLONINGER: I had 165, a little wind helping me. I was going to hit it right at his ball or right at the flag and let it leak over there because wind was coming in a little bit from the right.
I had tugged a couple balls during the day. I said, Just don't get over the top of it. I just held onto it and fanned it out to the right, which this is the only -- you just can't do it in that circumstance.
You know, wasn't a nervy deal. Just didn't trust some things coming down. Finally hit a good tee ball there to get myself in a good position. He hits a great shot from where he was at. He's two feet away from being in really bad shape.
You know, I didn't execute when I needed to.
Q. On the third shot between the bunkers were you expecting it to fly a little more?
RICK CLONINGER: I did. I knew the ball, if I hit it -- the ball, I had to get it up in the air and bring it down really softly. It's two feet from being just absolutely perfect. So if I just hit it a little bit harder. You know, I didn't want to have the thing go down the hill and give myself nothing, but I thought if I could land it there the in the fringe it would roll on out there.
I putted so well all week and I putted today. I just didn't give myself -- couple chances. I had a good birdie putt look on 10 to really start getting something going there and then kind of lost some shots off the tee after that.
I had my chance. I hit a good shot. It was a foot too short.
Q. Having been to this point before, is it a little tougher to take this time around?
RICK CLONINGER: It's tougher to take having not executed down the stretch. I executed down the stretch couple years ago and Pat made a couple putts. I let this one get away a little bit.
I mean, no disrespect to Roger. Roger played really, really good. But I had control of the match and I let it get an a way. He didn't come get me.
But it'll be a great match tomorrow with him. He's a great player and I wish him well.
Q. When you go through one of these USGA championships and make a good run, what do you take away from it, if anything?
RICK CLONINGER: Well, you think you belong. Having done this twice, you know, I'm -- shouldn't sneak up on anybody. I had back surgery three years ago, and this was some redemption for getting back from that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT