NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 25, 2009
Eric Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC STAAL: I'm not sure. Probably, I think it's human nature. I don't know how much of a chance we were given before the series. But we're confident. We've got a good group. We've got a lot of character and a lot of fight. We're not going to lay down. We're going to come out tomorrow night and have our best and go at it one game at a time.  
  
  Q. I know you've been asked this before, but do you need Cam to be perfect?   
 ERIC STAAL: We don't need him to be perfect. We need him to be good. We need our whole team to be better. That's what it will take. We didn't beat jersey and Boston by a fluke. We did it by a group and we've got a good team.   
 Now it's a challenge. It's going to be fun. And we're excited for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you point out, hey, Crosby and Malkin are doing this. How come Eric Staal isn't doing this on the other side? Is that fair? They're at such a level right now I don't know anyone on earth can really match them?   
 ERIC STAAL: No, I don't think it's not fair. That means my name's similar next to theirs. It's a different team, and that's a good feeling for any on offensive player.   
 I'm counted on to score goals, and counted on to produce offensively. I think I need to be a little better in my end of the rink and focus on that first, and everything else will take care of itself. That's sort of the way my game is.   
 When those opportunities come, they're going to fall. I didn't score 40 goals for no reason. I know what I can do, and I'll continue to attack on that.   
 And those are things that are going to happen. The media's going to say things. I've earned that right to have that. I played a good season, I've played a good career, and I wanted that.   
 That's what's going to happen, and I need to respond and continue to get better.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone) you've done it this way previously.   
 ERIC STAAL: It's a grind. It's a long season, ups and downs in the playoffs. Right now we're on goal. And obviously it's a big hole. It's an opportunity and a challenge for us as a group and me personally to get better and hopefully grows a player maturity-wise. And get better as my career goes on.   
  
  Q. Those games between New Jersey and Boston, when you seemed to take over, was there a different feeling that day?   
 ERIC STAAL: No, not really. Honestly, I felt pretty good last game. Just didn't happen. I didn't get the balance going the other way. Sometimes when that doesn't happen, you start to squeeze the stick a little bit more, you get a little frustrated.   
 For me, it's trying to stay focused and not getting that way. Keep battling forward, and working even harder. If you do that, good things will happen.  
  
  Q. Do you sense a frustration from Cam?   
 ERIC STAAL: I think everybody's frustrated. It happens. We're down 3-0 to a good team. We're all competitive people. We're playing a game that takes a lot of effort and work. You want to compete as hard as you can. When you're down, you can get frustrated.   
 I think if you get too frustrated, it will hurt you. And for us, it's about leaving it, responding, and taking it one game and focusing on that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT