AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jaret, were you told by Mike Hargrove to be ready in case Dave had trouble with his
arm?

JARET WRIGHT: They had told me, it's been -- we've known about Dave's little soreness
and, yeah, he told me to -- I was a longman or whatnot, if something went wrong. And it
did, unfortunately, after Dave was doing a great job, and so I came in after that.

Q. Jaret, for a while the crowd was chanting your name. For a good period, do you think
you let that get to you at all?

JARET WRIGHT: After a point, just gets, you know, loud. I mean I heard it and whatnot,
but it doesn't affect your pitching. It's -- you know, with the stuff I've dealt with so
far, it's just getting it done out there. Just hitting your spots and, you know, I didn't
get it done, basically, to put it bluntly. That's what happened. You know, there's --
there's no way that the crowd or something like that should ever affect you. So, you know,
that weight's on my shoulders, not anything the crowd did.

Q. Jaret, was it a tough mental adjustment when you haven't been coming out of the pen
all year to suddenly relief in a one-run game?

JARET WRIGHT: Mentally, my mindset was, you know, I wasn't, you know, starting a game
in the series or whatnot, I was in the pen. It was my turn. It was my shot to, you know,
do something good and, you know, it didn't work out today. And, you know, hopefully
something comes up tomorrow, we play another game, I'll be all right.

Q. Overall, do you guys still feel like you're in control of the series?

JARET WRIGHT: I think the, you know, the two-to-one naturally shows we're in control. I
think, you know, to win another ball game is, you know, is up to us. We're going to go out
there and these guys played hard all year. And I think there's a lot of veteran guys, a
lot of character, a lot of fight in these guys, and we're going to be ready to play
tomorrow. We were ready today; it didn't work out.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT