AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 5, 1998
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jaret, as young pitcher you have displayed an overpowering fast ball early in your
career. How has that at times helped and/or hindered your development as a pitcher knowing
that you have an overpowering fast ball?

JARET WRIGHT: I think this year more than any other there have been starts where I have
gone out there and not had it and that is when it helps. That is when you have to learn
how to pitch and I think when you do have it, it is just a plus because if you know how to
pitch, and use a good fast ball than you can be successful for the most part.

Q. Could you talk about your start against Boston and what you have got to do to
improve?

JARET WRIGHT: To me that is over. That is in the past. I know what I have to do to, you
know, to pitch tomorrow and so, no, I am not going to talk about it.

Q. Several of the Yankees remembered when you hit Luis Sojo. Can you use that to your
advantage and how important it is for you to pitch inside and if they have that in the
back of their minds, can you use it to your advantage?

JARET WRIGHT: I can -- I don't think I can take it for granted that somebody is up
there, you know, in the back of their minds that I might hit them that it would mess up
their approach or anything like that hitting because they are good hitters. I think for
me, inside is part of my game, and I am not trying to hurt anybody or hit anybody. That is
just the way I was taught to pitch. Hopefully I can get a couple of outs, you know,
pitching insides.

Q. How much did your experience in last year's postseason prepare you for this?

JARET WRIGHT: I think last year sitting right here I was a lot more nervous. I didn't
know what to expect and I think this year it is a little more easy going for me and I can
concentrate solely on pitching and trying to do my job the best way that I can this year.

Q. What do you remember most about pitching in Game 2? Is there a moment that you
remember the most from that experience?

JARET WRIGHT: I think you know, when I took the mound for the first time in the first
inning how loud it was and how much the crowd is into it here on every pitch and how much
they don't like the opposition here was -- stuck out in my mind but it was a great
experience for me and I am looking forward to it.

Q. How much did it bother you or effect you at all that the Yankees think you were
throwing at Sojo, at players or do you think they are out for some kind of revenge? 

JARET WRIGHT: There is not much I can say about that. I am out there to do my job and,
you know, I don't think we need to turn this into anything more than it is. It is about
the third time I have been asked about whether I am hitting people or not. I am out there
trying to get outs. I am out there trying to keep my team in the ballgame and you know, it
is baseball, you know, people get hit sometimes. But it is nothing -- it is not a revenge
factor or anything like that, I don't think.

Q. What about Shane Spencer, facing him in the playoffs?

JARET WRIGHT: Yeah, you know, he has been hitting the ball real well. He is hitting it
out of the park and you know, you just got to -- with a guy like that, that you might not
know too much about you have got to talk to a couple of guys who have faced him and know
during the course of the game that if you get him out one way you got to see what you did,
maybe go back to it and kind of learn as you go with him for the most part.

Q. Any teammates helped you along in how to face him?

JARET WRIGHT: Yeah, whether to say that is the right way we will see tomorrow.

Q. Do you draw a lot of confidence from knowing that you beat this team twice?

JARET WRIGHT: When you say I beat this team, it is more, you know, we beat this team
when I happened to be on the mound and my job stays the same to keep it close and
hopefully put up some zeros that we can score, you know, against a guy like David Wells.

Q. What are the most important factors that have to go right for the Indians to win
this series?

JARET WRIGHT: I think you know, it is just what baseball in general boils down to is
hitting, pitching and defense. If we can do three of three of those or two of three of
those and score more runs than they do, then we are going to win.

Q. Rightly or wrongly your team has been tagged as one of the teams that hangs around
and next thing you know you are in the World Series in the 6th or 7th game. Do you like
that; this is a team that gets it done?

JARET WRIGHT: I think the bottom line there is winning. I mean whether you hang around
or you go out and do it in a flamboyant way or something like that, if you are in that 6th
or 7th game in the World Series or something like that, then you are doing something
right. You are winning and that is where everybody on this team and in this organization
wants to be in.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT