MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 25, 1997
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What did Mike Hargrove tell you, how did he break the news to you that you're pitching Game 7, what did he say?

JARET WRIGHT:  Actually Mark Wiley came in, the pitching coach, and gave me the nod.


Q.  What did he say?

JARET WRIGHT:  He said you're pitching tomorrow.


Q.  Jaret, when did they tell you that?

JARET WRIGHT:  About five minutes ago.  I came in after the game and we were waiting around and they made a decision.


Q.  Jaret, Mark Wiley said this is the type of situation you'd want to be in.  How do you react to that?

JARET WRIGHT:  Yeah, I mean people have asked me in the New York series, have you dreamed about this and stuff.  When you dream, you don't dream to pitch in the playoffs like the first round, it's always Game 7 of the Series.  I'm just grateful for the chance to get to pitch tomorrow. 


Q.  Will you sleep well tonight?

JARET WRIGHT:  We'll see.  It will vary.  I might toss and turn, I might sleep until the afternoon tomorrow, we'll have to see.


Q.  What kind of advice will you expect to get from your dad?

JARET WRIGHT:  Probably the same thing he's been telling me, go get them, have fun, try and enjoy it and pitch with some heart and some guts.


Q.  Jaret, did you learn anything pitching in three days in the last game with the Yankees that you can apply tomorrow?

JARET WRIGHT:  I think the three days the first time I pitched it probably weighed a little bit more to me, and then going into Baltimore.  Now I think my arm feels good.  I got a lot of rest before my last start and to get up for the game tomorrow is going to be no problem.


Q.  Will you call your dad either tonight or tomorrow?

JARET WRIGHT:  Yeah, probably when I get back to the hotel.  I might have to hop on a red eye, because they're back home, and see if we can get them out here.


Q.  Jaret, did you pitch your last start as if  you knew you weren't going to throw another game this year, and wasn't that the thinking going into the Series that let's use Jaret one time, pitch his heart out and that's it?

JARET WRIGHT:  Yeah, that's -- that's no different than any other start.  I'm not going to -- when I go out on the mound I'm not going to hold anything back or nothing is going to change because it's my last start or because I didn't think I was going to get to pitch again.  I pitch every game like it might be my last one and I'm going to leave it all out there, I'm not going to try to save anything. Yeah, to the effect where I didn't think I was going to throw again.  But you've got a whole day to get focused.  I sat down in the bullpen tonight and it's just a good feeling.


Q.  Jaret, looking back on that first inning against the Yankees when you gave up three runs, are you glad that happened now, did you get a lot out of your system?

JARET WRIGHT:  No, I'm never happy when I give up three runs.  I'd say the Baltimore start when I didn't do so well, you got that out of the way, had a couple of good starts and God willing, hopefully we can get another one tomorrow. 


Q.  Jaret, to go from Akron to the 7th game of the World Series within the space of a season, what's your emotions or could you have envisioned something like that?

JARET WRIGHT:  It's been a roller coaster ride, definitely.  Just when you think you're up there's a new level of up, and tomorrow hopefully I can rise to the occasion tomorrow and just pitch my game.


Q.  To take Ross's question a little further, how about going to high school in three years to Game 7 of the World Series?

JARET WRIGHT:  I feel like high school was about ten years ago, sitting here right now.  It was only about three or four, but feels like a while ago, and I feel like I belong, and if we can feel like I belong one more day, which is tomorrow, we'll be okay.


Q.  It seems like in addition to your pitching your team seems to play well behind you and has a real good record with you starting, is there anything that's given you the good chemistry or how do you explain that?

JARET WRIGHT:  I'd have to say coming up through the Minors they always, in Cleveland's organization, they teach you to work fast and to keep the other guys on the field in the game.  So if you  take 15 to 20 seconds between pitches guys tend to lose concentration maybe a little bit.  So if you kind of work fast and throw strikes, it keeps the game moving along, and your team stays in the ballgame, I think.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT