MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 22, 1997
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jaret, 3 and 0 in postseason play, explain that, rookie?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   You score more runs than they do.  I'm going out doing the same thing, trying to throw strikes.  And you score ten runs, three in the first, it's giving momentum.  You just try to keep it when they score like that. 
 

Q.  How were the weather conditions for you?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   It was the coldest I've pitched in.  But Saunders, he had to pitch and everybody has got to play in it.  And there's heaters in the dugout and stuff, we can warm up like that.  But it was tough to get a grip on the ball.  I was behind a lot, threw a lot of balls, just trying to make pitches when I had to. 
 

Q.  Leyland said he was surprised you threw so many 2-seamers, can you explain your mix of 2-seamers and 4-seamers?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Basically tonight if we went inside we went with the 2-seam fastballs, trying to get a ground ball or hit on the hands.  That was just the  gameplan tonight. 
 

Q.  Was that what you got Bonilla with on the double-play ball, the 2-seamer?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Yes. 
 

Q.  Jaret, the importance of this game in your mind before you started the World Series?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I thought about Game 5 against New York.  That was if we lost, we go home, at least if we lost tonight, we get a chance to play tomorrow.  But all big games you try to stay on an even level, and not think one game is done until you win. 
 

Q.  Jaret, yesterday you said you felt real confident, but you said before this day that you wouldn't be nervous, did you feel that way?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Oh, yeah, I think it's been said a million times before, if you don't get nervous, if you don't get butterflies, then you're not human.  I was sitting on the couch in there to do the stuff that I do and butterflies and everything.  You start churning, then you get out there and it's baseball. 
 

Q.  Jaret, you mentioned that some similarity to Game 5 against the Yankees, I'm wondering if you thought a little bit about going in on Game 2.  In Game 1 there was that bad inning that exploded and to lose the next day it was momentum going against you, did you  have some of that today?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   You can think like that a little bit, but I wasn't putting anymore pressure on myself because we lost last night or anything like that.  It was more of a you try to put yesterday behind you, and get them today, which we did. 
 

Q.  Jaret, tonight Brian Anderson picked you up big coming out of the bullpen.  How important is it for you and the other starters to know that you don't really have to go 7, 8, 9 innings with this team because generally the bullpen has done so well for you?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   On any given night I'm going to go out there, leave everything on the field, just give everything I have, and it's the second time Brian has picked me up big, and probably take him out to dinner or something like that. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT