MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 21, 1997
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jaret, Tony Saunders talked about seeing you in the Arizona Fall League, do you remember seeing him and what do you remember?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   To tell you the truth, no, I don't remember too much about him.  I saw a lot of guys out there. 
 

Q.  Jaret, you've had a couple of big starts here at the end of the regular season, postseason, where does this rank in the anticipation, nervousness category?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I'm always okay the day before.  When I come in tomorrow and I'm sitting on the couch in there waiting to go outside and warm up, then I could tell you, but I'm sure it will be right up there. 
 

Q.  Jaret, I had a chance to talk to you earlier this year, and I asked you about getting to the Indians at that point.  Now here you are in the World Series, can you talk about some of your thoughts about that, looking back?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   What that meant was you had  to concentrate on what you were doing in Double-A and Triple-A to get here.  And now that I'm here it's just gone really fast, and I'm just trying to take the little things in as I go.  And in the off season, like I've said before, I'll sit back and really look at what's happened, and enjoy it probably to the fullest. 
 

Q.  Being a rookie, Jaret, in the World Series obviously can be unnerving, does it at all help you to know there's another rookie starting against you?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Maybe subconsciously, but it's not going to make my game any better, because there's a rookie going against me.  I'm going to go out like I'm pitching against Kevin Brown or their ace. I've got to be on my game.  And I think if I think about another rookie going against me, it might hurt more than help. 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about not getting to start in Game 2 and what was your reaction to that?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   No reaction, just to get a game in the World Series, they tell you you're going Game 4, and so far it's been a great move.  I mean Chad threw the ball outstanding, and it's just a great privilege to even get a game, so I'm happy. 
 

Q.  Not that you wanted to have a rocky start last time out, but can you feed off that, does it put  an edge on your preparation for the next start?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I'll say after that start you looked at a lot of things that might have went wrong or whatever, but it was just the day after to maybe two days after and then you concentrate on the next game. It's a bad start, and I guess if I was going to have one, that was probably a good time to get it out of the way, hopefully, and come back tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Mike talked the other day about not knowing how much you had left in the tank, do you know what you have left?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Are the Marlins going to see this?  (Laughter.) It is full, very full. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the biggest advantages and maybe even disadvantages in growing up in a baseball family?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I'll say advantages.  I think I got a jump start on my career, being around the game and just messing around and throwing the ball around with my dad and stuff.  Disadvantages, right now I really can't think of any because I'm here, everything is good now.  But probably if I was having bad times I could probably blame a lot of things on growing up in a baseball family. 
 

Q.  Can you compare what you've seen and heard  about the Marlins to the Orioles and Yankees, as far as the match ups?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I'm going to try to stay out of comparing the two teams.  It's the Marlins.  There are similarities to every team, but you take the Marlins and you dissect them as the Marlins and you're not going to look at, well, this guy is like Palmeiro or something like that.  Each guy is a different professional hitter and you've got to get them out that way. 
 

Q.  Jaret, everybody is talking about the weather, have you ever pitched in this cold of weather and how do you think it will affect you?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   I started in Akron at the beginning of the year it was freezing, so I have.  You just put on your sleeves and the adrenaline does a lot of work to keep you warm. 
 

Q.  Have you ever thought about how it is that you turned out to be more like a Nolan Ryan say, in terms of style, than Clyde Wright?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   You know, if we knew that then we could -- genetics, I don't know.  My mom, she's a great athlete, and my dad, he was okay (laughter.) So I guess I just got lucky. 
 

Q.  What kind of athlete was she? 
 
JARET WRIGHT:   She could run.  I've told this story before.  We used to go in the backyard and have little races, and I couldn't beat her until I was about 13.  So now we don't run anymore, because I can beat her. 
 

Q.  Jaret, in that ALCS game you finished the third inning and you got at least one out with the score 5-2 Baltimore and runners on second and third. When they had finished the come back in Cleveland won a game 8-7, did you think about that positive, where a single would have made it 7-2?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   Yeah, I think Mike let me stay in and get the job done there, and we made a change and ended up winning the game.  That's why everybody is here, to either keep it close, if you're not on, keep it to three runs, keep it to four runs, until you come out, but, yeah, we won that game, so it was definitely a positive, I don't know, maybe for me, but for the team. 
 

Q.  Jaret, the lifetime veterans talk about how maybe they don't appreciate the first time they experience something like this the way you are, they appreciate it more now.  Has your dad told you to find a way to savor this?
 
JARET WRIGHT:   They've basically just told  me to enjoy it, don't let the pressure -- there's going to be pressure, there's going to be nerves and stuff, but don't let all that stuff ruin it for you, where you don't have fun with it.  And I could see how some veterans may not appreciate it, because I'm in this position now, and it just happens so fast where you don't know where to store it all.  So hopefully in the off season you can put it in the right place and enjoy it. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT