AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 2, 1997
Jaret Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jaret, were your control problems the first inning the result of nerves; and what
did you do to straighten it out?
 
 JARET WRIGHT: I'd say it's a result of being in the position that you've never been in
before, and there's just a lot of stuff going on that I haven't had to deal with, and
having to walk a few people. And they're going into -- halfway through the first and into
the second I tried to settle down. 
 
Q. How did you accomplish that, Jaret, it was a stark contrast between the first and
the second inning?
 
 JARET WRIGHT: How did I do it? Just -- there was a lot of stuff that -- basically, I
just threw up a big wall and just concentrated to pitching out there, and I think that's
what you've got to do, is just think about you and the catcher. And Sandy called a great
game. And I think that's how it was done. 
 
Q. Jaret, was it just more overwhelming than you imagined? You knew you were going to
be pitching, standing up there the first inning, the crowd was going nuts.
 
 JARET WRIGHT: Like I said, you can't prepare for it. There's no feeling like it, being
out there and having -- especially these fans. I feel like they're right in your ear and
right on top of you. And I wouldn't say overwhelming, because it ended up like it did, but
pretty close. 
 
Q. Jaret, have you ever felt that way before? 
 
 JARET WRIGHT: No. 
 
Q. When you were in the middle of it, did you think I'm not going to get out of this?
 
 JARET WRIGHT: No, I never think when I'm out there negatively. Even in the first
inning, I had bases loaded and thinking, okay, doubleplay, get me out of this or something
like that. But it's never like, what did I get myself into or something like that. 
 
Q. Jaret, did you have any interesting conversations after the first inning in the
dugout with --
 
 JARET WRIGHT: People came up to me and said you'll be fine, it's just first inning, got
it out of the way. And I just basically, when I pitch, just sit down there and think to
myself what I'm doing. And I think people pretty much know that. 
 
Q. Is there a huge weight lifted off your shoulders once your teammates scored five
against Pettitte?
 
 JARET WRIGHT: You can hope for it as a second chance. I go three in the first and then
we went up, and that's when you had to come back and shut the door, when you go up. They
give you a second chance, and that's the way it happened. 
 
Q. In retrospect, Jaret, do you think it really was an advantage that the Yankees had
never seen you?
 
 JARET WRIGHT: I guess it worked that way tonight. I wasn't really -- I didn't change
what pitches I threw, because he hadn't seen me, yeah. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT