ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Montee Ball
Peter Konz
Nick Toon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We're about to get ready for round two with Wisconsin.   We have:   Running back Montee Ball, offensive lineman Peter Konz and wide receiver Nick Toon.   Questions? 

Q.   Montee and Nick, can you guys just talk about facing their defense.   You hear so much about their speed against your guys' strength and so forth.   Do you take offense at that because you want to get out there and show that Big Ten football can play with the Pac‑12 and any other conference? 
MONTEE BALL:   We don't take offense to it because we really do a great job of blocking out the media and all that stuff.   We just worry about focusing on our game.   But we have a little bit of speed, too, on the offensive side.   What we're going to do is we're going to make sure we play Wisconsin‑style football and attack them downhill and make sure we execute and capitalize on every opportunity.
NICK TOON:   Montee really touched on something that we like to concentrate on, that's focusing on Wisconsin and what we do as a football team.   Obviously Oregon is a great football team.   They have a lot of athletes and good football players, offensively and defensively.   And I know all of us are really looking forward to the opportunity of playing these guys on the 2nd. 

Q.   Nick and Montee, wanted to ask you about bouncing back from the two consecutive losses in the fashion that happened.   How were you able to sort of as a team, from the way you see it, keep things on track?
NICK TOON:   Well, you know, I'm sure you guys saw the games.   Both of those games were kind of plays that you see maybe once a year.   And they were tough losses.
But we just continue to do what we do every week, continue to prepare for our next opponent; and like you said, we kind of bounced back and did what we needed to do to put ourselves in a position to be where we wanted to be at the end of the season.
MONTEE BALL:   Basically that's right.   Our leaders and captains of the team did a great job of rallying us together after one of our team meetings and talking to us, not basically yelling at us, but telling us that the direction that the leaders are going to take the program is the right direction.   So all you underclassmen make sure you follow us and we'll take us you where we need to get to.

Q.   Pete, talk about the O line, the O line pride, and you've got a running back like that, through Wisconsin it's been tradition, and the matchup you're facing, Oregon and that D line, everyone's talking about size versus speed, the O line you've got the sweet running back, talk a little bit about that pride. 
PETER KONZ:   Well, I got a lot of speed.   So I don't know what they're talking about.   But we got a lot of pride at Wisconsin.   I mean, you look back, and you see Gabe Carimi, and Joe Thomas, Outland Trophy winners.   You've got Chris McIntosh, you've got a lot of guys that you really have to live up to.
You gotta live up to the strength standards, the weight standards.   You've got to live up to the knowledge that they had about the game.   We pride ourselves on being extremely smart, understanding blitzes, understanding formations, and really being on target so that we can be as successful as possible. 
And it makes it a lot easier when you have a great receiver, a great quarterback and a great running back, because I mean they'll open up stuff when we make mistakes.

Q.   Peter, are you for sure going to play in the game?   And just kind of update us on what this month has been like for you since you haven't been able to play?
PETER KONZ:   You're darned right I am.   Yeah, I feel‑‑ it's okay.   You can laugh.   It's just the media. 
But yesterday I went through all the practice.   I'm with the ones‑‑ it actually feels a lot better than I thought it would.   Coming into this week, I was feeling pretty good.   I'm walking around.   I'm lifting weights.   I'm getting conditioning in.   Actually I came in on Christmas to get a little bit of extra cardio, just so I'd be sure I was ready to play.
But yesterday, you know what, I got hit in the ankles sometimes and there was no excessive pain.   I didn't have to pull myself out of practice once.   I'm feeling pretty good.   And I can't wait to play in the Rose Bowl, because it's like a dream come true. 
I mean, who can say they can play twice? 

Q.   For each of you offensive guys, your offense seems to be so effective and so efficient.   What do each of you think individually that the keys are for you to get in your rhythm, what do you guys need to do well to have an efficient offensive game and to get in the rhythm that you seem to so often this season? 
NICK TOON:   I think most importantly is everybody doing their job.   As a receiver my job is to catch the ball when the ball comes my way, and block down field when we're not throwing the ball to allow Montee and James and those other guys to make big plays.   Like I said, I think most importantly is everybody doing their job and no one has to be Superman; but if everyone goes out and executes and does what they're supposed to do, you know, that's what's allowed us to have so much offensive success this year. 
PETER KONZ:   For the O line, and I guess for the offense in general, as a center you have to have everybody on target and have everybody understanding where they have to be, what blitzes are coming, you have to get everybody on track.   So as far as starting off the play, I gotta declare who we're going to and get everybody on track, so as an offensive lineman we can get the ball rolling.
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, pretty much everybody doing their assignment, really focusing on what you have to get done and making sure you're accountable to your teammates that you know they're going get the job done, even though the receivers might not like it, but us establishing the running game early is something we take pride in, and I believe we've been doing it since day one.

Q.   Peter, when you look at Oregon's defensive front, one of the guys that stands out is Dion Jordan, at the end, he's kind of taller and he's got long arms and kind of rangy.   Just your thoughts on dealing with a guy like that?
PETER KONZ:   You always gotta be aware of who the playmakers are.   And obviously he's one of them.   He's very good, very lengthy, can evade blocks.   But I feel confident that we've got a good game plan.   Coach Chryst is excellent of taking advantage of our strengths against their defensive formations.   We'll definitely keep an eye on a guy like that. 
But I have a lot of respect for them and for our tackles, too, that they can do a good job in understanding who the playmakers are.

Q.   Montee and Nick, can you guys talk about how there's so much talent on the offensive side of the ball as far as the skilled positions, with the playbook, you guys can do everything as long as you execute, for example, Montee when you threw the pass to Russell in the Big Ten championship game, it's those types of plays you're able execute and Paul Chryst can design anything and you can execute.
MONTEE BALL:   It's a testament to our coaches of really taking advantage of our strengths and what we show a little bit in practice and make sure to obviously put that stuff in the playbook; but also with the depth we have, second and third string guys know they're one play away from becoming a starter.   So they make sure that they get the second string and third string players ready for their chance.
NICK TOON:   You know, Montee kind of hit the nail right on the head.   It's a true testament to Coach Chryst and the rest of the coaching staff.   I think they do a great job of finding things that we can take advantage of every week and highlighting everyone's individual strengths.   And Montee also touched on the depth that we have at each position, and I think it's really important for everybody to be ready to go, everybody needs to be ready to step in if something happens, and we do a great job of making sure everyone is prepared.

Q.   This question's for Montee.   What does this rushing touchdown record mean to you?   Being mentioned with Barry Sanders, what does that mean to you, and maybe Peter can also comment on the offensive line's pursuit of this as well?
MONTEE BALL:   Well, obviously it means a lot to me.   It's an honor to being mentioned with one of the best running backs that ever played the game. 
If it happens, I'm looking forward to getting that job done because it's a huge award for the entire offense, because they'll be able to say that they blocked for the running back that broke the record.   I'll be able to say I have great O linemen and great receivers in front of me blocking to make sure I get that award.   I'm looking forward to it and hopefully it happens.   And if so, I'll make sure to share the credit with other great players around me.
PETER KONZ:   Offensive linemen don't really have too many awards or statistics that say you are the best or everybody should cheer for you during this play. 
When you've got a guy like Montee who breaks the record, that's a testament at how hard you guys work as a group and how hard he runs behind us.   So it will be great when he does that.

Q.   Montee, I guess we'll start with you, and if any of you guys want to chime in as well.   How much does last year motivate you, just I guess a simple question? 
MONTEE BALL:   Motivates us a lot because we believe that last year we didn't‑‑ we were focused but we didn't approach last year as it was a business trip.   And I believe that's what we've been preaching to each other to make sure we approach it as a business trip and keep telling each other why we're here in Pasadena and what we're trying to accomplish. 
And just watching the film last year we just weren't doing things we usually do.   We were the least penalized team last year, I believe, and we had a lot of penalties in that game that obviously hurt us in the long run.   So we'll make sure this year we stick to our playbook, our plan, and accomplish it.

Q.   Do you know Michael James at all?   Do you have any relationship with him?   If so, what's your relationship like with him?   If not, what do you think of him as a running back and how would you compare and/or contrast you guys as running backs? 
MONTEE BALL:   I was looking forward to meet him at Orlando.   I didn't get the chance.   I don't know why he wasn't there.   I was looking forward to meeting him.   But other than that, I'm sure he has great character and all that stuff.   But obviously what I see on SportsCenter and all that stuff he's really electrifying, makes a lot of plays on his feet and open space.   I believe that's what Oregon does a great job, is taking advantage of his strengths, getting him the football in open space. 
But what he brings to the table is speed, and I believe what I bring to the table is obviously a lot of power, strength and a little bit of speed as well.   But one of my strengths is, as the quarters go on, as the game goes on, I believe I get stronger come fourth quarter, rather than the first quarter.

Q.   Peter, I know Montee just talked about last year motivating you.   I remember some of those guys walking off the field last year, the seniors.   Getting a victory and especially the fact that you can play in this game, what would it mean for you to be part of a Rose Bowl winning legacy? 
PETER KONZ:   It would mean a lot.   It's kind of like your legacy.   You win a Rose Bowl, especially in a place like Wisconsin, where everywhere there's Rose Bowl championship signs.   People are always saying, hey, do you remember'99?   We got guys around like Ben Herbert, our strength coach, who has been to Rose Bowls.
It would mean a lot to us to win and create an identity for ourselves.   And obviously knowing what happened last year, we know how good it would feel to come out with a victory this year.   I mean, the Rose Bowl's the biggest game of them all and we want to perform so well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT