ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2021
Gabriela Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  GABRIELA RUFFELS:   I mean, I have a new caddie on the bag and I feel like we're starting to get used our yardages a bit more, just getting use the to course and the conditions.
 It was pretty windy today, but it was also windy yesterday afternoon and I feel like I handled that a bit better.
 Q. How has the wind -- obviously it has picked up -- how will that come into play tomorrow i would imagine?  Afternoon seems to just progressively get windier.  How have you adjusted to that?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, it was windy yesterday and it's just adjusting to it.  Some holes it's to your benefit and some holes you have to play with it.
 And is it's nice on some par-5s because they make it reachable.  But just kind of trying to get the wind right and the clubs right and just see how good you can do.
 Q. You finished T15 here last year.  You mentioned your parents live around here so you're kind of familiar with the conditions that this course has to offer.  What's it like to be able to practice around the area and have that familiarity, especially for a major championship?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, it's really cool firstly staying at home, especially for a major.  I feel like you don't get that that much, sleeping in your own bed and going home and seeing my dog.  It just makes it that much more relaxing and comfortable.
 I practice at Toscana Country Club and playing out here and playing in these conditions I don't think it can hurt you.  So, yeah, definitely feeling more comfortable.
 Q. What kind of dog?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Australian Shepherd.
 Q. That's fun.  What's the excitement level for tomorrow going into a major championship?  You put yourself in a great position to climb the leaderboard.
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yes, it's so cool.  It's what you dream about.  Whatever happens, I feel like I'm going to learn from it.  I'm just really looking forward to it.
 Q. Building off the success you found last week on the at Symetra Tour, getting off to a great start here today.  Three birdies in the first four holes, low round of the week here.  What was the difference here today?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, I thought it was good today.  I got off to a really good start and I felt comfortable out here.  I was trying to position myself a lot better to attack these pins because they were not easy out there.
 Yeah, overall really happy.
 Q. Just six months ago you finished in the top 15 here as an amateur.  A lot has changed since then.  You're now out here competing as a professional.  No status out here, but how do you feel like you're adjusting to life as a professional?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, turned pro last month and it's super exciting.  It's kind of what you dream about.  I'm having is much fun.  I don't feel like there is that much difference between playing amateur and pro.  You're still playing golf and still having fun, so it's pretty good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT