U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2020
Gabriela Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Every player at this point is going to be good.  I knew that coming into the match and expected it, and she played great today.  It was a great match again.  Nothing is easy out here.  So yeah, just super happy to get out there tomorrow.
 Q. Any part of your game you felt really helped you out today?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   I think it was overall pretty good.  I think my irons held up, and my putting definitely at the start it was pretty good.  I think we both shot about even or 1-under, and on this course it's so tough out there.  Such a tough course.  Overall really happy and can't wait to get back out there tomorrow.
 Q. How about the mental part of your game, just staying even keel?  Where does that come from?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Just kind of knowing how long the week is, kind of drawing from the experience last year, knowing that no matter how many up or down you are, you have a chance.  Just kind of staying with it, and you never know what happens.
 Q. The par-3s helped you out on the back nine, I think 13 and 16 you won both those holes.  Do you remember what happened on those holes?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, 13 was kind of crazy.  I holed like a 40-footer downhill right to left.  I was just trying to lag it up there, but it shows you what good speed does.  It just kind of dropped in the right edge.  And then 16 I've been hitting pretty good on that hole all week.  Hit 4-iron into there and then she made bogey, so I just had to two-putt.  Yeah, it gave me 2-up going down the last two, so it was pretty good.
 Q. To be facing Rose tomorrow, your thoughts about that?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Yeah, super excited.  Kind of reminiscing from last year's final, playing another Stanford girl.  Obviously she's playing really good, and my teammate told me today how good she played.  I think it's going to be a great match.  Can't wait to get out there.
 Q. A little bit different feeling going into the final this year than last year, or is it kind of the same for you as it was before?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   I feel like it's the same.  I never know what to think out here.  This tournament is so crazy, mixed emotions all the time, roller coaster.  But yeah, I can't really answer that.  I'm just so happy right now.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT