U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2019
Gabriela Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played 32 holes of golf in three matches.  Obviously something is clicking.  You're not on the golf course very long.
GABRIELA RUFFELS: Yeah, I mean, I'm playing pretty well.  I think the scores don't really reflect how tough it's been.  It definitely hasn't been a breeze like the scores say, but this course is so hard, I think I've just been doing good with hitting fairways, hitting greens and staying consistent.
Q. Anything in particular?  Is it overall good or is there one part of your game that's really kind of stood out the past couple years?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: I think it's been overall pretty good.  I usually rely on my iron play, ball-striking and putting, and that's been working really well this week.
Q. Did you get any advice from your brother?  He's been through this before.
GABRIELA RUFFELS: No, not really.  But he's been cheering me on from the sidelines.  I'm always getting texts after each match, good luck, keep going, and there was definitely a lot of support from him.
Q. Are your parents here this week?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: My mom is here.  She's been following me every match.  Such a trooper out in the heat.
Q. Yeah, she's a national winner, won the national title at SC.
GABRIELA RUFFELS: She did, yeah.  She won one team one and I think one individual.
Q. Your dad has won doubles titles?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: He has, yeah.  He was great doubles player, a good coach, and yeah, I mean, it's cool to kind of pull on their experiences a little bit being professional athletes and professional tennis players.  Yeah, I mean, I'm getting a lot of support from them this weekend.
Q. You obviously won the North and South earlier this summer, a match play event similar to this.  Do you think that experience has helped you this week?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: Yeah, of course.  I mean, a win does nothing but give you confidence, and I think it was a great kind of preparation for this tournament.  Of course playing all those matches definitely helped.  Any experience you can get in match play will definitely help.
Q. Especially playing Pinehurst in the heat.  I'm sure it's just as hot there as it is here.
GABRIELA RUFFELS: Yeah, I was telling my coach, this is a little hotter but it's definitely similar.
Q. How many collegiate wins at SC?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: I've had one.
Q. You're going to be a junior?
GABRIELA RUFFELS: Going to be a junior, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT