U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 11, 2020
Gabriela Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Another solid day.  1-over today.  Now that you've gotten a chance to play Jackrabbit and Cypress in competitive rounds, just how different are they?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   They're very different.  Not sure which one is tougher yet.  They're both tough in their own kind of way.
 Jackrabbit was definitely a test today.  Wind wasn't as much, but it was super tight off the tee, and if you missed it a little you were in trouble.
 The greens were super, super small and the pins were in pretty tough positions.  So I was pretty happy with the way I played.
 Q. There are six amateurs in the top 30 right now.  What does that say just about women's amateur golf and the way that you guys approach championship golf now?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Shows that women's amateur golf is in pretty good form right now.  I've known that since I started college.  I been playing against the top amateurs in college and have been super impressed and impressed with the they have been able to kind of put it against the best women in the world.
 So I'm actually not surprised at that.
 Q. What do you think it is that gives you guys the confidence when you tee it up against the best in the world to feel like you belong out here and you can compete?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   I feel like just playing with each other week in and week out.  Even on my team we have I think four or five in the top 100 in the world.  It's always competitive.  Week in week out we're playing Stanford and all these really, really good teams and playing with each other every week, so I think it's just if every one is good it elevates everyone else.
 Q. Looking ahead to the final two days, how do you mentally prepare for two rounds on Cypress?
 GABRIELA RUFFELS:   Do the same thing I did the first day.  I played pretty good.  So just they're big greens, so pinpointing where you want hit them, where you don't want to miss, and yeah, just keep going.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT