RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2015
Austin Connelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the main difference for you today, and how good did you feel out there?AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, the main difference was I was hitting better quality iron shots.  I gave myself a lot more looks, and then whenever I did make a mistake, my short game saved me.  I had a couple of really nice pitches and bunker shots.Q. Do you feel like the crowd was in your corner today?  How does it feel to get 8 in here?AUSTIN CONNELLY: It's unbelievable.  The crowd is definitely behind me.  I think they're behind all the Canadians.  It's amazing.  Just the feeling of having all those people supporting you is unlike really anything else.Q. So now you've made the cut of your first Canadian Open.  Is everything here on out just a bonus for you?AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, I want to come out tomorrow and I want to play another good round.  I just want to play clean, solid golf.  I feel like if I do that, I can have a chance to slide into contention.Q. Going back to yesterday, you're in the last tee time out.  Just wondering, does that sort of work against you when you have all day long to wait and wait and wait before you get a shot?AUSTIN CONNELLY: You know, it didn't bother me yesterday because I was able to sleep in.  I've had a long stretch, and a little bit of extra sleep is nice.  But what is difficult is the greens get pretty chewed up.  You have 156 guys roll through there, and you have a lot of spike marks, and the guys wear metal spikes and they get kind of chewed up.  So it was difficult to make putts of any length because they were kind of wiggling around, especially on the back nine yesterday. But it is what it is.  I'm happy to be here.  Yeah, I'm happy to get it done.Q. You told me earlier this week you had your putter back.  That comfortable putter, was it the key today?AUSTIN CONNELLY: You know, I really shot my score today with my ball striking.  I made all the putts that I would say I'm supposed to make.  I didn't really make very many putts with much length to them.  I hit a lot of really nice quality iron shots in there right below the hole, five, six feet, and really took advantage when I had wedges in my hand.  Yeah, I really feel like I played well today.Q. Have you always played so fast?AUSTIN CONNELLY: I have, definitely.Q. Any reason?AUSTIN CONNELLY: I hit it when I'm comfortable, and I get comfortable pretty quick, so it's just the way I am.Q. Are you comfortable playing a putter with somebody else's autograph on the end?AUSTIN CONNELLY: This is actually my back-up putter.  It's the original one I got.  I actually called Bettinardi and I said, hey, I'm playing a couple PGA TOUR events this year, because I can't play a putter with Matt Kuchar's signature on it.  I can't do it.  They sent me a TOUR style one, and unfortunately that one broke on a plane.  So I was finally able to get my back-up in my hands. I hadn't gone home for quite a few weeks so, it took a little bit of time to get that back in my hands.  But it feels great now.Q. Is your grandfather down in Playa (Indiscernible)?AUSTIN CONNELLY: He was, yeah.Q. So your putter broke on a flight?  What is it with you and Graham having no luck with flights and having your equipment arrive safely?AUSTIN CONNELLY: It's actually the first time it's ever happened to me.  I'm pretty thankful for that.  It was a nightmare.  I had other putters sent to me, and they all came in messed up.  I had another back-up putter that was a different head style that I really didn't feel comfortable with, so I had to play with that for about four events.  Finally before the Pan-Am Games last week, I was able to get this one back, and it's much better.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT