MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is this going to be like for you to go into the weekend with your name near the top of the leaderboard?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's really good.  I played well last week and still feel good about my game.  A little tired this week, but I'm just going to rest up this afternoon and get ready for the weekend.
Q. How does your approach maybe change, or are things the same when you go into the weekend and you're up at the top?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, everything stays the same.  I left a few shots out there today.  Felt pretty good idea, but today I left a few out there, so just play my own game and hope it all pans out.
Q. Is there some carryover from last week, playing really well there and then coming over here?  Was this carryover do you think?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, of course.  I think that's how golf works.  When you're playing well, you're playing well.  When you're not, you miss the cut.  It happens, and yeah, I'm playing well right now, so just keep on going.
Q. You're halfway through your rookie stand.  Are you maybe starting to get comfortable out here?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, definitely.  I think playing before as an amateur out here, this was the first course that I've known before I played, so that helps, too, and I feel comfortable I actually know where the bathroom is.  But yeah, it's been great, and I'm really enjoying it and have a good support team.  It's been a fun year.
Q. You received one of those sponsor exemptions when you won nationals.
EMMA TALLEY: Yes.
Q. What was that experience like, and what do you think the other girls out here are experiencing?
EMMA TALLEY: Oh, it's so much fun because you finally get a glimpse at what you can do and what you can't.  I missed the cut last year.  I think the girl this week is playing really well.  You kind of see what you need to work on and how you compare to all the girls out here, the best girls in the world.  It was a great experience.  I was lucky that I was able to play in a couple events like that.
Q. After a day like today, how do you stay even keel mentally going into the rest of the tournament?
EMMA TALLEY: I just started a new Netflix show, so I'll probably just go watch Netflix, and that keeps me pretty even keel.
Q. What is it?
EMMA TALLEY: "How to Get Away With Murder."
Q. Your success as an amateur and on the Symetra Tour, how has that propelled you into your rookie year?
EMMA TALLEY: I think a lot.  I was able to play 11 or 12 events as an amateur on the LPGA, and obviously that helps my confidence, and I'm not as star struck when I got out here.  And then Symetra was just a great opportunity for me to learn how to play week to week.  I look back, and I'm so glad that I was able to play on Symetra for a year and a half.
Q. You're one of the few players to win the U.S. Amateur and the NCAA championship.  What does that mean to you, and how is that going to help you, as well?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's crazy the names that I'm among on that.  It's a blessing, and hopefully I can win another major, and then I'll be the only one, I think.  Yeah, it's a good challenge, I think, and it was just two great tournaments I happened to play well at.
Q. What are your thoughts on the Senior Women's Open going on right now?  That's a long way off, but it's still something cool that you get to shoot for.
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's really cool.  Yesterday I saw some of the scores, and there's some good numbers and there's some bad numbers, but I think it's great that they're having it.  I think it's awesome.  Yeah, hopefully I'll be there one day.
Q. Your putter betrayed you a little bit on the first nine holes.  Are you excited you got out of there with a 67 or frustrated it could have been lower?
EMMA TALLEY: It definitely could have been lower, but I'm happy with it.  I mean, this is how you've got to play.  You've just got to shoot 4- or 5-under every single day, and that's usually what the winner does.  I'm happy I'm playing pretty good right now.  Just going to stay steady.  I was actually really tired the first few holes, so I got some Gatorade in me, so felt better after the first few holes.
Q. It happened yesterday, too, got off to that slow start, and something needs one little break and you feel like you get going?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, I might start with Gatorade tomorrow morning.
Q. Today is Friday the 13th.  Does that mean anything to you?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, my caddie mentioned it on the second to last hole.  I had no idea.  I didn't even think about it.
Q. Do you feel like this is a big opportunity now heading into the Saturday-Sunday rounds now?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, of course it's a great opportunity.  Last week was a great opportunity, and this week is, too.  You've just got to take those opportunities and kind of run with them.  Hopefully my game is ready for the weekend.
Q. Last week you got the opportunity to tee off at 3:30, sort of late in the afternoon, and being in contention, what lessons from last week can you take to apply to this week?
EMMA TALLEY: Just stay patient.  I was really patient last week, and even today if I wouldn't have been patient it wouldn't have worked out for me.  Just stay patient and realize you're not going to make everything, especially when you're hitting a lot of the greens, so just stay patient and play my game.
Q. I walked 18 holes today with you, and you thanked every single volunteer, even the people that were crossing.  Are you always this nice?
EMMA TALLEY: I try to be.  My mom taught me at a young age that golf is the least of our worries, so I try to thank everyone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT