THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 8, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on a heck of a week.  
EMMA TALLEY: Thank you.  Yeah, I'm really excited.  Obviously I wanted to make the last putt, but don't win them all.   
Yeah, it was a great week for me.  I played really well, and I'm excited about next week.   
 Q.  Was it a matter of just knowing you could come in and find some birdies?  Did anything happen with your swing to create those chances this week?  
EMMA TALLEY: My dad actually helped me with my putting in Arkansas, which was two tournaments ago, so last week was kind of a tester, I guess.  This week my putting was great.   
Yeah, I've been working on my swing a little bit.  After the first round my driver was bad.  My boyfriend who caddies helped me with my driver, and I hit all the fairways, most of them at least, the rest of the week.   
So yeah, I mean, I just kind of -- everything felt right, so hopefully I can carry that to next week.   
 Q.  Minus-20 and maybe 11 back.  Ever imagine anything like that?  
EMMA TALLEY: I just looked ed at my caddie and I was like, 30-under?  That's unbelievable.  If you would've told me that was the winning score I would've been like, There's no way someone is going to go that low.   
She had a heck of a week and I'm really excited for her.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, I mean, to me last week was kind of rough for me, so I was really excited to get here and work through my swing and commit to each shot, and that's what I did this week.   
When you see a 30-under it's pretty crazy, but you just keep playing your game.  That's all you can do.  You can't play defense.   
 Q.  Does that help your confidence?  
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, for sure.  Definitely gained a lot of the confidence this week.  Haven't been playing as well as I would like to the past month, so this is kind of the breakthrough, I think.   
Hopefully the next few weeks will be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT