THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Emma, followed it up awfully well.  Talk about the round.
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, bogey at the last was kind of disappointing, but I played really well today.  Actually felt like I played better today than I did yesterday.  Driver was much better.  Missed a couple putts, but the back nine treated me well.
Q. What's the mindset when you're going out early in a tournament like this where you know there will be a lot of low scores?
EMMA TALLEY: I'm playing well right now, so really just trying to play my game.  I feel really confident, so just trying to take one shot at a time.
The greens are pretty soft so you can kind of pin seek a little bit, and that's what I like.  That's how I grew up, so I'm enjoying just going straight at the flag.
Q. When you have a leader that hits 10-under yesterday, do you give yourself a score or goal you try to hit or just focus on you?
EMMA TALLEY: No, not really.  I mean, she may do it again today, but that's going to be hard to shoot 10-under two days in a row.  More power to her if she does.
Yeah, you just play your game that's all you can do.  I played pretty well today, so looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. What's the biggest positive you've taken out of these first two rounds?
EMMA TALLEY: I'm really proud of myself the way I hit the ball yesterday and still shot 7-under.  I didn't hit it very well off the tee a little all.
I worked on it yesterday afternoon after the round and I hit my driver really well today.  So that was probably the biggest positive, just coming back from that, because I wasn't confident at all after the round.
Q. How much do you kick yourself after a bogey on the Par 5?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it was rough.  Definitely not what I was expecting, but it happens.  Only bogey of the day.
My pitch shot just hit high on the face, so nothing you can do about that.
Hit my second shot a little further than I thought, so just bad shots I guess you could say.  Just didn't make the putt.
Q. How do you approach the weekend?  What's your mindset going in?
EMMA TALLEY: Just keep playing my game.  Like I said, I feel really confident about my game right now, so I am just going to keep doing what I'm doing, and hopefully turns out all good.
Q. I asked you yesterday about the Island Resort Championship.  There were three former Island Resort Champions in like the top 15, all within a couple shots of the lead.  What does it say about those players that they can go from there to here so quickly?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, I love the Symetra Tour.  I look back on it and I am so thankful that I was able to play on the Symetra Tour.  It really teaches you how to travel each week and how to play out here each week.
The courses are set up a little different, but the Symetra Tour is great.  I got to play for a year and a half.  I have a lot of good memories from Symetra.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT