U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your frustration level like just not being able to get anything generated out there?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it was a rough day.  This morning was great, I made the cut and this afternoon I'm not hitting the ball as well as I'd like to.
When I had the birdie opportunities I just didn't -- I didn't make them and when I had a few par putts and I did make them.  Couldn't get anything going out there.  Lipped out, 360 on the of the last hole.  Kind of a rough day.  Looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. What do you attribute that to, is it a struggle with the course?
EMMA TALLEY: I don't know.  We play how many weeks out here?  I think it just happens.  I don't think it's anything.  It's just one of those weeks.
Q. Didn't seemed like anyone is going super low today.
EMMA TALLEY: It's hard.  You're not getting any roll in the fairway so the course is playing pretty long and then I mean yeah, the greens are really hard, the pins are hard.
You got to know where to land them and you got to be spot on.  You can't be right or left and I mean you got to be pretty much perfect to make birdies.  Par is not so hard but to make birdies is very difficult out there.
Q. You've taken the time to sign every ball out there on 18.  You ran up here to sign your scorecard.
What does that mean to make you get to everything single person?
EMMA TALLEY: I'm a Bama Girl, Roll Tide.
They've treated me amazing at Shoal.  What can I do?  I can take five minutes and make a difference to a little kid out there.  That's what it's about.  It's not about all this stuff.
Q. I think I heard that you requested a hundred tickets this week.
EMMA TALLEY: Not quite.  I requested just a couple but I didn't go that far but I could have for sure.  I've had about a hundred people ask me for tickets.
Q. Anything that you played 30 holes, you start to feel it?
EMMA TALLEY: It could have been.  My boyfriend handed me a Gatorade on 16.  He said, "You look like you're about to die."  I didn't feel that way but I guess it is inside of me.
Q. How has the course changed throughout day from when you finished your 2nd Round to the 3rd round?
EMMA TALLEY: It's completely different.  It's drying out.  The course is much firmer than it was.  Fairways not so much, the greens for sure.  They have sub-air, I think here so that's helping and then also yeah, just getting dryer, dryer.  Hopefully it doesn't rain tomorrow.
Q. Do you find they're harder to read at all today?
EMMA TALLEY: I kind of know the breaks a little bit but I think I just wasn't close enough.
Thank y'all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT