U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a very long day yesterday.  Where did you start round 2 today?  How many holes did you play?
EMMA TALLEY: I was on the 7th fairway.
Q. How did you spend your time when you were waiting yesterday?
EMMA TALLEY: Waiting?  I was actually in the Alva Naturist Cottage and I was just hanging out with friends and my parents and boyfriend.  I just kind of took it easy.
Q. The fact that you are a member here and you are going to be playing on the weekend, what do you say about that?
EMMA TALLEY: I'm very excited.  This will be a memory that I have for the rest of my life, playing a U.S. Open at my home course for the past couple of years and the state of Alabama where I went to school.  I was lucky enough to win the playoff to get here to play and now I've made the cut.  So I'm very excited.  Hopefully we can get some red numbers.
Q. Did you have to fight off any extra nerves or pressure or anything like that?
EMMA TALLEY: I wish I was more nervous.  I think I was too calm.  The first day it took me probably 11 holes or more to get to think, this is a tournament and it's not just a tournament, it's the U.S. Open.  I wish I would have had more nerves.  I felt peaceful yesterday, probably too peaceful.
Q. What do you have to do get to those red numbers?
EMMA TALLEY: My short game has saved me.  I shot 1-under today purely because of my short time.  Hopefully I can start hitting it a little better.  My swing feels great.  Hopefully the results will come.  Not too worried about it, just keep grinding and see what happens.
Q. Are there places on the golf course where your local knowledge might be an advantage for you?
EMMA TALLEY: For sure.  There's been several times where I'm like I know if I hit it in this area, it will spin back.  A couple of par-3s, just knowing where to place the ball.  This is a golf course of placement.  You have got to know where to place it on the greens, what holes to go for and what holes not to go for, and also just where to miss it and where you can't miss it.  I think there's a lot of local knowledge here, and hopefully I can use it to my advantage of over the weekend.
Q. Are you spending more time practicing or trying to find tickets for people?
EMMA TALLEY: Trying to find tickets for people.  But that's okay.
Q. About how many people have been asking you?
EMMA TALLEY: I would probably say almost 100 people.  I just know so many people around this area.  It's pretty close to my home in Kentucky, so there's been a lot of Kentucky.  They have all shown up.  Even though I haven't been able to supply all the tickets, they are still here.  So I really appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT