U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the day like for you, if you could sum it up?
EMMA TALLEY: Rough.  It was pretty rough out there but I'm happy honestly to stay at plus 2.  It could have been a little worse.
Game was just kind of -- got off on the wrong foot.  And on No. 8, my second to last hole, it hit the flag and ricocheted a little bit so that could have been a birdie.
Then I missed a two-footer on a par 5 for birdie.  So just kind of rough day, but looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. What was that iron you hit into the 8?
EMMA TALLEY: I actually hit an easy 7, probably could have hit an 8.  That probably would have been a better shot.  Made some poor decisions as well today.
Q. How far away did it go from the flag?
EMMA TALLEY: Probably 12, 15 feet.
Q. How did it feel to play at your home course in the U.S. Women's Open?
EMMA TALLEY: Honestly it was kind of weird playing here in a tournament.  I have played here in the regional championship in my junior year.  It was a little dryer then.  A lot of the shots played differently because the greens were softer because it's wet out there.  The course is a little bit different.  It was weird playing on my home course, but now I got one rond under my belt, so hopefully tomorrow will be better.
Q. What is it like to play with someone who went to the same college as you?
EMMA TALLEY: She played awesome.  So I'm really excited for her and excited to get her out here soon.
Alabama has done great things and we have a lot great players.  It was fun playing with her and she beat my butt today.  So hopefully I can get her tomorrow.
Q. On your third hole, you had that soggy lie and stuffed it.  Was that part of playing on a day like this?
EMMA TALLEY: Honestly, yeah.  I kind of -- yeah, yes.
Q. What was the crowd like?
EMMA TALLEY: I had a lot of support here even from Kentucky which was really cool.  A lot of people yelling Roll Tide.  Lots of support.  Hopefully that will be back tomorrow.
Q. With the college program at Alabama for the men and women, can you talk about how they are able to excel so much?
EMMA TALLEY: It's amazing.  Both teams made it to the national championship finals.  They both finished second.  That's just -- Alabama is amazing.  I came from Kentucky to go to school here.  The program itself, the school itself, the coaches are amazing.  It really just sets you up for a bright future, whether it's in golf or elsewhere.  I love Alabama.  It'll always be home to me, and I still keep up with my coaches administrators, teachers.  Just sent a baby gift to one of my teachers.  I'm very close to several people in Alabama.
Q. You described it as being weird playing in a tournament here.  What were your nerves like on the first hole compared to a regular LPGA event?
EMMA TALLEY: I honestly didn't have too bad of nerves here today, which was good.  Maybe I should have.  This place is like heaven on Earth to me.  I've said that a thousand times this week.  It really is.  I felt at peace here, so I had no nerves.  Maybe I need to make myself nervous tomorrow.
Q. You didn't feel like you were going to peel off after 14 today?
EMMA TALLEY: No, not at all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT