MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 6, 2020
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you did it for Cullan, huh?
EMMA TALLEY:   Yeah.  I don't know if you know this, but the 1st hole it was brutal.  I had a mental breakdown.  Had lots of tears just knowing that this was where he would want me to be.
Even though it was hard, I know this is the place he loved.  He loved hunting and being outside and he loved golf.  I talked to his mom last night and she said, Enjoy the walk because he would want you to.
So I'm here for him.  The first six holes golf was the last thing that was on my mind.  I really struggled to focus.  But then something hit me and I was just looking around.  This is the perfect day.  The weather was perfect.  It was so pretty out there.
I thought, You know what?  He would be so mad at me right now.  Like I need to suck it up and hold my shoulders back.  I wanted to make four birdies; ended up only making two.
Yeah, the last few days have been the worst days of my life.  I know he's not hurting anymore and I know that he's the best angel I could have ever dreamed of.
So even though I'm heartbroken, just taking it one day at a time.
Q. It's been amazing to see how much love there is in the golf community for him.  You had the blue ribbons here; there are the blue ribbons at the Women's Am this week.
It's got to be special to you to see how much the world loved your friend?
EMMA TALLEY:   Yeah, he truly was the best, and there is no words.  He was the honest, humble, lighthearted, funny, witty.  He's actually really smart as well.  He was a 50-year-old soul in a 20-year-old's body.
He's got the best personality in the world and cared for others.  If you watch him in anything, he always said we, talked about other people, not himself.
I think a lot of people learned from him, and Cheyenne told me yesterday and it stuck with me, He lived his purpose in 20 years.  He lived it very full.  I mean, he made such an impact on so many people, and I just want people to know who he was and continue his legacy.
Q. The band on your wrist, pray for Cullan.
EMMA TALLEY:   Yeah.  So last year I August 18th was the, Arkansas tournament last year and he caddied for me.  Then he played the Barbasol the next week and finished like 30 something.
The next week he hit his knee on his bedside table, and that's when they found out he had a tumor on his knee.  We got this a year ago.  I'm not going to take it off because I've had it for a year and it's part of him.
Q. And he's still with you looking down now.  Be with you forever.
EMMA TALLEY:   Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT