HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 19, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So what was your first impression of the golf course?
EMMA TALLEY: It's beautiful, especially at this time of day.  Goodness, it's beautiful.  Course is in great shape.  It's hard, but not too hard.
Q. It's a different kind of track for the LPGA.
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's kind of like -- I thought it looked kind of like Pinehurst, Australia this year, and like the Carolinas a little bit, and then a little bit link-sy too all mixed together to make this course.
It's really pretty.  Yeah, it's beautiful.  I could walk here a lot more.
Q. So you're naming places that you like.
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, exactly.  Right?
Q. So what part of your game is firing right now?
EMMA TALLEY: Actually had a few lucky breaks today, which you have to have.  But my short game has been really good.  I kind of struggled with it last few weeks and been working really hard on it as well the last couple weeks.
We saw the reward today.  Made a lot of good putts and couple up and downs that were really solid kind of bringing the momentum back, you know.
I didn't have many mistakes today.  I had one mistake and made bogey, and that was it really.  Going to go work on the range.  Had a few shots I didn't like, so I feel like there's room to improve, but very happy with what happened today.
Q. You had a bit of a shoulder issue going on earlier in in the year.  Is that all gone?
EMMA TALLEY: No, but yes.  I feel amazing, but I definitely have to keep doing all the little exercises my physical therapy gave me when I went home.  Yeah, still working on it.  I can feel it sometimes; on the golf course I feel 100%, which is nice.
Q. What have you learned so far in your rookie year about yourself?
EMMA TALLEY: Oh, a lot.  I have too many emotions.
Q. Is it more emotional than amateur golf?
EMMA TALLEY: I think I'm emotional.  (Laughter.)
Q. And you didn't know that as an amateur?
EMMA TALLEY: Well, I did, but it's another extreme.
Q. Got you.
EMMA TALLEY: But, yeah, I think handling your emotions and traveling and making sure you have time off but also gets your practice in.  It's like a circus.  You have to figure out.  Definitely learning everything each week about myself, my game, everything paragraph you learn something new every week.  I'm sure there will be lots more learning this year.
Q. Who is your caddie?
EMMA TALLEY: Jeremy Young, Heather Bowie Young's husband.
Q. How long have you had Jeremy?
EMMA TALLEY: This is our second week together.  I had someone, they quit, and then -- but it wasn't because of me.
Then I had someone, and then that ended because he already had commitments.  Now I have Jeremy, so hopefully that'll last forever.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT