U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How was the round?  EMMA TALLEY: The round was good.  I shot a couple more than I did yesterday, so that was kind of a bummer.  But I made the cut and my putting kept me in it for sure today.   Q.  Would you like to have your putt back on 18?  EMMA TALLEY: 17 and 18, I both pulled a little bit.  I don't know if that was nerves or what it was, but I'll definitely work on that.   Q.  What did you hit into 18?  EMMA TALLEY: A hybrid, easy hybrid.  Kind of got lucky.  Hit it a little thin, but worked out perfect.   Q.  How does it feel to be tied for the lead going into tomorrow?  EMMA TALLEY: I didn't know that, so there you go. Last year I got low Am at the British.  This means the world to me, just to be here, it's all about the process.  I just want to keep my mind focused on myself and just play well tomorrow.   Q.  What did you learn from past Women's Opens that you are using this week?  EMMA TALLEY: I think just experience.  I felt comfortable out there.  I remember my first U.S. Open I was star struck.  Now I could walk up the fairways with Laura and Natalie and they are so nice.  They gave me so much good advice.  I was blessed to have a great group this week.  That's how all the girls out here are.  They are just so nice.  It's a good experience no matter what.   Q.  Are you a talker?  EMMA TALLEY: Oh, yeah.  My major is communication.  Let's just say I probably didn't go a hole without talking with one of them the whole way up the fairway.  So it was fun.   Q.  Are you playing the U.S. Women's Amateur?  EMMA TALLEY: I'm not.  I'm going to play Marathon next week and then go to Q School in the fall.   Q.  So next week are you making your professional debut?  EMMA TALLEY: No.  I'm going to stay in school to get my degree.   Q.  So you are going to stay amateur through next year?  EMMA TALLEY: Yes.   Q.  That's definite?  EMMA TALLEY: Yes.  I love school.   Q.  That's fine.  So what are the goals then?  You won a Curtis Cup.  You won a Women's Amateur.  You won an NCAA title.  EMMA TALLEY: I'd love to get my degree is the next one.  I laugh, everybody has been asking me what has been my favorite success this summer and I tell them the A or A plus I got in Western Civ in June.  I think getting my degree and then golf wise just getting better. I have another year at Alabama.  They have helped me so much, the girls, with my game.  I know that another year there will help me improve.   Q.  Would you stay around for another Curtis Cup?  EMMA TALLEY: We'll see.  I haven't thought about it.  So there you go.   Q.  You spent the week here with the best players in the world, not just the best amateurs, but the best players in the world.  What do you take away from that that will help you wherever you go next?  EMMA TALLEY: They have given me good advice not just about golf, but where to live, how to do -- how to get here, how to interact with the crowd, interact with people.  It's not all about golf here.  They definitely gave me some great advice this week on how to approach things. Like I said, Natalie and Laura were great this week.  I played with Azahara Munoz in the practice round and she was incredible as well.  Not only did I take away all their advice, but I definitely made some new friends out here this week.   Q.  You are the poster child of the USGA.  Just maybe hate to say this, but maybe a self-serving quote about being involved with the USGA?  EMMA TALLEY: The USGA has been so good to me.  It's not all about golf.  I feel like every time I turn around, I know who is coming at me because they are so great and personable.  The golf here is excellent.  Every time you come to a USGA event, you know you are going to get the best of the best.  This is my fourth U.S. Open.  I loved every single one of them.  It's been really great.   Q.  Was it a tough call not to play in the Women's Amateur?  EMMA TALLEY: It was, but I'm going to try to go to a couple of stages.  If you can make it out of the first one just to get some Symetra status, maybe.  It was a tough call but they ran in together.  It kind of just happened like that.   Q.  If you go to Q School and get your card --  EMMA TALLEY: I'm not going to go until third probably.   Q.  Going to go to a couple?  EMMA TALLEY: Hopefully.   Q.  You can play as an amateur on the Symetra Tour?  EMMA TALLEY: You can get your Symetra status, supposedly, but you can't get your pro status.  If I get Symetra status, I can wait until the summer to use it.  I can play my amateur golf until I want to use it basically.   Q.  As long as you don't go to the final stage?  EMMA TALLEY: Right, exactly.   Q.  This is an unorthodox type of progression.  It's great, but how did you come about this?  EMMA TALLEY: From the very beginning, I'm 21 years old.  I love school.  I love Alabama.  My roommates are great.  I have always wanted to get a degree.  This is just another one of my goals in playing.  What's six months, you know? My dad always said -- my parents always said you are only going to be 21 and in college once.  It's not important to everybody, but it is important to me.  So I'm really excited.   Q.  What keeps you grounded?  EMMA TALLEY: God has blessed me with so much.  I know that he's given me this talent to play golf.  I just want to make a difference to others and work with the ability He gave me.  Thank you, God.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT