CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 8, 2014
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  EMMA TALLEY:   I just played my game.   Today our captain said it was successful Sunday, we had a theme for every day.   I just came out and tried to play my game.   It was fun; speechless.  
   
 Q.   You played flawlessly.   What happened on the last hole there for you?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   Well, I knew that that chip shot, I wasn't really trying to be that aggressive, but it worked out for the better.   I had a little two‑and‑a‑half‑footer to win it, and a little break, actually, but it was nice to see it drop in the hole.  
   
 Q.   You've got to be on top of the world.   You said earlier this morning it was the best week of your life.   What about this moment?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   Dreams do come true, that's for sure.   This was the best week ever.   I'm just happy to play with my friends and to my for my country is even better.  
   
 Q.   As the reining U.S. Women's Amateur Champion, how does this rank up there with winning the Curtis Cup; good feeling?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   I can't even compare them really.   It's awesome.   This has been a very blessed year and I'm very thankful that God has given me that opportunity.   
   
 Q.   Quite fitting that you would get the final point for you to win.   
    EMMA TALLEY:   This week was a dream come true and I couldn't be more happy that I could do this for my country and it was a great week for my friends, and go USA.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised how well your team has played?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   I'm surprised Captain didn't have a harder time than she did.   Everyone is playing so well this week and that helped a lot obviously, so I'm excited to watch the rest.   
   
 Q.   You played in the Kraft Nabisco and you're playing in the U.S. Women's Open very shortly and the Women's British.   You won the winning point this week, current Amateur Champion, doesn't get much better does it?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   God has definitely given me an opportunity that I'm taking advantage of, and I'm very blessed and honored to be a part of all of this.  
   
 Q.   Where do you think you can go from here?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   U.S. Open next week.   All I can do is keep playing my game, have fun, and do my best.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you knew by virtue of being the first out that you had the potential all day to be the person who secured the point.   Was that in your mind at any point?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   Oh, for sure.   Captain Port put me out first.   I wanted to get it done for my team so they could play their hearts out today.   We all wanted to play for each other this week and we all did this.   
    It was a privilege that I got to go out first and I was very happy that I got that opportunity and glad I got to secure the point.  
   
 Q.   Bronte is a very tough competitor.   
    EMMA TALLEY:   Oh, for sure.   I played with her in college golf and she's a great player.   She had a few putts that were lipping out on her that could have changed things for sure.   The putts were dropping for me today and I played really well.  
   
 Q.   That's indicative of the whole week.   They lipped‑out and you guys made.   
    EMMA TALLEY:   Yeah, that's sometimes how it goes and all of us seemed to be playing pretty well this week which was pretty exciting.  
   
 Q.   Captain Port said she went to you guys and asked who wanted to go out first and I guess you're the type that likes to be the lead‑off batter, per se?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   I didn't really know.   She just walked up to me and asked me if I cared if I was the first out and I said, "Hey, I'd love to."   It was definitely an honor to be able to go out first for my country.  
   
 Q.   How will this week help prepare you for Pinehurst?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   I'm excited.   This is a good week but now I have to go home and practice and get ready for that, because those girls are good.   
   
 Q.   Your college coach said that he has not seen you hit the ball this well since he was recruiting you at a junior tournament.   Can you talk about how you're striking it this week?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   I played really well this week, and my putting was right on.   I hit the ball great this week.   I struggled kind of this fall and spring in college golf, but when I got home, I went to my coach and I really practiced hard and kind of took a couple days off even.  
    To be out here with all my friends practicing, we got a whole week, basically, before we even started playing.   It was good preparation and all came together at the right time.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any thought about why you guys have been so on this week, why do you have dominated this tournament?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   I don't know if there's anything else to say other than you're playing for your country.   This is a once‑in‑a‑lifetime kind of thing.   It's a dream come true for all of us.   We've been playing together since we were 13 years old.   This was the peak of our career and this is what we've been working for for a long time.   We wanted to be prepared for this.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the two teams, is it fair to say the Americans are just deeper top to bottom?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   I don't know, they have great players.   I have heard of all of them.   Bronte and Stephanie and all those girls, they are really, really good.   
    I lost a match the other day and I shot under par.   A lot of girls are really good out here.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything that surprised you that you didn't anticipate?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   The crowds.   The crowds I didn't think were going to be this big.   Probably the best crowd I've seen in a long time and so fun to see all these little kids, and everybody is so nice.   It's just a great experience all together.  
   
 Q.   Going out first and having the opportunity to get the winning point, how much did your experience in the Amateur help; was that a big plus for you, playing under pressure like that?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   Yeah, I think that helped.   I'm used to the crowds from the Amateur and I kind of love being around all these kind of people.   
    So I think that was a good experience for me and kind of got me to be able to be more comfortable with it, even playing in a couple LPGA events got me comfortable to be‑‑ to have a lot of pressure on myself.   
   
 Q.   Who made the necklace?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   Captain Port got us these.   Pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   When did you get it?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   At the beginning of the week.   
   
 Q.   I saw you biting it out there.   Is that something you always do?   
    EMMA TALLEY:   I usually wear my cross but because we all had these, I decided to take it off and wear this one.   
   
 Q.   Will the best part being able to celebrate when it's finished?  
    EMMA TALLEY:   Like I said, we've all been forever and this is the best week ever and a dream come true for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT