U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Emma, tell me about your round today.
EMMA TALLEY: It was terrible.  There's not much else to say.  I had a terrible day.  I four-putted once.  You don't have to four-putt to make the cut.
I had a pretty rough day out there, couldn't really get any birdies to fall, had a couple of lip-outs.  That's golf, unfortunately.
Q. Looking back to how successful you were a couple years back on this course and how you're doing right now, is it kind of frustrating you aren't getting the same results?
EMMA TALLEY: Obviously, a slightly different ball game.  There's wind, there's rain delays.  The field is probably a little better.  You're playing in a professional tournament, rather than an amateur tournament.
I played bad, so got to move on to next week.  ShopRite is next week.  Take a couple days off and get ready for next week.
Q. How wild was the rain delay for you with that huge thunderstorm?  Did you just kind of duck and cover, jump?  What did you do?
EMMA TALLEY: The tree that got struck by lightning was the craziest thing I've ever seen.  I don't know if you have the video, but it's pretty wild.  It was very scary.  I'm glad everyone was okay.  I was scared it hit one of the tents, but I'm glad it hit the tree instead.
Q. Did you have a hard time getting back into the swing of things after the two-hour delay?
EMMA TALLEY: Not really.  Wherever women's golf plays, we always get storms.  We're pretty used to it.  You have to stay patient and get back out there and get in the feel of your game.
Q. What do you take from this, moving forward, down the road?
EMMA TALLEY: Probably just to ignore it is probably the best thing to say.  Obviously, I've been struggling this year.  Actually felt like I hit the ball really well the past couple days.  There's not much, other than just ignoring and being patient, moving on.  Because I feel like my game is there.  It's just not clicking all the way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT