MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2018
Emma Talley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It doesn't happen too often, but when you hit it to the left side there, what is the immediate reaction for you?
EMMA TALLEY: Well, I didn't see it land, so I thought it was in the hazard.  But when I got up there, it was even more like, oh, no, this could be an absolute disaster.  Honestly, I was just like make contact with the ball.  Then, what do you know, it worked out.  Best shot I've ever hit, probably.
Q. All in all, it's still a solid round though.
EMMA TALLEY: Yes, kind of with the two pars on the par-5s is not what I was expecting.  I played well today, gave myself a shot, and another Top 10.
Q. Overall in this tournament it seems like you have a lot of momentum going forward?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, I've had a couple good weeks now and I'm looking forward to an off week and then heading overseas.
Q. What does it make you feel like to put up, like you said, two straight Top 10s?  As a rookie, especially, that's got to be a pretty good feeling for you?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's been a good year so far, and I'm just looking forward to the next half of the year, I guess.  I went back (inaudible)I played in 18 events and I have probably like ten more.  So looking forward to it.  I've accomplished a lot of goals of mine, and I'm looking forward to hopefully doing the rest of my goals, because I haven't achieved all of them.
Q. What are some of the goals for the remainder of the season?
EMMA TALLEY: Fingers crossed, I want to win a tournament, but that's obviously really hard.  I mean, players go 20, 30 years and they never win a tournament.  So that's obviously going to be one every year.  But I want to win a tournament, and a couple more Top 10s would be great.  And I want to make it into Asia, and I think I did that, so that's good.
Q. Was it two years ago you had a sponsor's exemption here?
EMMA TALLEY: I think it was either 2014 or 2015.  Yeah, I had a sponsor's invite, and I think that gave me confidence to come in, because this is the first course I've known on the LPGA Tour this year that I've known the course before I got here.  Knew where the bathroom was and the clubhouse.  So I was comfortable here, and it was good to see people that I'd recognized from the past.
Q. Does it mean more playing here having the sponsors exemption on your resume?
EMMA TALLEY: Of course.  That helped me in this career, because now I wasn't star struck, and I wasn't scared to come out here.  I knew what I was doing.  So, yeah, that exemption, obviously, and the other ones I've had, they were great for my career.
Q. Playing in this tournament now as many times as you have, has that been a good experience for you?
EMMA TALLEY: Oh, of course.  The fans are great, and there are a lot of people that come out.  For a small rural town than we're used to going too, this is one of the biggest fans I'd say we've had all year, so it's awesome.
Q. In a nut shell, what are the trials and tribulations of a rookie on tour?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, it's just a lot more -- it's very busy.  You're always doing something, whether it's booking an event or traveling to next, and I have to play a lot of Mondays because I don't know the courses.  So I'm playing a lot more golf than the other people out here.  I probably didn't take enough breaks.  I'm learning each week I probably didn't take enough breaks as I probably should have.  So it's a learning experience, and next year I'll know.
Q. Do you pick the brains of the veterans at all?
EMMA TALLEY: Yeah, for sure.  I've picked a lot of people's brains out here.  It's just learning from experience too each week.  I've learned something every week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT