TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2016
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GEORGE COETZEE: I'm happy.  I've been feeling like I've been playing well the last couple of weeks.  The game is finally starting to come together and it's nice to see the scores starting to show.   
 Q.  What is it that's clicked?  
GEORGE COETZEE: It's just all the stuff that I've been working on this year.  It's been a long, hard process.  Not been playing really well.  Just had to be patient and luckily now is a good time as any for it to start clicking.   
 Q.  Tell me if I'm wrong, but I think you set aside time and expectations to work on the game and knew that eventually it would come.  
GEORGE COETZEE: Well, you hope it will come.  No one really knows in this game.  Yeah, I did sacrifice a bit this year with obviously not playing great and working on stuff, and not going back to the bad habits.   
But yeah, I'm happy I did it.  It feels really comfortable out there, so I feel it will pay off.   
 Q.  What was the root of that thinking, because the game was in good enough shape to actually win events, but you thought a new level?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, it's tough.  You've got to work hard if you want to go to the next levels, and I mean, it was good to win events, but I was still hitting a lot of bad shots and just kind of saving it with my putter.   
But I wanted to be better.  I want to play better.  I don't want to just win a couple of events and be happy with my career.  I want to obviously strive for more.   
Yeah, it's just kind of the process.  You've got to go through it and sacrifice a bit and play badly, suffer mentally, and hopefully come through stronger.   
 Q.  Will you blind us with science if you tell us what you have changed or what's involved?  
GEORGE COETZEE: No, it's all very kind of -- it's just for me, really.  I wouldn't recommend it for a lot of people.  I mean, it's my body, my mind.  Doesn't work for everybody.  I look at a lot of guys and I'm like, you mustn't try what I'm trying, and some guys do it, and, I'm like, well, okay, maybe that's a sign that I'm doing the right thing.   
I'm just swinging to my body type and trying to play better.   
 Q.  I take it this course suits you when you have eight birdies in the sunshine?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, well, it was a lovely day out there.  The weather is good and the golf course is in pretty good nick and I think everybody is in a pretty good mood playing at this event this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT