COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GEORGE COETZEE: I've always enjoyed the golf course.  It's nice to come here after a long holiday and post a good number.  Hopefully it will be a good week.   
 Q.  You say you've always enjoyed this course.  There's some tremendous results and chances, aren't there?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, it's a good golf course.  It suits my eye pretty nicely.  It's just a question if I'm sharp or not.   
 Q.  Are you showing up?  Are you feeling that your game is in good shape?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I feel like it's not far away.  Maybe a couple of loose shots out there but not really -- I actually feel like I'm playing better than I did before my holiday and hopefully the score will show come Sunday.   
 Q.  That's a nice sign, isn't it; is it what you expected after your holiday?  
GEORGE COETZEE: No, not at all.  I did make little minor changes just before the ankle injury, and played pretty well just before it happened.  So I was kind of excited to get back out and try the new kind of swing thoughts and see how they go.  But obviously they are going pretty nicely at the moment.   
 Q.  Have you had to change anything as a result of breaking your ankle?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Maybe my workout routine, but just turn my foot out a little bit which doesn't make too much technical -- it's not too technical.  I think I've waited long enough for the foot to get healthy and so I didn't kind of compensate when I came to the golf course.   
 Q.  Is it 100 per cent or not quite yet?  
GEORGE COETZEE: It's probably 90 per cent.  The pain is going to be there for the next couple of months.  The doctor told me that's the way it's going to be.  I'm happy with that as long as I know it's not causing more damage.   
 Q.  Has he told you you've got to do certain things with the physio?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, it's all up to me now.  It's just a question of doing my homework, getting to the gym, doing a lot of kind of is one-legged work and maybe brushing my teeth with my eyes closed on one leg in the morning.  It's not too complicated.  It's just a question of getting it done.   
 Q.  Surfing?  
GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, people will be happy to know my surfing is much better at the moment.  I had a good holiday surfing and luckily came away with no major injuries.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT