ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2014
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     66 is a brilliant round, 12‑under is a brilliant total, how do you fancy it the chances?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   At the beginning of the day, I would have taken it definitely.   I didn't really play that well, but I think I had 22 putts again today.   I remember reading that Mickelson shot 63 with 22 putts after 12, and I think I had nine or ten putts through ten holes.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about the second shot to the last, are you aware Mickelson had made a triple and you were right in the thick of it?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   I saw he was in the bushes, but obviously he's got a lot of holes to go.   So you just try and shoot something that you can, the best possible score that you can.   I was disappointed with the approach shot but the way I played today I'm quite happy.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Quite happy, the way I played this week, surprising to see my name up there.   I just putted really well and luckily that's one of the parts that mattered the most.   
   
 Q.   And you gave yourself a nice realistic chance; you might yet win it, 6‑under for the final round is a good knock?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, 16, 17, pretty tough holes.   You can birdie but you can also make mistakes.   
   
 Q.   And you'd have seen the last hole there, I presume that was one that will stick in the mind for a little while?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Who, mine?   No, not really.   I'm quite happy with the par that I made.   I made a good putt to make the par, and I was quite happy with the tee shot but yeah, that's the way things goes.   
   
 Q.   What are your feelings about 12‑under; not quite enough?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I think‑‑ I told myself if I can beat 12‑under coming down the last and maybe have a chance at a birdie, I'd be quite happy and that's what I had.   Unfortunately didn't give myself a good enough chance for birdie.  
   
 Q.   When we consider this is right at start of the year, it bodes pretty well.   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, we are all busy trying to make a living, so it's always nice to get off to a good start.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT