BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After playing so beautifully for 16 holes it would have been tragic to finish 6‑6.   How good do you feel about the put at the last?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, it does, that was a big putt.   I was actually hoping to go bogey‑free today, but unfortunately missed the one on 17.   But I felt like that was a pretty good 6 after the tee shot.   
Yeah, I actually thought I hit a cracking shot into the green on the last and just kind of road the wind a little bit.   After I hit the shot I was like, you know, it was like a mental blow, like just a terrible decision to try and hit 6‑iron from there.   I should have hit a little cut 5‑iron and the wind would have taken a little off it and it would have been the right club.   
Making the par was crucial.   I think if I would have made bogey, I'd have been pretty upset.   But I'm happy with the par.   
   
 Q.   You were 2‑over par yesterday through 11 holes, the rain delay came around that time, you're 7‑under since; what happened?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   I don't know, I'm trying to figure it out.   I actually felt like I was playing great the whole way around.   The couple of drops that I made yesterday were left‑to‑right winds and you can start the ball left and you have to straighten out your tee shot which I didn't do.   I feel like I'm playing well.   The fact that I was 2‑over, I don't think that actually reflected my score very well.   
   
 Q.   Contention in a big event like this, slightly different to a regular Tour event?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, I like to pick only the big events to play in, so this is kind of the stage you want to play in.   It doesn't really matter where you play to win; you still have to perform and you have to perform on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 5‑under par?   
GEORGE COETZEE:   I'll take it.   It's a pretty good number considering the weather, and obviously the course is playing tough.   So I'll definitely take it.   I'm quite happy.  
   
 Q.   Another very difficult day, hasn't it been?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, rain on and off.   It's hard work but it's part of the game.  
   
 Q.   Presumably that makes it hard to get into a rhythm and find feel and touch?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   I felt like I had a pretty good touch around the greens.   If you let it affect you, it probably will; but if you don't, then it doesn't.  
   
 Q.   It seems like you didn't let things affect you over the last couple of holes, as well; tricky to say the least.   
GEORGE COETZEE:   I think I did well to not make any bogeys up until 17.   Didn't play that great on the front nine, a lot of scrambling, a lot good putts made to save my pars.   
On the last couple of holes I thought if I could sneak one or two birdies I would be in really good position.   But 5‑under, I'm still quite happy.  
   
 Q.   And a par at the last, given the circumstances, that's good, isn't it?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, after hitting in the water, I'm quite happy.   If I had made 6 I would be very upset and probably wouldn't be talking to you right now.   
If you can hit a couple of good shots and make a couple of good putts and a couple of good saves, a lot of good saves, you can post a number, but yeah, I don't think anybody is going to run away with it but we'll have to wait and see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT