VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on a win today when you didn't yesterday? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, I knew it was needed, definitely needed the win to stay in the tournament to have a chance or if there was to be a playoff.   The way I played today, I'm very happy with my game so hopefully I can go through. 

Q.   Have you played considerably better? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I guess yesterday, I didn't know what could go wrong because I haven't played in four weeks.   I guess after playing yesterday, I felt like I kind of understand my game a little bit better and I knew what to expect from the golf course in a match‑play situation, but I played really well today and hit the ball nicely and enjoyed the game.

Q.   And that familiarity, knowing the course in that better detail in certain situations? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I was a lot more comfortable stepping on to the course today, knowing the situations you can get into and knowing the spots you've got to avoid, especially in match play and maybe that will change this afternoon having played this morning.

Q.   With four weeks off, is there anticipation knowing the history and prestige to this tournament?
GEORGE COETZEE:   Four weeks off just wasn't enough though.   Wish I could have stayed on holiday a little longer, but I guess everybody has to come back to work and this is a nice spot to come and play. 

Q.   Is this a tournament one that you've followed down the years with all of the South Africans who have done well? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Ernie has done great and Gary has done great here and obviously we all want to be as good as they were, or are, for that matter, but yeah, it's been a long way to go.

Q.   Gary Player has done a good job, hasn't he.
GEORGE COETZEE:   I don't know how he got a golf course on these cliffs.   It's definitely not a walking course, that's for sure.

Q.   But you like it? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, the scenery is just unbelievable.   You can't really get frustrated‑‑ you can get frustrated with your golf, but not where you are. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT