TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 16, 2013
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just talk about your round?
GEORGE COETZEE:   I just found out I hit ten fairways which is kind of surprising.   I guess everything fell into place pretty well today.   I felt like I played well.   I hit decent shots into the greens.   I felt like I hit only one bad shot and that was on 16 and I got punished. 
So all in all, I think I played pretty well and I played quite conservative and just luckily enough made a couple extra putts.

Q.   Just wanted to make the cut this week, or was that a product of not seeing the course or the way you're hitting the ball? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I guess it is, yeah.   I'm new to this PGA TOUR thing and trying to make friends out here and just trying to play as much as possible and get used to the scene.   Luckily enough I made the cut, I was battling to make the cut.   I was three under on the last few holes yesterday, and made birdies on all three of them, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here.

Q.   What's been the biggest adjustment?   Obviously you've played a ton overseas. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I guess it's all the same.   Just got know a few less guys than I would back in Europe.   Golf is golf.   Doesn't matter where you play, still everybody gets to the golf course and nobody knows what's going to happen.

Q.   Are you surprised to be at the top of the leaderboard?
GEORGE COETZEE:   I am, definitely.   I must say today I really enjoyed it and tomorrow will be even better.

Q.   What would it mean for you to have your first PGA TOUR win here?
GEORGE COETZEE:   A card (smiling).   A PGA TOUR card would be nice.   I guess that's the only thing I'll be working on this year. 

Q.   Has that always been a lifelong goal for you? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I'm sure any golfer that's played golf kind of seriously has wanted to be on one of the major tours.   And luckily enough, I did well enough in the first couple of events in Europe and the start of the season to secure my card for the year so I could come over to the States and maybe try to get a card here.   Obviously everybody wants to play where the money's at and at the moment, that's the PGA TOUR.

Q.   How do you feel like you've been playing coming in? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Kind of 50/50.   I didn't know what to expect, because I was playing really well at the beginning of the season, and obviously lost my game in the Match Play against Martin Kaymer, and I actually played well that day.   I think I shot 1‑under on a really tricky golf course. 
So going to obviously last week in Miami, I played decent but I didn't really play great, over par by eight shots on the last day, but yeah, obviously it's a new week and you never know what to expect.   I could come out and shoot 59 hopefully tomorrow but that's highly unlikely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT