COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2013
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was it today? 
    GEORGE COETZEE:   Got off to a bit of a shaky start.   I hit a good tee shot and hit a decent second shot that just didn't go far enough and ended up in a little bush, and I actually hit fresh air, missed the ball completely, took a penalty drop and just took my medicine. 
    But yeah, I was talking to Colin just walking off the course and actually the ball on my second hole of the day, I hit a 5‑iron short of the bunker and then passed into the bunker and plugged, and I think if I didn't up‑and‑down from that lie, it would have been a much different story today.
    But all in all, I think I had a good turn, and, well, I enjoyed playing today. 

Q.   When is the last time you had an air shot?
    GEORGE   COETZEE:   I don't know (laughs), I was actually asking my caddie, do you remember the last time we started a roundwith a double, because I don't.   I think it was back in 2006 or something that I can remember.   Yeah, those kind of things happen, you just have to take it in stride. 

Q.   You took things in stride after with six birdies in seven holes? 
    GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, and I didn't birdie the easiest hole out of the seven.   It's funny that hole, hopefully on the weekend I'll birdie it a couple of times.   I had a good round going and hit some good tee shots and good approach shots and luckily made some putts, as well.

Q.   And when that's happening, do you get the sense of just how the game is coming together and moving up that board? 
    GEORGE COETZEE:   It's funny, after the six birdies in those seven holes, I don't think I hit a green or a fairway for about five holes and I scrambled pretty well.   Yeah, it's a funny game, it's up and down.

Q.   A funny game but which you are playing good golf and you did last year, and people are saying, when is George going to win; is that something you ask yourself? 
    GEORGE COETZEE:   It's time for me to just start telling people to be patient (laughs).   No, I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing and just accept and be more patient and hopefully the win will come. 

Q.   I take it you're happy with where your game is? 
    GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I can't complain.   I actually didn't play great yesterday but just a little twitch that I had to fix on the range and it worked today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT