BMW MASTERS
October 27, 2012
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about a 66, very tidy effort?
GEORGE COETZEE:   It was a good, fun day.   Played really well and we just had fun and made some birdies.

Q.   Charl said he's having some problems with the greens; I take it not so much you?
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, the front nine I was 5‑ or 6‑under, but I feel like I played pretty well so just got to keep waiting for the opportunities and hopefully they will come. 

Q.   Is that the story for the week, as well, just waiting for things to come?   You were a little bit behind off the pace today and now you're in the mix?
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, I've been kind of setting my scores and been following them to the tee.   I've been feeling pretty good and playing towards my target score and just looking forward to playing tomorrow. 

Q.   Is that what you do, set yourself a target each day?
GEORGE COETZEE:   No, I'm trying it this week actually.   It's a question of just playing to your strengths I suppose.   But you've got to try and shoot a score, and if you feel like you're not going to shoot that score, you've got to try to make the score easier.   I feel like I've been playing well the last couple of week. 

Q.   How has that target revised according to the day here and according to the way the wind is blowing and where the pin positions are? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, I'm two shots ahead of my own target so I'm surprised the scores are as low as they are, because I thought this golf course was a lot tougher than the scoring at the moment.   But obviously depending on the weather tomorrow, if the wind picks up. 

Q.   Is this a golf course you favour, particularly the length? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I prefer wide open.   We have a couple of courses like this in South Africa and it's always fun to play on a course as good as this one? 

Q.   Which course in South Africa?
GEORGE COETZEE:   Serengeti, I think it's very similar except this is a little longer.   It's always fun to play there, and it's just as much fun to play here. 

Q.   Do you have a target score for tomorrow?
GEORGE COETZEE:   No, no, you can't really predict a day ahead.   You have to wait to see what the weather is like and I'll just go out and give it my best.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT