ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2012
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, every kid dreams about it, it's the home of golf, every time I step up, it's just an unbelievable feeling.   I'll play the course any way they let me, and obviously 62, I'm very happy, moved up into the top 10 after making a 15 footer to make the cut yesterday. 

Q.   You fired five birdies in six holes. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I was five on the trot and I missed one, I think I lipped out one on 16, and if that one had gone in, it would have been nine on the trot.   But it's one of those day, you can always count the shots that you've left out there, but all in all, I'm very happy with a 62. 

Q.   And there were shots you left out, plenty of them by the sound of things. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I missed a two footer on the par five, which I guess motivated me a bit to finish well in the last couple of holes, but I was thinking, I told Branden Grace today before the round, I'm going to shoot 50, so you'd better keep up.   I thought, if I make two on the last, I'll shoot 61, and won't be the first time I've guessed my score wrong by 11 shots.

Q.   What's it down to?   Obviously you're playing well. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I putted really badly the first 27 holes‑‑ yeah, first 27 holes of the tournament, and I guess I made double at Carnoustie on the 18th hole, my ninth hole of the day.   Just something sparked in me and I clicked what was wrong with my putting, because I was putting horrendous.   Something clicked and I started making puts and I had that confidence going into today.

Q.   What was it that clicked? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   I know exactly what it is, and it's a little trade secret now (laughing).

Q.   But it was easy to rectify? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   As soon as it clicks, it's just a matter of staying out of the way and letting it happen and just making puts. 

Q.   Beautiful place, isn't it, particularly when it's like this, I know you love playing in the wind here, but it's just right for scoring. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I would have loved the wind to pick up now, for that 62 to sound a little better and to move up on the score boards. 
But standing on the 18th tee yesterday, if you told me I would finish in the top 10‑‑ but playing here in this weather, this is course record weather, this is as good as it gets around here and I think it's been the best weather we've probably had over the years since played here in this event. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT