BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I take it that's a good round, a good start and a good finish. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I think I'll be happy if I shoot that four days in a row.   I guess I putted well, I hit the ball well at some stages and hit the ball badly at some stages, but I managed to keep the big numbers off the card and just played to a reasonable number.

Q.   A very nice start to the day with birdie, birdie to begin. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, it was good putts, that's all it was.   But yeah, it's a nice place to play golf and I just playing here puts you in a good frame of mind.   Those two birdies helps, because there's a lot of tough holes coming afterwards.

Q.   That first hole can be formidable, so presumably to get a red figure against your name immediately puts you in a great mood. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I got away with my tee shot there.   I knew if I'm hitting driver I'm probably going to end up in the fairway and ended up hitting it in the rough but got a decent lie and perfect club in to ten, 12 foot short of the hole and just made the putt. 

Q.   Judging by what you've said about the putting, the greens are in good shape. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I enjoy the greens.   I've heard some people complain about them, but the greens are just like my home course.   It's easier I guess to read them for me because I kind of grew up on greens like this.

Q.   You had a bit of a break, didn't you, prior to playing out in Asia, and then the game is coming back together.   Is this a nice continuation? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I decided not to take a break after the Spanish Open.   I just kept on working on my game and hopefully I'll just keep improving as the week goes on.

Q.   Always hard to gauge but do you fancy this will still be right up there? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, 68 in any tournament, you'll take it, because you can can't win it today, can you, but you can definitely lose it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT