BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about that score in these conditions.
GEORGE COETZEE:   That's pretty good.   I'm not disappointed.   There's just not a lot of birdie holes.   You can't really hit drivers.   It was freezing cold this morning.   It was a good day for me. 

Q.   We have wonderful blue skies and fluffy white clouds; you wouldn't know it was that hard as an observer. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   It's really cold.   I can't wait to get into my bed right now and watch some DVDs. 

Q.   I take it it is the wind that causes the main problems? 
GEORGE COETZEE:   It's a good challenge and there's a lot of tough tee shots, tough greens, a lot of tough greens.   But I guess the wind just makes it interesting. 

Q.   What was your highlight out there?
GEORGE COETZEE:   The fourth hole I suppose because I was just scrambling around makes pars and doing my business.   There was a couple of birdie holes.   And the fifth hole, probably isn't one of them with the flag where it was today but hit a pretty good wedge, made the putt, back in business and I made the putt and fortunately I didn't capitalise on the par5 like I wanted to. 

Q.   It's difficult for anybody to make any kind of score just looking at the board.   Nobody is moving away. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   If you told me there was a 5‑under‑‑ I don't think it's going to last very long.   But 3‑under is a pretty good score. 
I'm quite happy with the way things are going, and just keep hopefully getting better.

Q.   What DVDs have you got?
GEORGE COETZEE:   Lots.   I've got lots and lots.   I had to buy myself two hard drives a terabyte each, and I just filled them up and now I'm set for the year. 

Q.   Just run through your birdies and bogeys. 
GEORGE COETZEE:   13 and 17.   17, when I made the bogey, I thought‑‑ two birdies holes, reasonably easy‑‑ not reasonably easy.   You've still got to make the putts.   But there's two holes that you attack on that nine, and making bogey right before‑‑ I'm waiting to get under par, just waiting for that moment and I thought I made make birdie the hole before. 
But the bogey on 13 and 17, I guess it was just a bit unlucky.   I hit good shots into rather than just got a little bit unlucky.   But the birdies I guess, those are‑‑ and 4 would be a birdie hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT