OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2012
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GEORGE COETZEE:   It was all right.   I mean you have to expect there's always a couple shots left out there, but I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   It's better than all right, isn't it, when you get off to a flier like that?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah.   I holed a bunker shot on the tenth hole which was my first hole, and well, it kind of took the pressure off and just told myself now I can just play.   I've already got some birdies under the belt.  
   
 Q.   And you were flying at that time, weren't you?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah.   I think I went through 18 holes straight   ten under because I turned at nine at one under yesterday or something like that.   But I'm happy in the end.  
   
 Q.   Well, you now moved yourself very nicely into position on this tournament when you could have been looking over your shoulder, I guess?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah.   There's obviously some good players ahead of me, so there's a lot of hard work to be done.  
   
 Q.   Do you fancy this course?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Definitely fancy some of it.   Still have to figure out how to play the ninth hole, but looking forward to trying again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It does seem like ‑‑ I mean every year this course is in good condition, but this year just seems pristine conditions to play in.   
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, the course is unbelievable.   I was just saying in the beginning of the week it's probably one of the best courses I've seen on The European Tour, and it's a nice event.   
I've watched it on the telly a lot, so it's nice to be here for the first time.  
   
 Q.   So you watched this pretty much as a kid, did you?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, I did.   I think all the kids did.  
   
 Q.   What's your earliest memory of it?   Anything?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Well, Ernie.   I think Ernie won it.   He played against Tiger and ducked in the water once.   And I watched it a bunch of years.   I don't really remember anything specific.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean that you pinch yourself just a little every now and then when you think, yeah, I've watched this as a kid, now I'm here?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   I try not to.   I try and just take it as it comes and not make a big deal out of it.  
   
 Q.   It's a good place to come, isn't it, Dubai?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah, very nice.   I mean shopping and all that kind of stuff and all the nice beautiful empty buildings.  
   
 Q.   I find you here on the range just after your round, so you've gotta to put in some extra legwork, but you will get some time to wind down?  
GEORGE COETZEE:   Yeah.   I'm just going to go hit a couple of balls and go rest the afternoon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT