THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GEORGE COETZEE: I don't know, overall so far so good, I suppose, and hopefully tomorrow will be a bit better than today. I think I played pretty well, just one bad hole and otherwise I'm pretty happy.

 Q. How difficult was it out there? 
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I guess it's -- it was pretty tough. You've got to keep your head and just try and place it in the right spots and not hit it off the planet and try to roll in the putts, and I guess I left some out there, but I guess everybody did. 
 Yeah, the weather cleared up pretty nicely today in the afternoon, so I guess we still have the luck of the draw.

 Q. You guys are used to playing in some very windy conditions, but with the driving rain out there it was very tricky?
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I guess if you ask any pro golfer you'd rather have wind or rain, not both. But it cleared up pretty nicely and it was pretty tough in the beginning. It's hard work, but I'm happy. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I saw him last year at the Scandinavian Masters and I saw how far he hit it and I was trying to catch him, I remember, last year. But before today I told myself don't even bother trying to catch him off the tees. But he's a really nice guy, and I really enjoyed playing with him.

 Q. Did you watch Tom Watson play before you went out?
 GEORGE COETZEE: I watched a couple of his holes, and he scrambled pretty well. It was a good inspiration the first couple holes to try to make pars in the bunch. If it wasn't for the horseshoe on 4, I think I would've tied it the first couple holes. 
 I don't know what he ended up shooting, but it looked like he played pretty well.

 Q. He shot 72, but to watch him, the fact that he just enjoyed himself so much out there. 
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, there's a lot of things you can learn from him I suppose because he's probably the expert. But he just strolls up the fairways. That's one thing that I saw this morning is everything is done slowly. You have time to enjoy it a bit more, and I tried to learn from it and tried and walk a bit slower. 

 Q. Do you feel like your short game has to be sharp?
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I've always been quite happy with my short game, and so far so good this week. There's a couple things that I'll probably go work on now that need to be ready for tomorrow, but otherwise I'm pretty happy with my short game and hopefully that can pull me through.

 Q. First time in a position like that, pretty awesome?
 GEORGE COETZEE: Yeah, I couldn't ask for anything better. I'm going to enjoy every second of it tomorrow. But yeah, that's what I'm here for. I'm here to compare myself to the best and see how I fare in the majors, and so far, so good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT