THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
George Coetzee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GEORGE COETZEE: Well, I think I just putted pretty well. Everything, it's just a matter of rolling in the putts and trying to score as well as you can.

 Q. And you found those greens in good fashion and you did roll in those putts. 
 GEORGE COETZEE: I do like the greens and I just keep trying to do the same thing every day and give myself as many opportunities as possible.

 Q. I take it this means you like the place?
 GEORGE COETZEE: It's a nice venue and the town is pretty nice, as well. It kind of relaxes people if you are in a good environment, and I think this place is a pretty good environment.

 Q. I heard you say that it seems like this course has been here for absolutely decades, as opposed to a couple of years. 
 GEORGE COETZEE: This course suits the land perfectly, and I guess that you can see the way it can pick up here, and I think we might be in for a pretty good test over the weekend.

 Q. You like links golf then?
 GEORGE COETZEE: I think so. I've never really played on a links golf course while playing well, so I've played a couple of tournaments, and this time I hope to see what it's like for real under pressure and hopefully be there on Sunday.

 Q. A different state of mind, as well, because you know there's going to be bad bounces and you have to deal with them and by the same token some lucky bounces as well?
 GEORGE COETZEE: I actually think it's more fun playing this way, because you can work the ball. You never -- well, you can be done but not completely if you get a terrible lie. But there's always some way to get to the flag, just taking risks or whatever it takes. It's good fun to play links golf.

 Q. Are you a good risk taker?
 GEORGE COETZEE: I like my risks every now and then (chuckling). 

 Q. How do you assess when you're going to take the risk or not, whether it's a stupid risk or what the chances or percentages are?
 GEORGE COETZEE: I try not to take stupid risks, but just shots where you know if you're not going to pull it off, you'll still make a par. 

 Q. Form is good?
 GEORGE COETZEE: Feel like I'm playing well. Just keep it going and stay out of my own head.

 Q. Is that easy to do?
 GEORGE COETZEE: No. My dad always keeps telling me that I've got to try and just, remember what you did, remember what you did. I'm like, well, I remember I have to do nothing and I can't remember how to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT