NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Will Barton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are you most looking forward to seeing or being a part of?
WILL BARTON: Just everything, my first All-Star Weekend.  So, you know, from talking to you guys in the media to seeing the other events and mainly the All-Star Game, because that's my ultimate goal.  So I definitely want to see how that fits.
Q. What is your goal for next season?
WILL BARTON: Next season?  To just improve, get better.  Build off the season we're having this year as a team, get more wins.  For me to further my career and take my career to the next level.  So I'm not a guy that wants to be stuck in a role.  I don't want anybody to put me in a box.  I'm a sixth man, but eventually I want to be a starter, All-Star in the league.  So I just have to keep staying humble and working hard and trying to take my career to the next level.
Q. With the evolution of the Dunk Contest, how difficult is it to create something new and be your own individual?
WILL BARTON: It's a challenge.  Like you said.  We're seen so much.  We're bringing the work to the event.  But that's the fun part.  You get to think, you get to be creative and a leader and try to come up with new ideas and hopefully it works out for you.
Q. You mentioned Vince [Carter] is definitely one of your favorite dunkers.  Anything special planned for this weekend?  Did you go back and look at some of his old stuff?
WILL BARTON: The problem is he jumps out of the gym (indiscernible).  So hopefully I can emulate a little bit of him and put my own flair in.
Q. Have you been thinking about your performance?
WILL BARTON: I'm just thinking a little bit, I'm more of a creative guy, and I'm more of a in-the-moment type of guy.  I don't want to think about it too much and ruin my creativity.  So I want to go out there with a clean mind and thought, and just feed off the crowd.  Let my adrenaline and my emotions take over.
Q. Are you going to feed off of some of the other dunkers, depending on what they do?
WILL BARTON: Not so much.  I'm just going to go out there and do my thing.  I feel like if I'm worried about them, then I'm going to go after them.  I'll just go out there and worry about me and me performing, I'll be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT