CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 20, 2020
Robynn Ree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Robynn, what a great round and what a great finish here at Cambia.  What does it mean for you to be playing so well right now?
 ROBYNN REE:   You know, honestly, it has been a very difficult and weird year, and so just to be able to put up some good scores despite all the conditions, I'm just really proud of myself.
 Q. And how about the turn of events this week?  We shortened it from four days to three days.  What did you do during that day off?
 ROBYNN REE:   I'm actually back in school right now finishing my senior year at USC, so I actually had two midterms this week.  So I was studying for my midterms.  Finished them on Wednesday night and had a quiz on Thursday.
 So I've had a pretty busy week compared to other people.
 Q. Oh, my gosh.  Have you been able to relax in any way?
 ROBYNN REE:   Maybe on Friday after my round, but that's about it.  I didn't really have a lot of time to just relax and just chill.
 I've been kind of pretty caught up with homework.
 Q. So what's the schedule like after tonight?
 ROBYNN REE:   So I'm leaving today, going back to L.A.  I have school tomorrow at 12:00.
 Q. Okay.  Are you all virtual?
 ROBYNN REE:   Uh-huh.  All virtual, so I have to get in my last minute homework before school tomorrow.
 Q. I know you might get this question asked a lot this week, but you caddied for yourself.  How was that experience?  Your mom was out there, so maybe sometimes when you were in a down mood-wise, what did you tell yourself?
 ROBYNN REE:   You know, honestly, I'm pretty used to caddying for myself all through junior golf and college, and so when the LPGA allowed us to caddie for ourself, gave us that option, I was all for it.
 I just think like I can think more freely when I'm by myself.  I do tend to get a little dependant on my caddie which I should probably fix.  But, yeah, like I actually enjoy it.  It's just, you know, when I do like have a bad shot or bad hole, you know, it's not the end of world unless it's the last hole.
 Other than that, there is always more holes to play and I'm probably not the only one struggling.
 Q. Two questions left.  What are you thinking ahead -- because you do have the school schedule to work around --but for LPGA events for the rest of the season?
 ROBYNN REE:   Yeah, I'm probably not playing a lot.  Maybe a couple more and then maybe the majors if I get in.  Other than that, you know, I just -- I'm just trying to focus on graduating and then just coming back next year and playing maybe a full schedule.
 Q. Hopefully this is a fun question.  What would you tell your peers out there who are striving to be in this position playing like yourself?
 ROBYNN REE:   You know, I just think it's good to not think too much.  Just have fun.  I just think that whenever you get too much in your head, that's when things kind of take a weird turn.
 So I think it would be best to just have fun.  Just enjoy the moment.  You just never know when it's going to be your day.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT