CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2018
Robynn Ree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Robynn Ree, 2018 LPGA Tour rookie.  You did such an awesome job.  Such a quick pace out there today for the first round here in Portland.  What was working so well for you during Round 1?  
ROBYNN REE: Honestly before my round started I was really worried about my putting, my shots were going everywhere.  And I was just like, well, worse comes to worse -- I changed my putter right before this round.  I was like maybe I'll get the new putter vibes.  And luckily that worked out today and my shots were so much better than they were in the past.  So I was really fortunate that I was hitting well and putting well.   
 Q.  Currently you're third on the leaderboard, three strokes behind the lead.  At what point did you not be worried about your putting and about your game during the round today?  
ROBYNN REE: Honestly, like the first couple drop and I was like maybe I'm on a roll.  But the next few drop, and I'm like, okay, maybe today is going to be a good day.  And I told my caddie, just keep me busy today, because when things are this fast paced for me, I'm not usually like the best, just keep talking to me.  And fortunately we just continued to keep going.   
 Q.  You started with six birdies on the front nine.  I guess two bogeys on the back.  What was the difference for you, there?  
ROBYNN REE: Honestly, just like I don't think I was really thinking about it in the front nine and it kind of hit me in the back nine.  And I've been struggling with my drivers leaking to the right.  And on those two holes that I bogeyed they leaked very far right.  And so I couldn't come back from that.  But I was able to make a couple of more birdies on the back, so they were able to combat them.   
 Q.  This is your first career start here at the Cambia Portland Classic.  An awesome start.  What do you like about the course and the event?  
 A. The last time I played an Oregon golf course was at Nationals three years ago, my freshman year, at Eugene Country Club.  I thought that was the hardest golf course I've ever played in my life.  I thought, oh, man, I hope this course isn't that hard.  This time I just tried to play as freely as possible.  I have nothing to lose.  Just try to play my best.   
 Q.  You must have a lot of confidence going into Round 2, what are you going to do to prepare for more success tomorrow?  
ROBYNN REE: Probably try to pinpoint where the bathrooms are first, so I'm not holding it in for six holes.  But I'm just going to take each stroke, just day-by-day, hit each shot as we go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT