U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2015
Hannah O'Sullivan
Robynn Ree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So maybe your biggest battle you've had so far?  ROBYNN REE: Yeah.   Q.  Tell me how you felt out there this afternoon.  ROBYNN REE: Well, our beginning was a little sloppy.  We were 2-down, and so we thought that it was going to be a long day, but I mean, we got our momentum back after a few holes, and so we were able to turn it around in our favor.   Q.  Your competitors were certainly not old, but they were much older than you.  This may be the first mid-amateur and older pairing you've met.  Did you see a difference in the way they played as opposed to some of your younger competitors?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I mean, I guess from age, they do have a little more experience, but I think maybe they carried a little more -- they had more of an outward show of confidence than some of our other opponents.  They didn't crumble as much under the pressure as some of the other opponents we've faced.  But yeah, they're great players, and it was a good match, but luckily after our not-so-good start we were able to turn it around and make some putts, some important putts, and keep it rolling in our favor.   Q.  I think that might have been the first time you guys trailed at all.  ROBYNN REE: No.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: We lost the first hole yesterday.   ROBYNN REE: This morning.   Q.  Oh, that was today?  ROBYNN REE: This morning we lost the first hole, and we lost the first hole again today.   Q.  And then you lost the first two this afternoon.  How do you come back from that?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: We didn't play the holes back.   ROBYNN REE: They just stuck it to like a foot.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it was a gimme twice.  But yeah, we just knew that if we kept doing what we were doing and just keep hitting fairways and greens, try to wear out our opponents and hopefully drop some putts here and there, and it worked.   Q.  Did you feel like you putted a little better today?  I can't remember what day it was you said maybe you struggled a little on the greens, or just making lots of par putts but not a lot of other putts.  ROBYNN REE: Our morning putting was better.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It was really good in the morning.   ROBYNN REE: We were struggling in the second 18, but I mean, we were able to drop some putts.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: When it was necessary, we were able to make the putts.   Q.  Are you guys getting tired, or was it just a different round?  ROBYNN REE: My knees are kind of crumbling.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I wasn't feeling too tired.  It helped that we finished our last two matches pretty fast.  But I guess it's always good to --   ROBYNN REE: Finish early.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Finish early, but just to get more experience and know that even -- you never know what's going to happen tomorrow, so tonight that we didn't get off to that good of a start, and we weren't playing exactly how we wanted to but we were still able to manage it and pull out the win, it was definitely good -- a good experience going into tomorrow.   Q.  The more matches you win, are you kind of hearing from anybody at home or have you gotten any phone calls or text messages?  What kind of support are you getting?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think we've been getting a lot of text messages and just --   ROBYNN REE: Especially from our friends.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, our friends, just encouragement, and just keep it going.  So far it's been working.  Yeah, it's definitely really cool to see all the support and maybe even gives that much more motivation to hopefully finish it out.   Q.  And as you add more wins, you're getting to play together more.  What are you learning about each other as individuals and as a team?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think we're meshing really well, and our games are really complementing each other well.  Like if one is struggling on one hole, we're always able to pick each other up.  I think we're getting even more comfortable and just -- it's becoming more like a routine, and getting more used to the format.   Q.  How are the caddies holding up?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: They may need to put their feet up tonight, but I think --   ROBYNN REE: They're doing well.  They'll do well tomorrow.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: They'll do well, yeah.   ROBYNN REE: We have faith.   Q.  I saw you punching your dad again today.  ROBYNN REE: No, not today.   Q.  It was old footage then.  ROBYNN REE: Not today.  I didn't punch him today.  No, I didn't punch him today.   Q.  Did he deserve to be punched today?  ROBYNN REE: He was really slow in the morning.  He was really slow in the morning.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: We got some good laughs out of it.   ROBYNN REE: I'm always the one that has to hit first, but he's always the last one leaving the tee box, so I mean, I don't know -- he's always doing something on the tee box, and I'm like, come on, Dad, I'm the first one to hit.   Q.  I saw him running off a tee box the other day.  ROBYNN REE: Yeah, it's like every other hole.  He fell today running from the tee box.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: We were watching and all of a sudden he disappeared.   Q.  What hole was that?  ROBYNN REE: No. 5, the par-3.   Q.  Was he okay?  ROBYNN REE: He just slid.   Q.  Poor guy.  You've played in the Women's Open, you've played in the Women's Amateur and Girls' Junior.  What's it like playing knowing that you're on national TV?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I mean, I guess it's a little different, but once you get comfortable --   ROBYNN REE: You don't even realize that they're there.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: You just forget it and treat it like another tournament.   ROBYNN REE: Unless they come up in your face, then that's a different story.  Usually they're pretty good.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Just you're kind of in the zone and stay focused and just keep doing what you're doing.  I mean, it's -- this is a really meaningful event, and very happy to be here, but we have to treat it -- in order to do our best, we have to treat it like it's just another tournament and just take it one shot at a time and focus on our own game.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT