US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Catherine Mcnally
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/C. McNally   
5-7, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What did that feel like?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: Yeah, that was unbelievable. I thought I came out really strong. I felt really good out there actually on the big stage. I wasn't too nervous.   
First set was unbelievable tennis, I thought I played really well, served really solid, just was playing my game.   
Second and third set, she obviously picked up her level. That was pretty tough for me. Overall I'm really happy with everything. There's no complaints here, so...   
 Q.  Did you know how you were going to handle the occasion? Was that a question mark for you, the ultimate stage?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I never really know how I'm going to, like, go out there and play. For me, I just try to take it as another match, not really worry about who's across the net. I know if I did that, it might affect the way I play, I might become more emotionally attached to the match. That's not good for me.   
But I'm really just happy with the way I went out there and played my game. I tried to stick to my game throughout the whole time. I might have missed some shots here or there. I think if I keep working on that, it's going to pay off.   
 Q.  You spoke about Federer as a tennis hero of yours. What are things about his game that you try to bring to yours?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: The big things are the way he carries himself on court. I think that's huge. I try to do the exact same thing. Also the way he plays, he serves and volleys, looks to get to the net. He takes a lot of time away from his opponents. I really like the way he plays, mixes in the slice, the dropshot, volleys really well.   
There's so many things I like from his game. Hopefully I can keep working on those and become just like him.   
 Q.  When you talk about Serena leveling up in the second and third set, what did that look like from your end? Where was the gap in her game in the first set?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I think she started hitting her targets on her serves a lot better. I mean, she has an unbelievable serve. It was really hard to read where she was going. All credit to her on that.   
Also just her returning, she was returning really deep and close to the baseline. For me sometimes I felt like I should have served and volleyed more, maybe that would have helped me because I was getting some of the returns right at my feet.   
Obviously she's going to pick up her level. I knew that was going to happen. Next time I just have to raise my level with hers.   
 Q.  She ran off 16 out of 17 points. What happened there at the start of the third set?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I think obviously her game was at a very high level. I was still trying to do the exact same things, just trying to play my game. Maybe wasn't executing as well as I wanted to.   
But I'm not going to back away from my game ever because that's just what I am and what I know.   
 Q.  Didn't feel tired or anything?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: No. I actually really enjoyed it out there tonight. Unbelievable experience. The crowd was unbelievable. Yeah, I wasn't tired.   
 Q.  Serena, the venue, a little intimidating, daunting, or very inspirational. How did you juggle that? What were you feeling more?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I think when I went out there, like I said, I just worried about myself. I didn't think who was on the other side of the net as much. But obviously I knew I was playing against the greatest of all time. I knew that I had to bring a certain level.   
I'm really just happy with the way I overall played, the way I carried myself out on that stage. I walked out there and I had the chills. That was the most insane atmosphere. I've never played on a court nowhere near that big, especially a night match. I couldn't have asked for anything better. It was just an unbelievable experience, something that I'll never forget for the rest of my life.   
 Q.  What was going on in your mind when you closed out the first set?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I was just really excited honestly. Could you tell from my reaction, I was really pumped up. Super happy just to get a set from her. That's something that not very many people do.   
Yeah, I was just really pumped up. But I knew I needed to stay focused because I knew she was going to pick up her level.   
 Q.  When you talk about the net game, the serving and volleying, you, Coco, there's a bunch of teenagers, Bianca, who have this ability and want to get to the net, not allergic to it. Do you have a theory as to why that is amongst this teenage generation?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: For me I think it's just who I've been brought up around, my mom, Kevin O'Neill, they both play the exact same way. They always encourage me to do that. I think it's the right way to play, especially taking time away from your opponent. It's huge. Not everyone is just going to stay at the baseline and smack balls. That's not who I am. That's not who I'm trying to be. I'm trying to get into the net, end points at the net, take away time from my opponents. Just going to keep working on that.   
 Q.  Long after this tournament is over, you move on, what do you think your takeaway will be for tonight? Did the way it ended detract from that at all?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: For me, I think it just shows that I'm capable of playing with the best. I got a set off Serena Williams. Had her close in the second set, too. Had some chances. For me, it just gives me a lot of confidence, shows me that I can compete out on the biggest stages. Just keep my head down, I'm ready to go back to work.   
 Q.  Anything surprise you about her?  
CATHERINE McNALLY: I've watched her so many times. I know how well she can play. I was just really impressed with the way she was serving towards the end of the match, how well she was returning. Hats off to her, she just played really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT