CITI OPEN
August 2, 2019
Catherine Mcnally
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MCNALLY/Hsieh Su-Wei   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You talked about how excited you were to play Hsieh.  She's a different player.  What did you think of the challenge of playing her, which you seemed ready for?  
CATHERINE MCNALLY: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, last night I was following her scores.  She kept breaking, then getting broken, then breaking.  I wanted her to win so badly because I just thought it would be an amazing experience to play against her.   
I know how she plays.  I think I was just totally prepared for everything.  That was super helpful.  I think that's what helped me today.   
 Q.  What sort of specific things do you think you were well prepared for?  
CATHERINE MCNALLY: She hits a lot of shots that most players don't hit, two hands on both sides.  She'll hit some unbelievable angles.   
Yeah, I was just ready for that.  My coach helped me prepare for that.  I think I did a really good job.   
 Q.  You play another very unique player next in Camila Giorgi.  All power all the time generally.  What do you think it will take to counter that?  
CATHERINE MCNALLY: Yeah, I'm really excited.  She's a really good player.  She's done very well, had a long career.   
I'm just excited to play my game, mix in the slice, see how she handles everything that I can give to her heavy ball.  I'm just looking forward to the matchup.   
 Q.  Who is traveling here with you this week?  You said you felt pretty prepared with the preparation from your coach.  This is the farthest you've gone in a WTA tournament.  Who is keeping you grounded?  
CATHERINE MCNALLY: My coach is actually back there.  His name is Kevin O'Neill.  He's just doing a really good job.  He does this at every event, just keeping me grounded, making sure that I'm enjoying what I'm doing.  I think that's really helpful.  That's why I'm having success.   
 Q.  Fresh off of what Coco did at Wimbledon, how you've kind of come into this tournament, making a huge run, if you could take a step back, how impressed are you with yourself, where you're at right now?  
CATHERINE MCNALLY: Yeah, I mean, Coco's run was obviously unbelievable.  I'm super proud of her.  I think that just kind of put a fire in my belly that showed me I can do the same thing.   
I didn't put any expectations on myself this week.  I mean, I'm not really surprising myself because I know that I'm capable of doing this.  So I'm just super happy that I'm going out there, enjoying it, executing my game really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT