BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2005
LaToya Bond
Christelle N'Garsanet
Cindy Stein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH STEIN:  I'd just say that I think you guys all witnessed it.  I think Baylor's a handful.  I think they're tough to beat.  You have to have a perfect execution of your game plan in order to stop them.  They're running on all burners today.  They were very tough to stop.  
 
 
Q.  LaToya, could you talk about how tough their defense can be? 
 
LaTOYA BOND:  That's kind of how every Big-12 team is.  We faced that a lot this year with the pressure on the on ball with the point bringing it up, a lot of denial on the wings, trapping on the post.  I mean, it's tough.  But we just got to get used to it and work through it.  
 
Q.  Christelle, you guys are going to be coming back next year.  Can you talk about what your expectations are going to be for Missouri?  Put the season into perspective a bit. 
 
CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET:  We just going to try to work hard during the pre-season, start working hard right now until the next season.  I hope everything is going to be okay.  We're going to get better and better.  
 
Q.  Christelle, Coach Stein mentioned Baylor can be a handful.  Can you talk about their inside players, particularly Blackmon and Young, how dither to face inside there? 
 
CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET:  They're really good post players.  Really you have to keep working all the time.  You can't take a rest or take a day off.  But they're really good post player and very hard to defend.  You just have to keep working hard.  
 
Q.  LaToya, I'll ask you about a specific play again.  Hopefully you remember this.  The very first basket of the game that you had, you seemed pretty excited about that one.  It was a put-back, then you got fouled.  Can you talk about that at all at the beginning of the game how you guys started off? 
 
LaTOYA BOND:  We just came out with a lot of energy.  Everybody was crashing the boards.  The ball just happened to fall my way and I put it back up and got fouled.  That's a great way to start the game, with a 3-point play.  
 
Q.  LaToya, I wonder if you would talk about that stretch during which Baylor (inaudible) went up. 
 
LaTOYA BOND:  I think we just weren't executing right on offense, and we weren't pacing it.  We were rushing shots.  It just didn't seem like nobody wanted the ball, like we were trying to get rid of it too fast.  I mean, that causes a lot of problems for us defensively 'cause we have trouble getting back in transition.  So, I mean, we just needed to slow the ball up and take better care of the ball.  
 
Q.  LaToya and Christelle, could you talk about the time when you, right after the half, you got within 10 of them, what do you think motivated you or helped you to come out strong like that? 
 
LaTOYA BOND:  I guess we just -- we knew that we weren't like out of the game completely.  I mean, we just had to keep fighting and keep chipping away at the lead.  
 
CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET:  It was the same thing.  Just like we just felt that we can come back and just play hard and it's going to be okay.  
 
Q.  LaToya, this has been a frustrating season for you guys in a lot of ways.  What have you learned from this season and what can you apply to make next season a little better? 
 
LaTOYA BOND:  I guess basically just keeping your poise out there on the court when things aren't going right and not getting such bad attitudes, whatever, get frustrated so easily.  That was a lot of problems we had this year, was getting frustrated and stuff with a lot of pressure and when things weren't going right.  I mean, we just got to learn from that next year that we got to be tough and be mentally and physically stronger than that.  
 
 
Q.  Is it hard to face Baylor when you went know which other player is going to be the one to step up that day? 
 
COACH STEIN:  Well, you know, Baylor's depth I don't think sometimes gets enough credit.  I think they're starting five is extremely good, but then when you have somebody like Emily Neiman coming off the bench, she may not have had an outstanding game today, but at the same time she's a presence out there in doing something.  But then you've got LaToya Wyatt coming in and doing some things.  Then you've got Scott playing well.  You know, it's tough, because you're already worried about the two big kids.  But that's why they only have three losses on the year, too.  You know, a lot of credit goes to them obviously.  
 
Q.  Could you talk about, LaToya mentioned early in the season your team might not have reacted well in pressure situations, but the last part of the season how well they've changed, the growth they've made. 
 
COACH STEIN:  Well, we have made a lot of growth.  LaToya spoke about that.  It's just the fact with such a young team, playing in such a tough conference, sometimes your self-esteem sometimes comes and goes with your shot, and that can't happen.  It's teaching them all the other things about defense and rebounding and taking care of the ball.  Sometimes that's tough when you're playing against the top teams in the country.  But I'm very proud of this team and how they have been able to really focus on just getting better as a team, giving it everything they had.  I thought tonight or today that we wanted it almost too bad early.  We were overrunning stuff, not just grabbing the loose ball that's right in front of us, and sometimes learning that type of poise just takes a little bit of time.  And I think we're getting closer to where we need to be.  
 
Q.  I wonder if you'd address that stretch of the first half when Baylor changed the momentum of the game. 
 
COACH STEIN:  I think LaToya hit it.  We were rushing everything.  One, they make you do that.  Baylor has very good defensive pressure and they make you rush.  We wanted the ball so bad, we were just running 10 feet beyond or screen, getting a little out of sync.  That's where we need to be a little bit more patient and confident to set our offense up.  You don't want to get in a running game with them.  
 
Q.  Maybe discuss the pressure they put on you defensively.  Seemed like every position passed the ball so well. 
 
COACH STEIN:  Yeah, you know, when you play Baylor, it's a really physical game, so it's not just the fact that you're having to work hard to get open, it's also the physicalness of getting bumped off your cuts, things like that, bumped around a screen.  You know, just the poise that it takes -- you know, sometimes your athleticism can help get you open, about you've still got to be strong enough to handle the bumps and staying on balance.  Sometimes it just starts mounting up over time.  Sometimes you can hang with them.  But because of their depth, sometimes it's hard to do that when you don't have the depth to compete like that.  
 
Q.  Y'all did get it back to 10 there in the second half.  At that point, the way y'all had worked to get it back, did you feel like you were kind of back in the game, had a chance right there? 
 
COACH STEIN:  We did feel like we had a chance.  That's kind of what we were focused on, just kind of going in five-point bursts, trying to get five points back here, back to five, just kind of breaking it down by our timeouts.  But, you know, it's tough against them.  I mean, they stepped it up another level.  We almost relaxed too much.  We got there.  And that's one of the problems we've had, is sometimes our kids relax instead of still taking their next step up, because good teams are going to take it to the next level.  Like I said, Baylor does that.  
 
Q.  If you could continue on that.  If I remember the sequence of plays right, you're within 10, then the point guard turns it over trying to pass inside.  Is that the next step your team has to take, where you have leadership on court to know when you have to make that next big play? 
 
COACH STEIN:  Sure.  You know, sometimes when we get in situations like that, what you'll see from our team is we go for the quick hit.  We want to get it right now.  That's something, our patience kind of goes along with our confidence, just kids being in that kind of pressure situation and knowing how to handle the pressure.  But we're going for that quick kill, and you've got to have a little bit more patience and work them a little bit more.  
 
Q.  They say in the Big-12 everybody knows everything about everybody.  Do you have enough of a scouting report to know what LaToya Wyatt could do or would do?  Are there so many other things you're worried about, you don't get that far down? 
 
COACH STEIN:  I would say that you know about Wyatt, but she's not your focus.  I tell you really at this point the only thing you're not going to know going into a game is what the other coach is going to wear, especially Kim (laughter).  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your decision to leave LaToya in the game with four fouls. 
 
COACH STEIN:  Well, we were down by 14.  We're a much better team with LaToya out there.  LaToya provides a lot of spark and everything.  She does from a defensive standpoint to an offensive standpoint.  She was kind of the one finding the wiggle room offensively.  I didn't want to hit a dry spell.  And Blair has been doing a good job coming in, but at the same time she hasn't been doing anything offensively.  As we've always mentioned, against a team like Baylor, you've got to be able to score with them because they're going to put up a lot of numbers.  You've got to be able to score.  
 
Q.  Could you sort of give your assessment on Baylor's potential as a Final Four team.  How would you rate them with the other ones that have gone to the Final Four? 
 
COACH STEIN:  I think Baylor has a great chance of being in the Final Four.  I know I've watched North Carolina play Duke.  I think Baylor is right up there.  Everyone keeps talking about North Carolina being able to possibly get to the Final Four.  You know, I don't want to jinx them because I think they have incredible talent and I think they have the depth.  They've got the great inside-outside combination.  Obviously, you know, we're going to be cheering anybody from the Big-12 on to get to that Final Four.  
 
COACH STEIN:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT