THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 20, 2020
Cameron Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. So a 64.  What made you happiest during that round today.
 CAMERON DAVIS:   I think the way that I worked my way into the round based on how I felt starting the day.  My swing was a little sloppy and I wasn't hitting the ball very solid on the range.
 And then also, the start to this back nine which is where I started my round, is very strong and hit a lot of good quality shots, and I feel really proud of the way I dug in and did a really good job of just planning my shots out and committing to some lines and getting a couple of birdies early on in that stretch.  Definitely eased the tension a little bit and let me keep on going.
 Q. I was going to ask, when you have a poor warmup like that and then you get out there and the shots are coming together, what does it do to your mental state?
 CAMERON DAVIS:   I think you just calm down a little bit.  Like you'll definitely start the round, you know, a little bit unfortunately if you're looking down the first hole and you're not really sure where you're going to hit it.
 If you do see a couple balls go straight after a warm up going down the first couple of holes, I think you can just relax and go, all right, the swing thoughts I'm working on are working, if you need a pump up on the first tee of a tournament rather than practicing and get everything timed and going well, then so be it but I just -- I was feeling a little nervous and I got a couple of really good swings off, and okay, I have my feels now and know where the ball is going and from there it's a little easier to plan your way around.
 Q. You come in 91st this week trying to work your way into the BMW.  Does being down further from the 70 cutoff allow you to maybe free up and shoot at more pins and make more birdies?
 CAMERON DAVIS:   I don't think I would play this course any differently if I was doing really well in the FedExCup or not.  I'd just pick my plan for what I think will give me the best chance to have a good score and I think that would be the same if I was No. 1 or No. 125.
 It's just one way around this place that suits my eye for each pin location.  I'm going to stick to that plan.  I don't think anything is attacked more unless it's like back nine on Sunday, and you've got to really make a charge and you can't afford to be making pars.  I think that's the only time it really changes, but up until that point, I feel like the game plan that I've got gives me the most chances for birdie.
 Q. And how do you feel about game plan for softer conditions in the morning tomorrow?
 CAMERON DAVIS:   I think all it's going to do is make the greens a little bit easier to putt on and nice to have nice, smooth surface, it was getting a little bit spiked up with all the traffic today and now they are getting a little quick, a little browned out.
 So early in the morning, I might just be a little more receptive and might help you with your long irons -- so you'll have to make a little bit of an adjustment.  I think it's going to be good.  It will be good fun.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT