U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's talk about this round.
COLE HAMMER: Uh-huh.
Q. Kind of a perfect round.  No bogeys.  How did that happen?
COLE HAMMER: It was pretty perfect.  I had some like 15-, 20-foot putts on the first like five holes and I just missed them barely.
So I was kind of excited to get the lid off the hole.  I made about a six-footer on 7 for my first birdie of the day.
Had a great up and down on 8 from short right of the bunker.  I had to flop it to like three, four feet.  Made that putt for par.
Had two good -- or I par'd 9 and had a really great birdie on 10.  Hit it left in the rough.  Hit it high to like ten feet and made the putt.
Then made a couple more birdies coming in on 14 and 15.
Q. 15 and 16.
COLE HAMMER: Or 15 and 16.  Yeah, 15 and 16.
15 was a really good putt from underneath the hole up and over a ridge about 20 feet.
Then 16 was 22, 23 feet kind of across the hill.
It was a solid round.  To make no bogeys out here on a tough golf course is definitely a positive.
Q. How would you categorize your play over the two days of stroke play?
COLE HAMMER: Really solid.  Yesterday got off to a little bit of a shaky start, but pulled it back together nicely.  Bogeyed my last hole but still shot 2-under, and to kind of continue that momentum into today was nice.
To be I think 6-under through two days is a solid two rounds of golf out on these tracks.
Q. You have a chance to be medalist.  What would that mean to you?
COLE HAMMER: It would mean a lot, especially after a couple weeks ago being medalist at Western Am, or co-medalist.
It's pretty special.  I know there is -- has anyone ever won it as a 1 seed?  Yeah, perfect.  So there is that.
Q. Jinx.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, good.
Q. I mean, this whole season, it's not that you didn't play well for this season, but seems like things have come together.  What is it?
COLE HAMMER: Just really started controlling my iron shots really well.  Distance control with my wedges and all my iron shots, playing different shots has become really a strength in my game.
I've really kind of turned the putter on this year and I'm seeing the lines and kind of matching the line with the speed really well.
I think that's the key to my summer so far, yeah.
Q. At the Junior Amateur we talked about the mental side a little bit, too.
COLE HAMMER: Uh-huh.
Q. We talked about you're more mature mentally now than you were three years ago when you got to the U.S. Open.
COLE HAMMER: For sure.  I made match play 2015 at Olympia Fields, but I was nowhere near the -- at the mental strength that I am now.
After seeing Bob Rotella earlier this year, he just kind of changed my outlook on the game.  It's paid dividends, that's for sure.
Q. Who is your instructor?
COLE HAMMER: Cameron McCormick.
Q. How long you been working with Cameron?
COLE HAMMER: Coming up on three years now.
Q. How often do you see him?
COLE HAMMER: I try to get up there once a month, but that's probably going to change when I go to school.  It's going to be a little tougher just with college golf and school.
Going to send videos and kind of go through that route, but I'll be there give or take every one or two months.
Q. Okay.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT