U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty special to make that putt at 16, I would think.
COLE HAMMER: It was unbelievable.  It was not a very good match golf-wise.  I mean, we were pretty even but we just played poorly for most of the round.
To finally get an edge on 16 by making a 30-foot slider downhill was huge.  I hadn't made a putt all day, and to see that one go in was really huge for me.  Kind of gave a pretty big fist pump because it was big for the match.  Put me up going into the last two, which was huge.
Q. He seems to get down early in all these matches.  So he won the 1st hole, but quickly you came back.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, he did.  He hit two great shots on 1; made birdie.  Almost made my birdie putt.  Not much I can do on that hole.  It's a brutal hole and he made birdie.
I actually won No. 3 with a bogey.  We both hit it right and it's just absolutely dead.
Left the putt short on 4 right in the heart to go 1-up.
Then he (indiscernible) a putt on 5 like I've never seen in my life.  It literally went more than 360 around the hole and didn't go in, so put me 1-up.
Then I won the next hole.
And then it was just we were kind of slapping each other around after that.
He won 7.
Both tied 8.
Hit it to like six feet on 9.
Q. What did you hit in there?
COLE HAMMER: Soft driver.  He hit it left onto the 10 tee box and hit kind of a cut driver and it landed on the front and went to like six feet.  I just had to two-putt it.
Hit it to a foot on 10.  Two days in a row where I've lost No. 10 with concessions.  Had me 1-up again.
And then won 11 like I did yesterday.  That was big and kind of got me back into rhythm.
Q. Tell me how you played the 11th hole.
COLE HAMMER: Hit driver and hit 3-wood up to about 75 yards.  He hit the tree off the tee, kind of chunked it left into the rough, and then left it in the bunker.
I had about six, seven feet for birdie and he hit his bunker shot over the green and then just had to two-putt again.
Q. You got in a little trouble off the tee in the bunker at 15.
COLE HAMMER: On 15, yeah.  I didn't realize how short-sided it was.  Obviously I didn't want to miss short, but it was absolutely on the downslope in the green.  It was like six feet an above me and just went straight downhill towards the hole.  Almost skipped it up there perfectly, but it sat just on top of the fringe.  He hit it to like eight feet and I missed my par putt, so I just gave it to him.
Then going into 16 I made a great putt.  Actually hit a great drive, decent second shot kind of on the wrong side of the hole, and drained that thing.
Q. So once again, you're kind of in uncharted territory now.  You're off to the semifinals.
COLE HAMMER: Uh-huh.
Q. What is your mindset right now?
COLE HAMMER: Thankfully I had some experience of this at the four ball earlier this year.  Honestly, I can say I'm pretty comfortable with it.  I don't know if I would've been if Garrett and I hadn't done so well in the four ball.
Not scared.  I'm excited for the opportunity, that's for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT