U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously didn't have your A Game this afternoon.  What do you think the issues were?  
COLE HAMMER: I don't know.  Completely lost my feel on the greens for some reason.  I had no -- couldn't judge my speed at all.  I was leaving everything thing like two feet short.   
I don't know what happened.  I must have been a little tired or something.  I haven't done that in a long time.  To see myself do that kind of threw me for a loop and was hard to come back from, especially seeing him make every putt he looks at.  Makable at least.   
So, yeah, I don't know.  I got off to a rough start ball striking-wise as well.  Started hitting it better on the backside.  Kind of.  It just obviously wasn't my day.   
 Q.  You were down early but you recovered, and then you tell me, but that putt at 8 probably set you back a little bit.  
COLE HAMMER: 6 you mean?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
COLE HAMMER: Yeah.  (Indiscernible.)  I don't know what the deal was.  I don't know.  Normally hit my putts in the back of the hole and I was dying everything in.  I don't know what the deal was.  Part of it I think was the greens looked so shiny to me.  They were a lot firmer.   
Honestly, they might have been slower this afternoon than they were this morning, and that didn't really make a whole lot of sense to me.  I was just all out of sorts.  Akshay took advantage of that.   
 Q.  How well was he playing from your vantage point?  
COLE HAMMER: He never -- I don't know if he missed a fairway.  I don't know if he missed a fairway.   
 Q.  Yeah, he missed one early.  
COLE HAMMER: Oh, 5.  Yeah, okay.  Yeah.  So that was really the only mistake he made.   
He just made a lot of putts, and in match play that's so big.  Just looked like he was in control the whole time.  I fought back.  I never stopped fighting until the end.  He just was hitting it too good.  He hit it to tap-in range on the last hole.  Didn't even give me a chance.   
He never gave me an inch.  Yeah, it hurts, but I'll move on.   
 Q.  Right now it hurts, but what will you take away from this whole experience down the road?  
COLE HAMMER: Well, it's just one golf tournament.  I made it a long way.  It's a long week.  To win four matches is pretty good; and come in top 10 in stroke play.   
There are more positives than negatives.  I just got to beat one round golf today.  Doesn't mean a whole lot in the long run.   
Last few tournaments in the summer, Western Am and then the U.S. Am, so similar formats.  To see myself win four matches gives me a lot of confidence.   
And then going into college be a whole different world.  Doing this on a national stage is great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT