U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Recording in progress.)  
COLE HAMMER: Definitely a little easier than yesterday.  Kaiwen didn't have his best stuff on the first few holes.  He won No. 1, but I got No. 2 back with a par.   
Won No.4 with a par as well.  He kind of messed around around the green.  Then I think I was 2-up through -- let's see, 6.   
 Q.  You birdied 6.  
COLE HAMMER: I birdied 6.  Made about a 25-footer on 6 of up hill.   
We halved 7.   
Both birdied 8.  Hit great chips and bunker shots to about a foot.  Or he made about a four-footer.   
Tied 9.   
He made like a 30-foot slider on 10.  Wow.  Got back to 1-down, or I was 1-up.   
And then going to 11 I made like a nice nine-footer uphill slider that just trickled in to give me that jump.   
I got a little more comfortable after that.  Hit it close on the next hole.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 12?  
COLE HAMMER: 58 degree from 86 yards into the wind.  (Indiscernible) swung back like 20 feet to like eight feet.  He missed his 10-footer and I made it, so it put me 3-up.   
Made a five-footer to halve the hole on 13.   
And then 14 we both barely missed our eight-footers.  And those were big putts, because if he had made it I would've only went 2-up, and you never know what can happen then.   
But then after that, went to 15 and it's playing brutal today.  205 downhill, really windy, and hit it to like nine feet and he hit it to like 25.  He blew it by about seven feet, and I luckily made it to have a pretty comfortable win.   
 Q.  Did the confidence you gained from yesterday's tough match carryover to today?  
COLE HAMMER: 100%.  I was much less -- I was way more comfortable the entire time.  Even on the 1st hole.  I was down 1 through 1 and didn't fluster me whatsoever.   
Really just kept that mindset and attitude the rest of the match.   
 Q.  Does this upper course fit your eye?  
COLE HAMMER: It really does.  The greens aren't too firm right now so you have to really know how to control your spin and hit shots into theses greens where they're not going to rip off the low side of the green.  I did a great job of that these last few days.  Feel like I'm reading the greens well.   
The course definitely fits my eye.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT