U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about the match?  Obviously you're facing a guy who won the national championship earlier this year?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, it was a heck of a match.  I'm not going to lie.  It was unbelievable.  He got to an early 2-up lead through three.  I was able to make a long putt on 4 from about 25 feet and make an almost-30-foot birdie, and then another one on No. 5, so kind of evened out there.
He won 9 and 10.  So he went back to 2-up.  Birdied 11 and parred 12 and birdied 13.  I won all those three holes, so that was big.  I made about a 12-footer for par on 14 to stay 1-up, and that was huge.  Made about a 3-footer on 15 to win the hole and go 2-up.
Missed a shorty on 16 to close out the match by about four feet, maybe five feet, which is a little unfortunate.  But two putts on the last hole.
Q. What's that say about your resolve to come back twice from being down in the match?
COLE HAMMER: I think it shows a lot.  I just kept telling myself there is no way I'm losing this match.  I think that drive, that concentration kind of carried me through when I was 2-down a couple times.  I mean, he played great.  We both played well.  It was just I came out on top.
Q. You talked yesterday about how you had trouble in the past staying in that one shot at a time mindset.  Were you better at that today?
COLE HAMMER: Much better.  I wasn't as good as I would have liked to be on the greens in those situations, but all my approach shots, my drives were really, really good.  And I stuck to that game plan, and I really think that helped.
Q. Any thoughts about playing Garrick Higgo or I don't know if you know him?
COLE HAMMER: I met him at Sage Valley back in April.  Seems like a really good kid.  I know he's from South Africa and he's a lefty.  That's about all I know.
Q. Can you finish up by going over your birdies at 11 and 15?
COLE HAMMER: 11 I hit a hybrid from 242 and landed on the fringe, and I had about 25 feet right up there to about a foot.  On 13, I hit a 54-degree wedge to nine feet and made it for birdie.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT