U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLE HAMMER: I got off to a pretty big lead through seven holes or through eight holes, I was 4-up.  He played a good, solid 9 and birdied 11 and just missed a putt.  And I won No.  12, which was nice.  Hit it in there pretty close.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 12?  
COLE HAMMER: I had 195, 194 into the wind, and I hit a punch cut 5-iron to like six feet.  He hit it long and three-putted so I didn't have to putt my putt.   
Then 13, kind of got a little iffy.  I was 3-up and hit it left to punch out, and he hit it on the green.  Then I hit my wedge shot on the green, and he three-putted and I two-putted.  So that was a good halve.  That was kind of a big turning point in the match, honestly.   
Then 14 made par, and hit it pretty close on 15 to make bogey.   
 Q.  What did you finish on 15?  
COLE HAMMER: I hit 9-iron to eight feet, and he had a 20-footer for par.  It wasn't the best golf today.  I didn't really play that well.  I was probably a couple over, but I did what I needed to do, because he was out of a few holes.   
 Q.  Yeah, you won with a lot of pars on that front side?  
COLE HAMMER: I did, I did.  The only hole that -- we both birdied No. 6.  He drove the green and hit to 20 feet, and I laid up.  I had about 97 yards and hit it to like an inch, so that was nice.  He two-putted.  So it was really the only hole that we both played well, honestly.  But it was a good match.  It was a good way to get going in the round of 32.   
 Q.  How do you think this heat's going to affect the field as the week goes along?  It's one thing to play one match, and now you've got to start playing two a day?  
COLE HAMMER: Hopefully.  But, no.  I mean, it's going to be a factor.  It's so important to drink water.  I know people who don't think it's that important and they're struggling by the back nine.  That's going to be a big key.  It's also harder to focus and concentrate for four hours when we're out there.   
So being from Houston, it should be an advantage since I'm used to it pretty much every day.   
 Q.  You've been through a lot of these before.  Having been through that, how do you think it will lend itself to helping you as you go forward?  
COLE HAMMER: The first year I lost in the round of 32.  Last year I lost in the round of 16.  It's so important to stay focused on the shot that you're hitting because if you get ahead of yourself, stuff can get going out of whack, and that's kind of what I've had trouble with the last couple years.   
I've played some matches since then, and I love Match Play.  It's great for me.  I feel like if you just keep your head down and focus on the shot right in front of you, it's a huge advantage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT