U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice way to finish, making that eight-footer on the last hole.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, I think the greens got a little bit wet, and I left my long putt, like 40-footer, like eight feet short and rolled it in.
Q. Pretty clean on the front side, one birdie, no bogeys.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, the first five holes out here are extremely hard.  I parred the first three and then was able to birdie the 4th, which was great, and then I had a good up-and-down on No. 5, and then just parred in from there, which was solid to start the front nine, and then bogeyed 10, which is a tough hole, but I didn't have a real good chip or putt, and then birdied 11, which was nice, and then made another bogey on 14, the par-3, and then another birdie at 18.
Q. What's it like here playing the first time in the U.S. Amateur?
COLE HAMMER: It's incredible.  This tournament is like out of this world.  I've never played a tournament on such a great golf course.  It's incredible what the USGA does.
Q. How about the size of the field?  You were in the Open and you were in the Junior, but it's twice the size.
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, twice the size.  It's kind of weird to see both courses full with like 156 players a day.  There's a lot of players, but if you play solid golf, you still have a chance.
Q. Are there any players in the field that I wouldn't say idolized but have been following their careers?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, Denny McCarthy for sure.  I really like him, and Lee McCoy, also, and Bryson DeChambeau, as well, I know him a little bit, and then obviously Scottie Scheffler, Beau Hossler and Doug Ghim are some friends that I know through Texas.
Q. Have you had a chance to talk to any of these guys before?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, I've talked to all of them actually just briefly.  I've talked to the Texas guys a little bit more.
Q. Is there any one thing that they've said to you that you can use this week?
COLE HAMMER: Not really.  We didn't really talk advice.  Bryson just told me you've got to go to the dinner.
Q. So you're pretty happy with a 69 I would say?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah.  I thought anywhere around par coming out today would be a really solid score, and I'm really happy with the way I played today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT