U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. There was a stretch where it kind of got away from you.COLE HAMMER: Yeah, for sure.  I had it going pretty good for a while.  For the whole front nine, really.  And then a few holes on the back and then holes 4, 5, and 6 got away from me a little bit. But it's a tough course.  If you don't put your ball on the fairways some bad things can happen.  And unfortunately, I missed too many fairways.Q. Cameras caught you on the first hole.  What do you feel about playing here, being on the stage?COLE HAMMER: It was awesome.  I mean, I can't even describe what I felt on the first tee.  It was like nervous excitement.  It was so cool.Q. We couldn't see the cameras, emotional, clearly.  What was going through your mind then?COLE HAMMER: I was just praying.  I always pray right before my round on the first tee.  And so, yeah, that's all I was doing.  I wasn't emotional or anything.Q. What's the feeling like before you're about to play in the U.S. Open?COLE HAMMER: I don't even know, I mean, I've never felt that feeling, for sure, it was so different.  But I liked it.  It was kind of a different like kind of a sweet feeling to have.  But, yeah, I can't even describe it.Q. What do you take away from your round today as you look into what you're going to do tomorrow?COLE HAMMER: Yeah, I hit a lot of great short game shots.  I struck the ball fairly well, other than the drives that I really missed pretty badly on.  But there's a lot of positives that I take away from today that I think will definitely help me going into tomorrow.Q. Did you get any quirky shots that were required because of the way this course is laid out?COLE HAMMER: Like shots on purpose that I hit?Q. Yes.COLE HAMMER: Let me think, here.  Not really.  There's some holes, like No. 1, where you've got to play pretty far out to the right and let the slope take it.  And also like hole 3, but there's not a whole lot of run-up shots that I hit today, even coming out of the rough.  I had to leave it a little short of the hole, but nothing crazy.Q. Was the course more forgiving than perhaps you expected heading into today?COLE HAMMER: When I got here on Friday, and on Saturday and Sunday, it was really firm.  And I think they watered it these last couple of days.  But it was definitely firmer than it was yesterday.  I mean, I saw some good scores on the leaderboard. I didn't think it was that easy, but for sure you could -- it was definitely a scoring day.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT