U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We'd like to welcome Cole Hammer.  Made it to the semifinals, but Viktor Hovland prevailed 3 & 2.  Give us a quick assessment of your match.
COLE HAMMER: It was a crazy match.  There were a lot of holes won.  We both played great golf.  He just played a little better.  I think he made six birdies in seven holes on the back nine, and there's really not much you can do.  I birdied 11, 12 and 14 to kind of stay within reach, so I was 1-down, and then just made a mistake hitting it in the bunker on 15, and that kind of sealed the deal.
Q. Kind of a case of you didn't lose, somebody beat you?
COLE HAMMER: Exactly.  I'm not mad about the way I played, I'm just disappointed that I kind of run into a buzz saw.
Q. It's probably a little too soon to say, but your assessment of the week?
COLE HAMMER: Still great, yeah.  The last couple weeks have been great golf.  I played great again today.  I mean, there's a lot of positives from this week.  Sure, it's disappointing right now, but at the end of the day, it was a great run.
Q. You've played a lot of matches this summer; was Viktor by far the toughest opponent you've played just in the way he was hitting his irons, especially on the back nine and making putts?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, it really wasn't even that close.  There were a few matches this year where I got away with not playing great golf, and that was just not going to happen today.  He just played great, made everything he looked at.  Pars were never going to win the hole.  It was just a test, honestly, to play him today.  But I guess it could have gone either way.  If I had done the same thing, it would have been a different story.
Q. It's also too early to predict anything, but with Braden choosing not to play the World Amateur Team Championship in Ireland and if Viktor wins tomorrow, you could be that third guy on the team; how much would that mean, and will you therefore be rooting for Viktor hard tomorrow?
COLE HAMMER: Yeah, that would mean a ton.  I will be rooting for Viktor, no doubt about it, just for that reason alone.  Did Devon win?  So yeah, I'll be rooting for Viktor.  I played Isaiah this week.  He's a great kid.  It would mean the world to me to be on that team.  I didn't really foresee that at the beginning of the year, so it's a great spot to be in.
Q. Next step is freshman in college; what's your schedule?
COLE HAMMER: I really don't know, honestly.  I was supposed to move in today, so I'm going to push that back a little bit.  We don't start school until the 29th, so I'll figure it out over these next couple days.
Q. I'm just curious, will you take some time off after this just to regroup and enjoy being a college student, or will you just go straight into practice with the team?  Do you have any idea of that schedule?
COLE HAMMER: I mean, I might take a few days off, but we have our first tournament at the beginning of September, so I've got to stay sharp for that.
Q. Do you think you're going to have to qualify for it?
COLE HAMMER: Luckily not.  If you play in this at Texas, you're exempt for the first tournament, so I've got that going for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT