U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
Cole Hammer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Why do you make these things so close?  
COLE HAMMER: Trust me, I'm not trying to.  Matches are hard.  All these guys are really good.  Got off to a quick 2-up lead and made three birdies in a row on 5, 6, 7, and felt like I was playing really well, then made a couple mistakes on 12 and 14, and he made a great birdie on 13.  So really switched the momentum of the match, and was not liking where I was at, considering how many close matches I've had.  But I did know that I've come back so many times in the past few months that I knew that I could still do it.   
 Q.  Was there any point where in his run of three holes in a row where maybe you lost a little bit of concentration, or was it just his good play?  
COLE HAMMER: I think I lost a little bit of concentration on 14, kind of blew my second shot into the rough and ended up plugging in the bunker and was really kind of hosed from there.  I kind of gave him that hole.  He had a good up and down, but -- and he had the momentum at that point after birdieing 13, and I kind of made a mental mistake there, and he was 1-up after that, and then he gave me a gift on 15 by three-pointing.  I kind of took advantage of that.   
 Q.  Tell me about your approach into 16?  
COLE HAMMER: 16 was really good.  I had 122 a little in off the right with the wind, and hit 50-degree, landed on the front of the green and kind of curled around the spine, was a perfect spot to putt from.  I didn't have to make it, so I just kind of lagged it up there.  A little different mindset than stroke play.  But got that done, and then great speed on 17 from 40 feet and long and made him make a putt to keep the match alive.  Then on 18, hit a great wedge shot in there.   
 Q.  Where is your mind now?  You're still winning these close matches, and you've talked about the resolve you have mentally now; are you still there?  
COLE HAMMER: I definitely am.  I mean, seeing myself come back and win matches on the 18th and 19th and 20th holes three or four times, five times in the past month or so, and so that gives me a lot of confidence and lets me realize that I can do really well under pressure because it's a little bit different in the middle of the round when you're just kind of out there looking at the views of Pebble Beach, which is pretty spectacular.  But yeah, it gives me some confidence going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT