AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 14, 2016
Gregg Ontiveros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a round.  So what was it like to be out there with the lead?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: Yeah, so playing with Vaughn, it's so good to watch a guy hit the ball like that.  He was hitting the ball great all week, and he finally got his putter going the last three days and it was just fun to watch.
So I didn't play very well.  I was out of quite a few holes, but it was just very fun.  I was telling my caddie, it's just good to see good things happen to good people.  And it happened to Vaughn.  So, it was really nice.
Q. When did you get an inkling that, hey, we're kind of in this thing and it's fairly serious?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: When he made birdie after birdie after birdie after birdie.
(Laughter.)
I think the hole was like 15, I think.  It's like, okay, we're right there, I think at that point we got to the lead, we caught up with the leaders, and so, yeah.
Q. Did you have any discussions with him?  What kind of dialog was going on out there?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: Not a whole lot.  Because it was really more about him.  I'm not -- I don't want to be flippant or anything, but I've had the opportunity to win this thing before, so, I -- it was about Vaughn, it really was.  I just tried to stay out of his way and support him.  And I know he was nervous and, yeah, so, yeah.
Q. Who did you partner with?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: Brian Harman.  In 2012.
Q. So you knew the drill.
GREGG ONTIVEROS: I knew the drill a little bit, yeah.  But like I said, I didn't really help out much, it was more about Vaughn.  Just watching the birdie machine go.
Q. Did he mention his travels at all the last couple weeks playing on the WEB.COM TOUR, what that was like?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: He said you just have to go where you have to go.  He's part of the game and that's what he has to do.  But this would be a huge boost for him and we're just so happy and hope it happens for him.
Q. Masters talk at all come about?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: Did not bring that up.  Did not bring that up.  Don't want to jinx it.  He really didn't talk even about winning, we just were like post a number and the rest will take care of itself.  But he's right there.  So we'll see what happens.
Q. Is it nervous for you as a partner when you know that your guy is right there got a two stroke lead coming up 18?
GREGG ONTIVEROS: It really is, because I play a little loser game, and so I'm just trying to just stay out of his way and make sure that I respect what he's doing is really the key.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT