MOUNTAIN WEST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2017
Eric Musselman
Jordan Caroline
Cameron Oliver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nevada - 83  Utah State - 69
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: I thought our guys did a really good job to start the game.  The execution on our offensive script, you know, to get the lead or the cushion that we got.  And then obviously we have to give Utah State a lot of credit for their run that they came right back at us.
But I thought our bench gave us a huge lift when Jordan and D.J. got two fouls.  We stuck to our rule that we've had all year, two fouls and you sit in the first half.  And Leland and Josh Hall came in and gave us great energy and effort off the bench.  And the positive, really glad the game is over, they were both in foul trouble, they got a little more resting.  I probably wouldn't have rested them like that, so thanks for the foul trouble, Jordan.
Q. You got in some foul trouble in the first half.  Did that make you want to be more aggressive in the second half?  Seemed like you dominated the second half.
JORDAN CAROLINE: Not necessarily.  I just wanted to just help us win any way I could.  And I tried to give us a spark.  Because I was on the bench, I wanted to come out like Josh and Leland did for us, I didn't want us to fall off just because I was back in, especially being out for so long.
Q. In the postseason play, you've played nine postseason games, is this the moment that you kind of crave all season and why does it bring the best out in you?
CAMERON OLIVER: I crave the first game every season.  I think postseason, this is crunch time.  This is crunch time.  Anything can happen in tournaments.  The 8 seed, 1 seed.  That's tough, anything can happen.  I think coming out aggressive and really keying in for everything is going to help us win.
Q. It seems like the last three weeks you guys have really picked it up another gear.  Was it the San Diego State game that really was sort of the turnaround, losing that one and that kicked you into gear?
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: We have such great respect for San Diego State, it's a really difficult place to play, and they did a great job defending us.  And we think that we understood after that loss that we didn't have much room for error.  And just our practices and the commitment that the guys have shown, whether it be in film sessions or them still getting reps up late at night on their own.  There's been a full, total commitment, a hundred percent.  And we haven't dropped off.
If you were around our team you would think that it's the first week of the season.  That's how focused they've been.  People have talked about would we be able to sustain, because of scholarship guys, and our guys have done a phenomenal job all season long.  We feel just like last year we continue to get stronger as the season goes on.
Q. You guys have been playing just such great basketball the last few weeks.  Seemed to really be improving.  But it looks like you're having a blast doing it.  How much fun are you having competing as players?
JORDAN CAROLINE: You know, it's a great thing, especially playing with guys like Cam, play with the same intensity you do.  And he's also a star defensively.  He's always there to block shots.  And he's a great presence to have.
CAMERON OLIVER: I just think we all know what we're capable of as a team, as a brother.  So when you see Jordan getting aggressive in rebounds, D.J. hitting shots, everybody doing their thing, it's just fun.  You've got to have fun playing basketball.  And seeing everybody do what we all know we're capable of, it's just a fun feeling.
Q. What do you think about the effort off the bench from Josh and Leland tonight?
CAMERON OLIVER: It was great.  It was phenomenal.  We needed it.  Coach Muss always talk about how we need bench productivity.  And they brought it.  And we all know what Josh and Leland are capable of doing.  It's about time for them to get the shot to do it.
Q. When you're going to the bench, head down, big game, to see these guys come in and extend the lead, pretty good to see the bench playing like that?
JORDAN CAROLINE: Yeah, like Cam said, we know what they can do.  We've seen it every day in practice, we know what they're capable of.  That's really not a surprise for me, I've seen Leland hit threes and Josh get guys open.  I know what they're capable of and I expect nothing less.
Q. Looking ahead to the next game, what do you see as potential matchups, pitfalls, looking ahead?
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: We're going to watch the game as a team and probably be able to answer that better in two hours.  Both teams are really, really good teams.  Both teams are well coached.  Both teams have star power on their roster.  So, again, right now we'll go out as a team and we'll watch them and we'll meet as a staff real quick, and then we'll get together with the guys and do some film study and then practice tomorrow and get ready for whoever we may play.
Q. Just a quick comment on Jalen Moore from Utah State, I thought he was the one of the most unique weapons in this league.  Was he one of the tougher guys you've gone up against this year?
CAMERON OLIVER: He's a tough guy to play.  Kind of hard to play against somebody that matches the same athleticism as you.  And he's capable of shooting the ball.  Kevin Durant would be a comparison.  He actually dunked on me, too.  But it's all good.  He's a good player.  And we tried our best to keep him out of his points, but he is just a talented player.
Q. It seemed like the front court was the deciding factor in the two regular season games.  They were plus-14 on the glass in the game they won, you guys were plus-16 on the glass in the game you won.  Did you feel like whoever won the front court battle in this game was going to win ultimately?
JORDAN CAROLINE: Yeah, that was one of our emphasis going into the game was to win the rebound battle.  We took it upon ourselves to go out and get the rebounds and take care of business.
Q. Jalen Moore, what's your take on him as a kid who obviously has expressed interest in playing at the next level?  What are your thoughts on him?
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: I think that Jalen is -- he's a hard cover.  Obviously at the collegiate level he plays the four and the three.  And his position at the next level, whether it be NBA, D-League or Europe, will be at the 3 spot.  He possesses unique skill set because he can post up, play with his back to the basket.  He can shoot the three ball.  And he can take guys off the bounce.  And he's got great length.  So he's probably a guy that's going to end up going to some place like Portsmouth, and will have to prove himself.
But he is a guy that at the collegiate level is a really, really, really tough cover.  And it's hard to play at the next level, but he certainly has the ability if things fall into place for him, the right situation, right time and all those type of things.
Q. Cam and Jordan scored 12 of your first 14 points.  To me they were the decisive factor in the game.
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: I thought they did a great job.  We wanted to go inside a little bit more than be too perimeter oriented tonight.  And again, I just thought that the offensive script that we laid out for them, I don't think that we have executed like that out of the gate where the ball moved and we cut so hard and we had great screens where we actually went and made contact with people and got people open.  I thought that first four minutes was phenomenal.
It was a quiet locker room.  It's been a unique situation pregame for about two weeks now where I go back in the coach's room and worry about if they're ready to play.  And they have a quiet confidence right now about themselves and a really business approach pregame.  And I thought that showed to start the game.
Q. Having to win three games in three days for a short bench, tough for anybody.  How do you think playing in the Great Alaska Shootout and even in the back-to-back tournament here in Vegas has helped the team get ready for an environment like that?
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: I think our guys, the difference is 25 years ago, 30 years ago, whatever, people weren't used to playing back-to-back-to-back.  But these guys have been playing AAU ball, and they've been doing it their whole lives.  I think they're used to it.
Obviously what we did in Alaska helps prepare, playing in the other tournament here in Vegas helps.  And right now we've got one game to worry about and that's tomorrow night.  And it's important for these guys to get their rest and eat properly and turn their lights and TVs and cell phones off as early as possible tonight to sleep and get ready for tomorrow.
Q. Talk a little bit about being the No. 1 seed.  The tournament on your back.  The 1 seed hasn't performed too well the past few years in this tournament.  Talk about the pressures involved with that.
COACH ERIC MUSSELMAN: We don't really feel there's pressure.  We're no different than any other team.  If you look on the bracket it has a No. 1 next to it.  But it's meaningless.  Everybody has the same chance, and we all got on the airplane and showed up here on Tuesday, everybody in the Mountain West had equal opportunity.
It's the third season.  And we talked to our guys at the beginning of the year, how it was three years in college basketball, non-conference, conference and then conference tournament.  And now some teams have gone home and there are teams still surviving.  We have so much internal pressure, even in practice, that I think that they're used to pressure.
And I'm not worried about them thinking they're the No. 1 seed because we have such great respect for everybody in this conference.  And we understand that anybody can beat anybody on any given night.  And that's been proven over and over in this league.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT