AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 18, 2018
Martin Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Martin, congratulations.  What a great round of golf, 63, 8-under par.  2-under yesterday.  What was the big difference on this golf course today?  
MARTIN PILLER: Yeah.  I putted atrociously yesterday.  I hit the ball great.  I drove it great yesterday.  I hit it really, really good and I made zero, zero putts yesterday.  I think I made an 8-footer for birdie on 8 yesterday and that was the highlight of the day.   
So, I spent about an hour, hour and a half putting after my round yesterday and I was pretty frustrated with it because I normally am a good putter and feel like I found kind of a good feeling with it and then made -- got a couple to go early.   
I think that's the key with putting, you see a couple go in early and the ball goes in a better direction.   
 Q.  How different did the course play today?  Seems like the wind is up a little bit more than what you guys had in the afternoon.  
MARTIN PILLER: Yeah.  We were off so early this morning the 7:20 that it wasn't much.  We really didn't have much wind at all until maybe 13, 14, 15.   
So we had pretty good conditions for most of our round, certainly our front-9.  Pretty calm.  We didn't have to deal with the wind too much other than just our last couple holes, the breeze started picking up.  Other than that, we had pretty good conditions.   
 Q.  Second event since AJ was born.  Another mouth to feed, right?  
MARTIN PILLER: Right.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I better pick it up.  I'm still five back.  So, it's like, "Dang, come on, man."   
 Q.  Obviously a fun time in your life.  
MARTIN PILLER: Yeah.  Having a baby is something that I'll never forget, obviously, and we love it.  Gerina is doing great and the baby is doing great.  It's something that it's like I come home every time now and it's like I get to go hold him and nestle him I can't wait until he gets bigger.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)  
MARTIN PILLER: I played at Quail Hollow.  I played at Quail Hollow.  Played about the worse golf of my life.  I don't really know why I went, to be honest with you.   
So, yeah, I was mostly just ready to play good golf.  If I was chomping at the bit to do anything, play good golf.   
I hadn't really done much since I finished like 20th something away back.  I was wanting to play some really good golf.   
 Q.  How close is this to your house?  
MARTIN PILLER: About 45 minutes.   
 Q.  How often do you get to play?  
MARTIN PILLER: I only played here once actually before this week and it was over a year ago.  So, it was pretty different.  The condition was a lot different.   
So, it was -- I only played it once.  I liked it when I did play it but I was meaning to get down here a couple more times and I don't know why, I just couldn't get down here but really just this week.   
 Q.  What's fatherhood like?  
MARTIN PILLER: It's pretty cool.  It's like wow, I am now responsible for a human being.  So, that's pretty crazy.  We love it so far.   
 Q.  What's the most surprising thing?  
MARTIN PILLER: I'm not really surprised by anything.  I've been around kids a lot.  My wife's family, they have tons of kids.  She has two older brothers that have tons of kids.  We're around kids all the time, really.  Nothing is really surprising me but I'm certainly learning, learning as I go.   
 Q.  You staying at home these two weeks?  
MARTIN PILLER: Yeah.  Yeah.   
 Q.  How has the sleep been?  
MARTIN PILLER: It's good this week, sleeping upstairs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT