DAVIS CUP - SWEDEN vs ITALY
December 5, 1998
Davide Sanguinetti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you sum up the doubles?

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI:  The Swedes were the favorite team, of course, before these doubles.  Our players, the Italian team, did the impossible.  I would like to give my compliments to say to the Swedish team that won the Davis Cup tonight.  They were the favorite, of course.  But our team did the best that they could.  Sanguinetti and Diego Nargiso never played together.  They made a lot of effort together.


Q.  The Swedes have won now three times in the last five years.  What do you think there is to learn from their success?  What strikes you the most about how they've managed to do that?

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI: The Swedish team is one of the best teams ever in Davis Cup. They are producing really good players.  They believe in the country, and they play for the country.  So it's very good for them. 


Q.  A difficult situation for you to come in as a replacement in doubles.  How difficult was it for you to play your best on that side of the court, also as a replacement?

DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  Well, usually I play on the left side.  I mean, it was tough because at the end, Nargiso was really, really good.  This year, they lost not that many match.  They play a lot together.  That means that they know each other.  They can move, they can poach.  I didn't have this with Diego, because this is my third match with him all year.  It was tough.  The Swedish doubles team was really good.  I mean, we knew that they're returning so well; they serve so well.  It was the toughest point, since the beginning.  Unfortunately, we didn't play our real like doubles.  I mean, I was a replacement.  I think Diego preferred to play because they know each other more.


Q.  Was it a nightmare for you after today?

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI: No.


Q.  You were 1-Love after Gaudenzi, but of course it didn't happen.

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI: No.  Of course, we could have been 1-All after the first day.  We did really believe it. But unfortunately we couldn't do it because of Andrea's  injury.  Of course, we didn't deserve 3-All today, but I would like to say thank you to the Federation, because they gave me this really good team.  Thanks to the personal coaches that really prepared our players.  Thank you to the Federation and the organization.


Q.  Are you afraid of your position for next year?

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI: I have a contract with the Italian Davis Cup team until the European Cup, so we'll see, we'll talk about that after that.


Q.  Are you thinking about the future of the Italian team?

CAPTAIN BERTOLUCCI: I don't want to think about it.  I'm very disappointed tonight.  I don't want to think about the next match against Switzerland.


Q.  What do you think about the contract that Bertolucci has that ends in December?

DIEGO NARGISO:  The Captain must be confirmed for next year because we think that if he is there with us, we'll be with him, we'll be the Davis Cup team, otherwise we won't be there.

DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  I feel the same.  If there is no Bertolucci, there won't be us.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT