DAVIS CUP - SWEDEN vs ITALY
December 4, 1998
Davide Sanguinetti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did the injury of Andrea Gaudenzi make a big difference for you in your game? 
 
DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  Yes.  Of course, I wanted to play, and I wanted to win for Andrea, but I couldn't do it. I'm a very emotional player.  My game is based on emotions.  Unfortunately, my game was affected by the injury of Andrea. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about tomorrow?
 
DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  I'm physically okay, but mentally I'm a little bit down now.  I will talk with the captain and with the whole team and that will help me very much for tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Talk a little bit about the way Gustafsson played.
 
DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  Well, it's easy to play when your opponent is not playing the greatest match, and he's not playing really, really good.  I mean, I gave him the first set.  Then I started playing a little bit better in the second.  But, I mean, all  of a sudden I had so much tension in me that I was feeling like I was going to throw it up.  I mean, it was different.  I don't know.  I felt like I couldn't do anything.  And then he won the second set, it was easy for him.  He start like hitting the ball as hard as he could.  Every ball went in.  I mean, it's easier to play when you are two sets up than two sets down. 
 

Q.  A difficult time to ask this question.  Did you discuss about the percentage about winning tomorrow?
 
DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  We don't have a lot of possibility to win tomorrow because they have a really strong doubles team.  But you never know.  Somebody could get hurt again, as magically happened today.  But we'll try to win tomorrow anyway. 
 

Q.  How did you feel about the match when Gaudenzi lost?  What did you talk about after the match when Gaudenzi got hurt?
 
DAVIDE SANGUINETTI:  I was sorry for him, for his injury.  It's not because of him losing the match, but because we don't now how bad his injury is now.  It could be really bad, a bad injury, but we don't know how bad the injury is. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT