NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 31, 2001
Rob Blake
Ray Bourque
Dan Hinote
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ray, do you allow yourself to think that you are two games away from the Finals here? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, I know we are two games away, and we are one step closer but we got a lot of work left.  We got to go out and go after like we did tonight and if we do that, I think we are giving ourselves a chance. 


Q.  Ray, what a turnaround.  Elias hits the post shorthanded at the end of the second period, same powerplay you end up getting what turns out to be the game winner.  Obviously, statistically a big goal but also emotionally?

RAY BOURQUE:   It was a huge goal.  Patrick came up with some big saves.  I thought the second period was our best, we went after him, got a powerplay at the end of the third and really came out at the end of the second, I mean came out beginning of the third cashed in and grabbed the lead and after that, that third goal was a huge goal for us.  Gave us a two-goal cushion and allowed us to go out there and if we didn't make a mistake, you know we had those two goals and we played real hard.  For me, that goal was awesome.


Q.  Ray, given your desire to finally win a Cup and given the importance of this does this goal rate a little higher on the scale of things?  I mean this was pretty big in the --

RAY BOURQUE:   It has been awhile.  I think it has been since 1990 and I mentioned that to a couple of guys and you know, it turned out I got one tonight.  It was a big one, but you know, it was a great team effort and that's what we need to do is go out there and play the way we did tonight and killed off some big penalties in the first and  really went after it in the second.  For me, yeah, I could say it was probably the biggest goal I have scored.


Q.  Dan, what were you doing in 1990 the last time Ray scored a Final's goal and can you talk about your goal tonight?

DAN HINOTE:   1990 was a while ago, I wasn't too worried about the NHL at that point.  But tonight I got to give all the credit to my linemates and you know, it was a great, great passing by them.  I think Rob Blake blocked a shot, came to me, I passed it over to Drury, made a great Pass over to Nieminen who had a lot of speed coming in, then he made a great pass to me, I had open net.  All I had to do was put it in.  So I had the easy part.


Q.  I wonder what you thought of this cult following you, a lot of them tonight with jerseys on, billboards in Denver from Boston, your reaction to that so far? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Well, it's great support that I know I am getting in Boston and Montreal.  And a lot of places, I think, if it does happen, it's a great story.  ^it is ^ is it something I have been chasing for a long time, but you know, I think a lot of people know why I made the move is to put myself in this situation and now I am and I think a lot of people are happy for me.  But you know, I know I got a big job to do and it's a long way from being over.  So I realize all that and the support is nice, I have got to say that.


Q.  Ray, Milan Hejduk said that going into the third after the second intermission, the question was asked as it always is, you know:  Who is going to score it.  You stood up and said:   I got it or it's mine, or something along those lines.  How do you know that?  Did you have any feeling?

RAY BOURQUE:   You don't know nothing, you just make the call and you hope you get lucky.  You know, what do you got to lose? 


Q.  Both Rob and Ray, the Devils talked the last round as the series went on that they could see the guys from the Penguins getting really frustrated as they couldn't add any offense.  Are you noticing that they can't get any offensive momentum which is making them frustrated?

ROB BLAKE:  I don't know if you could tell just yet, three games into the series I mean, we got to limit their space and their time with the puck as much as possible.  If that ends up frustrating them all the better for us. 

RAY BOURQUE:   I think your job is never done.  You go in trying to contain them.  They got some great offense.  They are deep in all four lines.  It is a lot of hard work.  You try to take their space and their time away like Rob said, and on the powerplay you got to do a terrific job because you know, they got some huge guys, really move the puck and really talented.  So you know, I think we are doing a good job in our end and away from the puck and we really it's everybody.  It's a unit out there. It is not only ^Patrick ^ Patrik and the "D".  ^it is ^ is it forwards as well really doing a great job, and ^it is ^ is it stuff that we work on all year long and we have done pretty well.  We just got to continue to do that. 


Q.  Rob, the penalty killing unit killed 20 consecutive penalties before the one in the first period.  Were you guys angry about that, angry that it happened?  Was it a motivating factor at some point?

ROB BLAKE:  We never want to allow the opposition the opportunity to score on the powerplay especially teams in Playoffs is big, both powerplay and penalty killing.  Penalty killing is a lot of hard work.  ^it is ^ is it great having Patty there.  He is going to make the saves but again we never want them to allow them to score ^definitely ^ Devil.  We want to shut them down as much as possible.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT