NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 19, 2018
Ryan Carpenter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've been asked about this many times.  This is a long way from Doug Wilson calling you into his office and telling you you've been put on waivers.  
RYAN CARPENTER: Again, if you would have told me that in December, would have been totally shocked.  To be one win away...  Yeah, it's crazy just in pro sports how things can change so quickly.   
 Q.  It's gone beyond Turk has made some lineup changes, you've been in and out of just a minor spot, now being used again and again in the third period by coach.  
RYAN CARPENTER: It feels good.  He does that for all of us.  When we make mistakes, puts us right back out there, gives us confidence.  Any way to help the team win, I'm happy to do it.   
 Q.  Last night in the third, if you look at the ice time, they have a couple guys in the high 20s, everybody is kind of jammed together with you guys.  How big a factor was that late in the third?  
RYAN CARPENTER: Yeah, it's probably important when guys aren't as worn out at the end of the game, to be able to be fresh and be able to play four lines, all six D.  Plays a factor, especially in a long series.   
 Q.  How do you keep your focus just on Game 5 and not on what potentially could lie ahead?  
RYAN CARPENTER: We just all year haven't really focused too much on the future.  We've taken it one day at a time.  Yeah, I mean, we enjoyed last night, but we know Winnipeg is going to come out strong in their building that first game.  We remember they jumped up 3-0, you blinked and it was 3-zip.  They play good at home, it's been close games, so...   
 Q.  Take it from the standpoint of one of the new guys coming into a room.  Did you see it right away, this is a little bit different locker room?  
RYAN CARPENTER: Yeah, loose, but guys work really hard.  Guys are focused and competitive, but guys have fun.  Don't really put too much pressure.   
You don't have too much pressure when two boys come in.  Nice to come in and try to contribute.  We've been taking it one day at a time, rolling with it.   
 Q.  We talked about your bounce-back after goals are scored.  You take that from an individual standpoint to a collective standpoint, up to each guy to do well, but collectively in the room do you feel that?  Is it talked about?  
RYAN CARPENTER: Yeah, maybe it's not talked about.  I mean, probably every team it's assumed, Hey, we got to get the next one, whenever a goal is scored against you.   
Yeah, I think it's probably just the character in the room.  If we down or up, try not to get too high or too low.  When we're down in games, we always have the hope we can come back.  The guys we have on offense, we feel like we can come back whenever we're out of a game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT