NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2015
Mikko Rantanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how you feel right now being drafted by the Colorado Avalanche.   
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Oh, it's an unbelievable feeling.   I've been waiting for this for the last two days, very frustrating waiting these days, and I'm very proud to be one part of this organization.   And I will be‑‑ I will try to be worthy of this draft and try and do everything I can to help the Colorado Avalanche.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you can help them?   What do you bring to the table?   
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Right now of course just trying to be positive and do that stuff, and on the ice trying to be a good teammate and work ethic, trying to work hard for the team and that stuff, what every team needs, and of course trying to‑‑ hockey sense is my biggest strength, so trying to do that, too.  
   
 Q.   Seems like Finnish hockey is on the rise a little bit.   What do you think has helped Finland become a better hockey country?  
MIKKO RANTANEN:   I think there's excellent players coming from Finland every year, and there's good players in the NHL right now.   We have a good national team, and I have to also thank junior coaches that been progressing us, and it's a long process, but I think from juniors to the men's league, they have done good stuff.   
   
 Q.   How do you foresee the changes between the European game and the North American game?   
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Of course European, they have big rink there, and there's small rink here.   Small rink, things happen faster and you have to think quicker and do things quicker.   It's a lot different.   But I enjoy playing small rink, and I think I can play there, and I will.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy with how the draft unfolded for you?   Were you nervous before your name was called?  
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Of course.   A little bit nervous.   That's one thing that is common.   So trying to just enjoy and be relaxed.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the junior and senior league teams in Finland.   What did you find was the biggest transition, getting that experience?  
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Of course there's bigger guys, and battling is harder in men's, so I think that every day you have to give your 100 percent in practice and in games, so I think that's the biggest difference.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that was essential to get you to this point?   A lot of people kind of mentioned Aleksander Barkov.   
MIKKO RANTANEN:   I think when I played men's the last two years, it has helped me a lot to battle with the big guys and get stronger and get used to that physical play.   I think it has helped me to think about how to play in the NHL, and it was nice to play with the men the last two years.  
   
 Q.   Were there any teammates that were a mentor to you, any teammates?  
MIKKO RANTANEN:   Not one mentor, of course.   I'd like to thank all my teammates that helped how we played last year.   It was a tough season for TPS, but I'd like to thank all my teammates, and I'd like the biggest thanks for my family and friends.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT