NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Cam Reddish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you summarize your feelings about tonight, how everything is going?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, I'm super excited.  I'm ready to get to work.  It's truly a blessing, a dream come true.
Q. I have to get your impressions on being drafted and playing with De'Andre, two Philadelphia-area guys.
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, for sure.  He's a great guy.  Was around him a lot throughout this entire process.  I'm definitely looking forward to playing with him.
Q. De'Andre said he knew you when he was in the 10th grade.  What has been your relationship with him throughout these years?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, our high schools were in the same league.  So we grew up kind of playing against each other a little bit.  We know each other just enough.  I'm looking forward to getting to know him a little bit more.  Getting ready to get to work.
Q. You mentioned yesterday how playing alongside Trae would be a good thing for you.  What did you mean by that?  How can he elevate your game?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, I think he's a great leader, a tremendous work ethic.  I think he can do it all on the court.  Obviously he's a tremendous passer.  Will be able to find me throughout the entire game.  I'm looking forward to learning from him, being around him, soaking it all in.
Q. What does it say about the Philadelphia area to have two guys picked in the top 10?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, Philly is a basketball city, for sure.  I'm from Norristown, Pennsylvania, which is also a basketball city.  It's crazy, really.  It's crazy.
Q. Zion was very complimentary to you in his press conference.  What about his mental state is really going to help him succeed in this league?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, he's ready for sure.  He talks about it all the time.  His passion is like no other.  I'm happy for him.  I hope he does great things.  I know he will do great things.  I'll for sure be watching.
Q. I want to know what aspects of your game you think you got to improve in order to get to the next level once you get to the NBA?
CAM REDDISH: I feel like I have to improve on my consistency.  Get my body right.  Get healthy.  Get in the weight room.  Trying to stay healthy throughout the entire season. I think it all starts with my diet.  But just being healthy.
Q. What was it like watching from beginning to end?  What were your emotions as you were waiting for your name to be picked?  What was going through your head?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, I mean, Zion was the No. 1 pick.  I was ecstatic.  I'm so happy to see him make his dream come true.  RJ, No. 3.  My emotions were just going all over the place.  Super excited for those guys.  Obviously, I was taken No. 10 by Atlanta.  That's really a dream come true, truly a blessing.  I'm just happy to be here.
Q. Was it a grind waiting there?
CAM REDDISH: It was definitely a grind.  Minutes felt like hours.  Felt like it took forever.
Q. You talked about the Philly connection.  What about the three Duke guys in the top 10?  What does it say about the program and just where you are as friends?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, Duke is truly a brotherhood.  What you guys see from the outside, it's real.  To see those guys get drafted means a lot to me.  I know it means a lot to them.  It's truly a blessing.
Q. When there was that possibility of reuniting with Zion in the NBA, did anything go through your mind then?  What emotions were you thinking of?
CAM REDDISH: I mean, for sure.  Playing with Zion, it was a ton of fun this year.  I would never pass that up.  I really didn't think too much about it.  But it would have definitely been great.
Q. What do you think about being a part of this young core in Atlanta?
CAM REDDISH: It's a young, talented group.  I'm just trying to come in and be the best addition I can possibly be to that team.  Just giving my all every single day.  Try to improve, progress every single day.
Q. Is there one or a few favorite Coach K quotes that you carried until today that motivate you, some of the things that he said that left a great memory for you until today?
CAM REDDISH: Yeah, I remember during the Louisville game, during halftime, he told us he doesn't coach losers.  That stuck with me.  I got to bring that winning mentality to Atlanta.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT