NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 16, 2005
Lindsey Hunter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lindsey, how good does it feel to be so productive offensively in such a big game? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  It felt good.  I think defensively it opened us up a lot.  We got a lot of layups and easy baskets.  You know, it ignited me tonight and I think everybody else.

Q.  Can you tell me if this team can be beaten, if you guys play like you did tonight, seven guys in double figures, spreading the ball around like you did? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Well, we're good defensively and we do share the ball, it's hard for us to lose, we really give ourselves a great chance to win games.  Coach stresses that to us all the time and sometimes we get caught up in one-on-one basketball, and that's not the way we win games. 


Q.  Coach just said this was maybe the best game he's ever had a team play, your thoughts on that?  Is it the best game you've ever been a part of? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  It was a great game.  It was a great game.  We had a lot of memorable games last year in The Finals but this ranks among the best.  Everybody had a part in it.  Defensively, we were unbelievable. 


Q.  Why was your pressure defense so effective tonight, and especially early? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Well, I always come into the game trying to be that defensive guy, the guy that pressures and tries to, you know, get some turnovers and just give us energy.  We did a great job of pressuring up, getting them out of the things they like to run, not letting Tim get the ball in his sweet spots.  When we do that, you know, we create running opportunities for our team, and we did a great job at that tonight.


Q.  Do you remember the last time you came into this room, and did you imagine this happening in a Finals series a couple of years ago, I think when you were deep on the bench with the Lakers? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Oh, I can't remember, but, you know just enjoy the moment.  You know, it's back to work for us tomorrow, and of course Coach Brown is going to remind us of that.  It was a great game for us, but, you know, we've still got a tough road ahead of us. 

Q.  How much importance is attached to Game 5?  Usually Game 5 is what decides a Final, you know, seven-game series, how much importance can you attach to it now? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Well, every game is important at this point in the season.  Every game is important.  Now Game 5 is the most important game.  We have to win the game, of course, to try to gain an advantage, and that's the only thing we're worried about right now. 


Q.  Could you talk about the ability to kind of pull away with, I believe it was 14-0 run at the end of the first, and the second half they got two quick buckets, you went on an 8-2 run, I believe.  Can you talk about your ability to separate yourselves every time they came close. 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Coach kept us focused.  He talked about playing each quarter out, and it really stayed in our heads, and each quarter we wanted to finish strong.  They came out aggressive and they got two easy baskets, and we didn't want that to happen.  They are really effective with Ginobili and Parker in their defense and we shut them down and started to make them shoot jumpshots, with a hand in the face, and it was effective for us.


Q.  Was the change we've seen in the last couple of games more adjustments or is it really effort on your part?

LINDSEY HUNTER:  I think it's more effort, and just executing better.  We didn't execute the first two games at all.  They penetrated us time and time again.  They got to the basket, and we just made a conscious effort not to let it get in our defense, not to let our big guys get out of position, and it's paid off for us. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT