NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 10, 2005
Chauncey Billups
Lindsey Hunter
Antonio McDyess
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Could you tell what the Spurs doing differently? 

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  No, they weren't doing nothing different, but not only bigs, but I think they did the pick-and-rolls, they kind of mixed it up a little bit.  The main thing that hurt us was Ginobli.  I think the second half he kind of -- driving to the basket, we have to try to defend him a little better.

Q.  Seemed like there was more switching in the second half in the pick-and-rolls?

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  Yeah, we should have started adjusting, the big guys started switching and doing what he do, going to the basket.  He can do it on a small and he can definitely do it on a big.  We just have to try to go out there with a different game plan next game.

Q.  Guys are not used to getting hammered in the fourth like you did last night.  How do you respond?

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  Yeah, it was ugly.  It was ugly.  No excuse, hopefully next game be a little bit better. 

Q.  Not to make an excuse, but do you sense --

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  I think the second half we just ran out of gas.  I'm not taking nothing from the Spurs because they played excellent defense.  And offense, they did great, you know, but I think we talked to a couple of guys and they said they were tired, also.  I thought it was only me at first.

Q.  So with a chance to get your legs under you and get some rest a little bit and thinking about what Ginobli and what Parker were able to do in the second half, do you think you'll be much more physical with those guys particularly in Game 2? 

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  Definitely.  We have two days between so we have to get focused and prepare ourselves for those guys now, so, you know, I think this will definitely help us, especially got to focus on their guys like Ginobli and Parker.  You see those guys just flying around with the ball, going in and out of the lane with the ball and then coming back and making a shot, so we definitely have to do a better job on them. 

Q.  After seeing the Spurs, how they played against Phoenix, up-tempo and now they come in and kind of play your guys' game and they beat you, what do you think of their ability to be so versatile? 

ANTONIO MCDYESS:  We pretty much know what they can do.  Don't anything surprise us, they can go out and switch it up at anytime.  Basically last night, seemed like we were looking at our own selves playing, especially the second half, they ran offense that we kind of run.  You know, they are a great, great team.  Even when you're up ten or 12 points, they definitely can come back and hurt you. 

Q.  What do you need to do in Game 2? 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  I think we're going to have to be a little more physical and a little more aggressive.

Q.  As confident as this team is, losing a game like that, do you just say, "hey, we can play so much better"? 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, definitely, we didn't play that good at all.  You know, I watched the whole game all over again last night and, you know, it wasn't just the easy shots that we missed.  We just didn't play that good.  Until you see that game, I don't really know that.  But we really didn't.  We didn't play that good at all.  I think when everybody else watches the game today, we'll realize that.  You know, they got all of the effort plays, their guys were diving for loose balls.  I mean, they played this game very desperate and we didn't. A lot of our guys won't play like they did last night.  Rasheed will be a lot more aggressive I'm sure and that's just the game, that's how it is, but I don't think that we're going to have too many games like that. 

Q.  How do you think Rip will adjust to Bowen's defense? 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Well, Bowen is a great defender.  He's really one of the best one-on-one defenders out there.  I think Lindsey is the best, but I think he's right there, you know what I mean.  He's long, he's wiry, he's strong, he's more athletic than people give him credit for, and, you know, Rip is going to make adjustments.  He plays against so many different kinds of defenders all year trying to stop him that, you know, Bruce is just one -- he's just one of those guys that's just playing with so much heart and energy that Rip is going to adjust.  He's not going to miss four or five easy layups.  I don't think they had anything to do with him not making them.  I'm not worried about him at all.  He'll be fine. 

Q.  Point guard matchup in this series, how do you feel?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  I mean, Tony Parker is a tough matchup.  He's so fast and he's so crafty and he finishes so well around the basket that he's a tough matchup for anybody.  You know, I think that I'm a tough matchup for him, too, with my strength and what I like to do.  I mean, I thought he made a good game and he did what he had to do.  He scored around the basket, you know and I thought he played good. I thought I had a pretty good game, too, but like I said, it's not about me versus Tony or Rip versus Bruce or Rasheed versus Timmy.  It's not about any of that.  It's about the Spurs versus the Pistons, and, you know, through the course of the game, you go at certain match-ups, but at the end of the day, it's not an isolation game or a one-on-one game.  It's a team game.

Q.  Where did you watch the game last night, in your room?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  In my room.

Q.  How often do you do that? 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Not that often, but when it came back on at like 2:30 or 3:00 in the morning and I couldn't get to sleep anyway and I watched the whole game.

Q.  What do you have to do for Game 2? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  In order for us to win we have to come out focused better than we did in the first game.

Q.  Why didn't you come out more focussed?

LINDSEY HUNTER:  There's probably a lot of reasons, but we have to give them credit.  They came out and did a great job.

Q.  Would you be surprised if you went home down 2-0? 

LINDSEY HUNTER:  Yeah, I would be.  Yeah, I would be.  Of course, we wanted to get the first game and we couldn't so now our focus is on this next game and it's a must-win. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT