NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 28, 2010
Grant Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Pau.   
  
  Q. Just talk about how long of an emotional high you were on last night. Was it difficult to settle down and get back into the even flow after such an emotional win last night?   
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, obviously there were a lot of emotions going through our minds and our bodies, especially for the last five minutes of the game where we had a good lead, came back, had a big run. You know, three chances to tie the game was crazy. You know, obviously that crazy putback which gave us the win.   
 So, yeah, a lot of emotions. A game that we're very, very happy to win, have the lead that we have right now. It puts us in a position to go to Phoenix today and tomorrow, give another great effort, give ourselves a chance to close the series.   
  
  Q. It was very apparent how happy the teammates were for Ron. All the ups and downs he's had this year...   
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, we were really happy. I think struggled a little bit last night. For him to make that play at that point in the game, give us the win, I think it should be a really great boost of confidence for him so he can come out tomorrow and have a great game for us.   
  
  Q. They mentioned they specifically changed the defense to counter what you were doing. Did you notice that? How have you had to change where you're gotten your shots?   
 PAU GASOL: It's been tougher against zone. They really try to put a guy in front of me and a guy behind. They force you to attack from the weak side. They take away a lot of our inside game. We just got to continue to work, go to the glass. That's how you can hurt 'em. Work for 48 minutes for different looks.   
  
  Q. Looking at the entire playoffs, you've been a top player for a while, do you think during these playoffs you've raised your game at all? More consistency, more rebounds? Do you feel an elevation in your game?   
 PAU GASOL: I feel happy about the way I played the last couple months, also throughout the playoffs. It's been consistent and productive. So I just want to keep it up, you know.   
  
  Q. Do you realize you have to be more consistent night in and night out?  
 PAU GASOL: It's always good to be consistent no matter what. Obviously if a key player, as Andrew is, is not a hundred percent, is not playing the amount of minutes he could play, then we all have to step it up. I have to step it up. Lamar has to step it up. The rest of the guys, too, you know. It's just production that we need to have out there in order for us to be successful.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind after that missed dunk?   
 PAU GASOL: I felt like I got fouled. I didn't see the replay. A lot of my guys tell me I got pushed from behind really bad.   
 But, you know, it wasn't called so... Obviously I was trying to finish strong. Couldn't really convert. But, again, nothing I can do about it. Just try to be aggressive, which I was. If I have an opportunity to do it again, I'll try to dunk it again and finish strong. Unluckily, it didn't happen, didn't convert, didn't get the call. Gave them a chance to tie the game.   
  
  Q. What do you have to do as a team to prevent their bench from being the kind of momentum change?  
 PAU GASOL: Just try to be a little bit more aggressive and aware of how they get their shots, their scores, try to shut down the penetration of Dragic and Barbosa, which lead to a lot of kick-outs for them. Contest Frye's and Dudley's shots. They count on those. They've been making them. They've been efficient. Hopefully they won't make them the next game.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 PAU GASOL: It will be good. It's hard to do it against the zone. You continue to penetrate with passes and also dribble, create movement, then pass it inside and finish.   
 But it will be hard. It's hard really to dump it in the post directly because they just don't allow that.   
  
  Q. How would you describe Ron Artest as a teammate?   
 PAU GASOL: He's a good teammate. He's a good guy. He brings a lot to the table. He's had a good year so far. He's worked to try to adjust and fit in as much as he could. I think obviously he's got his ups and downs. But he's giving his best, and that's all you can ask for.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Kobe missing a potential game winner and teammates getting those and the team picking up for Kobe.)   
 PAU GASOL: We all have a great desire to win. Obviously, we all have faith and trust on Kobe's ability to finish off games. But you still got to count on a possible error.   
 Pursue the ball, try to stay with it, give yourself a chance to maybe put it back or make a play. Just get a rebound, no matter how much time is left on the clock.   
 We have I think a really good team. We all understand that. We're all veteran enough to know what options and what can happen out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT