U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 12, 2016
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRUCE FLEISHER: You guys must really be hurting for a story.   
 Q.  Talk about hurting, your knee okay?  
BRUCE FLEISHER: Not great.  You know what?  My shoulder, I mean, this things's three times the size.  But that's no excuse.  I wasn't really ready.  I hadn't played at all.  It was fun.   
 Q.  How did you feel when you realized this is going to be the end?  
BRUCE FLEISHER: Oh, I'm fine.  There comes a time when a guy says enough's enough, and the way I struck it today, enough's enough.  It's just not fun anymore at this level.  It's got to work.  It's got to work.   
 Q.  So was there a lot of reminiscing out here this week from your Amateur?  
BRUCE FLEISHER: No, not really.  The reminiscing was walking in the clubhouse with my wife, showing her that wall, the wall of truth,  you know.  I beat Scioto.  I think too, to be part of history with Jack, which he would prefer, if you asked him to.  But knowing that I won a golf tournament, a major golf tournament on a course that he grew up on, and that's my legacy and that's my epitaph, my tombstone, you know what, I'm going to be fine with it.  He's the greatest player that ever lived, certainly in our generation.   
 Q.  To clarify, will you play any more tournament golf?  
BRUCE FLEISHER: The only thing I'm going to play is the Legends.  Yeah, this is it.  It's been almost three years for me since I've played.  I had no expectations.  Yesterday, I'm not going to say it was a fluke.  It was fun.  I felt good on the greens, you know.  I saw the line.  The short game better be on here.  Somehow, I was able to pull it out.  But today, it caught up with me, and I drove the ball terribly.  You've got to fight.  I'm not strong enough for this rough.   
 Q.  There was that stretch in there where you had six bogeys in a row, missed some fairways.  
BRUCE FLEISHER: Ooh, boy.   
 Q.  I mean, I didn't mean to bring up bad memories.  
BRUCE FLEISHER: No, that's okay.  That rough is really rough.  Hit the sternum, put myself in some real funny places.   
 Q.  At what point did you know that this was going to be it for you?  That you were going to come to this event --  
BRUCE FLEISHER: I knew from the beginning.  If you think about your life or one's life, maybe it will hit you in a similar way.  It's just a steady story that started here and ended here.   
My path, I've had so many turns and curves I could talk to you about where I never gave up, you know.  It was always half full, never half empty.  I got off the Tour in the '80s.  I dreamed at 42 of the Senior Tour.  My career has been so divided.  To begin it here and end it here, couldn't write a better script.  You just couldn't.   
 Q.  You've been very kind.  Thank you very much.  
BRUCE FLEISHER: I really appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT