U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2002
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRUCE FLEISHER:  It's very difficult to smile at this point in time, however.  I played miserably, there's not a whole lot more I can say about it.  It was a lousy two days.  Absolutely no excuses whatsoever.  I may have not prepared adequately the early part of this week, but I thought I was ready.  But I was wrong.
Q.  (Inaudible.)

BRUCE FLEISHER:  No, not at all.  You know what, it's easy to sit back and ask yourself what happened, you know, but honestly, I played a lot of golf, and it's to my choosing.  It caught up with me.  And I can give you all kinds of excuses.  I was tired, but I think playing lousy makes you even more tired.  When you get playing pretty good and striking the ball well it has a way of giving you adrenalin versus struggling and really fighting.  That's what I did.
Q.  Yesterday took a lot out of you?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I got off to a very good start today.  I birdied the first two out of three and 3-putted the fourth hole.  And I was sitting in the wrong path.  My misses were in the wrong spot out there.  But, no, yesterday was not a good day.  7 hurt me, which was my 16th hole, I double bogeyed with a wedge in my hand.  That kind of took a lot out of me.  Because it wasn't that bad a round, I just wasn't thinking very clearly.
Q.  You've talked about some of the things you've gone through the last few weeks, is that playing on your mind?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Not really, not really.  I think getting autographs for the cookbook played more in my mind this week than actually playing golf.  But I'm going to hopefully get that straightened out this coming week.  And I certainly have a weekend to rest and I'm able to watch the show versus playing in it.  It plays a little bit, but I didn't think it affected my golf honestly.
Q.  (Inaudible.)

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I'm going to be tested next week.  I'll hopefully get down to -- I think once that passes by, and if I am fine, I can move on.
Q.  You talked about the autographs for the cookbook?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I have to get autographs for the cookbook, Arnold Palmer and Gary Player, and I think Chi Chi.  You haven't seen the cookbook?  My wife was senior vice-president last year, they have a cookbook called, "These Guys are Good."  I have one in the locker room, do you want to sign one?  Peter Max did the cover.  It's beautifully done.  It's recipes and stories from all the professionals that participate and a lot of pictures of us dressed up as chefs and the main characters are Palmer and Trevino and Player and Nicklaus and Chi Chi.  You have to get the book.  There's a great salad.  It's very healthy and very good, very tasteful.
Q.  How was your play this week as opposed to-- (inaudible.)  Were you doing the same things wrong?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I just seem to make a lot of mental mistakes this week.  Getting it up-and-down, I just never seem to get the gist of it.  I thought the traps were very difficult.  It was just really all around lousy playing.  I have no excuse.  Came into it feeling good.  I'm kind of leaving it feeling lousy, glad it's over. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT