U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2001
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Go ahead, guys.  What do you need? 
 
Q.  There were some lower scores today.  And the course yesterday kind of seemed impenetrable.  Do you see that it's there for the taking?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Well, today obviously with no wind, but for me the golf course played much longer.  I don't know, maybe the guys are understanding a little bit more, but I think so many greens were slow and then a couple were fast and hard.  I didn't quite understand that.  But, you know what, it was difficult, I felt.  I thought I had a difficult pairing coming to this -- oh, Dana just barely missed it, didn't go in.  How does that not go in?  Wow. Blow on it. 
 
Q.  You had the wind yesterday?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  That's right.  The wind would have done it yesterday.  I may play with Dana tomorrow.  That would be great. 
 
Q.  Is it special playing with those guys?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Well, I think the emotion, the focus. Hey, listen, it could have been a better pairing, if you want to put it that way.  Guys that you grew up with and admired your whole life.  These guys were proven.  So I got through it.  I played well, still in the hunt.  That's all you can really ask for. 
 
Q.  Is there any special emotion with you watching Jack Nicklaus there and make some birdies before that stretch?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I try to relax myself, and I'll say a few words.  I know that Raymond is pretty much a student.  He's pretty focused.  He really gets into the game.  And Jack, I think Jack wants to play well.  We all want to play well.  But I think it's just hard to just let it go.  Jack's doing that, I think.  I think he's enjoying it more. 
 
Q.  Is it a rare occurrence to have a situation that you're finding now with the greens with them being fast and then slow in some instances?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I think it's very difficult.  I thought the greens were very slow today.  I hit a great shot on 7, 3-iron that went over the green, just released.  And that green was hard and fast.  17 was hard and fast. 
 
Q.  The approach here on 18, was there some indecision about club selection?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  No.  I tell you what.  You know what, I don't normally do that, because I hit the shot.  But I blame my caddy there.  I wanted to hit 6 and he wanted me to hit 7.  I think he misread the wind.  He just misread the shot altogether.  That cost me.  That's a bad, bad mistake.  It's inexcusable, the way I think about it, the way I was swinging.  I hit the shot.  I'm the one to blame.  I only use him as a crutch, you know.  It doesn't mean I'm happy.  I can tell you that. 
 
Q.  Did the wind come up on that?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  You know what, I don't know.  It must have.  Like I said, we read it wrong.  We read it long. 
 
Q.  In regards to number 2, it seems to be playing as the toughest hole.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Yeah, 2 was very difficult.  Of course, I didn't knock it in the fairway there.  But I hit a good second shot through the green, didn't get it up and down.  I haven't really got it up and down very much. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  This golf course?  Well, the length of it.  First of all, it's a blind tee shot. 
 
Q.  I'm sorry?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  It's a blind tee shot and the hole is very long.  That's a pretty good combination.  BRUCE FLEISHER:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT