U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2001
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  As you can see, if you have the information.  I do, you don't.  There wasn't a lot here.  I did start out on 10.  I really, off the bat, I got pretty fortunate.  I kind of hit a lousy tee shot.  I had a half decent lie and was able to make par.  Let's see.  13 -- how am I doing?  I can remember the -- what hole is 13?  You know what, they got me started on the back.  Let's go to a hole I do remember.  Number 17, I missed the fairway there.  I had to chop it out with a 9-iron.  I hit a lousy third shot to about 40 feet and I made it.  Philip, it looked like you making it, buddy.  Believe me, it was a no-brainer.  That was a save that I felt was pretty important.  We all bogeyed 18 which, from the fairway, was pretty lousy because I guess we're all expecting to hit it too long there. Everybody came up short.  Let's come around to 16.  I hit driver, sand wedge to about six feet and I made that.  Everything else was on the front side with the exception of the fifth hole, I hit a 3-iron a little bit long and left and hit a poor chip shot to about 12 feet and I made that.  So that kind of kept the round together.  Other than the fact that I did have birdie opportunities on 8 and 9, I wasn't able to complete the task.  But let me go back to 13 here.  What's 13? 
 
Q.  I haven't been out there.  How would I know?  It's early in the week.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  10, 11 -- 
 
Q.  You've been out here too long.  You're starting to get like the rest of us.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Give me 13, what does it look like?  I knew that was a beautiful, beautiful thing.  400 yards.  Well, let's put it this way:  It had to be within 10 or 12 feet.  That's what I do know.  Oh, you're going to give me this.  Oh, this is great. Really.  What am I going to do with this?  I can't see.  Here we go.  13, and we've got 14.  Nice hole, yep, nice hole. 
 
Q.  13 is like uphill.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  That's a great hole.  I still don't remember.  Wow, this is embarrassing.  Not really, but -- 
 
Q.  It's worse out here.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Okay, now I remember this hole.  Let me tell you about this hole, because this diagram is bad.  Let me make sure this is correct.  That hole is a left-to-right hole.  That's a left-to-right hole.  That's a beautiful golf hole.  I hit a 6-iron to about five feet right behind the hole.  I made the prettiest stroke.  I made that putt.  The next hole I had a chance to knock it on and I didn't. That was really about it.  What I can say is that, being able to play with Raymond and Jack is still a thrill for me.  It's just nice to be around that company.  It really is.  I think they're enjoying themselves.  I'm not quite sure.  I couldn't get a good read today, but I think they were enjoying themselves.  They also played pretty well. 
 
 
Q.  Any thoughts this morning about last year?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  What a lousy question that was. Absolutely not.  You know, Richard, every time I go out, I really don't know what to expect.  That's the way I approach it.  And I think when you have such difficult conditions like today, the wind -- the wind was really swirling.  I think it played havoc.  I wish Raymond would get in here, because he had some problems out there.  We all did though, second guessing club selections.  Pin placements I thought were very good and very fair, very difficult.  So you couldn't miss the ball on the short side, which is normal at an Open venue.  But no, if I get in position, God, I hope I do get in position like I did last year.  I just don't want to get Hale Irwin too mad.  That's all. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  You guys are easy. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Well, no.  Only because I think, even though on paper it looks like there's a lot of birdie holes out there, you've only got two par-5's which I didn't take advantage of at all.  And even though you have wedges in your hand about a half dozen times out there, there's no guaranties.  Where they had the pins today, I thought it was very difficult to get close.  And if you don't get it within 10, 12, 15 feet, the putting, obviously, is very difficult because of the slope and so forth and so on.  Maybe someone this afternoon will get it going.  It depends on the wind, really.  The wind, I think, plays a big havoc because it seemed like the last two days it was just perfect weather, and then all of a sudden today, you know. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT