U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2000
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, Mr. Irwin played awfully well. And he was the better man today,
but I gave him a good fight. Got off to a very sloppy start. If you asked me what I
learned today, it would be a little more patience. I felt if I could put some heat on him
early, things may work the other way. But, you know, you have days like this. I thought
Hale, as well as he played, had some wonderful breaks out there too. I really wasn't able
to get out of the box. I thought I had chances on 4 and 5 where I could at least stay
ahead of him, if not right there with him, but it just didn't happen. 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Yeah, it was a stupid play. I felt good. I got a 3-wood that I will be
getting out of my bag. Don't like it. I don't even know why I have got it in my bag. No, I
hit a bad shot. I hit it where I was dead. I had no shot even to the green. It was pretty
sloppy 6. 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Actually, only one routine par, the par on, I think it was 14. I have a
hard time setting up on that hole for some reason, and I blocked it again off the tee. Not
a very good lie, and I chose to pitch out; had about 120 yard pitching wedge, knocked it
to about a foot. So saved par there. Other than that, I hit most of the greens. I birdied
6, par 5. Knocked it up there with a 9-iron to about eight feet. I birdied 8. I hit 6-iron
to about 12 feet there past the hole. Pretty good shot. Then after that, it was pretty
boring. Yeah, pretty boring. 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Any what? 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I really had no saves. 
 
Q. What were you facing on the first shot, how far?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well it was downhill. I was pumped up, had about 270 to the front, and
-- which would have played about 250, you know, downhill. But I got a 3-wood, I just -- I
don't like it. And it was not the right play. Just was not the right play, boy. 
 
Q. You talked yesterday about Hale being the man to beat. Did you start with that same
feeling this morning? The aggressiveness you showed, was it sort of the same attitude of:
He is the man to beat?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, you know what, you look at his last -- well, especially the way
he played yesterday, you know he is playing well. And probably had a better night's sleep
than I did, because I did not have a good night's sleep. And I thought I would, but I
didn't. Hey, you know what, he played super today. And I couldn't control him. If I try to
control him, that is wasting my time and my energy. He played good. There is nothing I
could have done. Try to put pressure on him. I couldn't -- my iron game was off a bit
today. I seem to have funny putts out there, and I never really saw anything go in the
hole visually. 
 
Q. How much was the fact that you felt you needed to put pressure on him even though
you were the leader -- how much of that was dictated by the fact that you were playing
Hale Irwin?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Oh, I think every bit of it. Hale Irwin loves his position. Has been in
this position a hell of a lot more times than I have. In fact, I can't even remember the
last time I have been in this position. In fact, I don't think I was ever in this
position. A big advantage for Irwin. I could have probably started 5 up -- no, I -- just
wasn't meant to be. Wasn't meant to be. He got away with some things, I thought, today.
But that is what you got to do to win. 
 
Q. As you look back on it, is it so dire, as you say: "Gosh, I lost myself a
tournament on the first hole," or is that taking it a little too far?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No, I think I should probably say I learned a lesson. You would think
at 51 you could learn a lesson. You should be able to know by now. It was a stupid move.
It is a 3-shot hole. Probably won't have -- I probably won't have, even if I hit a perfect
shot, you got a difficult third shot, because the pin is right up front. So it was a bad
call. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the putting today, not being able to see the line, and what the
impact of that is on greens like this?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, the impact is -- I wasn't quite sure -- I think when the nerves
are going and the emotions are flowing, maybe the mind is going a little faster. I had a
hard time with speed today, speed control. Wasn't fluid like I was. And that has a lot to
do with pressure. A lot of uphill/downhill, didn't know if -- I had a lot of uphills and
downhills where I never really felt comfortable. So -- and that happens. That happens. 
 
Q. Back to the first hole, on the second shot, did -- what was your interplay with your
caddie? Was he for that? Was he trying to talk you out of it?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No, he is pretty aggressive, Dennis. And listen, I have the final word.
I hit the shot, but he was pretty adamant. He wanted me to fire it down there and get it
as close as we could, try to put some heat on Hale. , but it was really the wrong move.
Wrong move. 
 
Q. How much different did you feel today than in the final rounds of other regular
tournaments that you felt the heat in?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: You know, most of that feeling self -- is self-endured. It is what I
create in my mind, so I knew the world was watching. I tried to do it for Payne today. I
fell short. I tried to do it for my father today, I fell short. But I like the feeling.
The more I get in this situation, the more comfortable, hopefully, I will be. And
hopefully I will learn by this. The USGA did a wonderful job. Golf course was difficult.
You couldn't let up at any moment in time, and I am sure Hale is drained like I am. But he
is a lot happier than I am. 
 
Q. Was there a time on that back nine when you thought maybe Hale was leaving the door
open for you and you should get in there and do it? Was there a time that you thought
that?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, I thought there was a time when -- again, you know what? So many
little breaks that happen, you know -- I can't speak for Hale. 10, you know, he stays up
in the short grass. 11, looks like he pushes it right, kind of kicks left and breaks to
the hole. When things are going your way, they are going your way. That is just the way it
is. It's happened to me before. But he hit so many good shots. He was around the hole all
day long. He is just -- he had the heat on all day long. 
 
Q. Suddenly, there you are now at the second hole tied. What did that do to your
psychology, your approach, just your frame of mind?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Really nothing. It didn't really bother me. I have been hitting the
ball well. Just kept -- keep the ball in play, keep firing at the pins when you can. There
were 11 pins right today, which does not allow me to really be as comfortable as I like to
be. I am a right-to-left player. When you hang those pins right, the golf course comes a
lot more difficult for me versus a guy that can go this way. 
 
Q. Despite everything you have accomplished, do you believe that you need a major
championship on the SENIOR TOUR to validate this great amount of success that you have had
and take you to that next level?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No, not really. I try to really go with this golf tournament like
another golf tournament. I fell short. But I am not going -- I am going to hold my head up
high, and I am just going to say: Okay, I got beat today. 
 
Q. Talk about 14, after bumping it out there and then putting that thing up there
within about a foot of the stick, did you think that maybe there, you were going to be
applying a little pressure at that point, and just tell us what your philosophy was or
what you were thinking.
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, I have missed so few fairways than -- when I did miss it, I had
to pitch out every time. I never play with guys hitting woods out of here and hitting
irons on the greens. But that is one hole you can't miss it right. Seems to be very
fertile over there; it wasn't -- it was still too early in the game. A lot can happen the
last three, four holes if I had gotten hot, which I did not. So I felt that maybe I will
make 4. Of course, when he came off his second shot, you know, he had to hit a pretty good
chip to get it up-and-down. 
 
Q. Being in this position for the first time in a major, what did you learn about
yourself?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I still have to deal with my emotions. I may have to manage my time a
little bit better in the mornings. Maybe I should have made love this morning with my
wife, if she wanted me to, to kind of ease the tension. You guys aren't going to write
that, are you? (laughter). 
 
Q. Certainly not that you want to disrespect Hale at all, but listening to you speak
yesterday and even now, when you look back, do you think psychologically perhaps you gave
him a little -- you put him up a little too high on a pedestal as you went into this
round?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No, because I have always felt throughout my golfing career, you know,
there are times when I look back and maybe didn't go about it the correct way. You know,
Hale -- I think I said this yesterday. Those guys came in here with humongous records, and
when you really come down to it, they have nothing to prove anymore, so to speak. I mean,
they are playing for the love of the game, like Hale said at his speech. But he wants to
win just like everybody else. You know, when it comes to winning. But I think his record
speaks for himself. The man has won two U.S. Opens. I don't know how many Senior Opens he
has won. 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: So that is a pretty darn good record. That is pretty strong. You know,
I have a lot of admiration for that. To win is very, very difficult. Even if it is just
another golf tournament out here, another SENIOR TOUR event, very hard to win, much less
trying to win the Senior U.S. Open. You know, I learned. But the respect is very, very
high. 
 
Q. Regardless of your relationship with your wife, do you think your dog will still
lick you?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Do you know, I got rid of my dog four years ago. Best thing I have
done. Now, one of my very dear friends has it, and he curses me every day because he can't
go out. But I miss my dog. I miss my dog. 
 
Q. Could you explain what happened on 13? Did your ball hit Hale's off the tee? Is that
why you had to take the drop?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Yeah. Yeah, he had hit my ball, and I was the one -- had to return the
ball, so..... 
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Thank you very much, fellow. Appreciate it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT