U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2000
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRUCE FLEISHER: Yeah, it was almost a wonderful day. But actually it was a terrific
day; got off to a very good start. My driver worked very well today except for a couple of
shots. But I said earlier in the week, that is the key this week, you have got to keep it
in play to be offensive, otherwise, you are not going to have too many birdie
opportunities. But I birdied 1, good drive, 4-iron, had about 90 yards, hit wedge to about
twelve feet made that. I think No. 2 was big today because I missed the fairway, actually
came out with a pretty good lie. Hit it about two yards short. I was able to put it up
about ten feet and I made that one I thought that was big -- kind of kept the round going.
3rd hole, 5-wood 8-iron to about 6 feet, made that. 4th hole hit a good shot. It lipped
out for birdie. The 5th hole, I hit driver, 8-iron to about three feet, made that. The 6th
hole, I think I hit a 9-iron, yeah, 9-iron for my third shot, to about eight feet and I
made that. Yeah, okay. 10th hole, good tee shot, good second shot to underneath the hole,
I made that. I don't know how long that putt was. Gosh, I don't remember. Sorry. Anybody
know?

Q. Twelve feet.

BRUCE FLEISHER: Okay. I will buy that. Got it up-and-down on 12, it was kind of a start
of my blip, but I -- I regained my consciousness. Good tee shot on 13. I hit 7-iron to
about ten feet, made that. 14, I blocked it right. I actually my real bad tee shot of the
day. I had kind of an iffy lie. I chose to try to make 4 the hard way which I didn't, I
made bogey there. Then I really didn't have too many birdie opportunities. I had birdie
opportunity, I guess, on 16; actually hit a pretty good putt. But wasn't meant to be. Good
2-putt on 17; then I messed up on 18 there, so...

Q. Putt at 18?

BRUCE FLEISHER: That putt was about four feet, and I really -- I misread that putt.
(inaudible) the thing really swung left. I am saying I don't know how it did that because
I am looking at the putt to go left-to-right. It actually did go left, so you know, you
hate to finish on that note, but I am not going to let that upset my evening.

Q. Could you mention hole 3 again.

BRUCE FLEISHER: Yeah, I hit a 5-wood, then I hit an 8-iron to about six feet right of
the hole. It was a treacherous putt too, let me tell you.

Q. Bruce, among you, Hale and Tom there were 22 birdies made, 6 by you, what was it
like being out there hearing all the roars and knowing that you had to make birdies just
to keep your lead?

BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, there was -- noisy place. I guess that is why they call it Saucon
Valley. But no, leaderboard is out there. You see what is happening, so, I was really
trying not to look at the leaderboard too much and obviously they played very well today.
It is going to be tough tomorrow. If we get the same two guys, I don't know how many guys
are in the hunt, well, doesn't matter. I am playing with Hale tomorrow and I think he is
going to be the one to beat.

Q. Why do you think Hale is the guy to beat?

BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, Hale has been there before. Hale certainly has nothing to prove,
or lose, actually, the way I look at it. My first real experience as far as a major, I am
going to try to go into it as manly as I can and I'd like to sit here and say I am going
to have fun with it - I am not. But Hale is a champion and a great player. I am just -- I
am just going to try to play the way I have been playing the last three days. And it may
be good enough. It may not.

Q. A lot of people would say the pressure is on you, never won a seen major, never won
a major on the regular Tour. Hale has all these accomplishment. Do you feel that that is
true?

BRUCE FLEISHER: Absolutely. (laughs) I agree. Yeah, but, you know what, this is a
different week; this is another year; different time. Maybe it is my time. I am not going
to back off, I can tell you that. I may not play worth a damn, I am not going to back off.

Q. Also the fact that you are considered the best player in the SENIOR TOUR now, Hale
was for several years, do you see that as sort of a big part of the matchup to see who is
better?

BRUCE FLEISHER: I think it takes guys like me to make Hale mad. I mean, he likes that,
you know, but no, I guess someone has got to be the best out here. It is nice to be the
best out here if that is what you think.

Q. Someone asked you how you felt on the first tee before you even teed off. You said,
"Well. Not well." So I want to ask you again, how do you feel now?

BRUCE FLEISHER: It is a nerve-wracking business, you know, my wife gave me a wonderful
talk this morning. She always -- she is a psychology major. She always makes a lot more
sense than I do. I deal with -- you know, we deal with failure and we deal with emotion
and we deal with success out here and you know, you guys write about it. I try to downplay
it. You know, it is like missing that putt on the last hole, I know the world saw it. So
you say to yourself, well everyone thinks I choke, so to speak. In my heart I know I hit
it where I wanted to hit it. Just misread the putt didn't make the putt. But very
difficult to explain what is going through your mind. I probably put a lot more pressure
on myself than I should because if we took - and I am getting philosophical now because it
is the only way I can --

Q. Please.

BRUCE FLEISHER: If you took everything in the realm of life, this golf tournament means
very little. And I am not trying to be religious. Even though it is important to a lot of
people, you know, it is important to the charities hopefully that are receiving this week.
Certainly important to my bank account, if it happens. But those things really are
meaningless because you are still dealing with, you know, I am dealing with how people
perceive me that I have always dealt within my life where I always had to be better. And
that is hard to live up to. I wish -- I just wish one time I didn't care so much of what
people really thought of me. And I think there are some players or maybe some people that
can go through life being that way. And maybe happier that way in the long run, I am not
quite sure. I know that -- I remember Billy Andrade telling me one thing when I was very
nervous, we were in contention, it was in Atlanta. I said Bill, how do you deal with all
these people. How do you deal with yourself emotionally. How do you deal with failure. He
says No. 1, Bruce, all these people out here, they aren't paying your bills. Now, they are
out here for a couple of different reasons. Socializing; girl watching, drinking, some of
them may want to come out and watch golf, very few; he says, so those people, you know,
they want a show. They don't really care if you are Bruce Fleisher, Billy Andrade, they
just want to see a show. When you leave this golf course, No. 2, your wife is still going
to love you; dog is going to lick; your kids are going to love you. No. 3 all you can ask
for is of yourself is be the best of yourself that you can be in that moment of time. If
that is it, if you don't pull it off, so be it.

BRUCE FLEISHER: Wendy.

Q. What did she tell you this morning? Sounds line the whole first testament?

BRUCE FLEISHER: No we, are not that religious. She was talking about the greats, the
Nicklauses; the Palmers, the Trevinos, the Players, Irwins. These guys are out here for a
different reason than myself. These guys have lived their dream. They are continuing on
doing something they love and give back. These guys are giving back for what they did
years ago. I never did what they did years ago. I survived. I was sort of like a
journeyman. Now I am living my dream so I can't be -- trying to find the right word --

BRUCE FLEISHER: That is pretty good, I like that. She just made sense. She made me feel
a lot more comfortable of what I am trying to do in my life at this particular point in
time. And I am not quite sure what it is.

Q. It is a regret of yours right now that you are not able to have more fun living your
dream at this moment?

BRUCE FLEISHER: I wish I could have more fun. This gentleman called me
"wallpaper" the other day. But I don't know if it's supposed to be fun out
there. Certainly the USGA doesn't make it fun. I don't know if Lee Trevino -- if you can
put Lee Trevino under a lie detector test or Chi Chi who are able to show a lot of their
personalities, if it would show they are really having fun. Maybe when I have 100 million
in the bank I will be fine. I don't think even think that is right.

Q. Was this a problem for you in the PGA TOUR? Was this the same kind of psychology you
were going through?

BRUCE FLEISHER: Absolutely. Absolutely.

Q. Have you gotten it figured out by now?

BRUCE FLEISHER: I was hoping you could help me. No, I think tomorrow -- tomorrow I am
just going to try to do the same thing I have been doing. Keeping the ball in play, just
keep my rhythm, hopefully make a few putts, don't get too excited, don't get ahead of
myself.

Q. Do you view this as strictly just between you and Hale right now or will you be
thinking tomorrow about Tom and the group in front of you?

BRUCE FLEISHER: I think you can't cut anybody out. If we -- I think you can slip off
very fast out there the way Tom is playing. I don't really know what the leaderboard is --
Tom is 10-under? Anybody -- four back. Doyle 4 back, I think everybody within five or six
really if they get going, this could be a horserace.

Q. Bruce, you have won three tournaments this year. You got the lead now. How long do
you feel you have been playing this year? Do you feel momentum -- we hear that in baseball
-- (inaudible)

BRUCE FLEISHER: How have I been playing this year? I have been jerking around with my
golf swing the last three months, and I decided to go back to my old swing this week and I
think every week is a new week. I have always felt if I can get out of the box, I will
have a good week. But that is for everybody. If you can get out of the box, get in the
battle, it seems to just flow that way. I played good two weeks ago, I didn't play good
last week, particularly. This week I am playing well, so hopefully I can continue. Three
wins are great. But it just seems like they are not that easy. To win is not that easy. Go
home; have dinner; see you tomorrow.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT