U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2000
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRUCE FLEISHER:  Fellows, it was very unemotional today. After the first green, in which I had an, about a 20-footer, then I left myself for about a 12-footer.  I knew I was in for a good awakening.  But I was able to get that putt in, and it wasn't really much going on today.  I birdied 2 and 3.  2nd hole, I hit 7-iron to that green, playing downwind; and I made a real good putt there, about -- I want to say about 15 feet, if I remember correctly.  3rd hole, I hit 5-wood, 9-iron to about eight feet right below the hole -- actually hit the only place you could really probably make it on that green.  But that was really it.  Then I kind of parred all the way in.  If I look at my stats, I think -- I don't know how many greens I missed today.  What did I do today?  Anyway, any questions?  I hit a lot of greens, hit a lot of fairways today.  I felt I kind of overheard they were going to do a number with the pin placements today.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Superstitious, he is.  I think at any moment in time, any golf course can jump up and grab you.  Again, I said earlier this week, if you can keep it in the fairway and, you know, look at the -- greens are fairly small.  Of course, these pin placements today were such that I didn't feel comfortable myself.  Tom Kite must have felt comfortable today.  But I seem to have a lot of 20-footers and -- but became very tentative a lot, because I felt I was always putting downhill.  Where yesterday I could -- then when I did have a putt uphill, I left it short.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  On a scale of one to ten, about eight.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Well, I think today I said earlier, if you left it short of the hole, you are going up these, you know, these loops; and if you are long, you are going to lag.  It seemed like the pins were on these shelves today, where if you did leave it short, even twelve feet short, you are going way up.  Very hard to gauge the speed of the putt.


Q.  Is it better to start out early today than versus going out after 12:00?  Do you think that might have helped?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Yesterday was a very long day.  Of course, with the delay, which I wasn't involved, the sun doesn't go down 'til 9:00, so you don't want to go to bed at 9:00.  I like a late/early rotation.  I think it is better early/late.  Don't ask me why.  I think it is easier to prepare.  You finish late, you have dinner, you go to bed; you get up, you play.  Versus having finished early, having all afternoon, then all day the next morning.


Q.  You finished with 12 straight pars.  Any birdie chances? How many birdie chances did you have in those last 12 holes?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I had birdie chances.  I had a good birdie chance at 17.  16, I hit it right a little bit long.  It was just a lag putt.  14, I had a pretty good chance there.  I had about an 18-footer up the hill, left-to-right putt.  I am trying to think.  I tell you what, 10, 11, I had very good chances.  In fact, I hit two very good putts.  10, I had about a 6-footer; lipped out.  11, about an 8-footer that just -- I don't know how it didn't go in.  After that, I really didn't have a legitimate try.  At that point, I figured, well, maybe just not going to happen today, and just don't do anything stupid.


Q.  When you are not making birdies, does it feel to you like you are not playing well, even if it is an Open?  Or -- I mean, you were playing fine, I am just saying to you, does it?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Are you a golfer?


Q.  A lousy one.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  No kidding.  That is the reason.  No, absolutely not.  I think that is why you have your Open Championships, whether it is the PGA or Senior PGA.   These courses that are set up are not set up for birdies.  If you happen to get a birdie, it is a real plus.  Par is not a bad score.  Par is a good score.


Q.  How do you feel right now?  Are you comfortable with your position, obviously being in the lead, having the guys come at you, like, for instance, Kite -- are you comfortable with that?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Absolutely not.  (laughs).  You know what, I have no control over Tom Kite.  We all know how great he is.  Whether it is Hubert Green, Hale Irwin, I don't know if I feel comfortable with a 10-shot lead, to be honest with you.  I am just going to go out, just try to be the best Bruce Fleisher can be.  If it is meant to be, then maybe I will get -- I will have that rainbow shining over me come Sunday afternoon.  But there is a lot of golf left.  I said earlier, you still got to play.  You can't be sloppy around here.  And it doesn't take much.  A bounce here, a bounce there.  So be comfortable.  I have no control of their game.


Q.  A question about food here.  I saw you munching on the sandwich on the 14th fairway.  Now you're treating the hot dog like you have haven't eaten in a week.  Tapeworm?  Yesterday you were griping -- I guess Stockton wasn't sharing his peanuts with you, something like that.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  I am just hungry.  I am just a growing boy.  What can I tell you?  My wife made me a peanut better and jelly.  I was a little nervous this morning, and I didn't eat breakfast at all.  I had to wait in line for 20 minutes for a cup of Dunkin' Donuts coffee that I didn't want to wait in line.  But I waited, because I wanted that cup of coffee.  You know where that Dunkin' Donuts is, by any chance?  It is hard to find.


Q.  One on 378.

BRUCE FLEISHER:  309.  378 doesn't have one.  Actually, it is the opposite direction of where I am staying too, so I had to get up about 30 minutes early to do that.  But no, I think a lot of this is just nervous energy. And the peanut butter and jelly just goes so far.  But this is looking better every minute.  It will be cold by the time I get to it.


Q.  What do you anticipating from the course tomorrow, particularly since you will be going off late?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  A little more sleep tomorrow morning. Probably as tough, if not tougher.  I think these gentlemen, these fine gentlemen -- these fine USGA gentlemen will probably -- greens will certainly get a lot firmer.  You know, bearing the forecast is going to be what they say it is going to be.  It is going to be harder.  Going to be harder.


Q.  Referencing the commercial were you recognized at all at this particular Dunkin' Donuts?

BRUCE FLEISHER:  This is my fourth time this week.  The people behind the counter knew of me.  They didn't know who I was, but they did know that -- I am from Callaway gardens.  (laughs).


Q.  Trying to figure something out -- you are in here, you are laughing your joking, you are very charming, if I may say so. On the course you have all the personality of wallpaper ....

BRUCE FLEISHER:  Are you trying to get in a fight with me?  If you read back in my track record, there are times when I am going to be smiling, this is a very tiring, very difficult week of high expectations, not only of myself, but a lot of things that I deal with within.  And things that distract me are people who come out and I have had a lot of friends this week that will come out middle of the round, that is a distraction.  So I try to avoid eye contact as much as I can, certainly during a high-profile week like this.  If I am a wall flower, so be it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT