U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2000
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I am going to take that, and I am going to sign it. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  That is pretty good.  I had no idea.  I had no idea.  I think Dave and myself were kind of playing off each other.  He is very comfortable to play with.  And it is a great day. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I felt very relaxed today.  I can't even tell you why.  I didn't feel like I struck that ball all that phenomenal.  I hit a lot of close shots there during that eight-birdie swing and had my putter going until that very last putt.  But three more days.  This sort of golf course, like I said it before, you have got to stay in the fairway.  It's the only way you could be competitive.  And if I continue to drive the ball the way I did today, hopefully by the end of the week, the last nine holes I can put myself in position. 
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  No. 1, it will set us back tomorrow if these guys don't get back out.  I don't know what time they will start them off tomorrow, but it may back us up a little.  It is going to slow things up.  Maybe the pins will be more sensible, as far as hitting into them.  It will certainly help a player, I think, quite a bit. 
 

Q.  You have so many things so far on your resume as a Senior player.  How much is winning a major championship?  Does that occupy your mind a lot, trying to win a major and get that accomplished?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Well, you know, I said going into today that I am going to really try to treat this -- I put a lot of pressure on myself because of obviously what I have done the past year and a half.  A lot of expectations; that may be overdone on my part; whether it is family or friends, a lot of people expect  -- and I really wanted to go into this Championship with a different attitude.  I think winning this tournament will be wonderful. Again, I don't think you can win 'til you are in position to win. There is a lot of golf left.  I feel very proud, very fortunate to be here at this moment in time.  Today was a special day that I am going to remember for a long time.  But there is three more days, and I am not going to put my big foot in my mouth to make any predictions, because I know how difficult this course can be. 
 

Q.  Which irons are working for you?  So far today looked like every shot was dropping -- (inaudible)
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I had wedges in my hands on the three birdies.  Obviously, they looked very well.  Birdie on 11.  Hit a good 3-iron up there about eight feet.  That is a hard hole (inaudible).  My 6-iron worked very well today.  I hit three 6-irons to three different par 3s, and hit pretty good shots to them, with the exception of maybe 17.  So I hit a good 6-iron to 4, a good 6-iron to 9.  Probably my wedge today. 
 

Q.  How big is your big foot?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  13 1/2. 
 

Q.  Can you go over your birdies, please.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Absolutely.  5th hole I birdied.  That is beautiful.  Let's go to the 6th, then I will think of the 5.  6 is par 5.  Hit driver, 3-iron pitching wedge to about eight, ten feet; made that.  Yeah, okay.  I hit a driver, 9-iron on 5 to about a foot.  Almost made two.  I birdied 8.  8-iron, a wood and 8-iron to about three feet.  Made that putt.  9, I think was the longest putt I made all day.  6-iron to about 15 feet; I made that.  On 11, I hit a 6-iron to about eight feet.  Opportunity on 12, but I missed that.   14, 15, 16 I hit wedges.  They all were really between two and three feet.  Then I have that blip on 18, which it's a pretty difficult putt.  Straight downhill.  Both Dave Stockton and Joe Inman missed their putts on the right.  I got a little cute with it.  Didn't hit a very good putt. 
 

Q.  Why do you think the course is yielding so many low scores?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  I thought the greens had a very good speed to it today.  I thought they were faster yesterday for some reason.  I think the weather had a lot to do with it.  I think the weather, staying overcast all day, didn't allow the golf course really to dry the way maybe the USGA wanted it to, where the greens would become a little bit more firm and a little faster. So I think the overcast today -- of course, now it is raining like cats and dogs.  God knows what it is going to be like tomorrow. There was no wind today whatsoever.  Absolutely perfect conditions. 
 

Q.  The USGA is famous for putting together challenging layouts, shall we say.  Are you a little bit surprised when you see guys 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-under par?  Does that change the strategy at all?  Or do you think this will go away, come the weekend?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Oh, I think it will back up as time progresses, but again, you know, the first few days you are really trying to jockey position.  I think you see it in a major, with the exception of Tiger Woods maybe, things tend to back up.  I think the weather was the winner today - cool temperatures; overcast; it kept the course under control and there was absolutely no wind whatsoever to affect it.  If it gets windy tomorrow, hot, dried out, you will see a different golf course altogether. 
 

Q.  Dave said he fed off of you.  Did you feed off of him?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Yeah, I saw him eating peanuts, he didn't offer me any peanuts.  I think so.  I think when a player is playing well, the other one tends to play well.  I said earlier, Dave is very comfortable to play with.  I enjoy Dave Stockton and he is a true champion in his own right.  He had a very good round today and hit the ball very well. 
 

Q.  After all the success you had last year, did missing the cut at last year's Senior Open weigh on you at all?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Last year? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Did it bother me?  Should it have?  I didn't care for that golf course.  No, it was a great week. I am human.  I didn't play very well.  Again, everybody does things differently and I have always said, I am thrilled to be here.  I just hope I make the cut tomorrow.  You never know. 
 

Q.  Was there any point in your round, maybe on 11 when you made the birdie that you got the sense that you could really get it low; when you got to 5, did you think you could keep it going?
 
BRUCE FLEISHER:  Not really because I only really played the back 9 once.  I only played nine holes yesterday, so I wasn't real -- even though I was familiar in my mind, and the pictures I could draw up in my mind, no, I think out there I wasn't really looking to score.  Just go kind of one shot.  You try to hit the fairway; try to hit the green.  I had a very good stretch there with three holes - kind of uplifted me.  Then obviously I knew what was going on.  But, no, not when I made that putt on 11. Just glad to get through that hole.  Let's go home and let's eat! 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT