INGERSOLL-RAND SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 1999
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina for those of you who are not
familiar with that. Actually, the last time I saw this golf course was 1960. I was pulling
the golf cart for my father, and I think he went for about 118. And the only hole I really
remember was the 13th. So that's really the last I remember of Myrtle Beach. I have yet to
play a practice round today. I get my practice round through the Pro-Am. I'm hoping to get
good advice from my amateurs today.  
 
Q. Do you often come to tournaments and not have much experience on the course?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Well, this year, every place being a new venue, that's a word I learned
from Jim Kelly. You know, it's funny, as you try to analyze your year and look back, time
seems to be more important, you know as we go along. So I've used both Pro-Am days as my
practice days. We play five straight days week-in and week-out which is a lot of golf at
this stage so I try to get a good mindset that you know Tuesdays, you rest up. Mondays you
travel. Tuesdays you rest up, and you really try to save your energy. This is a -- this is
a long hard week. One day may not be enough, but you know what I'm going to have four more
days after that. If I certainly can't learn it by then, this will be it.  
 
Q. Obviously everyone has the same advantage or disadvantage tomorrow with tee time.
The weather will that hinder your performance?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Does anybody like cold weather? I don't. I lived in south Florida for
some years now. I did buy some hand warmers today. I went around town looking for hand
warmers. All I had to do was go to the pro shop. I don't think anybody likes the cold. I
don't think anybody has the advantage. But one shot at a time, do the best you can, and
really, that's all you can ask for. And to be quite honest with you guys, this week is
anticlimactic. It certainly would be wonderful to win. Go down maybe more in the record
books. Last week seemed to be an important week and special, certainly in my mind. Like
Phil said earlier, I think mathematically, nobody can pass me; is that correct?  
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: As long as I don't break a lake or no one shoots me or don't get hurt
in some crazy way. I'm going out there with a lot less eagerness as far as putting
pressure on myself. I'm trying to have fun.  
 
Q. Now that Player of the Year is pretty much a certainty, has that been a goal of
yours since the very beginning?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: People ask me from time to time your goals, Player of the Year, you
know, I sit here and smile because it's still, you know, we still have to pinch me to make
me believe it. So I really haven't had time to digest it. I think when I get home in
another three weeks, I'm going to sit back and do a lot of smiling. It's a wonderful,
wonderful, you know, thing that we've done out here. I don't know how Hale feels. I know
he says the title wasn't that important to him, leading money winner. That may or may not
be true. But I think I'll be able to look back on 1999 and smile. And being 50, 51, isn't
so bad after all.  
 
Q. What I was asking, also, was there a point in the year where you privately said:
Yes, I do want that?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Absolutely. That's why I played so much golf. I'm really a little
golfed out or golf happy right now. I played much more than I anticipated to. But as time
went on and as I continued to be right there in that position, I'm sure I would have felt
the same way. I try to take off from time to time, but had a hard time doing it. But there
was a point there, why not, why not go for it all.  
 
Q. Did you know Allen before the qualifying school last year?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No. I knew the name.  
 
Q. What did you think when you teed it up and looked at his golf swing for the first
round there?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: If you know anything about golf, which I assume we all did do, through
the ball, he's as good as it gets. He's another Trevino. You can call him a freak of
nature just by looking at him swing the golf club. But I said a couple weeks ago, he's the
toughest competitor now, day-in, day-out. I want Allen Doyle on my team. He's gutsy, and
he's not scared to play. And I think he's going to be around for some time. And I think he
thinks he's going to be around for some time, too.  
 
Q. Look being back, you guys finished 1, 2 in TOUR school and you get some time to look
back on it, how remarkable is it that you guys finished 1 and 3?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I think you guys out to take this and run. You've got an opportunity to
take this and run. Or at least the Senior TOUR does. It's a great story. It's -- his story
may be better than my store. Here's a guy that played amateur golf for most of his life
and at 48 decided to turn pro. That's pretty remarkable and certainly gives a lot of
people out there hope, a lot of hairdressers, manicurists, you know. Sportscasters.
(Laughs) Furniture salesman. But I think Allen, whatever he set out to do, I mean, he's
done it so -- playing with him at the school -- actually the first day I think I got
paired with him on Saturday. I looked at this guy, and I'm just -- I can't believe this is
happening. But as you get into the round, watch him the way he manages himself, the short
game, I knew he would be tough this year.  
 
Q. In another way it's not surprising he did win. Though he did come up through the
Amateur ranks he had all those wins. You had a lot more this year than you had in the
previous 30.
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Interesting. When I got off in '84, I took a club job. And I built up a
tremendous amount of -- I was a big fish in a small pond in south Florida. I mean, I
dominated the section year in year out. These things you don't read about because they are
so small and local but. One year, I won -- when I won the club pro championship in 81, I
won the Jamaican Open, I won the Panama Open, and I won the -- there was a tournament at
Pinehurst and all the club pros and I won that. So I built up a lot of affirmation and a
lot of confidence during that year, prior to quitting my job, wanting to go back on TOUR
through the whole thing. So I built up a lot of confidence. Of course, my goal right
through my 40s after I won the Bank of Boston was try to compete, stay competitive. I knew
in my late 40s, even though I had actually a couple times to win at 49, I was realistic
that, you know what, you're go good, but it's time to move on. And The SENIOR TOUR
certainly is a venue that's very comfortable for me, the 54 holes or the way the courses
are setup. I stayed active. I stayed competitive.  
 
Q. Could you talk about how much fun it was to be in competition again, working for the
lead on a Sunday afternoon, that often in a year?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I don't think it was fun at all. If you ask my wife, she had to live
with it. But I think as the year wore down, I got a little more comfortable. There were a
couple times when I got through on Sunday where I wasn't that uptight today, but I was
early on, no doubt. Most of the pressure obviously is self-induced. It's how you
visualized yourself. Like I said, this week, I'm going to go out there with a lot of
smiles and playing with Allen Doyle and Hale Irwin. I know they can't catch me unless I
trip and fall.  
 
Q. Is seven victories and 11 other Top-10s, has that changed Bruce Fleisher?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Absolutely not. I'm still gullible, kind, loving (Laughter.). A little
bit happier maybe. No, absolutely not. I think it makes a great story. It's a great one to
write. I still don't know what I've done, to be honest with you. Certainly, if I go out
next year and nothing happens then I'll realize, you know, maybe that was a great year.
And that's how you balance and that's how you can certainly judge from one thing to
another. But no, it hasn't changed me. 
 
Q. You said you're going out more relaxed probably in this tournament. Last week was
the big week that you clinched everything.
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Last Sunday I was uptight. I had a chance to win last Sunday. I missed
a 3-footer for birdie on 10 to take the lead, but I was so consumed by Irwin. I was
watching the board seeing how he was doing. People said, "Well, what did you do that
for?" Well, you know what, I didn't want to go into this week having to, you know --
to play so good that Hale could pass me if he won.  
 
Q. Would that make you, with all that behind you now, could that really work to your
between at this time this week?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I hope it does. I hope I'll be a lot more relaxed and certainly a
little more aggressive in spots than I would be, and that may work. It may not work, but I
haven't really seen the golf course. Everyone is saying the course is playing very
difficult, so hopefully the scoring will be not so low. What's been the winning score here
in the past?  
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Have we gotten to double fingers?  
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Pretty low for saying that is this is the toughest course we play. 
 
Q. But you've got an extra round, too. Think about that?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Pretty good. Pretty sharp. (Laughing).  
 
Q. You described this as an anticlimax because you've been so much Monday. You couldn't
use an extra 347?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I'll tell you, my tax lawyer called me up and said, "You'd better
be ready". Absolutely. I'd love it. I'd love to win.  
 
Q. But you're playing with the best of the best of the seniors --?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: No, this would be the icing on the cake. I'm not going out there laying
down, trust me. I'm going to be trying hard. Hopefully, it will warm up and I'll be on top
of my game. I'm playing good; so I'm looking forward to the week. And I've got my mentor
with me this week. When I go wrong, he'll bang me over the head. This is Sol Austruf
(phonetic). And he's been my best friend more about seven years. He lives next door to me
in Palm Beach, and he's the only guy that I allow to tomorrow around with me at home. The
other members just don't understand it. And I let him play a few holes from time to time.  
 
Q. Am I reading too much in between the lines and listening to the way you're phrasing
things that you've at some point or another consciously done -- attitude work or maybe
gone to a sports psychiatrist, when you say visualizing smiling looking for the
affirmative? Is that something you've consciously undertaken at some portion of your
career?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I've done that years ago. I think sports psychologists are good. I
think kids needs that today. I think we're a little too far gone personally. That's
debateable. Certainly at this stage, we're all looking for that perfect golf swing that
maybe does or doesn't exist. I went through changes this year in the middle of the year.
Some of you may know that. Some of you may not. But I actually -- during the NFL
tournament, I actually met a professional golfer that I started working with and I thought
I was on the right track and I've won three tournaments. I've won over $800,000. I never
had the luxury in my life or in my golfing career to really have a golfing guru so to
speak break down my golf swing and really make change. I was always trying to scramble and
make a living trying to survive. I never had the luxury of having three months or six
months of doing what I really thought I needed to do to get to that next level. And so
this man, invented this apparatus that I still think today is the best teaching aid I've
ever seen. But after about eight weeks, and I actually won a golf tournament, changing my
golf swing this year. And I finished second in one. So I know it works, but the problem
with it, I couldn't travel from week to week. It was too big and too heavy. I got to the
Bank of Boston, which was a golf course you really have to work the ball, and I got so
scared. I was hitting the ball all over the place. I said I'm going back to what brought
me to the dance. So I started -- went back to my old winning swing, and I'm fine. But with
the new swing, I was hitting the ball 20, 30 yards further. It was exciting because I'm
kind of a short hitter at this stage.  
 
Q. This contraption, is that going to be marketed to the public?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: They are trying to figure a way now. But again the problem with it that
I see is if I was an astute golfer, and I have it at home now. I've got it hooked up
against my wall. It's good. I think he's going to have a tough time. 
 
Q. It's device that keeps you on playing?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Most golfing teachers, when they teach golf, they teach with words.
Very, very difficult. I've taught. I don't know how many of you have took lessons in here,
but golf is a million words to be said about the golf swing. This -- I've never seen
anything that let's you feel what the correct swing feels like. I can tell you what it may
look like, or try to get you in that position, but most people can't comprehend that. It's
a very difficult -- when you're trying to explain, you know, the words, but this
apparatus, you can actually put your club in and it will take you and put you in perfect
position. And if you get a beginner, which would really catch on quick. I've seen them
take a guy who slices the ball in 20 minutes get him to hook it. That's pretty strong.
Because now they can not only feel it, but they can actually see it in their mind.  
 
Q. Is it a big piece of equipment?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: It's a big board and it's -- the way it's hooked up, it's not
difficult. But again, it's big and it's awkward. If I was the teaching pro, I'd have it on
the driving range. Every teaching pro should have it for teaching. It's going to save them
half the time of teaching.  
 
Q. At the risk of technical jargon, could you describe the change that you initiated in
your swing that you decided to abandon?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: When I was teaching golf back at the club, I was horrible. I was
horrible with words. In fact, I remember teaching Mrs. Schwartz, and Mrs. Schwartz was
about 70 years old, and, "You know what, you're much too slow between your
legs." And she drops her clubs and she says, "Bruce, my husband, poor Harvey
died years ago and he told me that all my life." So I learned that you know you've
got to be careful with words. But on a more serious note, and that did happen, I want to
tell you. I was really I started reading, and that was 1985. I actually had changed my
golf swing since I had gotten off the TOUR, through Hogan's book of what I connotatively
understood in my mind. And I developed a lot of rotation in my arm swing, and the rotation
develops a very consistative -- consistent move. They put you in a lot. But it's weak as
we know it. It's hard to explain. It's a very weak left hand. You fan it and you release
it, but it's very consistent and I've won a lot of money and a lot of success with it.
Well, this apparatus, took away my rotation and kept the club square, okay, which there
alone you probably -- see my driver, when I probably hit the ball, it's like a 3-wood when
I get to the ball because of my grip and the way I hit it. But keeping that club more in
play and a lot square, you can get a lot more clubhead speed. It's really body versus
arms. And arm swing is a lot weaker than a body swing. It's like Tiger. Tiger just holds
on. If you want to talk about golf swings.  
 
Q. So it's more of a turn less of a swinging motion?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: A much bigger body turn. The problem that I have, I'm so used to being
hands and arms, when I rotate, a slot in my mind, I feel that slot. When I took the
rotation out, my hands were higher, in better position, and I never knew where I was, and
it scared me and that's why I abandoned it. I may try it again in the off season. Because
I know when I did it correctly, it was frightening how straight and how good I could hit
it. I mean, I just thought I could shoot 50. I mean, Tiger, there's no secret to me why he
shoots what he shoots. He's square and he's strong. He's an animal.  
 
Q. Will you change next year? You've got three guys coming out full-time next year, do
you think that -- do you expect to be backup in the Top 5?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Absolutely. No reason why they may not play as much golf as you think
they will. We welcome them. We need them. The TOUR needs them. 
 
Q. When you were on the PGA TOUR, you probably would have been one of the bigger
players there, physically, right or wrong?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: That's a pretty big --. 
 
Q. People were telling me that the players on that TOUR are getting so much bigger that
now if you aren't big and strong, you really have a hard time competing, and I wondered if
you have a observation on that?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I don't necessarily agree with that. It certainly helps if you have
control. You know, today the technology with video, and then what's out there as far as
equipment, kids are bigger stronger and longer, you know, so -- we're working out here,
too. So we're trying to keep our strength and our flexibility from week to week. I
certainly hope I can continue.  
 
Q. Davis Love is certainly not a small man; made the comment Sunday night that, "I
learned that I'm going to have to get bigger or stronger or I can't compete against
Tiger," basically?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Personally speaking, I don't buy that statement because I think he's
looking in the wrong direction. I mean, if you -- I don't think you can compare this TOUR
with that TOUR by any sense of the word. But I'm probably one of the shortest hitters out
here, but yet I'm the leading money winner. What does that tell you> if you can't make
it from six feet, 20 yards isn't going to help anybody. Jenkins is a great example of that
one. This guy insides of a hundred yards gets it up-and-down 9 times out of 10. What's
that going to do to your score? So hitting long is great, if you can control it, but you
still have got to make those 3-footers and those 10-footers. If you look at -- look at the
putting stats between Tiger and Davis. They are just light years.  
 
Q. I think where Tiger has made his most improvement --?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: People don't realize this guy makes a lot of putts. That's big. If I
can hit it 20 more yards, it would be great. But again, if I knock a 6-iron up there six
feet and miss it 8-iron six feet up will and miss it. 
 
Q. Did you ever try to hit a ball through a rock like Tiger did last week?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: And he wants to swing harder next time. Where is this guy coming from?
He was lucky he didn't hurt himself. Crazy. Macho.  
 
Q. I thought a guy of your experience had done that at least once in his career?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER : I don't have remember trying to hit a rock to get to a golf ball. I
try to avoid that. I'm a lover, not a fighter.  
 
Q. You said you remember No. 13?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I remember the water. I remember it was a big horseshoe. They take
about that this week. It must be a fun hole.  
 
Q. You lived in Wilmington how long?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I grew up in Wilmington. I want to say '57 to '62. That's where I
actually started golf. Start caddying when I was about seven.  
 
Q. On what course?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Pine Valley. Pine Valley Country Club. It was so funny when I moved
away, in '62, and when I came -- I came back from my brother's wedding in '72, I had my
first hole-in-one. Really wild. I used to play every day and I left ten years to come back
and have a hole-in-one.  
 
Q. What's the most important thing you've ever learned on the golf course most
important lesson?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Today is so different. These kids today -- I think you grow up a lot
faster. I was always thrown in with older people; so I learned manners. I had a father
that was a disciplinarian that would kick your ass from one end to the next. It's
different times.  
 
Q. But I'm asking about you. Is there any kind of words to live my kind of moment
you've ever had on a golf course?
 
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I think the attitude of understanding good and bad luck. I don't
believe in either. So therefore, your emotions are a lot more even. You know, bad lie, so
be it. Ball rolls in a divot, it's: "Let's see how good I can hit it," instead
of -- you see so many guys pouting. And I've got it tell you it's no good because it wears
on you; it overlaps to the next shot. So I would say being able to discipline, the way I
manage myself. Not too many highs, not too many lows.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT