SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Bruce Fleisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kind of tell me a little bit about the round. It's the low round of the day here.   
 BRUCE FLEISHER: Yeah. Surprisingly, to be quite honest, to tell you the truth. It's hard to feel comfortable on the greens for some reason. I didn't putt that bad yesterday and, but things just started kind of jibing and I hit some good shots and took advantage of the good shots.   
 And that's the difference. I had a lot of legitimate chances yesterday and when you don't make any, it kind of wears on you. When you miss a shot, you know, you don't get it up-and-down, you can make a quick bogey.   
 But I missed the ball today in good spots around the greens and you're able to get it up-and-down. Or at least I was. That's what you have to do in situations like this, conditions like this.  
  
  Q. Were the conditions a little easier today than yesterday?  
 BRUCE FLEISHER: You know what, it has to be because the scores are lower. Other than the fact that nobody likes the cold and now it's getting a little breezy out there. But it was breezy yesterday. Yesterday the wind really played havoc yesterday. It was breezy.  
  
  Q. You shot 78 the first day, 67 today. Is that, is that almost, what's the mind frame going into the last few days here?  
 BRUCE FLEISHER: I'm in a wonderful position. If Jay doesn't go crazy or one of the leaders, I think that I'm in good position. And I'm just glad to be playing. It's not life and death. You know, I've been there, I've done this. I'm enjoying the ride, enjoying the people, but it's not as important as you think it is.   
 But I'm going to do the best Bruce Fleisher can do and really right now what I'm trying to do is just get the game back in shape, because I haven't been playing that well. I haven't been playing well of late. So this could be a jump start. But again, you know, it's nice to get one under my belt.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT