BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC GAME: BLACKHAWKS VS BLUES
January 2, 2017
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Chicago - 1, St. Louis - 4   
 Q.  Just these games, 1-4 in the outdoor games, is there anything specific in these or is it just every game, what's gone wrong?  
JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Well, I think that you can look at the outside of last year.  I thought this year was comparable, a tough loss we had in Washington where we lost with a couple minutes to go.  Here we're in a 1-1 game, had a couple decent looks on the power play, had a good fore check and had the puck and it's in our net and a quick transition on the third one.  So it wasn't like we weren't in the game, Corey kept us in the game as well, but it certainly, it was disappointing that you're there, you're looking to get a point, and hopefully, you can get two.   
 Q.  Corey's effort, if you could just touch on that and he stayed in the game and just that fluke one goes off a skate, how demoralizing was that?  
JOEL QUENNEVILLE: It was tough.  He played great, I thought he handled the puck around the net well.  There was a lot of unpredictability with the new boards and glass and different background.  So it's a, I thought he did great job around the net and handle the puck and moved it.  And those things happen.  He did what he had to did and we got a bounce, fortunate bounce in our first goal, too, but things -- he did everything he could to get us a point or two.   
 Q.  I know that you always say every game's different, but are you seeing a common thread?  You lost five of six here, is there something in particular that's standing out to you?  
JOEL QUENNEVILLE: I know the games are always going to be close, tight, we're not getting production that we could use and one goal in the last couple of games, the production's been down a little bit, whether we get it from our power play or top guys, I think we are a better team offensively when we get some help from our defensemen, whether it's off the rush or in zone or on the point and in the power play, that can really help us as well.  But I think the balance offensively has got to be, we got to find a way to get some ugly goals and some greasy goals and then we got to, missing some, with Hos gone, and our power play, that's got to be where we're looking to generate a little bit more.  But we still got to look to play a pretty tight game.   
 Q.  How much, if at all it, did the ice conditions play a role?  
JOEL QUENNEVILLE: I think they were fine.  I think they did a great job of getting the ice as good as they could get it.  I think late in period it was a little slow, but I think that can happen in a course of a lot of the NHL games or playoff games as well.  But I think the simpler you kept it, particularly late in periods, the better it was and the safer and more effective as far as that goes, but I thought they did a good job with the ice.   
 Q.  Obscured a bit in the loss, but Michal Kempny had another really strong game, two in a row now, do you like what you've seen since he was benched for awhile there?  
JOEL QUENNEVILLE: I thought he's come back, he's played well.  I thought he had a great shot right off the bat, got us going.  And I thought defensively he's been moving the puck quickly and he's been getting better defensively and that's the area where, if he improves, his overall game's really going to be enhanced.  But he's been good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT