NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 10, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.

Q.   Joel, can you compare Patrick Kane's game in Game3 versus Game2 and what you need more of?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He had some good looks as we've gone along in each game.   He's had some moments where he had opportunities, odd‑man breaks, made some good plays, has good patience and recognition with the puck. 
Obviously trying to get a little bit more balance in our lines is what we did when we got him away, with him and Toews in different lines.   That's one of the strengths of our team, when those guys make their linemates go, gives the opposition more to deal with.

Q.   Is Johnny Oduya out today and Kimmo Timonen in?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Johnny is likely and Kimmo is in.

Q.   Likely in or out?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Johnny Oduya is likely in. 

Q.   Saw you took a nasty spill.   You okay?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, yeah, I recover quickly (laughter). 

Q.   Did you get that sense it eased the tension?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   The boys always have fun when the coach goes down (laughter). 

Q.   Joel, what are you expecting from Timonen?   Is this a good matchup for him against a team with that much speed?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He gives us some predictability.   I think his coverage in the D zone, strength in the puck area.   He's smart, experienced.   I think he did a good job for us throughout the playoffs.   Gives him a chance to get in here in an good moment, a big moment.   His reads and his position awareness and coverage in his own end will help him. 

Q.   Talk about Kris Versteeg. 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Steeger played the first couple games.   I thought he played well.   We wanted Bick in Game3.   Gave him an opportunity to get in.   I don't think Steeger deserved to come out. 
I think he gives us a threat offensively, defensively aware, strength in the puck area.   He can make some plays.   I think he can add to some of our offense. 

Q.   Joel, do you need to get Bishop moving a little bit more when you see a guy like that laboring a bit? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we got to get to the net more.   I think we didn't get enough traffic at the net or pucks to the net.   Had some opportunities, but the quality or the quantity wasn't as frequent as we would have liked, whether it's on the power play or five‑on‑five. 
He did a good job, but I thought we made it relatively easy on him.

Q.   Why do you think home ice hasn't meant that much throughout this post‑season?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think that was the case in the regular season as well.   A lot of teams had big winning seasons away from home.   We ourselves were in a pretty good situation here as well.   Teams play the right way, they're consistent, the way they prepare, I think everybody's got deeper lineups now.   You have the matchups that are not an issue.   You got four lines you can trust.   That can be part of it. 

Q.   Can you explain at all why Bryan Bickell hasn't had the same production he hasn't had the last two seasons?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I still thought he was making an impact early in the playoffs with us.   I thought he was physically involved.   I think he was noticeable.   The other years he added that dimension with a little production to hit. 
During the regular season we always say we need more from him, how is his game:   I think he's been all right in the playoffs.   Not scored like the past seasons.   But I think he still brings an element to our team that is noticed.   We'll see. 

Q.   Kimmo is a guy that has been around for years.   How do you think he's handled having to sit some of these big games? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I commend him on being a good pro.   Not easy being in a situation before you're not playing and want to be in the lineup in the worst way. 
He's been going about his business quietly, knowing that I'm sure deep down he's been waiting for this moment. 
But I commend him in a real tough spot, how he's gone through it, waited for his chance.   He's practiced well.   Put him in the position to get in the lineup as well by the way he's handled things.

Q.   Can a Game4 be a 'must‑win' game if you're down 2‑1?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We always play the next game as a must‑win situation.   We went into Game2 thinking we wanted to win it.   Back here excited for Game3.   Put ourselves in a tough spot for today.   Not where we wanted to be.   Let's go take care of what we need to take care of. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach. 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT