NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 2, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Coach, obviously with the quick turnaround, how do you gauge your guys' feeling today, and how much easier is it coming into a back‑to‑back?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We haven't had many lately.   We'd like to win the games closer together throughout the year when we did have it in some of the rounds here.   
Back‑to‑back games, we want to make sure we don't take anything for granted.   We want to make sure we get off to a strong start and utilize everybody early in the game and set a faster pace than we did yesterday.   
   
 Q.   How important was that lesson you learned in the last series?   Relatively simple Game1, then they came back.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I still think we're trying to get to that level of consistency of our team game.   Let's get to where we have to be come playoff time.   I thought the first round things came relatively easy for us.   Seemed like in the first game against Detroit.   
Starting Game3 and 4 in Detroit, I still liked the way we played.   I think we've gotten better every game.   We captured the playoff intensity that's needed.   We need to improve to try to improve off of last game's efforts.  
   
 Q.   A lot of big hits on both sides.   Do you think it will escalate quickly?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think you want to make sure you're playing hard within the whistles.   We want to be smart with the physicality, make sure we bring it.   We expect a hard forechecking game.   We want to make sure we're smart and disciplined and staying out of the box is priority.   
   
 Q.   Considering how much of a north‑south team LA has a reputation for, what were you doing so successfully that was forcing them into east‑west tactics in the first period?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought we advanced the puck well.   I thought we got some pucks in their zone there.   I thought we got on the forecheck, had some offensive zone time, puck possession in that area.   
If you can make a team play defense, you can draw either penalties, chances or shots.   
With him, sometimes you're going to need more than that to get to him.   But I think that's going to be a work in progress.   
   
 Q.   Hard hits, has the organization or Dave heard from the league about the hit on Richards?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't know anything about that.   
   
 Q.   When did you as a coach find Fro and Krueger were going to be so successful?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think it was experience from the first game of the season.   These guys carve out a niche for themselves, get more ice time, get these guys involved.   They seemed to hit it off right off the bat.   They have some quickness, anticipate well together.   Starting to communicate a little bit more right from the outset.   
When we got them on the first, third and sometimes fifth rotation of a PK, they relish that extra ice time.   Took quality ice time away from our top guys, but helped in the five‑on‑five play.   
They've been a real nice fit for us.   Since day one, it's been positive for everyone.   
   
 Q.   Joel, at what point did you realize or start to see that Bickell could become this kind of player?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Five years ago when he was called up.   We played him with Toews and Kaner that year.   Might have been four years ago, sorry, when he first got called up.   We gave him a little bit more opportunity with the Nashville series, played a little bit.   There's ability there.   You like his size, his speed.   He can shoot and be physical.   
He's got all the elements that you look for in a power forward.   Putting it all together has been a process.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT