NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
June 9, 2010
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAMEY HORAN: First question for the coach? 

 Q. Coach, do you have any kind of, for lack of a better term, a Knute Rockne speech you're going to give your guys before the game tonight? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I'm never good at that stuff. I think we keep the same approach going into key games and the big games. It's basically look at one shift, fine tune our game here and look to play our best game of the year. 

 Q. Coach, Andrew Ladd wasn't on the ice. Is he going to play tonight? Any update on him? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: He's in. He's playing. 

 Q. Coach, I just want to know, do you think there's any reason just beyond being comfortable that the home team has won every game in this series? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, we're approaching this game that we want to make this our approach like it's a must-win situation here. I know the two games in here in Philly before we lost in overtime, got it back. We got a chance to tie it up late. We feel we can play better. 
 I thought we improved off of those levels in the last game, and we want to continue to improve as we go along here. 

 Q. Coach, can you tell us how -- has anything changed from yesterday to today as you get closer to game time? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We just talked about that. And I think the guys have been really good as far as their approach, whether they got a good night's rest or the morning skate, I thought it was very business-like. Good pace, good tempo. The guys seemed focused. They seemed in tune. I think whether it was jitters going into the morning skate, I didn't see any signs of that's an issue. I think going into the game, that's a concern. Their approach has been exactly how you would like it. 

 Q. Joel, you have a pretty young team. Is it more difficult to keep those emotions in check given the fact that they're so young? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, I think that the experience we have had over the last couple of years with them, they played in some big settings and some big stages. Went back to the Winter Classic last year playing in the Conference Finals. A lot of Olympians this year. Playing some big games throughout the season. 
 As we've gone through in these playoff rounds, and I think the guys are just welcome the next challenge and their focus and concentration always seems to be in the right place. Looking and gauging everybody's demeanor today, it was -- it seemed very reassuring. 

 Q. Coach, I know everybody wants to say this is just another playoff game. But personally, what's it going to be like for you knowing that the Stanley Cup is going to be in the house? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, it's exciting. I think it's a lot of fun knowing that at the start of the year. This is what we set out to do. You know we have a chance to achieve our goal and our objective. I'm thinking like the players are, and that's our concentration. Working the bench and being excited about getting the right guys out there and making sure that everybody has got a lot of energy. 

 Q. Joel, at least the first two rounds you've always had that one game where it seems everything clicks and you're able to take off the remainder of the series. How much does that have to do with the series, getting ugly and doing all the dirty things and stuff like that? How much of that goes hand in hand with finding a way to get that one win and close the series out? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, I think we're better when we're -- whether it's ugly or nasty or hard to play against kind of complements the speed in our game. The tenacity and the puck quickness, the loose pucks give us a chance to control the puck and maybe have some more offensive zonetime. I thought it was kind of representative of our game last game.  But I think playing on the road we know we don't want to be pretty. We want to make sure that's the same type of strategy we want to employ tonight. But I think being hard and physical and tough to play against is going to complement being successful. 

 Q. Obviously, everybody is desperate to get that Cup. But how has this team rallied around a guy like Marian Hossa based on what he's gone through? 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I think we've got some guys who have been in some situations that we are today. John Madden is a comparable guy who played a couple of chances to win a Cup. Andrew Ladd, Kopey played in chances to win it as well. I don't think that will ever happen again where three different teams, a chance to win a Cup for Hoss. 
 I think that not just Hoss, but I think everybody has the same objective. More so with what we can accomplish as a team. But individually, if we all bring our best individual games, complementing our team game, we're going to be in good shape. Whether it's -- each guy has their own personal incentives to max out as a player, I'm sure Hoss has a lot himself, and I think that collectively we want to make sure we're all pushing in the right direction forthright ideas. 
 JAMEY HORAN: Thank you, Coach. 
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT