NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: First question for Coach Quenneville.   
  
  Q. Coach, if the Flyers get the first power-play tonight, will you retire?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: No, every game is different. We expect to be on the power-play at some point in the Series. Hopefully it's tonight.   
  
  Q. Is it semi-necessary for Dustin Byfuglien that you get on the power-play and he gets into doing that thing that's kind of made his Playoffs here?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I still think he was a factor last game. He's a presence physically. I think -- I know he finishes checks. I think the player receives it, knows he's around. I think Buff -- we didn't get enough pucks at the net when he was there.   
 I think he's tried to get to the front of the net. He was there sometimes when the puck didn't arrive. I still think he's a factor when we do get a power-play that he can make an imprint if that area. I still think he's useful in a lot of ways.   
  
  Q. Joel, can we get the daily Andrew Ladd update, or lack thereof?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Nothing has changed. He's not playing tonight, but expect him.   
  
  Q. Did he skate today before practice?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Laddy skated lightly, yeah, before.   
  
  Q. The Flyers essentially have been playing with kind of four and a half defensemen. Ryan Parent didn't play that much. You're talking about Byfuglien and Pronger. Can you wear down the defenses as this Series goes along to where, obviously expending a lot of energy, playing a lot of minutes like that?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We'll see. I know they're pretty efficient, those guys. And Prongs can manage ice time as good as any player. I think his positioning or his intelligence helps him get through games.   
 But I still think we want to make it hard on him. We want to be physical on him. We want to make him play defense and we want to be physical and finish checks. At the same time, we don't want to get out of position.   
 But I think that's our challenge. I didn't think we did a good enough job in the first game of making them play in their own end or getting to them as much as we'd like to. That's easier said than done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT