NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 21, 2010
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Questions for Coach Quenneville.   
  
  Q. Did Dave Bolland show he's more than a defensive-minded center tonight?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We know Bolland has some offensive touch. He sees plays. You know, great goal basically coming out of the box. Great play to Buff in overtime. Still think he's effective in a lot of ways. But he's really picked up his game come the playoffs. You know, kind of the way he was all last year.   
 We're very happy and pleased with his contribution and a couple huge plays tonight.   
  
  Q. Obviously both teams playing very well. The fact is you're still up 3-0. How confident are you guys right now?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, we were fortunate tonight. I thought our goalie, you can use any adjective, but the best superlative to describe his performance tonight, great or spectacular was deserving. I think we rode on that, particularly even in overtime.   
 But he was big. Several key saves. We battled hard. It was a fast-paced game again. The series is being played where both teams are very competitive. I think they got some guys that can make some plays that you have to be respectful for. We want to concentrate and do a better job checking.   
  
  Q. Can you break down the winning goal for us.   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We had a little bit of time in their zone, which we were on the receiving end for most of the overtime. Bolland made a nice little play behind the net. Nice little seam pass. Buff, high slot, finished it with a great shot.   
 I think the quality seemed like it was only at the one end. That was quality coming against us in overtime. It was certainly very fitting with Buff with a great shot.   
  
  Q. Patrick Marleau has four goals over the course of two games. What has he been able to do against you guys?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: He's got some speed. He's a top player. I think he's a guy we have to be aware of. Certainly they got several guys offensively that are dangerous and are threats. But certainly his speed and quickness and his shots are all high end. Let's make an awareness that he's got a hot stick.   
  
  Q. We've heard their coach and their players talk about their attitude going into Sunday. What is yours?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, we'll address that with the group tomorrow certainly. We want to feel like that's the most important game we're going to play all year. That's the incentive and that's the motivation. We know we have to be better than we were tonight. That's our approach.   
  
  Q. We know you're not going to go too far ahead. Do you think this team is peaking at the right time?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We've had good stretches throughout the year. I think right now we've progressed with a real nice swing on that road trip there. We had some momentum coming here at home. The building was spectacular tonight. Nice to see us get a home win as well.   
 But momentum is an important thing come playoff time. You want to keep it as long as you can. Let's be excited about the next game.   
  
  Q. You've been able to keep this team's focus. Now one win away from the Stanley Cup finals. How will you keep their focus now at home? Is it another hotel?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I think we got a pretty good group of veterans that have been through big games and big situations. The experience we brought in from last year's team, the experience we went through last year is going to help us in situations like that. I think games you got a chance to win a series, our focus has been pretty good throughout these playoffs. Even last year as well.   
 I just think that, you know, you got a John Madden, Hossa, guys playing in the Olympics, playing for gold medals, I think those experiences are something that can come out at a critical time like we're in now.   
  
  Q. Going into last year's playoffs you wouldn't think that Buff would emerge as a post-season star. Now two years in a row. What is it about him you think is doing this for him?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Well, Buff, he's moving well. He's got some speed behind his game. I think he's got some quickness, that consistency of his game that we're looking to him improving upon. This year was kind of representative of last year, regular season. This year's playoffs have taken off where last year's playoffs were. I think that line has been very productive and effective in a lot of ways.   
 I think he definitely complements Toews and Kane at the net with his size. I think everybody brings a little bit something different to the table. I think that line has been a big factor in the series. Buff, we like the way things are going with him.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the PK again. Six chances for them, you only had two power-plays. You had to work overtime on the PK tonight.   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Three in the third and were all big. Got through a couple of big saves, some loose pucks hanging around, in dangerous situations. We either got to them or the save was there made by Antti, who was large, especially in the PK situation for us. Our PK has been pretty effective all year. We didn't have some of our guys killing penalties in the box tonight. I think we got through it a couple times and were fortunate.   
 SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Thank you very much, coach.   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT