NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 8, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   TVR, yes or no?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Could play. 

Q.   Has Bryan Bickell received medical clearance to play?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, he's fine.   Could play. 

Q.   If Trevor plays, what does he bring?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Real steadiness to the back end.   He's got a real good patience level with the puck.   Got good reads.   Good stick.   Positionally aware. 
I thought he came out into the team out of the blue, outstanding at the beginning of the season for us.   I think he adds another dimension to our back end. 

Q.   How has the coaching of shot blocking changed from when you were in the NHL to today?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think the game has changed now.   There's so many layers of guys in shooting lanes.   There's one, two and three guys sometimes you got to get the pucks through. 
Teams have a habit of protecting inside the hashmarks.   It's tough to get shots in the middle of the ice.   Down on the net, there's not a lot of time to get your shots through.   That's how teams check. 
You want to put pressure on the puck.   The closer you get to the puck, the better you're going to be blocking it. 
Some guys have more of an anticipation towards that, more willingness to do it.   There's a bit of an art, there's a little bit of pain that you gotta deal with as well. 
We may have one of the best ones in the game in Hammer.   I just think a lot of teams emphases making sure shots don't get through and protecting the middle of the ice as well.

Q.   Their goaltending situation up in the air.   How much do you pay attention to that in terms of game planning?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Nothing we can do about it.   We'll see who is in net and we'll talk about it.

Q.   Have you had an opportunity to do some research on Vasilevskiy in case he is net?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Going into the series, we talked about their goalies and the awareness to the other guy.   There's always something you can always remind the guys about the other guy if he gets in net.

Q.   If Bicks does play, are you looking for him to bring a physical nature to the game?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's his game.   I think he brings that speed and pace to his game.   Gets on forechecks, goes to the net, can be disruptive.   Got a nice shot as well.   We need him to bring some energy as well. 

Q.   (Question about being in Chicago on home ice.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Exciting.   Seems like we've been gone a long time.   From Game5 in Anaheim, that quick Game 6 here, been gone for a while.   Town has been extremely excited about where we're at right now.   I'm sure the building is going to be alive.   It's nice to be in your own bed as well. 
I think this home feeling has been great.   It will be even more exciting here tonight. 

Q.   Joel, regarding TVR, a guy who has not played since November, a kid, a rookie, what do you see in him that would prompt you to play him on such a stage?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, the one thing is that he is very patient.   Got a lot of confidence in his game.   He has good play recognition.   Minutes that he's going to be coming in and replacing are minimal.   That's part of it, as well. 

Q.   With respect to Corey Crawford's bounce‑back abilities, would you point to the multiple overtime periods in the previous series as the best case example of how he battles back after sustaining a loss?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   The one thing about Crow, he moves on to the next challenge.   I don't think he's influenced by what's happened in the prior game.   He's focused on the next shot, the next game, doing the best he can. 
He's had some real strong moments in the playoffs in the past.   I think he rebounds as good as any goalie in the game. 
But just moving forward and looking for the next shot is what he's all about.   We expect him to be sharp tonight and ready. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, coach. 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   .







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT