NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 18, 2010
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Questions for Coach Quenneville.   
  
  Q. Joel, talk about whether you're getting the matchups you want defensively in this series and what the challenges are. Obviously playing on the road, Bolland line against Thornton and getting Keith and Seabrook when you need them.   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: One game, tough to get a clue measuring on that. I know it was challenging, it wasn't easy. I know that ideally that's what you're looking for. There are some compromises you have to make on the road. That seemed to be one that we had to work for on Game 1. We'll see how it all plays out tonight.   
 But Dunks and Seabs is something we were focusing on, trying to get out there. They got two lines out there that you really got to be aware of offensively against us. Sometimes if you don't get it, the other line you're going to be worried about just as much.   
  
  Q. Marian says it's getting in his head a little bit he's not scoring. Is he being too hard on himself?   
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: Yeah, that's what we like about him. Totally the contribution that he gives our team is noticeable. I think 5-5 responsibility, offensive zone, defensive zone, rock solid, kills penalties, power-play. He gives us a lot of puck possession times as well. I think his thought process of how he plays our system, team game, is as good as anybody. He's always consistently one of our players that we appreciate the way he plays and contributes.   
 Productivity is sometimes something that gets down, but a guy like that, any night can break out and be a big factor as well.  
  
  Q. What do you think it's been like by the time you leave tomorrow, you'll have been here for seven days in San Jose? Does it feel almost like Helsinki?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: We got way more time here than Helsinki. Things were happening quick when we were there. We've been here for some time. I think I like their approach we went into the first game with. I think we need the same type of attitude.   
 I think the guys are spending time together, they're hanging out with each other. Kind of comparable to what they've been doing in Chicago. A lot of single guys spend time together, they go with each other for dinner, things like that. This is where we're at.   
 We have to take advantage of the excitement of today's game, knowing it's going to be our toughest test, and let's be ready for it.   
  
  Q. I know you have some veterans in the locker room to keep the young guys' attitudes not too excited. Is there something you have to do to keep those guys from getting too excited on the bench?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I think we had some good experience last year when we played in some big games throughout the year. Meeting the challenge in the playoffs last year, playing three rounds, I think it helped us this year going into the playoffs. Got some guys that have some experience playing some huge games in the Olympics this year. That can help settle things down at the necessary time. John Madden, Marian Hossa, Kopecky who played for Cups. I think that helps contribute to this time of the year.   
 But at the same time I still like the guys' approach collectively that I think their focus is in the right place and the distraction is not a part of it.   
  
  Q. Joel, now that you're up 1-0, stole home ice back, how do you prevent from a Game 3 in Nashville, Game 5 against Vancouver? Is the enormity of the situation should take care of that?  
 COACH QUENNEVILLE: I like the way we've approached the playoffs, progressively improved our team game and our approach in games. I think we were disappointed after a couple of our losses in the playoffs. I liked the response afterwards.   
 Going into new games, you never know what can happen, the way the game is going to play out. I think focus is something we're stressing going into today's game. We're playing and approaching like we have to win. That's basically where we're at.   
 SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Thank you very much, coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT