NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v RED WINGS
May 23, 2009
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joel Quenneville.   
  
  Q. What is the update on Khabi and Havlat?   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Khabi is doing better today. We'll see how he presents tomorrow. But good progress.   
 And Marty, as well. I thought Marty really looked good today. Hopefully he progresses today in the same fashion for tomorrow and a chance he could play tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What did you think on the hit on Havlat?   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: It's a dangerous hit. Same stance as I had last night. You know, he didn't touch the puck. The guy left his feet. You know, it was a tough hit.   
  
  Q. Will Khabibulin possibly start tomorrow?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: We'll see. We'll make that determination tomorrow.   
  
  Q. No news obviously on a suspension for Kronwall. Is that disappointing to you guys?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: League's got their job to do. We respect their decisions in all those type of matters.   
  
  Q. Have you talked to anyone from the league about it?   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Kris King is the supervisor of our series. He's been around, will be around. We let him do his job. We have constantly been in dialogue throughout the series. We've had him for three rounds. He's done a nice job.   
  
  Q. The Havlat hit, there were some reports that he had lost consciousness. If he did, does that mean a concussion, make it less likely he'll play tomorrow?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Well, whatever -- our medical staff is pretty in tune to his health. His health's gonna be the first criteria before he's even going to be considered to be playing.   
 There are guidelines out there in all situations. So that will always be taken into account before any decision's made if he can play or not.   
 We're not going to discuss the injury. But, you know, if he's ready to play and he passes all tests, he'll play.   
  
  Q. What did you think of the line of Pahlsson, Versteeg, and Sharp last night?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: I thought they did a nice job. They made some nice plays. Different look. Just moving Byf around, flip-flop wingers on that line. I thought both lines did a nice job in that regard.   
 But I think Steeger is handy at making nice place, Sharpy is a nice finisher. Sammy made a great pass, I don't know if you could say it was a nice pass or not, but it was a great play.   
 I think they all bring something a little bit different to the line. I think our versatility with all the lines this year has been effective. I think we'll see going into tomorrow, a good chance they'll stay together at the start.   
  
  Q. If Havlat is not in, is it Colin Fraser?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Fras will be the next candidate to join the lineup up front, yeah.   
  
  Q. As these series progressed in the first two rounds, now this one, it seems like the tone has become more physical and there's a dislike building. Do you see the same thing happening in this series?   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: I think as the games progress, the meaning, the importance is magnified. Like you say, animosity is built up. Guys are trying to hurt guys in the right ways. But I still think we're always respectful for their power play, playing hard within the whistles. Knowing there's the discipline factor is a key element going forward to have success.   
 You know, we want to be physical. I think that's how we got through our first two rounds. I think that's part of our make up of our team that, you know, we can be hard to play against. And against this team, it's something we've got to continue to try to do.   
  
  Q. Before you settled in with Khabi as your starter, you said you had two No. 1 goalies most of the season. Seems to come in handy at the best of times. Say something about how Huet put out the fire.   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: He did a great job. We talked about how well and how hard he practiced through this long stint for him. And, you know, I think his diligence in how hard he practiced paid off. Being thrown into a fire in a huge game, 3-3 in the third of Game 3. So he did his job. He looked very comfortable in there. I think he gave our whole team I guess some patience with our game, settled us down coming off a tough second period.   
 You know, I think that confidence is gonna be good for us going forward. Nice having the decision that we will have to face as we go along here. Hopefully Khabi is part of the mix.   
  
  Q. Obviously Colin and Marty are very different types of forwards. Can you talk a little bit about what Colin can do for you in the series, how it changes what your flexibility and the things you can do.   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Well, we'll see. We're still optimistic that Khabi could play. But Fras has been in that role, I think, all year long. That line has been one of the top, we'll say, role lines all year long, energy lines, checking lines, enthusiasm line. But he can kill penalties for us as well, block shots, pays attention to details defensively.   
 But competitive guy that, you know, you got to commend him by how he's practiced and kept himself game-ready, can't wait to get in the lineup.   
  
  Q. Not talking specifically about that hit last night, but do you have any stance on the general theme of blows to the head or intent to injure?  
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Well, seems to be more of an awareness over last year or two, whether it's the severity, frequency or the hits and the consequences of the players who were banged up. It's a tough issue. I know that we want intensity, we want physical play. We like to see big hits in games. At the same time, you know, injuries sometime take that away, the type of hits you look at.   
 So I think it's on that line there, you're looking at it, what's a good and a tough hit. But I think as fans and as people that watch a game, I think hitting is a great part of our game, and I think how you go about it, I think there's something that there's been a lot of discussion about.   
 I think this will probably go along in those lines of, you know, how you want to go forward with it. But, I mean, I like physical play and I like big hits. So it's one of those things.   
 Blows to the head is probably more the issue we're talking about here.   
  
  Q. Corey Crawford said he's never gotten dressed faster in his life. Textbook case of always having to be on alert.   
 JOEL QUENNEVILLE: Our goalie, they've been around throughout most of the playoffs. Waiting for a chance to this to happen. I know they've had some practice time with us throughout the playoffs here. But being actually in the game where you could have actually been a part of it is a big thrill.   
 I got to commend those two guys through this whole process as well. Eventually you get a chance to play. Who knows. But he's been a good kid. I thought he looked good in practice today, as well. You know, he's played some NHL games. I think we got some depth there, as well.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT