NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 7, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there a possibility if Trevor is playing tomorrow?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Could play.   
   
 Q.   Joel, Patrick Kane's game, two games does not make a scoring slump, but what have you seen from him?   Can you assess his game so far in this series?   What more does he need to do?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think that line's had some decent looks.   They didn't have the production they did in the last couple games of the Anaheim series.   Certainly they've had some zone time, they've had some rush chances.   They've made them defend.   We split them up a little bit in the third, saw how that worked out.   
But, you know, their team defense is aggressive.   There's not a lot of room and time.   I think that maybe changing those two guys on different lines will get us a little bit more depth and a little bit more balance, see how they can defend it.  
   
 Q.   With Teuvo yesterday you talked about him getting on the power play, not playing much before he scores a goal.   Is that showing his overall comfort level or part of what a skilled player does?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He can see plays, makes plays.   You like his patience level when he does have the puck.   I think he did settle down in a couple tight situations.   Nice give‑and‑go feed.   
I think he's starting to think shot, which is really going to enhance his game and his scoring as well.   Very timely goal for us.   It didn't work out in our favor at the end.   I think offensively he's getting a little bit more comfortable with the puck.   I think off of that, it should enhance his game.  
   
 Q.   What is Bickell's status?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Could play.   
   
 Q.   Whatever he had is gone?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think he's healthy.   
   
 Q.   In regard to Brent Seabrook, we do a lot of talking about Duncan Keith, rightfully so.   How impressed have you been with Brent, especially in these playoffs?   How big has he been playing the minutes he's played?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think he's had an outstanding playoff.   Each series, each round I think there's progression.   He really seems to rise to the big moments in these games.   I think he's a real presence.   Scored a huge goal for us last night.   Scored some huge goals for us throughout the playoffs.   
I think defensively he's defending with a real physical presence to him.   I think he's getting up in the play.   He's been very noticeable as the playoffs and this series has gone on in a short time.   He's a big factor, having a real good playoff.   
   
 Q.   Joel, normally coaches are the last guys that care about this.   Can you sit back at all and look at last night's entertainment value, the pace of the game, respect that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It kind of reminds me of our last series with Anaheim.   The games, how competitive, how close, how fast, up and down.   I thought Game1 was a little bit similar to that.   
But the games are on the line from start to finish.   I think there's a lot of respect from our team what Tampa Bay is able to do, the quality of their team.   They got some depth.   We got to know going forward we got to be better than we were in the first two games.   We have to progress in our team game because we haven't played our best yet.   But certainly we have to be better if we want to win.   
   
 Q.   In the first two games, there hasn't been a lot of room to breathe, especially for Patrick Kane.   If Bickell can play, is that one area that could maybe help out there if he's on the same line with Kane?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see on that.   Certainly I think splitting those two up gives you a little bit more freedom as far as whether it's room or something for them to be concerned with.   I think a little bit more balance to our offense is why we usually keep them apart.   We'll see how that progresses.   
But they do like playing with one another.   It certainly enhances the offense when they are together.   But certainly the balance is something we'll look at.   
   
 Q.   In past playoffs when Patrick has gone through a mini scoring slump, I stress 'mini', he says he needs to demand the puck more.   Do you think he needs to demand the puck more?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Maybe playing with those two guys the puck is shared, whether it's equally or not.   I think Kaner is most effective when he has the puck.   He wants the puck.   He can do a lot of good things with it.   That's why a lot of times they're not together.   
But I find he plays his best hockey the more he gets the puck.   He does a good job himself of finding a way to get the puck.   His linemates are part of that, too.   He's a much better player with the puck.   
   
 Q.   Patrick I don't think had a shot on goal last night.   Is that an alarming stat to you?   Long time since he's done that.   Is that part of the problem last night?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He didn't show up on the score sheet.   Whether it's his shots or a threat to score.   I thought that line did some good things.   He was down with the two‑on‑one with Saader that looked like almost a breakaway, some other things that were materializing that were dangerous.   
Obviously certain games, your top guys aren't going to appear on the score sheet or look like they're shut down.   I still think they consume a lot of the other team's priorities as far as being aware defensively.   
So in two games he's been fine.   I haven't minded his game.   I think he's been a threat.   But obviously we would like to see some production across the board.   I don't care what line steps up.   I think certainly our team could be more effective in the offensive zone.  
   
 Q.   Aside from the crazy atmosphere tomorrow, how are you looking forward to being at home?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   We haven't been here for a while seems like.   We've been away.   It's great to be back.   I'm sure everybody will be excited we'll be playing at home.   The matchups, we'll see how it all plays out.   
In the first two games, I thought everybody saw one another at some point in the first two games.  
   
 Q.   How much is their goalie situation on your radar?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We can't be concerned about their goalie.   I think it's what we have to do to make it tough on their goalies, is what we talk about.   I think getting to the net and being as disruptive as we can, we need more traffic, we need more shots.   Whoever is in net, let's get to them.   
   
 Q.   I know you're concentrating on hockey.   Midnight Hawk, have you talked with Bob or thought about the Triple Crown?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I'm very happy for him.   Watched the race.   Great race.   I texted him.   Great for the sport.   Quite an achievement.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT