NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 6, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like Corey is fine.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Him and Brad are both fine.   
   
 Q.   Both starting?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yep.   
   
 Q.   You talked about getting Trevor in at some point, obviously not tonight.   How have you evaluated how Cumiskey and Rundblad have done?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I give them credit.   They've done a good job.   Their minutes haven't been high, but they've been useful minutes in games.   Spells out the top guys that are out there a little bit more.   
I think their game has been simple and safe and reliable as well.   They have some quickness and directness to getting out of our zone as well.   They've been fine.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through in your eyes the job Stan has done keeping the core together but rebuilding the depth guys throughout the years?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I give him a lot of credit.   We call it the salary cap world.   It's a challenge every season.   Every off‑season's a new challenge, as well.   You're faced with several possibilities of players coming in and coming out.   
The strong part is that we have the ability to have that core in place and working around it.   I think we've had some useful pickups late in the season.   I think they've all added a dimension to our team.   I think the depth of our team a lot of times that in tight situations can win games and stay with it.   
   
 Q.   Early in the Anaheim series you said the team needed to generate more of a net‑front presence to generate some more offense for you guys.   What do you think needs to be different headed into tonight's game to get more chances?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We didn't get much zone time last game.   I thought when we did in the third period it was much more noticeable that we were to the net.   We had more directness trying to get through the slot area.   I think that was a tough start in the Anaheim series, but there was some progression in that.   
But we talk about it all the time.   If you don't get to the net, you're not going to score in today's game.   No matter who's in the net, that has to be our mindset.  
   
 Q.   Toews actually said that he wants a chance to redeem, the team wants to redeem themselves after Game1, a game you won.   How do you feel the guys' approach is to this game?   Seems like there's a bit of regret after Game1.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Been very businesslike the last couple of days.   I don't think we're satisfied.   Certainly we liked the fact that we won the game, but we know we have to be better if we want to move forward.   
I just think we played two really good games against Anaheim.   I think there were stretches in the last game we were very pleased with.   But we liked our ending for sure.   
But that consistency of getting off to a big start is what we're looking for tonight.   
   
 Q.   Joel, adding Teravainen to the power play, not a lot of time there this year.   What kind of component does he add?   Is it difficult for a guy to step in and play power play when he hasn't all season?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think everybody wants to be on the power play.   Everybody likes that quality ice.   For a skill player, you get that opportunity, you don't want to put too much pressure.   You don't want to feel like there's certain plays that have to be made, passing the puck to certain guys, that entitlement of moving around.   Don't feel like you're I don't know about intimidated, but don't feel your obligated to do certain things.   
The reason you're on the power play is you recognize what your options are and your patience and play selection is high end.   Get out there, do your thing.   I think he can contribute in meaningful ways five‑on‑five, and adding that power play to his game will add to his five‑on‑five game as well.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT