NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 30, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Just as far as Cumiskey and Rundblad, I assume both are in tonight.   This being a Game 7, they haven't played in one before, do you say anything to them, or do what you did in Game 6?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, comparable.   Same game, same type of approach.   They both did a good job.   We'll see how the game goes tonight.   
Certainly they're a part of it and effective.   We'll see how it goes today.  
   
 Q.   What are the next few hours like for you?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll have a meeting here.   Get more excited as we go along here going into the game.   
Not much different than other games.   
   
 Q.   Do you get a feel for what mood your team is in before a game like this?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It's tough to predict.   They're in morning skates, in meetings, going out before the game.   It's tough to forecast.   
But our team's approach in big games is always in the right place.   We had a meeting this morning.   The focus was in the proper places.   You know they're going to be excited.   
   
 Q.   Joel, in all but I think one game, faceoffs have been controlled by the home team predominantly.   Is there anything you could have done in the last couple days to change that outcome?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You know, I think with the advantage of going down second might be to the advantage of the home club.   I think going into faceoffs, when you're at a little bit of a disadvantage, maybe sometimes going for 50/50s, having the guys in the wings help out, we talk a lot about that.   
At the same time it's not just the onus on the faceoff guy.   
   
 Q.   Joel, now that you've gone through an extra day of rest, do you see a different demeanor, are the guys acting differently not having to play back‑to‑back?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, tough to gauge that.   You get in that every‑other‑day routine.   It's game day.   They have the businesslike approach.   Today, yesterday, I thought we had good practice, good energy.   Rested up for today.   
I think everything's pointing in the right direction.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT