NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 28, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Joel, you have two days off before this game.   How is that going to help your guys, the older guys especially?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, it's the same for both clubs.   We'll travel today, get some rest when you get in, practice tomorrow, get excited about Game 7.   
   
 Q.   Helpful to have those extra days?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It is what it is.   A lot of traveling back and forth.   We're both experiencing it.   
Get out there and do our thing together, get ready for Saturday's game.   
   
 Q.   You've been asked a lot about the wear and tear on the four defensemen.   How have they handled it?   Anything surprise you as to how well they handled it?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think the one thing that makes them good defensemen is the consistency of their play.   I find as a defenseman, the more you play, the better you play.   
I think some guys get too many minutes, their play will go the other way.   I could look back over some of the defense history, a lot of teams used to go four and five, just play your four.   Now the game is so fast that you usually spread them out a little more evenly.   
In this situation, these guys, they're handling it like they like it.   
   
 Q.   Beyond the physical fatigue, how do you combat mental fatigue?   59th, 60th playoff game in three years.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I credit the guys, their focus, their preparation, their will to want to win, finding ways to win.   They love the journey.   They're competitive beyond what you could want it to be.   It's a testament to their competitive level.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you've gotten to Andersen a little bit or is it you guys playing better?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, puck's gone in.   You can talk about Game5.   I think the last few games, we're scoring some goals, which is not an easy thing to do.   It seems like this round of the playoffs, both sides, it's gone in a little bit more than it has the prior two rounds.   
I just think we got to get the bodies and pucks to the net.   That's what we're focusing on.   I don't care how they go in.   
   
 Q.   Have you spent any time looking at the Eastern Conference just in case?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Watch every game.   
   
 Q.   You do?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Absolutely.   I'm watching it to get entertained (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Last year's Game 7 ended on a freak bounce.   Regardless of that, was there anything you learned from that Game 7 that will change your approach?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, we talked about that last night.   It was almost like, hey, you're playing that game.   We're at home.   We got a two‑goal lead.   We're deeper in the game.   
Obviously you get in overtime in a Game 7, anything can happen.   Those type of things, we've seen three overtime games in our series here.   There's some unpredictability there.   
But Game 7, as a player, those are the type of games you want to be a part of.   The disappointment that we exited with is something that should get us excited.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you as a coach can make any bigger difference in a Game 7 than any other playoff game?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   The players decide.   We're out there, we try different things sometimes.   You know, the pucks bounce here or there, this and that.   Certainly look forward to it as a coach, the situation we're in come Saturday.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to start Game 7 the way you started Game 6 with the lines?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Joel, what do you do on the plane?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I watch the game.   
   
 Q.   With other coaches or...   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We all watch it individually, and we talk about it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Joel.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT