NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 27, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Looks like David Rundblad is in for the team tonight, is that correct?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It could happen.  
   
 Q.   How much does he have to shake off that first game and be himself?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You have to move on.   You're playing the next game.   You're playing the next shift.   You got to be confident.   You got to be comfortable and play.   
   
 Q.   With Kimo looking like he's going to be a scratch, is it disappointing what you've gotten from him, the minutes you've had to play him?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's been useful in ways.   I think you like his experience around the net.   Defensively he's got a good presence, good understanding, a good stick.   
He keeps it simple.   So I think that reliability has been useful.   
   
 Q.   With van Riemsdyk, he's only skated for about four days.   How much does he still need time and some things to get ready?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, he's a little short on the time right now.   I think that's what we're up against.   I think there's still progress out there today.   
I'm sure every day he's getting stronger and quicker and more comfortable with the game.   
   
 Q.   Joel, where does this series rank for you in terms of level of play?   Maybe not Stanley Cup Final level, but where would you put it?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Very competitive.   Extremely unpredictable.   Extremely fast, hard.   A lot of twists, a lot of turns.   Pretty amazing series.   Pretty amazing pace.   A lot of hockey.   A lot of hockey left.   
   
 Q.   Joel, could you give us your impression of how the morning skate went and how this group is doing entering this elimination game tonight.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought our approach today was very businesslike, it was very solid.   I thought the morning skate was fine.   Being ready to start on time tonight is what we're talking about.   
   
 Q.   The Ducks coming into the series made a big deal about wearing you guys down, especially if it went six or seven games.   We're at Game 6.   How are you holding up physically?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we're fine.   We're in good shape.   We're ready to go.  
   
 Q.   You have a lot of guys who basically their whole careers have been going to the conference final almost every year.   Do some guys take this for granted or do you think they know how rare an opportunity this is?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Things like that over the course of your career, they can get mentioned.   It's a great chance and a great opportunity.   You don't get many kicks to win the Cup.   You get deeper and deeper, all of a sudden the reality comes clearer.   You don't want to lose out on it for any other thing.   
You leave it all out there.   You find every single possible way to move ahead.  
   
 Q.   Bryan Bickell, you'd probably like him to do the things you just said.   How do you get him going?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He hasn't had the finish he's had other playoff years.   I think physically he had some hits.   He's got some pace to his game.   The finish has been not where we'd like it.   But at least he's been involved.   Obviously a tough one the other day.   
But Bick gives us a presence, give us some physicality.   I still think we need that element in our team game.   
   
 Q.   Does this elimination game feel any different than the ones you've been in in the past because of the opponent or are you approaching it the same way?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, we have to win obviously, and our guys know it's a great challenge.   Every game's been tough.   Every game's been on the line.   
I don't think their play should influence our approach knowing we have to be our best tonight.   Give them credit for how they played.   But I still think the games have been all even.   One overtime goal separates us.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Joel.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT