NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 26, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We have to be playing our best from the outset.   You look at Game5, you say we started the right way.   You knew they were going to start on time.   We were late.   Made a difference in the game.   
We had 40 straight minutes of pretty good hockey, playing the right way.   Got ourselves back almost in an unbelievable fashion.   
At the end of the day the series has been very tight.   We got to know that we can't have the lulls that we've had in the last couple games.   
   
 Q.   Did they catch you by surprise in overtime, how aggressive they came out?   Other overtimes, seemed like they were feeling their way out.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Tough to say.   We had the puck a couple of times.   I don't know.   I don't know.   Tough to measure.   Wasn't enough to get a good handicap on it.  
   
 Q.   What Bickell did on that play, seems like he was going to hit the puck in the zone.   Anything he could have done differently?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Get it past them.   
   
 Q.   With your lineup, any changes?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see how everybody looks tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Any chance that (indiscernible) gets in?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   Look forward to talking to him.   He's going to skate with us in the morning.   
   
 Q.   Anything you do differently as a coach in an elimination game as opposed to having a lead?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we've been behind the eight ball a few times.   I think back to being down 3‑1 in Detroit.   We've been in some tough spots before and put ourselves back.   In this series we've been behind for the third time.   Putting ourselves in the spot of trying to have to win one game.   That's our mindset.   
We know that they got a pretty good hockey team there, but we have to play our best game.   We can talk about different things going into games, you can visit history, you can look at past games, big games, big moments.   There's a lot of history here that we've collected over seven years.   A lot of positive things.   
I think we all came out of last night's game with an anger and a real sour taste in our mouth.   Sometimes that can be better than a history lesson.   
   
 Q.   You had the two‑goal lead with 12 and a half minutes to play in Game4.   If you held onto that, you would have avoided the grueling minutes.   Do you think about that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No.   When the game's over, they're over.   You gather, you learn, you move forward.   
'What ifs' after the fact, I don't know if that's a good process.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any issue with Corey?   Seems to have an issue with how physical the Ducks have been with him.   Are you concerned at all?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You got to stay focused knowing that there's a line there, they're going to basically impede his space inside the blue.   He's got to be willing to hold his ground, but at the same time referees can make their calls.   But you can't get distracted.   
Kind of like what we talk about, the physicality of the game overall.   He's in the same boat as we all are as a team.   Stay focused and stay out of the box.  
   
 Q.   How fair is the criticism on Bickell?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It's a play.   We talk about getting the pucks behind them and in deep.   I'm sure he feels bad.   They had to make a couple plays after that to put it in the net.   
It's one of those things we saw basically another hockey game, nothing happened.   Another almost 40 minutes of nothing happening.   When I say 'nothing,' there was a lot between that nothing.   
Basically the puck drops, now you're focusing on one play.   That's how close it is.   We've seen some pretty crazy endings the last couple of games, so...   
   
 Q.   In terms of resiliency, we know you have it.   Are you starting to see maybe a bit of yourselves in the other team?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You look at their record this year, I don't think they got beat in regulation in the playoffs.   That shows they're a pretty good hockey team.   
We have to be our best in knowing that's our challenge, that's our task.   Last couple years, regular seasons, they've been there as well.   We know they've got some talent, some depth.   They have a pretty mobile defense as well.   We have to be ready to play our A game tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   Are you reaching a breaking point with Timonen?   He's struggling in general.   Seems like the series is wearing him down.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   I know that every game is different with him.   Some games he gets a few more minutes.   He doesn't play a lot.   I know it's not easy on him.   But we'll look at options.   
   
 Q.   Can Timonen and Cumiskey, what have you seen?   Are they a liability?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Cumiskey, I think he gives us some quickness and pace, makes plays in the middle of the ice.   Made some nice decisions with the puck.   So I didn't mind his game.   
Kimmo, his situation, has been fine.   Last night, okay.   He's steady.   Does his thing.   
   
 Q.   Could you look at putting Kane and Toews together going forward?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see all our options.   Over the course of a game, you never know.   
   
 Q.   You're 14‑0 when Hossa scores in the playoffs.   He hasn't been scoring.   You kind of figure he's a veteran?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He had some nice looks.   Made a nice play to Johnny.   That line had some good zone time as well.   He's always in the right area.   Always does good things if he doesn't score.   
   
 Q.   This is two years now where his shooting percentage has been low.   Something you seeing?   Is it bad luck that the puck is not going in for him?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He gets a lot of good looks.   That line gets a lot of good looks.   Probably how well they check that they get the puck.   Has strength in the puck area.   Protects it well.   The scoring area, that's where we've got to find a way.   Some guys it goes in a lot easier than other guys.   Some guys have that patience, they see the options quicker, or they can pick that option quicker.   
But him, he scored in the past.   We expect him to be scoring going forward.   
   
 Q.   The way they came back, what does that say about your team?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Tons of character.   Tremendous leadership.   Never die.   Never quit.   Find ways.   It's all about moving forward, dealing with the situation that faces you.   Puts us into tomorrow night's game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT