NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 15, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   You have enough guys in this room who have dealt with this before.   For the van Riemsdyks, Teravainens, do you say anything to them?   Does the team talk to them?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We have guys that haven't been in this situation before.   I think guys have played a lot of big games.   There's some guys that can share that message.   
I let those guys talk to them about it.   I think as a team, we don't want to change too much, our preparation or focus, going into a game.  
   
 Q.   Notice you had a little chat with Jonathan Toews at the end of practice.   Can you share what you said?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No.   When you're talking with Johnny, he always talks about the right things, it's all about the team.   He's ready.  
   
 Q.   You talk about the younger guys.   Can you put yourself in the head of Kimmo?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's been in the situation on the other side.   He was having fun with the guys about it yesterday.   
Certainly you love his experience.   You love the situations he's been through.   It's a tremendous opportunity for him.   I commend him how he's handled a tough situation for us.   We like his positioning, his experience.   We like what he brings to our team.  
   
 Q.   Since you brought Corey Crawford back in in the Nashville series, have you learned anything more about him particularly in these situations?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's a competitor.   I think bigger settings and big stages, we find regular season, games are on the line, he rises to the challenge, makes the big save, moves forward.   Goaltending really gets magnified some of the ones you don't stop.   One thing about Crow, he always moves forward in a positive way.   That battle in him finds a way to get through it.   
I think the last game he was sharp, on top of things, rebound control, very effective in a lot of ways.   He just seems to move forward in the right way.   
   
 Q.   If you go back to 2010 when so many of your guys had never been through it, the feeling going into Game 6 compared to now?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think going into the game the night before, we had one or two guys that had been in that situation before.   I think that helped getting a feel for what they went through, how they approached it.   We got a lot of guys in it now.   
I think the appetite is real, how you can either calm guys down or focus in the right way heading into yesterday's sleep and today's day is beneficial in a lot of ways.   
The thing is, you want to come and be excited, but you want to be in control.   
   
 Q.   Regardless what happens tonight, can you put into perspective playing for this third Stanley Cup in six seasons.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, it's a compliment to the organization from the outset, having patience, having a ton of skill, a lot of real good kids back in '07, '08, those years.   
We've gone through a couple years where the transition from our team that ended the year to the start of the year almost was 50% gone.   I think Stan has done a great job as far as rebuilding, retooling on the go this year, and at the deadline made some acquisitions to give us some experience as well.   
Different evolution each one of the years.   But it shows you in the game that you got to be ready to move along and adapt with the salary cap world.   
It really talks about net net, the guys that have been here from day one, the way they prepare, the way they compete, how important it is for those guys to win.   
   
 Q.   Joel, have you talked to Scottie about going in this situation of winning multiple titles in six years, what those conversations might be like?   Is it all about what's going on on the ice?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We're more focused on what we're doing on the ice.   It's nice to have that presence and that experience around at all levels.   Scottie has been through the wars.   He's been through different situations, through a playoff series.   I think he knows the mindset in all situations.   
We've been fortunate ourselves.   We've been in all situations in the course of one series, up, down, backs against the wall, a chance like today.   
We have some good people throughout our organization that all have different types of experiences.   I think we all rely on one another at the needed time.   
   
 Q.   Joel, is Hedman's defense on Kane an issue you feel you need to deal with specifically or you figure you let it play out?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That was the matchup that's kind of evolved.   Kaner, your top guys some nights not producing at their regular rate.   Sometimes it's the matchup that can have something to say with that, playing against a top guy.   So he's maybe not against Johnny as much, it's usually the other way around.   
We say you still got to absorb an assignment that is definitely consuming for the opponent.   I think that's one of the reasons why they're not out there a lot.   
But we'll see how that plays out.   Kaner, eventually he'll find a way.   That's what makes him the competitor he is.   
   
 Q.   Joel, Kimmo was asked if he knew where the puck was 2010.   He said he still thought it might be in the back of the net.   He thought Kaner could do for him what he did against him this time.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't think anybody knows the answer to that question, about the puck.   Took me forever to find out where it was at that time initially.   Certainly it's a great opportunity for the two of them.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   You're playing a team tonight that has been very good in these types of situations when they've faced elimination.   Is that something that you have to remind your team of and make sure that you're ready to deal with the onslaught you'll probably face?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, we expect a dangerous team.   There's been no letdown.   They've been after us since day one, at the puck drop.   They're a good hockey team.   I think there's a ton of respect on our side, what they're capable of.   Every shift is so meaningful.   
We don't expect that to change.   
   
 Q.   Since you got back in town, as you move around Chicago, has anybody stopped you?   Stories you can share about fans giving you encouragement on the street.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Kind of low‑key yesterday.   You do get traffic seems like going back and forth going in and out of town, people are honking their horn a little bit.   I think at this stage there's a buzz around the city.   We've been fortunate to be a part of some fun runs here.   Seems like it's gone to a different level this year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT