NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 25, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, for coach, please.   
   
 Q.   As far as Trevor back home, did he skate today?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, that group skated today.   I didn't hear how it went.   But hopefully there was some progression there.   
   
 Q.   Is he really a viable option at any point even if you go on to the next round here or is just kind of the black day situation?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think it could be more than that, but I can't really say for sure on that.  
   
 Q.   You're 14‑0 when the game is tied.   Why do you think the team is so successful?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I commend the leadership, preparation, focus, playing the right way, sending that message by how they compete, how they prepare.   Start of the games are important as well.   
We always stress getting better as the series progress.   The series are progressing.   That's one of the strengths led by the leadership group.   
   
 Q.   How has Cumiskey progressed in the first games?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's moving well, quick to pucks, decent stick.   Progressed a little bit more as the game progressed as well.   I think he's been fine.   
   
 Q.   I know there's nothing that can be done about it now, but can you talk about the resiliency of your team and how they'll continue to play?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Both teams have been in the same boat.   I know they've had maybe one game fewer than us coming into the series.   A lot of time off before we began this series.   
I think once you're in the game, your emotions and focus is all out.   I think in between games, you know, you recover and you replenish, you look forward to it.   
I think we've seen the pace of the four games, probably three at a different level than we've seen throughout the playoffs.   That's the intensity that's going to be necessary to have success here tonight.   
But that's what the playoffs are all about.   The guys, the way they prepare and take care of themselves, they max out every single possible way.   I think that's what makes the game so exciting.   
   
 Q.   Last game Toews got a goal, Saad got the shorthanded goal.   The guys on the top line struggled in the scoring column for the first couple games.   How important was it for those guys to get going?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Nice to have production.   Your top guys, it's tough to score a lot of times.   They absorb some major coverage from the opponents.   Johnny's line, a lot of times he's playing against some top players as well.   
Sometimes it might look like there's no production.   How is his play?   How is his performance?   
At the end of the day they're usually playing the right way.   If they get more scoring chances than the guys that they're up against, a lot of nights they do.   That doesn't really get measured on the score sheet as well.   
Nice to see some production reflected.   You know, they know they're going to play the right way.   That's certainly nice to see a couple big goals by that line.   
   
 Q.   When you go into games, you want to have certain matchups.   During the course of the game, do you go by gut feeling changing things or...   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think you always have an idea what you want to do as far as matchups go.   Sometimes there's a million things that can change.   You're trying to match their lines.   Their top line, they play a lot.   They're out there for some long shifts.   
You're going to get them against two or three lines in a lot of periods.   I think everybody saw that line throughout the playoffs here.   But you certainly have a mindset.   The score sometimes can make you deviate, whether it's performance can get you off and change matchups as well.   
But I think both teams, I think we've probably got a good idea what's going on either way.   
   
 Q.   Ryan Kesler said there's no way a human can withstand taking as many hits as the Ducks have delivered.   How have you seen your team being able to take that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I haven't seen a problem yet.   We've had some teams that like to hit, like to get after us physically.   To me, as long as you don't get distracted to where you got to go to be successful, let's make sure we keep doing what we've been doing.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, coach.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thanks.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT