NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 24, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   Question about the power play.   Before that goal in the third period, did you feel it was better and why?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I felt it was better, much better than prior games.   I think they changed from Game2 to Game3 where they came with pressure, relentless pressure.   We never got comfortable, settled with it.   I think we had some better entries and got it settled. 
    I think that was the start for us.   First power play in the game got us some momentum in the game as well.   They can feed off your team game.   I think that happened.   Then with a timelier goal, Kaner did a great play on the top there. 

Q.   You played in a lot of crazy series going back for years now.   Is this starting to rival those?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Series are pretty amazing when you look at the four games.   Very close, very competitive. 
    Every year is different.   Trying to win the Cup, amazing swings, highs and lows, twists and turns.   The deeper you get in games, the deeper you get in series, it's all the more challenging. 
    We love our group's experience and know how.   They find ways.   Last night was a great demonstration of that. 

Q.   Considering both your wins came in multiple overtimes, do you feel fortunate to be tied 2‑2?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I would say 2‑2 is probably as accurate as you can get. 

Q.   Anticipating any lineup changes for tomorrow night's game?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Not likely. 

Q.   What have you seen from Brandon Saad?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He had a little taste of it the last year or two.   He gets late kills.   He's got some quickness.   Last night we saw some explosion on the ice.   He's got a decent stick, as well. 
    He's got some skills offensively.   I think his anticipation's good on both sides of the puck, which makes him a good penalty killer. 

Q.   Do you have to have a certain amount of trust in a guy to give him the power play penalty kill?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think your performance usually gets you more quality or quantity ice time. 

Q.   Your team since you've been here has been far better than anybody else in Game5 and Game 6.   You seem to get better as the series go on.   Are the Ducks a different kind of challenge?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They're a good hockey team.   Absolutely it's a good team we're playing.   They play hard.   These games, they're long games, they're hard games, even if it goes 60. 
    At the same time we feel we have to get better in series to progress, to go through it.   So I think one thing is we find a way to get better each and every game.   We know we needed our best game last night.   I thought we had a hell of a game last night.   We're going to need a better game in Game5 going into their building.   That's the mindset. 

Q.   As the intensity level ramps up, post‑whistle stuff.   How often do you have to remind your guys not to take silly penalties?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll always remind them about discipline.   We always want to play hard inside the whistles.   You find the first rounds are usually the most intense as far as quick to react to whistles.   As the series progress, the officials, I think they usually try to kill that immediately in a series. 
    But pretty intense games.   Longer games.   A lot of things can happen.   But, you know, we just got to be smart.   We always talk about discipline.   We don't want any penalties after the whistle, for sure. 

Q.   Bryan Bickell set a standard through the years with goal production in the playoffs.   He hasn't scored yet.   Is he doing anything different, do you notice anything?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think, you know, he still gets on the body.   I think he's a threat.   He hit the crossbar.   He had a great chance I think to end it in Game2.   Last night, a couple decent looks.   A couple plays looked like they almost got through. 
    I still think he brings something to our team, yeah. 

Q.   The Ducks keep insisting they're wearing you down, especially your defensemen.   Are you worried about that?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's the only thing that gets talked about their defense.   Probably played just about as much as ours. 
    It's a game that you're trying to get through and win.   Our guys take care of themselves real well.   Today we have enough time and tomorrow to get excited about Game5. 

Q.   Is there any early indication how (indiscernible)? 
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Just a couple days on the ice here.   Looks like he's going to need a little bit more time to get a better assessment. 

Q.   I know you're not into the numbers, but the last three games you played a multiple overtime game, the next game you lost.   Do you see it as a challenge to kind of restart your engines?   It wasn't a marathon like the other one, but it was a longer game.   Is there a challenge for this team, like Jonathan Toews says, trick your body into thinking you're fresher than you are?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Our group, one of the greatest attributes of this team, is to be ready to play the right way.   It's something that's in place.   I think we've started each and every game in the series well. 
    As you get into the game, things take over.   But that start is critical to everything.   That's a great asset that we have with the group. 

Q.   Hjalmarsson, he's fine going forward, no injury?
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's fine. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach. 
    COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT