NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 23, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   As far as Marcus Kruger, I ask anybody about him, they all talk about how smart he is.   How important is that if you're going to be a good defensive player and also on the penalty kill?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, your instincts, they find a way to get to the puck quicker, they got a good stick, they anticipate real well.   
I think offensively he has the same traits.   But I think he's so adept at the defensive side of things, we give him a little bit more of a job description on that side of it.   
Certainly very valuable and useful in a lot of ways.   
   
 Q.   Vermette and Teravainen were back in on the morning rushes.   What do you want to get out of them and sitting out a game?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   There are some good stretches there in Game2.   I think that line can be a factor offensively.   I think defensively they've been reliable in stretches, as well.   
Just some pace and energy across the board.   That four‑line rotation that we felt was best in Game2 is what we're looking for.   
   
 Q.   You played with Bruce in New Brunswick.   What do you remember about him?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Fun guy.   Good guy.   Great teammate.   Nice to see him progress the way he did.   Done a good job.   
   
 Q.   Moving Shaw back to the checking line, have you found him more effective there?   Game2 was one of his better games.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's had some good games on the wall.   We talked about this maybe in the prior series, that some guys like them better on the wing, or you like him better at center.   I thinks it's 50/50.   I think we like him equally as well.   He's comfortable in both areas.   
I think in the playoffs he raises his level of play.   That persistence that you saw out of Shawsy just seems to rise.   
   
 Q.   You talk about setting the pace early.   How important will that be?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I didn't mind our pace at the start of the game last game.   We had four power plays early in the game.   I think the power play might have slowed it down.   I don't think it was recapturing the pace of Game2 that we saw.   You could say both teams were probably even in that area.   
But we expect a fast, fast pace from start to finish tonight.   We got to bring our best effort and our best start.   
   
 Q.   Joel, aside from Toews, it seems like the faceoffs probably weren't in your favor at all last game.   Is that an emphasis going forward?   Would you like to get Kruger more involved?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We talked about that yesterday, we'd see him involved in taking more faceoffs.   Across the board, I think Johnny had a big night.   They got some big faceoff guys that are good at it, they help along the walls as well.   It's an ongoing team challenge, not just the centermen.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT