NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 22, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coach, Trevor van Riemsdyk, we saw him out there.   Is this a viable option or is he up here to get practice?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   I know the timeline to get him on the ice was his first day today.   He's been ready.   He's cleared to participate.   He was out there doing one‑on‑one drills.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   How much can you tell in a workout like this whether he's ready to go or not?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Today is the first day.   I don't anticipate him being in tomorrow.   He'll need a few days out here.   We'll get an evaluation and go from there.   
   
 Q.   What can the group do to do a better job getting through the neutral zone of the Ducks, try to generate speed towards the blueline?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Especially when they get the lead, big goal going into the third period, kind of comparable to Game1 where we slowed ourselves down in the third period trying to get in their zone with the puck, with possession, sometimes even getting a clean dump was challenging.   
I think when you try to make plays through the middle of the ice, you got to make four or five, it's going to be back in your own end.   They have good sticks, five guys behind center all looking to check.   
I think getting it in sometimes is the best alternative, whether it's on a net, a rim or a chip.   When there's a chance to carry, that's our best option.   That's not a good option most times.   
I think we got to use our speed to get center and get it behind them.   
   
 Q.   Saw Marcus didn't take any faceoffs last night.   Minutes down.   Is there an injury there, a change there?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He'll be better tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Upper or lower?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   There's no injury (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Coach, you seldom take a lot of heat in the media.   You did for the lineup change last night.   In retrospect any thoughts about that?   Are Vermette and Teravainen going to play tomorrow?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They both could play.   When we look at making decisions, going into yesterday's game was going to be our most challenging game energy‑wise after the tough game we had Game2.   We felt that trying to utilize our depth, that it could help us, give us some energy and some speed.   As it turned out, we didn't win the game.   That's where we're at today.   
   
 Q.   Joel, a lot of teams have tried to beat you physically.   They've got a big, strong team.   Do they present bigger challenges that way than some other teams?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, they're good at trying to box you out.   Getting to the net is the challenge.   I think we did a better job in Game2 than we did in 1 and 3.   I think we got to push that envelope more than we did last night.   We got to get harder in the puck in the battle areas.   
I don't think we should be distracted where we have to go to be successful.   We want quick puck movement, quick puck support.   Making them turn is what we talk about a lot.   That's all part of the game, knowing we usually receive more hits than give out.   At the same time it shouldn't influence us.   
   
 Q.   You have a veteran group here you've won Cups with.   I'm going to think they know what to do.   When you're coaching your group today and tomorrow morning to try to improve on last night, are you coming up with new strategies or is it just reminding this group what they do well?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We don't have to reinvent the wheel with this group.   I think getting off to strong starts is things we always talk about.   A lot of times that puts you in the right spot going forward.   We've done a good job in that area.   
The leadership, preparation‑wise, focus is always in the right place.   It's led by our guys that have been around and know how to win.   I think that's the message going into games that's most important because as you play in the game, you know, that takes over.   
I think going into games, in between games, our guys, they do the right things, they prepare the right way.   You couldn't ask for anything more.   
   
 Q.   Joel, last night the power play had over nine minutes of time on the ice, just one shot on goal.   Were you surprised to see that stat?   What did they do that was different on their kill?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Probably had more pressure, more of an all‑out go.   Our best look probably was with Hoss, missed the net on that one great look.   Looked like he had some net there.   
Didn't get some shots through.   Didn't get the second opportunities.   But they certainly had a heavier pressure.   
   
 Q.   Joel, speaking of Hossa, it just seems like for all he does, he's less effective after the multiple overtime games.   Is there validity to that?   Do you expect him to be better as a fresher player in Game4?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I didn't mind his game yesterday.   I think he had some pace.   Both sides he does his thing.   I didn't mind him last night.   
   
 Q.   Joel, Patrick Maroon and Corey Perry did a great job screening the goaltender, getting in front of the net.   What is the best way to combat that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You can box out, try to prevent them.   You have to be aware it's a double screen with the goalie.   You know they're going to be around the net.   Preventing the pucks getting in there is part of it.   Knowing he's got to have his room to do his job in the goaltending situation.   
They're big bodies and they got quick sticks.   In the tight area, we want to make sure they got the tip on the power play goal.   
But you know he's going to be around there.   That's not going to change.   We got to keep the puck out and make it tougher on them getting in there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT