NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 30, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you have your big speech prepared?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Got to dream on a little bit more before I get out there (laughter).   
It's obviously a huge game for everybody.   Everybody's excited about it.   You know, let's play the right way.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   You were talking pressure on them heading into Game5.   Do you feel it's the same, even more on them now?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, I feel like that.   But at the same time, you know, they're at home.   Obviously a huge game for everybody.   
So, you know, we'll look to get off to a strong start.   I'm sure that's a motivation on their side as well.   Let's go.   Let's get ready.  
   
 Q.   Do you get nervous before games like this?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I get a little nervous.   I get a little excited.   Probably more excited than nervous.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It stopped the trend, for sure.   We need that to be strong.   
   
 Q.   We were talking to Duncan and Patrick about the fact that the Kings yesterday were talking about they need to not trade chances, to slow the game down some.   Is it harder to slow a game down or speed it up?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's a good question.   That can change.   It's tough to predict that or plan it.   I think both teams are very dangerous off the rush.   A lot of skill throughout their lineup.   It can happen quickly.   Both teams can score in bunches.   
You know, I think we got the same mentality.   We don't want to get in a track meet and exchange chances or high‑quality chances.   I thought in the three games we lost in sequence there, it was almost like big stretches of the game we opened it up to a different level.   Thought we got picked apart.   
   
 Q.   Your team's inability to hold the lead in some of these games early, is that because the Kings are a very good team or do you figure that's on your team?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, they're a real good hockey team.   Give them credit, they can score goals.   They got a spread‑out offense and active defense.   They can score with any shift at any time.   
We have to take care of the front of our net, take care of cleaning up goals that are preventable.   I think that's what hurt us in the series.  
   
 Q.   Coming in, did you look at the Kings as a little bit more of a challenge mainly because they have Gaborik and the two offensive kids in their lineup?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, you're looking at their health, their depth, their balance, what they've overcome.   We knew we had a dangerous team.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT