NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 29, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Andrew Shaw finished the game.   Making sure he's good to go.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's good to go.   He was real good for us all game.   He came back.   
   
 Q.   Did you get much sleep last night?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   A little bit.   Not as much as in general, but it was good.   
   
 Q.   Marcus Kruger, he took a heck of a knock.   He's fine?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's fine.   It was a good hit.   He wasn't going at full speed.   Saw him at the end.   Probably looked worse than it was.   
   
 Q.   Ever seen anybody more able to take a hit and get back up?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He takes some tough hits.   Last night, looked like he probably got crushed or killed, but it wasn't that bad.   It was right in front of us.   I got to see it.   
Sometimes you're making contact with the boards.   Sometimes you can get hit pretty hard.   He's pretty good about absorbing it, rolling off it.   But he's pretty tough, too.   
   
 Q.   Didn't play Kris Versteeg.   Expect some lineup changes?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We could.   Don't expect many.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the challenge of going in there and winning?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Obviously we have to go in there and win.   I thought in the six periods in there, I thought we had two good periods a game, did some good things.   
I think the one thing we have to shore up is the goals we're giving up.   That's the area we have to tighten up, make sure those little details, whether it's a puck hanging around our net or off the rush, let's make sure we're cleaner.   
   
 Q.   Rozsival talked about Saad, said he looked like he wanted to be the guy last night.   Is that part of the maturation?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He was amazing last night.   I thought he's had some games like that over the course of the season where he takes it to a different level.   
Young kid, consistency, putting it all together, that's what we're looking for.   But he has that ability to play a high‑level game, almost like an impact player.   Throughout the league, not too many guys that can make an impact on a game like he did last night.   
He has that ability which is great last night, that consistency we look for.   He had one of those games you always remember.   
   
 Q.   Versteeg, do you think it's physical or mental?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It was a tough night, the one shift particularly.   Just got to battle through it.   It's a competitive game.   Not a lot of time, not a lot of space.   You got to do whatever you can to advance the puck and contribute.   
   
 Q.   Your defensemen were a lot more offensive than they've been in a while.   Still have the green light for Game 6?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   All playoffs long it's a situation where we want our D activated because the rush game, creating off the rush in all three series, is not there.   We need their activation to get through the middle of the ice.   To get to the center sometimes is a good play.   
We were a little bit more active off the rush, off the points, as well.   Against this team, anything we can do to add a little offense is what we're looking for.  
   
 Q.   Is that tough considering the scope of what this game means tomorrow night?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I think when we're on the attack, five‑man units attack, we got help coming back.   It's not like we're going and giving up odd‑man situations.   That team is going to make you pay every time you do that.   
We're finding the balance there, not changing how we play, just get more support offensively from the back end.  
   
 Q.   Is there a residual advantage with other lines that are affected?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Tough to say.   The matchups, four pretty good lines.   Pretty agile, mobile D that are pretty good.   No breaks no matter who is coming over the boards for them.   The matchup will be what it will be.   
Last night a lot of sequences where it didn't matter who you were out there against.   Very big shifts, very important shifts as well.   
I don't think we have a lot of time to think who you're out there against.   You're playing your game, with your linemates, trying to contribute in the best way.   
   
 Q.   Obviously if you don't win, you go home.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Same approach as last night.   I thought we had a real good start to the game.   We were kind of loose.   Had nothing to basically lose.   
Same approach tomorrow night.   I think that's where we're at.   We need to win one in their building.   Comparable to the way the first two series went.   Let's go.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding pucks in the crease.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's an area where we want to make sure we're better at.   The quality of goals in front of our net, those are plays you don't even have to make a play.   Let's clean it up, fight the next battle.   
Those loose pucks are somehow finding a way in there.   I think we can be better.   That's what we have to improve.  
   
 Q.   Did the hockey fan in you enjoy what you saw last night?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It was a great game.   Overtime was one of those you'll never forget.   It was an incredible pace.   You could see the series take on a different pace last in night's game.   It really elevated.   Our team was where we wanted them to be.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought he really settled down.   After the fourth one there, I thought he did everything we were looking for.   Really showed composure.   I liked the way he battled through it.   
I think after that fourth one there, we needed him to be great and solid.   He delivered.   
   
 Q.   Nine forwards played a lot of hockey last night.   Any concern?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I would say their nine forwards played just as much.   There wasn't any deviation between either teams, how much, how little.   So that's where we're at.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT