NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is it mental lapses?   Something they're forcing you into doing?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They made a couple nice shots.   Their shots are going through.   The second power play goal is a play, goes through a couple lanes.   The first one was kind of comparable to the one we saw the other game where coming down the gut, we got to go to that guy.   
I think that was the tough part about it, because we just saw that one and they came back with another one.   I think that was a defendable play.   They got some looks here.   We got to recognize the chance when there's a chance to be aggressive, make it a little bit more disruptive for them when there's a chance to pressure.   
   
 Q.   Are they doing anything differently on their power play than what you've seen?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Maybe a little bit more patience when they're shooting the puck.   They're getting them through.   I mean, we had some better blocks, maybe some better coverage going out to the points, they're getting in a little tighter, and that's why they're getting better looks.   
I think we had great stretches all year with the PK having success.   Sometimes they're going to go in against you.   But I think doing the right things can get us back on track.   
   
 Q.   Your team is probably angry, but is the confidence where it needs to be?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we're looking at tomorrow.   Excited about it.   It's one of those games where we haven't been in this position often.   We know what it was like last year.   We're looking to win Game5, that's it.   Get the momentum back, go from there.   
   
 Q.   Doesn't seem like the dump and chase is working all that well.   Would you like to see guys carry the puck in to get set up?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Their gap is pretty tight.   That's going to lead to defending their whole shifts if we look for that type of entry.   I think we have to recognize when we have a chip.   
I think when we look for direct plays, all five guys, going through all five guys standing still, not a lot of speed.   I think we got to find that recognition.   
I think we've had enough zone time off of getting it in deep.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They blocked a lot of shots.   They blocked a lot of shots, be it off the rush or on the power play.   They got some shot‑blockers.   We've had some decent looks.   All of a sudden it gets a stick or a block.   
Our power play hasn't been great the last couple of games.   I think that we've been pretty consistent with it all year.   Just getting back and being confident, when you do have those looks, look to blast away.   
Especially from the middle, we've had some good looks early in the series, it led to quality.   In the last couple games, quality really hasn't been there.   
   
 Q.   You have a history of overcoming 3‑1 deficits.   Is it fair to say this is actually a bigger hill to climb?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You look at Game2, was a tough game to lose.   Obviously got them to go ahead of us now 3‑1.   
We definitely got a dangerous team.   They got a real good club over there.   They've had some interesting stretches in these playoffs this year, not even looking at the last couple years.   
We know what they're capable of.   They're a good team in a lot of ways.   We feel we played two good periods in the last three games.   One period got away from us.   We let in some uncharacteristic types of goals that we haven't seen all years, or in the playoffs for sure, that we think are preventable.   We shore that up, we keep ourselves in the game, find a way.   
   
 Q.   Especially with things like Duncan Keith gets the puck, but things happened last night, the Hossa penalty.   How do you shore those things up?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, we always talk about situations.   I think you look at each individual goal, there's a different thing that could lead to it.   
You could say whether it was the four‑on‑four leading into their power play goal.   Could have been on the power play.   We take a penalty there where it's almost unavoidable.   But it was a penalty.   
It's one of those situations where you got to deal with it, get through a kill.   You're looking at every play.   We get the puck, center net, 2‑0, take a penalty, it's 3‑0.   
I thought our starts in the last three games were really, really good.   Yesterday wasn't so.   
I think every type of goal that you could look at in the last three games, you know, were generally around two a game.   We've given up way too many and rather easily.   
   
 Q.   Seabrook said he felt like the defensemen need to be more responsible.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think the puck is going through us, we're not recognizing the coverage around the net.   They got guys that make blind plays.   They have great shooters as well.   We have to make sure we're defending around our net better than they are at their net.   
   
 Q.   Assess Corey's play.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's been all right.   We're going to need him to be really good.   We'll need that tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding motivation.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We always talk about different things going into games, whether it's the mental aspect of the games, the challenges, a tweak or two technically, line combinations.   There's always different things that can get their attention.   
But you're down 3‑1, at home, you got nothing to lose.   We want to make sure we're playing a game, let's play all out, have fun in our own building, recapture the momentum.   That's what we're talking about.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't mind Handzus against this team at all.   He's a strong player.   Strong on the pucks.   Does a lot of things for us.   
When we got behind 3‑0, we're looking for a little bit more offense.   That's probably why his minutes were down mostly.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT