NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 26, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coach, as far as Andrew Shaw, is there a chance we see him on the second line tonight?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, he's playing.   We'll see how it goes as we go along.  
   
 Q.   Hint on anything you might do with the lineup?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Expect four lines to be balanced, expect energy, expect a hard game.   We want to make sure we get off to a strong start.   But we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Do you take any satisfaction at this point without your big guns scoring goals, that you have the depth?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We've had challenges both series, going into this series.   Every round is tougher and tougher as you go along.   We saw the same type of thing last year.   Find different ways to overcome the tough situations you're in.   
We feel the balance can sometimes overcome our depth and can rise as well.   Our offense in the back end, all four lines can score.   We don't particularly care who scores.   We feel a lot of nights it can be the difference.   
Right now we've had some positives in all three games.   Disappointed two periods that ended the last two games.   I think that's the positive we've got to take, knowing the importance we got to stress is that every shift is important and critical.   As the games progress, they become more meaningful and that's where we have to get better at.   
   
 Q.   Do you need more speed against the Carter line?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't know about speed.   Couple quick, low plays.   A couple we were pressing.   Didn't matter who was out there.   We've gotten more on the offensive side of things and I think all the bulk of their chances happen when we've opened it up.  
   
 Q.   Any fatigue from this team?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   None, no, not at all.   No, I think something like that we would feel it.   You would see it.   I'm not giving in to that one.  
   
 Q.   What do you think is the explanation for your success in Games4 through 7?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, give the guys the credit.   They rise to the challenge.   I think the games become more meaningful, bigger stage, bigger challenge.   They seem to rise to that next challenge and occasion.   
We've had some guys that have been in some big stages, some big situations, they find a way, led by our captain, our core group.   Group follows.  
   
 Q.   When you look at nine goals over the last two games, do you need Corey to give you a better chance?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's been excellent for us all playoffs.   We have some guys that we saw even in the first game that can make plays.   They've got some finish.   
I think that's the difference in probably the first two rounds.   Now they got two lines that are very dangerous offensively.   They got a back end that's pretty active.   
I think it's a good hockey team out there, so let's make sure that the quality and the quantity we cut back.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT