NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 25, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the second line.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I don't know about necessarily matching up.   They've been very effective.   They've been dangerous, be it off the rush or in zone.   They've scored some pivotal goals, the last two games particularly.   I think just about every one of our lines played against them in the game yesterday.   
I think we have to be aware when they're on the ice because they're effective, they're quick, they can all make plays, they all recognize one another.   
I think defending them more so off the rush and keeping them from getting clean possession in our zone is what we're looking for and hopefully getting them defending their end.   
Certainly they've been very dangerous.   We've got to be aware of them.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised that Darryl isn't matching lines against you?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I think there's some things he's looking at doing.   We'll see how that progresses as we go along here.   He's got four lines.   He's comfortable with those four lines against just about everyone.   We'll see how that plays outgoing forward.   
That top line has probably seen more of one another than the other lines, but that could change.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, Johnny, you know, he's a special player.   I think that he brings that intangible of, you know, in the puck area, relentlessly protect pucks, sustains pucks.   You know, he comes out of tight areas with possession, I think finds a way to keep the puck ahead of him in all zones.   
That line has been effective as well in a lot of ways, be it off the rush.   But they're three big guys, pretty heavy around the puck, and I think that kind of complements the whole group.   
   
 Q.   Does that go into making line adjustments?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think that's something you always got to consider, and we've always looked at options as we've gone along in series or in games to make some adjustments if you don't like the way things are going.   
For the majority of the last two games, you look at 40 minutes, you're pleased with it; you look at what happened the last 20, it all evaporated.   There's a lot of positives to take out of these games, so I don't know if we need major alterations.   But we always look at making a tweak here or there.   It could happen.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   More so, yeah.   That's exactly what we're doing.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, we looked at the last three of the five series.   We've been in the same scenario.   We've been down 2‑1.   This makes it four out of six.   Got to commend the guys, how they've overcome this type of adversity, this type of challenge.   The bigger the challenge, the bigger the setting, they rise to that occasion.   
We're playing a very good team, better than the team we saw last year.   So it's going to take more and it's going to take everybody.   We're going to need everybody tomorrow night.   It's a big effort, a big game.   That's the challenge.   
   
 Q.   Is there a way to explain the disparity between the power play at home and on the road?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Tough to say exactly why.   I think in the playoffs, you know, it shouldn't make much of a difference.   Obviously you should be a little bit more comfortable at home.   
But at the same time on the road, I don't think we want to change what we're doing, how we're entering, what our objective is.   
I liked today's practice.   I liked the power play, the way they're moving it around.   I thought we had a good buzz out there, a little pace to it coming off a tough night.   
Let's get excited about getting out there and making it turn around tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Coaches being thrown out of morning skates and practices.   Where do you stand on that?   Are there gentlemen's agreements not to watch practice?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   In the past I think it might be an unwritten rule.   There have been instances where they watch, somebody might be out there watching.   
The last few years, over time as a coach, I really haven't noticed it too much as far as it happening or occurring.   
But if it does, you've got a lot of media watching, a lot of people watching, not a lot of secrets in our game.  
   
 Q.   Switching Seabrook and Sharp, what can that do on the power play?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Just change it up.   Whether it's a shot or just a change, I think we're talking about our power play on the road, maybe just make a tweak, you know, just to make a change.   
   
 Q.   Do you need more out of Bollig?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think across the board we're going to need everybody to ad a little bit more to where we're at.   I think there's some good in our game, but we're going to need everybody to step up a little more.   
   
 Q.   Same 12 forwards tomorrow?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   After losing two straight like this, is there a sense of desperation yet?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought we went into the game yesterday fine, had a really good first period.   We know we have to win in this building on the road.   Finding a way is what our team is all about.   We're in a tough spot now.   Let's get excited about the challenge.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Kane.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think Kaner in the last two games, he had a great look both games, right down the barrel.   Could have gave us a two‑goal lead both times.   
He's had some opportunities.   He's accustomed to scoring.   Guys that are accustomed to scoring, I think they get a little bit more excited, they got a little more confidence and their play can elevate by looking at production.   
But Kaner, to me, he's dangerous.   I think our opponent's got to keep an eye on him quite a bit.   They're concerned with him.   That gives us some depth overall up front.   
So he's been a threat.   He's been dangerous.   Hasn't had the production to reflect it, but he's definitely had some opportunities.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel going into the series that the Kings were better than they were last year?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought, you know, watching their series, watching their games, the momentum they got out of the first series, how they came out of the last series, we had a dangerous team.   
The different personnel from last year to this year, you know, they've improved.   They're probably healthier than they were last year.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT