NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 13, 2015
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Duncan Keith, he's raised the level of his game.   Why do you think that's come along?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's had a real good playoffs.   I think we base our judgment on watching him play, his consistency, the quality and quantity of minutes, the matchups, how he influences our team both offensively and defensively.   
He's always out there at key times in games.   A lot of nights he's the reason why we win a lot of games.   
But we just love the way he battles, competes.   Seems to rise to the challenge in big games, as well.   
   
 Q.   The Lightning are playing a lot of games with this whole goaltender situation.   Does it affect you in any way whatsoever?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No.   We can't control that.   So whoever's in net, we'll talk about that goalie and go from there.   
   
 Q.   When you look at the career of Marian Hossa, when you look back, when all is said and done, is that a Hall of Fame career we're looking at?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think likely for sure (laughter).     
I think the way he competes, the way he plays both sides of the puck, I don't think there's been a player as consistent.   Comes back to his own end fast as he goes up the ice as he can and does.   
His overall professionalism, great teammate.   You know, I don't know how many Finals he's been to over a short amount of time, which is a good compliment at this stage of his career, being a big part of those reasons that his teams have been to the Finals, and has a good chance to win here.   
It's fortunate to coach a guy like him because he sends a message to play the team game and the right way.  
   
 Q.   You've talked a lot about Jonathan's leadership.   Is there anyone he reminds you of throughout his career, the way he carries himself on and off the ice?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I've been fortunate enough to be around some great players and leaders.   I go back to when I was a kid, Darryl Sittler, Lanny McDonald.   I was around Ronnie Francis, Chris Pronger, Al MacInnis.   I go to Colorado, Joe Sakic, Patrick Roy.   Some great leaders, very competitive guys.   
Joe is kind of quiet in a different way.   Johnny might be a little more vocal now.   I think Johnny was quiet initially.   But being around him longer than anybody in this stage, you get to really know how fortunate you are to see a guy that day in, day out, the bigger the game, the bigger the setting, he's there.   
He makes guys around him better.   That's the best part about him.   He knows that the guys around him know and feel that this is a game we have to have.   By example, by how he plays and carries himself, it's noticeable.   
   
 Q.   Joel, talk about your goaltenders.   Talk about the ascension of Corey Crawford.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Crow came into our league and organization, he paid his dues.   He came in having won the Cup in 2010.   He had a lot of questions to answer in 2013.   Got through some real tough series with our goaltending being a big part of why we were winning.   He answered the questions each and every round.   
At the end of the day he was outstanding in the Boston series.   So he's proven that he can win in big settings, big situations, big games as well.   
I think he was a big, big factor.   He was having an outstanding regular season.   He's been real good for us now, especially when the chips are down.   
   
 Q.   Same lineup as last game or expect any changes?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Probably the same lineup.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT