NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 23, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Regin out with Shaw in.   What went into that decision?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We're happy to have Shawsy back.   He's been there mostly all year, so that's where he's at.   
   
 Q.   You said you were more angry yesterday.   Where are you today?   Can that be a bad thing if the guys are still angry going into tomorrow?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we're fine today.   I think we're excited about moving ahead, moving forward.   We have something we can learn from last game.   
The consistency throughout the game has to be in the right place and learn from that.   
   
 Q.   Teams always talk about playing the full 60 minutes.   At some point in the game the other team is going to have their time.   Is it will limiting that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's exactly what we're about.   Momentum in the course of a game, teams are going to have some shifts in their own end, puck possessions, some direct plays.   But the quality and the quantity, I think that was the difference in the first 38 to the way it finished.   
I think we want to make sure that a team that can make plays the way they can, we want to make sure we don't give up high‑quality stuff.   If they're going to manufacture, at some point we should be able to get some counter attacks off of it, as well.   
We have to make sure we're defending better.   They had two pretty good rush games against us.   I feel that's something we feed into.   Let's make sure we're better in that area.   
   
 Q.   The faceoffs the first game seemed to be 50%.   They took the advantage last game.   How can you improve on that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We looked at it.   We talked about it as a group, particularly the guys who take draws.   We're facing one of the best teams in the league in that area.   They all got experience.   They all are very effective at it as well.   
Especially on the road, when we've got to go down first, the heightened awareness of just our centermen, the guys on the wall, helping out in that area.   Trying to get it closer to 50/50 is what we're looking at.   
   
 Q.   The odd‑man out, how difficult of a decision is that for you with this team?   Could that make a difference?   Do you second guess yourself?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   As a staff we always talk about our options.   We look every day whether it's the lines, ice time, who is in the lineup.   That's what we evaluate and the decisions we make.   
   
 Q.   Good goaltenders have a short memory.   Do you have any doubt at all that Corey will bounce back?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, he's moved forward off all his games, ordinary games as well.   I thought he was fine last game.   I thought he had a great practice out here today.   
Just the way he moves, the way he handles the next situation is something that shows he's really developed I guess his efficiency of being the kind of goaltender that you look for as being your key guy.   
I think every year he's matured in different ways.   I just think he's gotten better and better in how to approach, whether it's a goal that he feels he could have had, a tough loss.   
But I think he's handled all situations, whether it's a big win or coming off the last game.   But he moves forward in the proper fashion.   Today was a good example of that.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect it to be more difficult to defend the Kopitar line?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   I know that will be challenging, whether we have Johnny out there, defense.   We'll see.   I mean, they had a lot of faceoffs with them in their end, enough of icing plays, you know, we got a tired group and they're out there, so...  
A lot of guys are going to get exposed to them one way or another.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Seems like when teams at home talk about how it is to have the last change for matchups, when they get on the road they say it's not that big of a deal.   Where do you stand on that?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think both teams are pretty effective playing on the road.   I think the consistency of your team game can help take away that advantage, whether it's the faceoffs, matchups, home crowd.   I think getting off to a proper start, hopefully catching the lead early, you can do a lot of things that can frustrate the home team as well.   
Hopefully we can get off to a great start and go from there.  
   
 Q.   Sharp, do you credit that to luck or is there something more involved as to why he's not producing at the same level?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Luck, I think in our game, you just make sure you are doing other things to complement your team game.   If you check well, you're comfortable with that end of it, eventually you'll get some chances, get one, get that rhythm going again.   
   
 Q.   Moving him back to the second line, does that help him, too?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   I think the way the lines are structured right now, I don't think there's a lot of difference between all the linesmen.   They're all capable of scoring and defending, as well.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like you had a good number of takeaways in the neutral zone in the first 40 minutes of the game, but less of that takeaway in transition.   What kind of stalled there in that final period?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think when we got behind, we definitely opened it up a little bit, more so when we got behind off those power play goals.   We were pressing the pace.   I don't think we checked anywhere near as well as we had to to generate offense.   
The quality was really enhanced after that.   It was more what we didn't do but were trying to do.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT