NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 22, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   As far as Andrew Shaw, is he going on the trip?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's on the trip.   We expect him to play on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   What kind of a jolt, him alone, but also coming off a game like that, to get a spark from a new guy?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's got an element that you appreciate, his competitiveness.   He's got some skills.   He's got some abrasiveness.   He's got the right attitude to find a way to get the job done.   Just adding that to our lineup...   
Getting him back in the lineup is exciting.   His presence can help us, as well.   
   
 Q.   We don't expect you to tell us who he'll replace, but have you made up your mind?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll practice tomorrow and see how that plays out.   We pretty well got our minds made up, but we'll get a practice tomorrow and go from there.   
   
 Q.   You had a chance to sleep on it.   Are you mad about what happened last night?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I left the game.   I woke up this morning way more angry than I exited the game.   Normally it's the other way around.   
Certainly there's a lot of positives to take out of the game.   The little details, the way we gave them the goals, I thought we gave them, particularly the first four goals, the penalties, the two goals, one and four, we got to be more diligent in those areas.   
They got to work for their goals.   They came rather easily.   Against a team that has some skill and play‑making ability, we have to work harder in those areas.   
   
 Q.   Do you channel that energy to your team?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Today is kind of a day off.   Exiting a game like that is a game that should get your attention and I think that's where we're at.   
   
 Q.   You've always said it doesn't matter who scores goals.   Would you like to see some of your heavier goal‑scorers get more involved?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, you look at the three opponents we've had in the playoffs and they all check well.   Whether you get two or three a game, a lot of nights that's what you're going to get.   
Last night we were in a perfect spot with two, had some really good looks to get the three.   But, you know, hopefully get some guys and different groups contributing.   Every group gets a goal a night, you get more than your quota.   
In our lines we feel like there's balance on them.   Against this team you have to play the right way and all four lines have to play defensively well because that's how you're going to get your offense.   
   
 Q.   Does the consistency on the road give you more confidence?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We definitely need a road win.   We're going into a building that is I'm sure going to be pretty excited as well.   
We've had some success there over the last few years.   I think our team knows what's at stake when we go in there.   That first game is what we're looking at.   Hopefully we can capture one.   
   
 Q.   The two penalties in the third period, was that part of what made you angry?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, yeah.   We got to be better in those areas.   You can't take those kind of penalties.   
But the score being the way it was, scoring a couple definitely took the momentum away.   
   
 Q.   The fourth goal, pretty uncharacteristic for your defensemen to stop.   Do you think they thought the puck was on the net or...   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I haven't found out exactly on that.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Corey has challenged himself a couple times during the playoffs when he's had a tough ending.   Do you see him having to do that again?   How much of the third period was on him yesterday?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think it was a team effort last night.   When we got behind, you know, 4‑2, even 3‑2, we were definitely taking more chances than we're accustomed to.   We were pressing.   Then came the high quality against us.   
One thing about Corey, he's been fine this entire playoffs.   His consistency, how he moves forward to the next game, the next shot, the next challenge should be commended.   We know we're going to L.A. and need him to be big.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding faceoffs.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Last night I didn't like our night in the circles.   It was across the board.   They got four really good centermen, all four really experienced guys.   They're all good at what they do.   We got beat at our own game pretty bad.   
   
 Q.   Do they become more important against teams that want to have the puck all the time?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Starting with the puck's important, especially on defensive zone faceoffs.   They're going to get some action, you'll get some action in the offensive zone yourself.   Special teams are important there.   
It's an extremely important area.   Let's make sure we're better.   
   
 Q.   After a game like last night, a lot of teams say they want to put it past them.   Your team has shown they can do that.   How much of a luxury is that?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think there's got to be a reaction.   We shouldn't be happy about it.   That's what we're looking for.   
I think that's how you get past it, by doing something about it, not just being satisfied.   We got beat.   We shouldn't be happy about how we got beat.   
I think there's anger involved.   I think that's not a bad thing to have.   
   
 Q.   You're comfortable with the demeanor of your team?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, we've been in some tough spots.   Look at last year, down 2‑1 to Boston, 3‑1 to Detroit, 2‑0 to St.Louis, 2‑2 in the Minnesota series.   It's 1‑1.   There's a lot of hockey left in this series against two really good teams.   A lot to be decided.   
   
 Q.   Do you need more from the third line?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I just think overall certain lines get a chance either to start in your end or their end, and I think you have different matchups over the course of a game.   
Overall, you know, I just think all our lines can be a little bit better, and that's what we're looking for, particularly on the road.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the Toews and Kopitar line.)   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think they've been good.   They've been generating.   They had some good looks, maybe not finish, but that line has been effective.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT