NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 20, 2014
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   We talked to Andrew Shaw.   Your thoughts on how he looked today, possibility for tomorrow?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see on that.   I thought he was okay today.   First time with the group there.   Hadn't skated in a while.   
We're not sure yet on tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Is there a possible advantage, since there's a couple more days between Game3, of getting him more time?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's part of the process.   When I look back, it could have been last Thursday, Game 7, against Minnesota, probably would have had to fight him not to play him.   
Certainly having time here and doing the right thing, giving him extra time, is something that's part of the decision, as well.   
   
 Q.   The way Peter Regin has been playing, has he got himself a spot on the roster?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We'll see.   It's something we always evaluate.   
   
 Q.   Bollig said he likes playing the villain role.   Is it good to have guys like that sometimes?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think your team has different kinds of players.   Everybody's got a role and a job description that you look to fulfill.   
It's not an easy job providing some toughness to our team.   But I think he added some dimensions to his line, to our team, that not a lot of tough guys add.   You're comfortable with him checking, defensively responsible, blocking shots, but bring some physicality that our team can use sometimes.   
But I think being responsible defensively really adds that element to our team.   
   
 Q.   You're getting a lot of production from the back end.   What does that do for your offense?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we got some guys, I think they're good to support our attack, entering the zone, good off the point.   I think it shows the kind of goals that are scored in the playoffs, it seems like they're points shots, screens, deflections, second opportunities, a lot is generated off the shot, it's kind of the way we play five‑on‑five, power play for sure, thinking shot.   
They're thinking just pound it, get to the net, improvise off the shot.   It's what we're all about.   These guys got some good shots, quickness in the lanes, guys that have good patience with the puck that can sometimes make that look off the point look even more dangerous.   I think that goes hand‑in‑hand.  
   
 Q.   Is that one of the reasons why you didn't have Keith and Seabrook out against the Kopitar line to free them up offensively?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   A little bit of balance there.   I think Johnny and Hammer, where Dunks and Seabs, it can change over the course of the series, over the course of the game.   Johnny and Hammer got a lot of ice time.   Dunks and Seabs, whether it's offensively or defensively, you're comfortable with them against anybody.   
   
 Q.   Outside of Corey's other aspects of his game in goal, have you seen a difference in his flexibility over the last couple of years as he's focused on that more?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I just think that he's grown as a goaltender.   I think he's shown steady progress with his game.   He's developed in all aspects.   He got a little more mature.   You get a little quicker, you get a little bit more comfortable with the league, confidence in yourself.   He's square.   He's quick.   He's always been that type of goalie for us.   
I think he answered the question last year handling the stage and the extra attention in the right way.   His approach this year has been fine.   I like how he's gone along here in these playoffs as well.  
   
 Q.   Not something you have any control over.   You're playing one game in five days.   Is that good, bad, aggravating?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, it's the way it is.   It's kind of a slow third round compared to the first two.   
But that's the way it is.   They played seven tough games.   We played six tough games.   We know we expect both teams to be definitely excited about playing each and every game over the next couple.   We'd expect a fast pace, as well.   
   
 Q.   Usually after facing the same team in back‑to‑back Western Conference Finals, there would be more of a nasty rivalry.   Is there such a level of respect that we don't have that nastiness?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think both teams have a lot of respect for one another.   I think special teams could make a difference in the outcome.   I think being intelligent and disciplined is going to have a lot to say about who's going to be out on top.   
But I think both teams, they play hard.   Both teams have skill.   But both teams, you know, have some physicality within their lineup that you're comfortable with.   The nastiness, if we play hard during the whistle, that's what we look for.   That's what we talk about and stress.   I think we don't want to be deterred from where we have to go to be successful.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT