NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 24, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.

Q.   Jonathan says he's ready to go.   Do you have to watch him tonight or anything, or are you confident that he's 100 percent ready and fine?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's 100 percent ready to go. 

Q.   Joel, do teams act differently in close‑out games with a chance to win the Cup?   Do you have to have any words with them?   I know you've been there before.   Is it any different than any other game?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, a lot of the guys have been through it.   I think those guys' experiences from Philly a few years back can help the rest of the group that haven't been in this position before.   Hossa has had a couple opportunities to be in this spot, as well.
I think it's an exciting day.   You want to make sure that you're confident out there and play that way.   You can't get ahead of yourself going into this game, and you've just got to get excited about your first shift.   Then from there get excited about your next shift.   It's something you dream about, so let's make sure we prepare the right way. 

Q.   Some of the young guys were saying how the veterans kind of were telling stories about 2010 last night and what it was like.   Is that important to have an idea what it feels like to play with the Cup in the building?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think it's very beneficial.   We look back, back in 2010, we were in the same situation.   Johnny Madden had been there and Hossa had been there and it was nice listening to those guys that had been in that situation. 
I think it prepares the guys with the right frame of mind.   And between yesterday and today's game and today, and basically it's about the approach.   You want to make sure you have confidence going into today's game, but let's make sure the energy is going to be in the right place.   Let's make sure there's a purpose with it. 
But at the end of the day, we all dream about this challenge and this opportunity, and let's go take advantage of it. 

Q.   About Jonathan Toews, are you happy with him being on the ice today?   He said definitely he's playing.   How does that make you feel?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, it's good to know that he was able to play and practice this morning, as well.   He felt fine yesterday, as well, so we were very encouraged heading into today's day.   It's good to know that he's ready to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT