NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 19, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   What is the status of Marian?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's expected to play tonight. 

Q.   This morning, just a little rest time, treatment? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's fine. 

Q.   Joel, talk about having a sense of desperation in this game? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, we know the importance of the game.   We got to come in here and win a game.
Coming off our last game, there's some positives to take out of it.   Basically things we have to concentrate to improve on, obviously faceoffs and our power play needs to ignite us as well. 
We definitely know how important the game is. 

Q.   You had Bickell with Toews and Kane out there today, is that what you're looking for, like it worked in L.A.? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Could be, yeah. 

Q.   How do you respond to critics who question whether it's a legitimate injury, Marian's toughness, particularly an ex‑Blackhawk?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   If he could play, he would play, so we don't need to discuss that.   We know how competitive he is and what he means to our team. 

Q.   How much has the play between the blue lines contributed to where the series is right now?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   The neutral zone I think has been pretty tight for both teams.   But getting through it with puck possession is the challenge for both teams.   I think we can be better in that area. 
I think we can be better in the offensive zone as well.   Whether it's puck protection, or puck possession, getting through the middle of the ice is the ongoing challenge.   The awareness of what we have to get through is what we talk about a lot.   We want to make sure we're better in that area and getting through it faster. 

Q.   The Kane and Toews thing again.   You start the series without them together, they worked together well in the last series, you put them back together again.   Is this a card up your sleeve?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Every series is different.   Every matchup is different.   They've had some looks together over the course of the games.   We look at production.   Sometimes maybe we're looking to ignite.   One line can get going.   We don't really care who scores goals.   If they can get hot, get on the board offensively, that's what we look for. 
But they're certainly capable of it.   They exited the last series on a high note.   Getting back together here, hopefully they can continue on. 

Q.   Joel, do you feel you've been too preoccupied with Chara this series or is he worthy of the attention you're giving him?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't know if we're giving him attention, respect or whatever.   Certainly he's playing meaningful minutes.   He's going to be out there against top guys.   It's not like we're keeping guys off the ice.
I think the score is something we always look at as well, it's what we're playing against.   I think the guys out there against him, they like to play their game.   But certainly it's a challenge getting through him to the net, whether it's him or everybody.   That's the area we got to get better at.

Q.   You're talking about puck protection and possession.   How important is Hossa to getting that done for you in the neutral zone?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Whether it's neutral zone, offensive zone, all zones, his awareness with the puck and puck protection is as good as there is in the game.   I think defensively he is responsible as well. 
He sees plays, makes plays in tight areas, knows how to come up with pucks. 

Q.   Jonathan was taking about the faceoffs, that the Bruins do a good job moving their legs on the faceoffs.   What have you seen they've done so well? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, we've looked at it, dissected it, really spent some time on it the last couple days to know we have to be more aware of what they're up to.   Let's make sure we win more than our share, because it was a very abnormal, one‑sided, last game and could have been the difference in the game.

Q.   Can you discuss Jamal Mayers' role on this team, filling in on lines.   He also said he didn't want to be a coach.   Would he make a good coach?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't want to encourage anybody to be a coach.   Jammer is one of those guys, he's a great teammate.   He does everything he can for the guys.   He has some experience.   He wants to get in the lineup in the worst way.   Does everything he can to get in there if the moment arises.   Keeps himself ready. 
He has pretty good insights to what the guys are thinking about, whether it's in between games, preparing himself for games.   He's a good mentor for some of the younger guys as well. 
Jammer has been around coaching for a long time, when he first came in the league early in his career as well.   He has a pretty good awareness to not just the game but the way people approach things. 

Q.   Seabrook and Keith, obviously keys to your offense.   What have you done or can you do to help them get more bulk?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think offensively we'd like a little bit more I'd say puck possession we're talking about in the offensive zone, whether it's more movement off the points, getting shots through, getting ugly goals.   We need more traffic.   We haven't got those lanes.   Whether we have to get in earlier position where the lanes are open, one‑timers, but a little more action on our points in the offensive zone, puck possession and movement down in the offensive zone as well. 

Q.   In dissecting the faceoff video, were you able to pick up tendencies?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   The tendency is they went back to their team more than us.   That was probably the one thing.   They've got some good skill.   They've got some good technique.   I think trying to disrupt it is something we're going to have to challenge. 

Q.   In boxing fighters say they worry about what they're going to do, not the other person.   One would think in your game what the other team does affects what you do.   How do you view that?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   In our game we like to play to our strengths.   We always talk about an awareness of what they're up to, what we do.   It's how we can play, what we can control.   We want to play to our strengths, we want to play to our speed game, and we want to make them play defense the best we can. 
We can do a better job.   If we want to be successful, that's an area we have to be better at.   We have to make sure we spend more time attacking and more time in their end. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT