NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 17, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Stalberg is in today.   What are you looking for from him?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we need some speed from him.   I think we need energy.   I think that he's a threat off the rush, in zone, defensively responsible.   
You know, bring energy.   
   
 Q.   Is this a case of what you want out of Stalberg or is it a case of what you weren't getting out of Bollig?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think Bollig gave us a couple real strong games.   You can talk about the last play.   Certainly you like the predictability of his game.   I thought he did a nice job.   Viktor, we're just looking for more.   I think offensively, defensively, giving us some more in both those areas.   
   
 Q.   Just to clarify, Stalberg is in tonight, and do you have any other lineup changes, switching guys around?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That would be the only lineup change, Viktor coming in.   
   
 Q.   Having not been in this building in a while, is there anything extra the guys have to prepare for?   Block it out like you've done in every other round during the post‑season?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Being on the ice here for the first time, some of these guys haven't been in this building at all.   The boards are a lot livelier.   Some of the buildings we played in the playoffs, like Detroit, you get to check out the ice, we expect a loud building, we expect an amazing pace to the game.   
But let's make sure it's what we do and let's be excited about the challenge we have coming in here.   Let's not wait for things to happen; let's try to dictate and be proactive in that area.  
   
 Q.   When it comes to Stalberg's speed, is that more important to have in a road game?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You can measure that either way.   I think as we've gone along here, I thought home or away, it's a great asset to have.   Using it the right way, he's a threat, gives us some speed on all lines.   It gives him something at least to contend with.   
   
 Q.   Team struggled in Game3s.   Anything you told them or do differently moving into this one?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Mentioned yesterday, I thought two of the three games we weren't happy with the way we played when we were up 2‑0.   In the case in Detroit, we thought we played the right way when it was 1‑1.   
Whether we're comfortable at 2‑0, or 1‑1 having a better appetite, we got to make sure we are looking for a response the way things ended the latter part of last game.   Knowing let's be ready, be excited about the challenge.   Knowing you have to get something out of here, so let's go.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT