NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 16, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   Joel, you were 0‑3 in Game3s.   What are the challenges beyond the home‑ice advantage? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I thought Game3, three Game3s, we played pretty well in Detroit when it was 1‑1 in the series.   We had a 2‑0 lead in Minnesota.   In L.A. maybe we were comfortable with the situation coming off two nice wins.   I thought Detroit got our attention after Game2.   It was one of those games could have gone either way. 
Certainly that's got to be our approach going into tomorrow's game, desperate, something to prove.   We're not happy with the ending.   We have to be better. 

Q.   There's a theory that the last two Stanley Cup winners have done it without a good power play.   How important is it that you do that with how physical they're going to be here?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We got to play our game.   At the same time we felt the power play struggled, got ignited in the Detroit series, got us going.   I think you got to expect at some point you're looking for some production there. 
I know that both sides, they're looking for their power play to get some production 'cause there's not a lot of high‑quality chances five‑on‑five.   But at the same time we got to look to, you know, maybe simplify it and play anything at the net, the second and third opportunities around there. 
The pretty plays aren't there.   If we think the pretty plays are there with power plays, they evaporate quickly. 

Q.   Last night's game and Game1, the swings in momentum are pretty dramatic.   What do you have to do in order to sustain your pressure from period to period?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, I thought we had the right start.   Had a great first period.   Did everything we wanted except get to two. 
Second period, we didn't give up much, third period as well.   But we didn't generate a whole lot.   We got away from what made us successful in the first period.   You know your opponents are going to get their turn.   You're going to have to defend and play in your own end. 
I thought our overtime wasn't very good.   I thought we were on our heels a little bit more.   We didn't get involved in the attack.   But we got to know against this team that trying to make plays could lead to trouble.   I think the simpler we play it, the more of a direct approach, it can play in our favor. 
I thought we were standing still too much and on the receiving end because we weren't attacking. 

Q.   The Kings obviously were a very physical team.   You didn't have too much trouble with them.   The Bruins, a different style of physicality? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It's hard to gauge.   I know you look at the hit sheet game to game, I think we're always on the underside of it by whatever number or margin.
You got certain guys that are more physical than others.   I think we got to be harder to play against than we were last night.   Game1 is more representative of how we have to play to be successful.   As long as we are not deterred in where we have to travel to be successful is something we'll talk about. 
L.A. is a physical team.   Boston, they're a big team.   At the same time we can't get distracted knowing if we get out‑hit, it makes a difference. 
Our guys have to travel, whether it's to the net or first to pucks, we got to be there. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   No, but I thought we stopped moving. 

Q.   Bryan Bickell was so consistent.   Is it something he's doing or something they're doing to halt him a little bit now?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think everybody has stretches where things go well for you.   Everything seemed to go in for him there.   Around the net, had quick hands, finding pucks.   I still think he has to simplify it. 
Something we talked about earlier, keep the puck going forward, put it at the net, don't have to try to make plays.   When you try to make plays, the other team takes advantage of it.   I think simplifying it will be more effective and efficient. 

Q.   Joel, not to say that you don't want to score the first goal, but do you see a more prominent trend that the team that scores first, it almost seems to trigger the opposition? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Yeah, I don't want to say 'unusual.'   You don't want to change your game or approach if you get scored on first. 
You love the lead.   We liked the way we were playing yesterday.   1‑0 at the end of the first period, I'm sure they felt that was a moral victory for them.   Still thought we went into the second period the right way. 
Might be an unusual stat, but there's nothing wrong with scoring first. 

Q.   Your team has been in predicaments of various levels the last four years.   The one you face now, being 1‑1, not home ice, is this more problematic than any other? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We're extremely excited about the challenge.   I think it's a great challenge.   We went into Detroit, knew we had to win a game.   We put ourselves in a tough spot there.   We're excited about being on the road.   We haven't been on the road in a bit. 
The next couple games are back‑to‑back.   With a day's rest, we like playing hockey.   With those extra days, we like to get back out there and play.   Let's play our game, play to our strengths.   We're excited about the challenge.

Q.   Starting the second period yesterday, what did you see them doing to your defensemen in particular to stop that transition game, the stretch pass? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't know whether it was what they did or what we didn't do.   Might have played a part in us getting slowed down in the middle of the ice.   The neutral zone, the way they check, defend, they're very patient in that area.   Trying to make plays in there only plays into their favor.   Let's make sure there's a purpose when we do go through the middle of the ice. 

Q.   With how evenly matched these two teams are, then overtime both games, does it seem like now more than ever this series goes to the team that stays more mentally tough? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I think that you want to stay to your game plan and you want to make sure you're patient and have a purpose behind how you play, consistency in your team. 
Depth of your team is going to be important as well.   We want to make sure we're using everybody and contribute in the right way. 
We always talk about this rhyme or reason, how we play without the puck.   To me that's going to be very important as we go along in the series. 

Q.   I was wondering if Viktor Stalberg could get back in the lineup tomorrow?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He could play. 

Q.   Joel, in retrospect, did you lose some momentum having the extra day off after Game1?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Not yesterday, the way it started.   We had the start.   Not getting to two slowed us down a little bit.   But we played a perfect first period there.   In the second we were going along fine, too.   But I thought we slowed down a little bit in that period. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach. 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT