NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 15, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Jonathan Toews winning the Selke.   Is this just validation?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought Johnny had a real solid year when I look offensively what his production was like, but defensively keeps scoring chances for and against.   He had one of those years that the numbers jumped off the charts.   Playing against top lines shift in, shift out, that says a lot.   
I think his awareness on both sides of the puck makes him the type of player that he is.   He really was well‑earned and well‑deserved.  
   
 Q.   When it comes to playing through injuries this time of year, how do you balance the difference between playing hurt and playing injured?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Because it's the Cup, you look at what you go through in the regular season, you look at what you deal with come playoff time, you know, whether it's the number of ice bags, hot packs, whatever it takes.   
You could be getting hit on the same spot on the foot on the PK, you just got to keep going through it.   
I just think guys do whatever it takes to win.   
   
 Q.   Talking to Johnny Oduya about Duncan, he said Duncan has this ability where he doesn't get tired.   How does he play those minutes?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   His conditioning level is very high end.   You've been around a lot of hockey players.   I think he's one of those different levels, elite status as far as his conditioning.   He can sustain big minutes, long shifts, doesn't show the wear and tear over the course, whether it's recovery for another shift or for a long, big‑minute game.   
Whether it's in his genes or whatever, he's got a nice makeup and doesn't get fatigued in the course of a game.   
   
 Q.   Do you sense possibly having to juggle around your lines mid game again?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It was six periods, so we got a pretty good assessment of what they're up to.   We'll see.   I think we got a little bit more comfortable with our own line rotation as we were going along.   
I think every game is different.   We know we're playing a real good team here.   We got to be at our best.   Every game is different.   I think the lines right now look like they were for most of the regular season.   
   
 Q.   Are you able to approach this game differently given the fact you now have seen them for six periods?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We know we got to be good.   I know they're going to be hungry and ready.   We have to be better.   
We don't want to be satisfied.   We want to keep getting in that improved mode from game to game as these finals progress, as the playoff season progresses.   
Last game was a great test.   It was an unbelievable hockey game.   I still think we want to play to our strengths and be ready to play.   
   
 Q.   How would Nathan Horton playing on the Bruins in his regular line impact your team whether he plays or doesn't play there?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We know you look back over the course‑‑ you look at stats over the course of the playoffs, you look at his plus‑minus, you wonder sometimes plus‑minus might be misleading.   You watch him play the another night and you say it's not a fluke.   
That line has been very effective and efficient.   We'll see.   I know that line certainly gave us something to be concerned with from the start of that game and ongoing.   
We'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Two days off between games, what does last?   What lives on through two off days?   Any strategy games you made in two days, did Claude get a chance to figure them out?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We were happy with the way we exited.   We feel like the momentum in the Finals is bigger than at any point in the year.   I think having home ice, right off the bat we want to keep it and sustain it.   
We talk about momentum and how important it is with our team, inside the locker room, on the bench, in the course of a game.   You want to keep it as long as you can.   
I think the start, we want to make sure we begin in a real positive way and capture the energy in the building as well.   
   
 Q.   All season the locker room has been relaxed.   It's more evident now.   Does winning Game1 do that?   Is it just the disposition of this team?   
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think we played some real big games here.   I think we're coming off some emotional wins, beating Detroit, the L.A. Game5 was a spectacular game.   We've had some highs and lows in the playoffs here.   That's what it's all about.   
The process, it's a fun process to go through, but you experience some different feelings along the way.   
Our locker room has been pretty even‑keeled all year long.   Our guys have won and know what it is to win.   They can help share their experiences with the guys that are looking to get there for the first time.   
I think Boston, they got a lot more guys that are familiar with what it takes as well.   But I just think I commend the guys for how they're looking forward, don't get too high, too low.   
   
 Q.   Game1 was fairly entertaining, a lot of scoring chances.   2010, same thing.   Do you expect that for this series?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You play three periods.   No goals.   Probably got tightened up in the first game, as the game went along.   It's tough to predict that type of stuff.   
I thought the way Boston shut down Pittsburgh as far as what they're able to do offensively, I don't foresee a ton of goals being scored in the series.   
At the same time every game can be different.   
   
 Q.   Just considering how many minutes your defensemen have played the last two playoff games, are you trying to maybe think about evening out the time in this game?   Are you happy with what you're getting from Nick Leddy in this series?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think you look back, both games, big games, long games.   There's been plenty of time to get rest.   Going into the next game, we're only worrying about that game, playing that game that's in front of us.   We'll deal with the challenges.   
Guys like to play, they like to play more on the back end.   We'll see how all the minutes get sorted out.   
   
 Q.   Leddy?  
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's one of the guys.   Every game is different.   How we delegate minutes will be determined how the game's going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT