NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 12, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   With Brandon Bollig playing his first game in the playoffs, do you take him aside and give him a talk as far as nerves and everything like that?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think certain guys are excited about playing in the finals.   All year long, whether the situation or the team, I think he's pretty smart on knowing what he brings to our team, the table. 
We want him to play hard, smart, within the whistles, bring that element. 

Q.   Joel, with a guy like that drawing into the lineup, is there a balance between falling into the trap playing the way Boston wants you to play versus playing the way you want to play?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   All year long, that line, when they did play, had a purpose.   We felt several shifts they always seemed to be on the offensive end at the end of the a shift. 
They seemed to control the play.   You're comfortable with him in your own end.   Faceoffs as well.   You have an overall game that we like.   I think he can bring an element to our team.

Q.   Take us to the final hours before the game, anything have to be said to the rookies?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I know we want to go into the game with some confidence.   We don't want to change how we approach the day.   We got some guys that have been through this experience.   Hey, it's another game. 
I know there's a little bit more attention.   At the same time don't change too much in your daily habits.   Let's go out there and play, get yourself in the game as quickly as possible. 

Q.   With your top two lines, your thought process there when you have Kane and Toews, who obviously play together quite often, but then Sharp and Kane played a lot together, now you have Kane with Handzus and Bickell.   What's the thought process?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think all year long the thought process has been Kaner and Toews, but in two different lines.   I think there's been some mixing along the way. 
All year long, we didn't change much of the lines.   In the last three rounds, there's probably been some adjustments in that area.   Kaner and Johnny seemed to click in the last four periods against L.A.   At the same time they've been apart almost all year. 

Q.   You have gone up against some really good defensemen in the first three rounds.   Specifically what kind of challenge does Chara present to you guys?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's definitely a factor.   Not too many guys you're going to go down inside and expect to beat him one‑on‑one.   He has a great stick, can control that side of the ice. 
We want to make it challenging for him.   At the same time that could be easier said than done.   But he does play big minutes.   You try to wear him down, work him in his own zone.   You have to commend him on how he's playing, how he's played in his career.   He's a special defenseman.   We have to pay attention to him being on the ice.

Q.   With most teams you take their A defenseman, try to pound on him in the series.   Does it change with Chara? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   It's a good question.   I think it's something that you can talk about, the different strategy of going that route or going the other route. 
I'm sure we'll experience both sides of that offensive zone challenge.   We'll see how it plays out.

Q.   You've talked in the past about the fine line of being physical, but not crossing the line.   Given what kind of happened the past couple series with Toews in one game, Keith with the high stick, is that something you reemphasize going into this series?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Discipline is something we talk about all the time.   I think we've been pretty responsible all year staying out of the box.   I think that's something we'll reinforce, like we said earlier, playing hard between whistles, knowing a small quantity of penalties, one or two, will be preferable. 
You never know how the games are going to be.   You can't control that.   You want to make sure you're playing hard and stay responsible.   But let's stay out of the box. 

Q.   You've obviously done your homework.   Your team is prepared for today.   What do you see as the keys for tonight's game?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I think start's important.   I think that unpredictability, not knowing one another, what to expect.   Who knows what could happen right off the bat. 
I think the excitement of both teams being here, not knowing too much about one another, that unpredictability could be exciting as well. 
Maybe the game settles down at one point where we become familiar with each other's habits.   I think we want to make sure we play to our strengths, try to play fast, try to make them play defense. 

Q.   Going back a couple series, when you're down 3‑1 to Detroit, they had the team meeting back here, a couple guys have said that Jamal really stepped up, had some good words to say.   Talk about his leadership in the locker room. 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Jammer has been a big part of it.   He's got some good experience.   He's one of those teammates that he brings a little bit something extra to the game. 
It's tough in a situation where you don't get to play.   But at the same time, he's in that locker room, we have him around as one of those guys for support.   At the same time he wants to play badly.   I know that's a tough part from where we sit knowing he's doing everything he can to get in the lineup. 
He's still doing what we can to contribute in a positive way, being a good teammate, reinforcing, recognizing whether it's a young guy, whether a guy needs a tap or some support.   At the same time, he recognizes the difference.   He's been healthy for the coaching staff, as well. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT