NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 7, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   (Question regarding Rozsival.) 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, all year, he probably didn't get the chance to play those kind of minutes, but he certainly probably could have handled it.   He can play in all situations, play against top guys.   I think offensively he has the puck a lot, has real good patience, pretty heavy defender as well. 
Last night, he got a chance to get a little more opportunity to play, played all situations.   I thought he did a great job.   I thought he did what we were hoping he'd do. 
He was like an old pro out there and did what he had to do. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He's been a good fit for us.   He's got good experience.   He's been around the league.   He gives us some size, some real good patience with the puck.   That presence was very noticeable last night because I thought he had an excellent game, logged big minutes. 
I think getting him this year to our team, he added a nice piece to it, a big element to our back end. 

Q.   (Question regarding finishing the series.) 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, we're disappointed the way we went into Game3.   We want to make sure, and everybody has to be aware, tomorrow is going to be a heck of a battle.   Let's get ready for the start knowing they're the Cup champs for a reason. 
Let's go do what we have to do.   Games 1, 2 and 4 is the way we have to play.   There's been a lot of good things in those games, but it was nice to go in there and win a game in their building. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I thought we progressively in this playoffs have gotten better as we've gone along here.   I think that's the character of our team.   We're competitive.   We want to win.   We complement our team game.   We try to play hard for one another. 
I look back in that Detroit series, down 3‑1, two games we lost in their building, I thought we played all right.   We lost a couple real tough games.   I thought that's where we started to come as a game.   The progression in our team game has evolved, confidence we can score goals, down on the ropes 3‑1. 
We got a lot of momentum coming into this series, but I think our game has even progressed going along right now. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, it was a big boost for us.   I know playing without Dunks, a lot of minutes shared on the back end.   Tough building.   I thought we talked a lot about it in Game3.   I don't think we responded the right way.   Even though we were down early in the first and second, we found a way to stick with it, we were doing the right things, got rewarded in the end. 
It's definitely a huge game to win there.   But now we got to go be excited about tomorrow's game. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I thought we played well.   I thought our team game had a real purpose to it.   I thought whether it was puck placement, protecting the puck, good forecheck, good zone time in the offensive zone, odd‑man rushes having to defend.   But I thought across the board, you know, there's four defensemen that played a ton in that period, and they did an excellent job in front of Corey. 

Q.   (Question regarding the power play.) 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, I don't think it's a struggle.   I thought we did some good things with our power play in the series.   The production maybe not reflecting the zone time, the quality, the momentum that you go into the power play with.   I know the five‑on‑three was a disappointing miss last night.   At the same time, they're a pretty good penalty killing team as well. 
As long as you don't lose the momentum, I think the power play has been okay.   But certainly we'd like, you know, something to show for it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't know for sure.   But just judging and gauging him after the game, he was really excited, happy for his teammates.   Generally it was nice to see him so happy.   He seemed happier than the guys that were out there playing, so it's good. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They took away a couple plays down there we were looking for down low.   I think you've got a lot of options out there.   Certain guys maybe would have different play selections. 
But, you know, we were in their zone for most of it, but we didn't have the high‑quality look. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I'm not complaining too much about what we did. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You look in this round, I don't think there's been too many power play plays rolling along here. 
Pittsburgh had it going for the first couple.   But, you know, Boston has a good penalty killing team.   L.A., Pittsburgh.   I think a lot of teams right now, they take away what you really want to do.   You got to get some ugly goals, fortunate bounces.   When you get a chance, you have to bury it.   It's easier said than done. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We watched every game.   We watch it very closely.   So we'll watch tonight and see how it goes. 

Q.   (Question regarding Bryan Bickell.) 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, he's probably a little bit more comfortable with the puck.   Seems to be finding him.   He's been friendly with it.   He's dangerous off the rush.   Seems to be finding pucks at the net. 
Sometimes they're going in for you.   Fortunate breaks as well.   He's earned it by being physical, going to hard areas, bringing speed to our lineup, playing in hard areas. 
We talk about all the ingredients that make up a power forward.   Putting it all together is what we're looking for him to do right.   It looks like he's doing a good job of it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That could be part of it.   I think with his speed, the forecheck, off the rush, he's a threat to shoot through the screen.   He's got some other assets, as well. 
Right now you'd have to commend him on how well he's putting everything together. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT