NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 5, 2013
Joel Quenneville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Were you surprised that Duncan had a hearing?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   You know, rumors out there last night.   That's part of the process.   Sometimes they'll look at plays and situations.   In the middle of the process, tough to comment on it.   We'll just let it go. 

Q.   If it happens that you're without him a game, how do you need to adjust on the back line?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I don't want to go there.   We'll see what happens. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Dunks is important in all areas.   We talk about special teams, you talk about big minutes, you talk about how we defend, get activated on the back end. 
His leadership is complete level.   He's everything you want in a defenseman.   He's very important.

Q.   Patrick Kane was talking about he needs more will to create space for himself.   Have you seen enough will from him in the first three games?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Well, it's tight.   For top guys, I can go back in all three rounds, it seems like the top guys are finding a way to score or be productive, it's been challenging certain games and certain series. 
I just think if you're contributing in other ways, the team game is something you can maybe hang your hat on, something you look for. 
That's what we're looking for.   Hopefully there's some production along with it.   I think we should all be thinking like that.   We all play a strong team game, play it hard, hopefully good things offensively come because of how we played, or positionally. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   We're looking for a little more. 

Q.   Is the third period how you have to play more tomorrow night?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I would say the latter part of the third is the pace we're looking for.   Things we addressed going into the game we didn't accomplish.   Your system doesn't look very good when you don't have everybody at that same pace.   When you do, we're a much more efficient team. 

Q.   Did your heart skip a beat when Hjalmarsson looked like he was in serious trouble on that shot and were you relieved to hear he was okay?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   He laid there for a while.   I was waiting for a whistle.   Then he got up, tried to block another shot. 
I've seen Hammer take a lot of blows.   It's tough to knock him down.   Definitely a relief to see him get up.   Knowing he's fine, we're happy to have him back.

Q.   On Patrick, what's the best way for him to create space for himself against this team?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   I think technically play our game system‑wise defensively and hopefully we get the puck more offensively.   I think when he has more speed in his game, he seems to have the puck a lot more.   When he's playing his best hockey, he has the puck, he's dangerous with it, being off the rush‑in zone, coming off of our end. 
I just think when he has the puck, not too many players in the league can do what he can do.

Q.   Jonathan Toews with only one goal to this point, are you seeing everything you want from him? 
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   That's kind of what we're talking about earlier, the top guys, the production has been tight.   I think both sides of the equation, both sides' top guys haven't been productive in the rounds we've been in. 
I just think you're playing against top defenses.   They get a lot of attention both sides of the puck.   Scoring has been tough throughout the playoffs for everybody. 
I think Johnny is such a competitor, he complements our team game the way you hope.   But at the same time, offensively, it would be nice to see a little bit more finish. 

Q.   What is notable about how different the Kings' game is at home than you saw on the road?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   They started harder.   They started the way we probably did in the first two games.   Maybe a little heavier forecheck.   Got the energy in the crowd, get the momentum off it.   They got the confidence because they've won here.   Probably the differential. 

Q.   Can you talk about their play in the neutral zone?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Technically, I think that's tough to really say too much how technically things go.   When you don't play to the level you want, there's erosion in your game all over the place.   It's our level of intensity that nullified what we wanted to do technically.

Q.   Some of the guys talked about standing still, not moving their feet.   Was it what you were doing?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Give them credit, they had a better pace than we did.   There was definitely a delay.   You can't have one against this team. 

Q.   Your PK remains very good.   Were you playing with fire a little bit too much last night?   Is part of the reason the PK is good because you haven't played with as much fire?
COACH QUENNEVILLE:   Our PK has been pretty good all year.   Discipline is something we try to stress.   We want to go forward.   Staying out of the box is a priority.   You get one or two, it's easier to kill one or two, but you start getting up into four or five, you are playing with fire. 
Let's make sure it's the ones we take that we measure, make sure they're valid penalties, not the ones that you got to pay the price. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT