JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2008
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The round was I guess better today than yesterday, if you want to look at it that way?
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, it was better on the greens. I made some putts today. I made a couple of good saves on 15 and 16 where I could have really let it get away. All and all it was good. I hit the ball like I did yesterday, but I just made more putts. 

 Q. Did you position your well now as you go into Sunday?
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I think -- I don't know, I didn't really look much at the leaderboards today. I should at least have a better chance than where I started today.

 Q. Going into Sunday not being far off the lead, does it help knowing that you have won here in the past? Does that factor in at all? 
 J.P. HAYES: In a way, in a way it helps, but in a way it doesn't mean anything. What helps more than anything is that I feel comfortable out here and I like the golf course.

 Q. When did you know the round was really starting to go your way?
 J.P. HAYES: I didn't, really. You know, you just -- I didn't have any streaks today. I just birdied here and then a few pars then another birdie. And then, you know, like I said on 15, I hit it in the hazard left and was lucky to find my ball. I hacked it out sideways and got up-and-down from 200 yards. I could have made double bogey there and then I could have bogeyed the next hole. Could have been a total different day had I not been able to make those two saves.

 Q. What makes it different tomorrow to put you right where you need to be? 
 J.P. HAYES: Again, I feel so good out here. It is no guarantee at success but it still helps. You know, I am hitting it good, driving it good, feel good on the greens.

 Q. You still have the course record. Somebody shot a 62 today. 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, "Jaybird" almost got it today. It's a great round. You know, the wind picked up a little bit here today. 62 is a great round and he got himself right back into it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT