THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Obviously 18 notwithstanding, you played yourself right back into this today?   
 J.P. HAYES:  Yep.  I played very well today.  I made some putts.  Hit a lot of greens, which I've been doing all week and got some putts to go in.   
  
  Q.  A lot of guys are coming in with some low numbers today.  Is there something out there that's allowing you guys to play this course better today than the first two?   
 J.P. HAYES:  There's a little bit of breeze, maybe we're figuring the greens out a little bit.  I haven't seen a whole lot of putts go in until today.  I saw more for myself today.   
  
  Q.  How about your day like on 18?   
 J.P. HAYES:  Very frustrating.  I second-guessed myself, and just said, it is what it is.  I hit a good drive and a good second shot but walked away with bogey.  It's tough to swallow, but that's the way it goes.  It's a tough hole.   
  
  Q.  What was the second-guessing?   
 J.P. HAYES:  Well, I wasn't sure how I was going to play the shot around the green there.  I picked a play that I probably shouldn't have.  But it's done and we'll get them tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Can you take us through what happened in Tampa?  I assume this is your first time back in Florida this week since then?   
 J.P. HAYES:  That's right.  First time back in Florida.  It's about my fourth or fifth tournament back since then, maybe fourth.   
 It's something I had been fighting for a while, light-headedness, dizziness, some heart feelings that were peculiar.   
 In Tampa it just got to be on that Sunday just terrible.  I barely could make it and almost lost it going down the first hole.  That was kind of a last straw.  I was determined at that point to find a solution to what was going on, and I did.   
 I had moments of feeling the same way but I got through it.  I assume it will get better.  It's gotten better.  It's nothing serious is the bottom line.   
  
  Q.  What was the diagnosis?   
 J.P. HAYES:  Vasovagal syncope.  It's basically a low blood pressure situation.  When I stand up and get moving, instead of my blood pressure picking up it will drop, and so that's it in a nutshell.   
  
  Q.  Culminated that day in a scary situation, is that what it was?   
 J.P. HAYES:  It was a bad week, and finally that day it was very bad.  But I had been fighting it since October, not really knowing what I had.  I'm happy now that I have an answer for it.   
  
  Q.  How have you had to change your game or your daily approach at all?   
 J.P. HAYES:  No change at all.  I'm taking some medication, for lack of a better term, and it's helped a lot.  I just do that throughout the day and drink a lot of water and I'm fine.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT