JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 16, 2006
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, J.P. for joining us for a few minutes here at the media center at the John Deere Classic.  Played a great round today.  That's got to give you confidence going into the next couple of weeks.
J.P. HAYES:  It's nice to play a round like that on Sunday in the position that I was in.  I haven't been in that position this year very much, or at all really.  But had a chance for a good finish in New York and had a miserable Sunday.  Some demons that I had to fight off.
Q.  Talk about the eagle putt on 17?
J.P. HAYES:  You know, some of the greens out here are difficult to read.  For me that is one of them.  I was unsure of the read.  You know, I could have looked at it all day and I would have been unsure.  To top it off, I didn't put a good stroke on it.  Probably a lack of commitment tied in with some confusion and just bad timing.

Steve Jones hit a putt before me that broke right.  I just couldn't see that.  Just a bad read unfortunately.
Q.  There was also like an eight foot putt on 14, a birdie putt?
J.P. HAYES:  On 13, par 4.
Q.  Did you hit that like you wanted to hit it?
J.P. HAYES:  I didn't hit it hard enough to be a great solid putt.  If I had hit it any harder at all, it would have been in.  Those things happen.  It is all I can do.
Q.  Did you look at 17 for a while?
J.P. HAYES:  No.  I made a lot of putts, but I won't look at it for a while.  I suppose I will think about it.  You know, it is nothing I can do about it now.
Q.  Earlier this year you talked about how you were frustrated and putting in the work and not seeing the results.  Did you feel you had this in you?
J.P. HAYES:  Yes, I did.  Especially on this course.  I feel so comfortable here.  I have been putting a lot of work in and not getting a lot out of it.  Finally good to see some results for the effort.
Q.  Little bit more roll on the course today.  Did you pick that up right away?
J.P. HAYES:  Yeah.
Q.  That there was going to be a kind of day where you get more yardage?

A.
It is dried out quite a bit.  It made club collection off the tee a little bit different than it had been through the week.  I hit a couple of balls that almost went through the fairway, one on 9 and 6.  No, 5, I think.  That is a 330 or 340 run out.  One was with a 3 wood.  Definitely dried out.  Certain sides of the fairway you get a lot of speed.
Q.  Talk about the timing of this going into your good time of year, especially Milwaukee.  Are you playing next week?
J.P. HAYES:  I am playing at BC.  I did this last year.  I finished second right before Milwaukee, then came up short at the end of the year.  Hopefully have more in me this year to finish the year off.  I'm on a limited schedule this year.  This doesn't get me any more tournaments than I otherwise would have gotten.  I had to play well when I get the chance.
Q.  Why?  Can you break that down?
J.P. HAYES:  Well, my category is 126 to 150 off last year's Money List.  They don't renumber that or change that.  They don't reshuffle it.  I am still in that category.  The only thing that would have changed is if I would have won.  At least I don't have to make all my money in eight tournaments.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  His Top 10 would get him into next week.  He is already in, so it doesn't carry over.
Q.  Do you know John Senden a little bit?
J.P. HAYES:  Little bit.
Q.  What can you tell us about him?
J.P. HAYES:  My hat's off to him.  I am sure that those finishing holes aren't easy for anybody.  I know I felt it coming down.  You can make some pretty big mistakes.  You have to get it up and down on 18.
Q.  You had a pretty good bunker shot there, too?
J.P. HAYES:  Yeah, you know, I was    I don't pull against anybody.  I wish I would have had a chance at birdie there.  I probably would have given it a pretty good roll had I been within 30 feet or so.  Four or five feet you are looking about maybe winning golf tournament.  If I had missed that, I think the one on 17 really would have bothered me.
Q.  Did you hold on to that shot from the fairway in 18 a little bit?
J.P. HAYES:  Probably a combination of aiming over there hoping for a draw.  One thing you can't do and that is hit it left.  You know, I would like to say that I am    my game is right now where I can just shoot at every flag.  Like a lot of us out here, we have to err on the side of caution and try to work the ball a little bit towards the flag.  It just didn't draw.
Q.  Can you give us yardage and club on that shot?
J.P. HAYES:  It was 178 yards and 7 iron, I think.  I'm within a couple of yards, but it was a 7 iron.
Q.  What did you hit into 18?
J.P. HAYES:  That is what it was.
Q.  17?
J.P. HAYES:  6 iron.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's just go through your round.
J.P. HAYES:  No. 1, I hit a good drive and 9 iron, about 15 feet, made birdie.

Bogey on 3.  I am not good on that tee.  That is one hole out here that doesn't fit my eye very well.  I hit a bad 6 iron.  I was fortunate to make bogey.  I hit    I had to make a six footer for bogey there.

I birdied 4 right afterwards, which was big.  I hit driver and 7 iron to 18 feet there.

6, I hit 5 wood to pitching wedge and made about a 25 footer.  It was going pretty fast, and hit the middle of the hole.

Then 9, one of the holes I drove through the fairway.  Hit it left of the green and chipped it from 30 feet, 40 feet.

11, hit 7 iron right over the flag there, made a 15 footer.

14, 5 wood, sand wedge and about 12 footer, 15 footer.
Q.  You were talking the other day about everyone, but the winner is really hard on themselves?
J.P. HAYES:  This is exactly what I am talking about.
Q.  Are you going to give yourself a break after shooting the final round 65?
J.P. HAYES:  Yeah.  If it was a habit I was getting into, it would be real frustrating.  I didn't throw it away, I just didn't make enough birdies.  I will be disappointed but, you know, I finish second before.  And I have done it in worse ways, so to speak.  I did all I could.  Just didn't make that putt on 17.
Q.  Are you more disappointed than pleased or more pleased than disappointed?
J.P. HAYES:  I would like to say I am    I would like to say I am more pleased than disappointed.  I think I am more disappointed.  Did I just mix those up?  I think I am more disappointed really.  It is a great finish and all.  But it is so close and especially in my limited schedule.  But what can you do?
Q.  Got to love this course?
J.P. HAYES:  Yeah, I do.  I have had a mini career here.  I had some    made almost a million dollars on one course.  That is nothing for some people, but for my career it is pretty big.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Actually, the first guy to go over a million in this tournament.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT