INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
July 30, 2002
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J.P. HAYES:   Well, it's been a fun couple of days.  It's been fun.  It's been tiring, although I wouldn't trade it for anything.  But the last time I won  -- I was thinking about why it was so much different this time, and I figured out that it's because I have a cell phone now, and I didn't have a cell phone now back then.  It's amazing how many people can get a hold of you when you have a cell phone. 
But it's been fun, but I don't think it's really sunk in yet.  I'm looking forward to my first week off and kind of sit back and reflect on it. 

Q.  Still feeling tired from the win?
J.P. HAYES:   A little bit, but not too bad.  I'll be fine by Thursday.

Q.  Is there such a thing as momentum in golf?  Can you carry it from one tournament to another or is it very difficult?
J.P. HAYES:   Well, I would think you can, but the only  -- I don't want to be negative, but the only thing that concerns me is my past history at this tournament.  I have not played very well here.  I think I'll play all right this week.  I think I'll play well, but I don't really have any positive vibes from past experience here, so it will be an interesting week as far as that goes. 

Q.  Doesn't fit your game or what's the deal? 
J.P. HAYES:   Maybe the difference that's going to be this year, but I don't think I've really been playing well coming into this tournament.  I've either had like a little bad stretch or last year I was playing very well during the summer and unfortunately couldn't play here, and missed this tournament.  But the other years, it seemed like I just really wasn't playing that well, and, obviously, this year, I'm playing well so hopefully it will be different.

Q.  So it was not necessarily the golf course? 
J.P. HAYES:   No.  I love the golf course, and usually, players try to avoid courses where they don't play well, but I keep coming back here because everything is so perfect.  The golf course is great, the scenery, the food, the locker room, everything is top-notch here, so I keep coming back.

Q.  You said there was possibly something to momentum and carrying it on.  Can you look back on your career and see where you did string together two or three real good tournaments?
J.P. HAYES:   Oh, yeah.  When I've started playing well, I've done that several times.  Maybe not in a row, but a really good finish, and maybe a mediocre week and a good finish the next week and maybe continue for a couple of months where I'll have three or four good finishes in the span of eight tournaments, something like that, where the momentum really isn't week-to-week, but over the course of a couple of months.  That's kind of how it's been going for me. 

Q.  When you're in the middle of doing something like shooting 61, do you realize you're shooting 61 or does it get nebulous around you? 
J.P. HAYES:   It didn't really occur to me what I could shoot until I got to the back nine, and then I started thinking about it.  I think for me, anyway, it's unavoidable and I did think about shooting 59 with three holes left.  I hit some pretty good shots in those three holes, so thinking about it didn't really affect me. 
No, it just happens.  61 is just  -- well, I've only had a couple, but it just happens.  Before you know it, you're signing a card for 61. 

Q.  One bogey over 72 holes will not win a lot of golf tournaments.
J.P. HAYES:   That's a weird stat.  That's not likely.

Q.  Did you ever have a run like that? 
J.P. HAYES:   No.  I know I've had several rounds that have not had a bogey, but for 72 holes, I don't think I've ever kept track of that stat and I don't believe I've even come close. 

Q.  And it was a good bogey?
J.P. HAYES:   And it was a good bogey, yeah.

Q.  Tell me, is 61 your best competitive score?
J.P. HAYES:   Yeah, I shot 61 one time on the Nike Tour.  And then that's my best on this tour, a couple 63s. 

Q.  Out here, players use different equipment, different clubs and things like that.  Do you do anything to change your strategy to play the course?
J.P. HAYES:   No, no.  Actually, I put a 7-wood in play here about three years ago, thinking this it was a good club for the tournament, and I've never taken it out of the bag.  I've had it in the bag for three years and it's turned out to be a good club for me everywhere else.  I'm not a good 2-iron player and it replaced my 2-iron, and now I can hit a green with what would be my 2-iron. 
There are some shots that it comes in handy.  It's in the bag, and there's very few courses where I would ever consider taking it out.  So it's usually in the bag every week.

Q.  Where are some of those places where you might use a 7-wood here?
J.P. HAYES:   The first one that comes to mind is No. 1, if I can hit I hot drive down the right side.  In the past, I've sit 7-wood a couple times, where a 2-iron I would not even dream of hitting a 2-iron off a downhill lie to that green, just not a shot I have.  A 7-wood fits perfect there.
Another hole would be 8, where you kind of need a high second shot to avoid some trees, and it's a perfect club on that hole.

Q.  Are you okay with the calculations and everything else like that out here ?
J.P. HAYES:   Yeah.

Q.  How do you calculate?
J.P. HAYES:   I just use ten percent.  It seemed to work pretty well for me.  But I think it's easier said than done.  I think you have to factor in a lot of other things, too.  If you hit the ball real high, it seems like it stays in the air forever and it might be more than ten percent.  So, it's a big feel golf course for me, too. 

Q.  Regardless of the score itself, would you call that the best round you've played? 
J.P. HAYES:   Yeah, probably.  I may have scored higher in another  -- I can't think of anything  -- but I think under the circumstances and tee-to-green, I think that was probably my best round. 

Q.  Final round was pretty good. 
J.P. HAYES:   Yeah, I have no complaints.  It just was a 67 instead of a 61, but I think really, that round might have been better than the 61. 

Q.  Does this course favor one person or one particular type of player? 
J.P. HAYES:   I definitely think it favors the guy who hits it far, but I guess that is true for any golf course.  Somebody who hits it high, I think Ernie Els comes to mind, and Vijay Singh, I don't know if he's playing this week or not.  Anybody who can hit high, long irons, I think has a definite advantage here where they can get to some of the par  5s and hit some shots that will actually stop on the green. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT