MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 19, 2010
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: J.P., we talked last night and you said you were feeling pretty good about your game the last couple months. Just talk about today.
 J.P. HAYES: I managed my game really today. I wouldn't say I hit it great, I just managed it well. 
 Pretty much stayed out of trouble, except for one bad drive. Had to take a penalty shot on No. 5, which is gonna happen out here. 
 Overall, pretty good. 

 Q. The conditions are a little bit different than they were yesterday. How is it playing in those two different type of conditions?
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, the wind, first of all, was from a different direction, then the last four or five holes we got some rain. 
 I think it always evens out, because some holes are downwind and some now into the wind. Definitely I thought it was a little more difficult than yesterday. 

 Q. Is there a different sort of pressure you feel making the cut as a leader heading into the weekend? 
 J.P. HAYES: No. Well, yeah, I guess there is. If I had just made the cut, you know, then a little bit of relief but not too much excitement.
 Now there's a lot of excitement, and set myself up for fun on the weekend. 

 Q. (Through translation.) You're now two good rounds, solid in position to win the tournament. Is there any added pressure heading into the weekend?
 J.P. HAYES: No, I just want to continue my good play. I know if I do that over the course of time, that opportunities and good finishes are gonna happen. But I can't make 'em happen. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What are your strengths and weaknesses going into the weekend? You said you have been playing pretty consistently, but what would you say the strengths and weaknesses are?
 J.P. HAYES: I've been driving it pretty straight this year, and my putting has improved dramatically over the past couple years.
 Just really good course management lately, and pretty solid ball-striking. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Is there a moment you can pinpoint in a golf tournament where it's critical to make a move to close the deal on Sunday? Is there a template for that?
 J.P. HAYES: Not a template as you said. But looking back when it's all finished, you can see where the turning point was. Throughout the day you try to continue, you know, playing well. 
 If you end up winning - I've had the opportunity to do that a couple times - I've been able to look back and say that was a turning point on Sunday, so...

 Q. (Through translation.) So in your last event you finished I think in fifth place. Was there a moment last week that you could pinpoint and said you could have made a move here or done something differently? 
 J.P. HAYES: Not really. Last week I was -- you know, I think the closest I got to the lead -- well, put it this way: at the turn, I was maybe five or six shots out of the lead. There wasn't just one player in between. There were a few players. 
 So, you know, I kept trying to make birdies, but, you know, winning -- I didn't think I had enough holes left to try to win.
 I can't really look back on last week and say that's what kept me from winning. Just seemed too far out of reach, you know, at the time. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What's the key for Sunday to win, being that traditionally - at this event anyway - the leaders after the first two rounds have not necessarily gone on to close? What's the key for to you win on Sunday?
 J.P. HAYES: Well, I think to continue to putt well. These greens are so good that you got to take advantage of the birdie putts that you have. 
 I anticipate the scores to continue to go down unless something dramatic happens with the weather. 
 Got to keep trying to make birdies. Same cliche every week. Just keep after it. 

 Q. (Through translation.) If the weather deteriorates, is that an advantage to be already in the clubhouse? How does that affect you?
 J.P. HAYES: Definitely. We had some pretty calm winds this morning, so that is an advantage if the weather gets bad today. I was talking more as the weekend went on. 

 Q. (Through translation.) General thoughts just on the golf course, being in Mexico, and specifically this golf course. 
 J.P. HAYES: I love the golf course. It's, first of all, in great shape. It has got a lot of -- puts a lot premium on driving, which, you know, we don't see all the time. 
 Mexico, I love Mexico. I live on the border in El Paso. Big fan of Mexico obviously. 
 This resort is fabulous. The players that haven't been here need to come down and check it out, because it's a great tournament on a great course at a great resort. 

 Q. (Through translation.) We don't have a lot of opportunities to see the best players, and to have our leader be so close to Mexico is great. So we encourage you to win this week. 
 J.P. HAYES: Gracias. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right. J.P. Hayes, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT