MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 5, 2000
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 J.P. HAYES: Well, it was nice to play with somebody who is playing well for one thing.
It was a great day. The weather was perfect, very little wind, the greens were good, and I
am playing pretty well. So it is kind of a good mixture. 
 
Q. When you play with someone who is playing well, does that kind of boost you up?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Sometimes. I mean, today it seemed to. We had a good time out there, and
Mark was struggling a little bit today, so it was nice to at least have somebody that I
can watch make some putts and knowing that it could be done. Sometimes you wonder if it
can be done if the guy you are playing with isn't doing it. But we had a good time. 
 
Q. The golf course you like coming to it; it sets up well for you? What are your
feelings about this week?
 
 J.P. HAYES: I played well here in the past. My first Top-10 on Tour was here back in
1992. And I guess because of that, I have always had kind of a fondness for the golf
course. That was a big week for me. That was my rookie year, and so yeah, I have always
liked coming back. I haven't had as a good a finish since, but I have been close. Played
well here. 
 
Q. What was it like that rookie year, you had a thing -- this is usually in the middle
of the year or the end of the year to finally break into the Top-10, did you feel like you
finally belonged out here?
 
 J.P. HAYES: It was a long wait. I don't know, it didn't really do a whole lot for me
because I played so miserably early in the year, but it gave me some hope for the end of
the year anyway. In 1992 this tournament was a lot earlier. It was in July, I believe, so
there is still half of the year left. But gave me some hope for the end of the year. Made
it fun, anyway. 
 
Q. How is the course playing? Seems to be giving up a lot of birdies?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I guess. I think it is playing longer than it usually has. I think
the fairways are a little bit softer, maybe a little bit more -- a little bit muddier.
Other than that, it is -- this course never changes, just depends on how wet it is. 
 
 J.P. HAYES: 15, yeah, I wasn't able to go for that in two. I hit a sand wedge from
about 60 yards and made about a 10-footer there. Then 2, I hit a 3-iron to about five
feet, made that putt. 3, pitching wedge to about three feet, made that. 6, I hit an 8-iron
to about 15 feet. Then 7 I just had a little pitch from the side of the green and hit it
to about eight feet, didn't hit a very good pitch really, and then made that for -- that
was my last birdie. 
 
Q. Did you have any up-and-downs --
 
 J.P. HAYES: I think I putted for birdie on 16 holes, 16 or 17 holes, so I had -- I had
one bunker shot, hit it to about a foot, and I think that was the closest I came to making
a bogey all day. 
 
Q. Where was that? 
 
 J.P. HAYES: That was No. 12. 
 
Q. What bunker were you in?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Front right green-side bunker. Pretty simple bunker shot, but... 
 
Q. Got any goals this year left? Whether it is top 70 or anything like that?
 
 J.P. HAYES: I can still finish in the top-30, so, that is my ultimate goal. After, that
I guess be top 40, be on that. Doesn't really make much difference, I guess, except for
the Invitationals. I have got the Top-70 locked up, but I can still finish in the Top-30,
I think that would be pretty realistic. It would be a good goal for me. 
 
Q. You said you putted for birdie on 16, 17 holes, could this have been a really
lights-out round for you today?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Well, I didn't say they were close, but (laughs) it could have been a
little better, I guess. I left two, in particular, right in the jar, about an inch short,
so -- but I made a couple too. So I think it is about what I should have expected from how
I hit the ball. I hit it well. 
 
Q. What has changed the most from that rookie in 1992 to a guy who now wants to be in
the top-30? 
 
 J.P. HAYES: I don't know. Just I have gotten gradually better over the years. Then I
got a big break in 1998 when I won, for some reason that has changed my whole attitude, my
whole game, you know, everything that was a big hurdle to get over, and I have been
improving ever since. I feel more comfortable out here I guess. 
 
Q. Was there any time curing the 1992 season where you said: I will never make it out
here?
 
 J.P. HAYES: No. I knew I had some work to do, but I knew eventually that I would make
it. 
 
Q. When the pin is set where it is on 18 today, is that one of the more difficult
approach shots?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, that is a difficult green. That back right pin placement is -- you
almost can't fly it back there because it is going to go long. If you hit it short, it is
not going to get up the hill, so yeah, it's a great pin placement. Tough green. 
 
Q. What has been the highlight in this year on or off the golf course for you this
year?
 
 J.P. HAYES: I have had a lot of good things happen this year on the course. Several
chances to win, in contention a bunch, the PGA was a lot of fun. Off the course everything
is good, so I couldn't ask for more off the golf course. On the course still could I win. 
 
Q. Did the PGA change anything for you or was it just to get a taste of the experience
in a major championship?
 
 J.P. HAYES: It didn't really change that much for me but I was nice to get in
contention. It was a ball. Just a little bit different out at a major, so it was a lot of
fun to experience that and hopefully learned a lesson there. 
 
Q. What was a little bit different? Anything specific you can point to? What was
different about it?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Seemed like there were two or three of us that were -- what they were --
what everybody was calling no-names, that seemed like had a chance to win Bob May and
Scott Dunlap and myself were kind of in contention all week. So it was kind of fun to get
the people, you know, excited and they were egging us on all week. It was a lot of fun.
They were behind every one of us. I think they all secretly want the Tiger to one though.
(laughs). 
 
Q. Do you mind being called a no-name?
 
 J.P. HAYES: No, I don't -- doesn't bother me. I mean, I think it bothers me more for
other players than it does for myself. Bob May didn't deserve that name at the PGA
Championship because anybody who has followed his career knows that he is a world-class
player. He has won several tournaments all over the world, so I didn't think that he
deserved that, but he wore it well and almost pulled it off. 
 
Q. Winning on the PGA TOUR, you are really not a no-name?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, but, I don't know. I guess it makes for interesting stories more than
anything. But it doesn't bother me. 
 
Q. You win New York; it wasn't like you won in Poughkeepsie?
 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I don't know. You wonder what you have to do, but on the other hand
there is a lot of big names out here, so, it is tough for all of us to get a piece of it. 
 
Q. Do you get much feedback after the PGA from friends, family, people --
 
 J.P. HAYES: I did. I got a lot of positive comments from people that didn't otherwise
know me or that I had never met before, but happened to watch the tournament, so I think
it was good for me. It was good for my sponsor, they got a lot of air time, so everybody
came out ahead.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT