THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2000
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.P. HAYES: Okay, No. 1, I hit a fairway bunker shot from about 80 yards to 20 feet,
made the putt on that hole. No. 6, I hit a poor drive and had -- did well to get it just
short of the green and hit a bad chip, missed about an 8-footer. No. 10, hit a pitching
wedge to about 20 feet and made that putt. No. 12, I hit a pitching wedge to about maybe
25 feet, then made that. No. 16, sand wedge to about 25 feet, made that. Then 18, hit a
7-iron about five feet there and made that one.

Q. How important was the birdie at 18, closing out the round? 

J.P. HAYES: Well, one less shot is always nice, but I don't think it really had anymore
importance than that. I had made a lot of long putts. I told my caddie coming down 17, it
would be nice to at least knock one close and make one so it doesn't look like I was
draining them all day long.

Q. Playing with two guys who never won out here tomorrow - you have won once, is that
an advantage to have won once?

J.P. HAYES: It can't hurt, but I don't think that they are looking at me as someone who
really is intimidating or a guy who knows how to win. I think we are pretty much all in
the same boat. I am fortunate that I have won before, but I am sure they are going to come
out looking for their first tomorrow. And I don't even know who I play with, actually.

Q. You got firsthand experience going down the wire with Furyk, he pulled off something
last week that was pretty impressive. Do you feel a guy like that back in the pack,
watching --

J.P. HAYES: I try not to really watch that, but just from this year you have seen what
can happen, you know, 5, 6, 7-shot leads can be erased with nine holes, so anything can
happen and it is not necessarily that those players choked or played that poorly. It is
just that somebody has gone out there and taken advantage of the circumstances. Anything
can happen and I am certainly aware of that. I am not going to try to fool myself. But if
I play like I have all week and like I have the past few weeks, then I think I will be
fine.

Q. Sleeping on the lead, will that be easier because you have won before?

J.P. HAYES: Well, I don't think it is going to be difficult. I think I have kind of
crossed a hurdle in my career where I am not afraid to win and I am not afraid to fail. So
I think I am really going to be comfortable with it and like I said, whatever happens
tomorrow it will be a great experience and it will be a lot of fun.

Q. Both the other guys said they don't look at leaderboards. They won't look at them
tomorrow. What is your approach? Will you look at leaderboards?

J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I probably will. I have found that it is harder for me to not look at
them, to keep telling myself not to look at it and -- that is almost more of a distraction
just say, yeah, you want to look at it, just go ahead and look at it, but don't dwell on
it, but I think it can be helpful at times. As long as -- it is only natural, really, I
think, to know where you stand, to want to know where you stand as long as you don't
change your game plan because of it.

Q. Jim doesn't necessarily hit (inaudible)-- he hit eagle shot from the fairway, a lot
of 50-foot eagle putts, makes a bunch of 20-footers. That guy is dangerous or maybe a
little spectacular, Jim Furyk?

J.P. HAYES: Obviously he is a great player; I don't even -- he must have played well
today I take it?

Q. Yes.

J.P. HAYES: So, yeah, I don't know. I don't think it really, really matters. He is a
great player, but, you know, there is a lot of great players out here and they are all
waiting for their opportunity to do the same thing.

Q. What would it means to you to win tomorrow in terms of the fact, I guess you didn't
get through four full rounds in your first victory, I don't know if this win would be any
more significant to you than that. Share your thoughts on that.

J.P. HAYES: Yeah, it certainly would mean more. Although, it was pretty -- well, it was
obvious when I won last time that that was going to be the final round, so it wasn't like
I stumbled into it on a Saturday lead. We didn't get to play on Sunday. But it would be
nice to play 72 holes and get it done that way too.

Q. How come people just don't call you John?

J.P. HAYES: My father's name was John and people started calling me Junior after I was
born and they didn't want any of that, so they went by J. P. and I have been J. P. all my
life.

Q. This position, is it fun or is it nerve-wracking or grueling?

J.P. HAYES: It is a lot of fun. It is becoming a lot of fun and I am not sure if I
should be more -- taken the stance that it is nerve-wracking, but it is becoming a lot of
fun. I think I am going to be comfortable tonight and I am going to be comfortable
tomorrow. If it was the U.S. Open it might be a little different story, but I am sure I
will be nervous tomorrow. There is nothing wrong with that. I would say it is more fun
than anything.

Q. Did you need that win over Furyk a couple of years ago to keep your Tour card or
were you in pretty good shape at that point?

J.P. HAYES: No, boy, I hadn't won $15,000 -- that was in June, I think, so there was a
lot of the year left, but I hadn't won $15,000, I think, up 'til that point in the year.
So at least needed to play well to get in some tournaments that I probably wasn't going to
get into as a Tour School guy and then the win, you know, I think if I had finished second
I would have secured my card as well. But the win was an extra year.

Q. How did that change your life or career?

J.P. HAYES: Well, it didn't change my life. It changed my career quite a bit. It just
gave me a lot of confidence and I proved to myself that I belonged out here and beating a
good player, that made it very special. I was able to set a schedule of tournaments which
I have never been able to do.

Q. Did you go through a lot of different conditions out there?

J.P. HAYES: We start off in the rain and then looked like it was going to rain all day,
but it blew pretty hard through probably 15 holes and then on 16 as the sun started to go
down, the wind kind of died down too. Then on 18 it was really pretty nice.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT