MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 18, 2010
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: J.P. Hayes, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here in the media center. Great start. Obviously you've been playing well. Last week I think you had a T5 at Pebble. Talk about the state of your game and comments on your round.
 J.P. HAYES: I've been playing very well since actually last August. I've had just a lot of good, solid rounds. I feel very confident in what I'm doing. 
 Had a lot of good rounds this year. Just having fun. 

 Q. Why don't you talk about conditions out there. It was cloudy at some points and sunny at others. 
 J.P. HAYES: It was a beautiful day. I would say the winds were moderate, and then the last three or four holes they calmed down pretty good. 
 Pretty scorable. The greens held up. It's a great surface. It putts well throughout the day. Course is in great shape. It was just a day to get after it. 

 Q. Was there any hole in particular that maybe gave you a little more trouble than the others? 
 J.P. HAYES: Well, there were a few that played into the wind, 18. 1, right from the start, played as tough as I've ever seen it right into the wind. 

 Q. Do you find these conditions ideal to score? 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I think it's as good as we can hope for on this course. Because I know from last year the wind generally blows pretty hard. 

 Q. This gives you a good opportunity to make a good showing for the weekend. 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah, I feel very good about what I'm doing, and I'm looking forward to the weekend. I love the golf course, and it's gonna be a fun week. 

 Q. What are you planning on playing the rest of the year after Mayakoba?
 J.P. HAYES: Gonna play Phoenix next week. After that, I don't know, but Phoenix. 

 Q. When you win first prize, what are you gonna do with the earnings? 
 J.P. HAYES: I've spent them already, so it's gonna go right in the bank. 

 Q. How do you see the Mexican players faring this week? Have you had any experience with them? 
 J.P. HAYES: I don't, other than Esteban Toledo. I don't know any of the other players, to be honest with you, so I can't answer that. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right, J.P., thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT