VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
J.P. Hayes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You knew you were playing with Eric actually the first two days. Is that why you break out the salmon color? You're a pretty conservative guy. You're going crazy on us?
 J.P. HAYES: I've got some crazy colors there in the closet, but yeah, he dresses uniquely, and I can't play catchup.

 Q. Let's talk about you hit a great 62. Where did this come from?
 J.P. HAYES: I've actually been playing pretty well. I haven't been able to test it since I haven't played a tournament in about two or three months, but I've been working hard on it and seen a lot of good results, so it's good to see it's held up.

 Q. Been a really busy week for you. You did open qualifying earlier in the week for you, then a local qualifying there. You've had a crazy week. 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah. I played in the Monday drawing here, and I flew back to El Paso Monday night and played in the local qualifying, flew back here Wednesday night and fit right in.

 Q. 15 greens and 26 putts, nicely done. 
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah. I putted well, hit the ball well, and the greens that I missed except the one I was putting was on the fringe, so no real problems out there today. 

 Q. How are you feeling with the "1" putter?
 J.P. HAYES: I love it. I love it. 
 I had to prove to myself that it fit me, and I putt well at home with it, so I'm committed to it, and today it worked. 

 Q. And you're out here the next two weeks after this?
 J.P. HAYES: Yeah. It's going to be a long stretch for me.

 Q. Looking forward to seeing a lot of you in the next three weeks. Thank you, J.P.
 J.P. HAYES: Thank you.

 Q. What was the difference between yesterday afternoon and the morning?
 J.P. HAYES: The greens are a little softer, as you'd expect. Definitely smooth. The greens are awesome. So we got the best of both worlds, a little bit of moisture still in them and then smooth. 
 The wind for the most part wasn't too bad. Yesterday it felt like I was fighting it a little bit, but altogether just better conditions. 

 Q. How did you do at open qualifying?
 J.P. HAYES: Shot 68, and I made it, and it took two spots in El Paso. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT