AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Brian Daubach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did hitting the ump on the back of the head with the bat loosen you up at all?
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: A little bit. Mike Stanley told me make sure I go ahead and swing now
after hurting the umpire. I never did that before. Actually it made me laugh a little bit
and maybe helped ease my mind a little bit, I don't know. I made contact for the first
time in the series. 
 
Q. I was going to say, how was it to make contact for the first time? You really have
been struggling.
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: I haven't had a ton of at-bats, only 0-4. Starts getting a little bit
mental. I got a pitch I could handle. Luckily it went on and we won the game. Our backs
are against the wall and every game is a must-win right now. 
 
Q. Brian, what was everyone's reaction to learning that Nomar wouldn't play today? Talk
about that a little bit.
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: I mean obviously when you lose a superstar like Nomar, it's going to
affect you a little bit. But I think Lou did a great job today. He got a couple hits, got
a big walk to start off that rally and, you know, we've had a lot of injuries all year. We
just had other guys pick up the slack. Today was no different. 
 
Q. When you got the home run, you started hitting out to centerfield or were you
looking at that camera placement at all? Did you say this could go either way?
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: Off the wall or off -- 
 
Q. For the one that the ball was called a home run.
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: I was running hard. I knew it was going to be close. I was hoping it
would get off the wall because I wasn't sure it was a home run for sure. It was close.
And, you know, just to the right of the Monster, so it was kind of a lucky home run maybe.
But I'll take it right now at this point. 
 
Q. You struggled a little bit towards the last half of the season. Did you ever begin
to doubt yourself?
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: I don't know if I doubted myself, but sometimes you just press a little
bit mentally, and it wasn't about doubting; it's just you just got to try to stay
positive. Jimy Williams is the best manager as far as he won't let people get negative. I
might have been down a little bit but today's a big lift for sure. 
 
Q. Do you think that mentality Williams was a factor in helping Valentin stay positive
after what he's gone through in this series?
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: I'm not sure Val in particular, but I think the whole team. We've had so
many injuries this year. You look at guys that aren't expected to do a whole lot, keep
stepping up. For sure myself, nobody heard of, Jason Varitek, Trot Nixon, he was
struggling at the beginning of the year. Just to keep positive with him. Look at the year
he's had now. A lot to do with the younger guys, keep them positive, keep them going in
there. He keeps giving you chances. 
 
Q. Brian, how much confidence do you guys have in Kent Mercker?
 
 BRIAN DAUBACH: A lot. He's pitched well ever since we got him. So if he can go out
there tomorrow and give us six or seven innings again, we'll take our chances. If somehow
we get to Cleveland, Game 5, you never know what can happen. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT