AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2016
Bruno Soares
Elena Vesnina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VESNINA-SOARES/Vandeweghe-Tecau   
6-4, 4-6, 10-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Bruno, two titles in 24 hours, how does that feel?  
BRUNO SOARES: It feels amazing.  It was long days, tough days.  I mean, last night I finished really late.  It's tough.  A lot of adrenaline going on.  Tough to sleep.   
But I knew I had another important day today.  You don't get the chance to play many Grand Slam finals.  I think you got to make the most of it.   
I mean, it's special.  To get the chance to play one and win one, it's already extremely special.  I mean, I got two in the same day, so...   
ELENA VESNINA: I think he can go for Legends now.   
BRUNO SOARES: That's right (laughter).   
I mean, just amazing feeling.   
 Q.  What time did you get to bed for last night and how long did you sleep?  
BRUNO SOARES: We finished press like 2:00.   
ELENA VESNINA: I got a message from him at 4:30, I'm ready, partner.  This morning I woke up, 4:30.  My God.   
BRUNO SOARES: I left here like 3:00, 3:15, after a stretch, massage.  But I had to do a little bit press in Brazil in my room.  I got finished by 4:00.  Then I texted Elena that I was ready.   
ELENA VESNINA: 4:30.  I was sleeping.  I just woke up this morning and I read the message.  I saw that it was 4:30.  I'm like, Oh, my God, what time he went to bed?   
BRUNO SOARES: It was tough to sleep.  I couldn't sleep.  I went to bed at 5:00.  I set my alarm for 11:00.  I woke up at 8:30.  I was trying to fight a little bit, couldn't do it, so just decided to go for breakfast.   
Been living on coffee ever since.  So I had 22 coffees already today.  But now it's all worth it.   
 Q.  Ever had a weekend like it?  
BRUNO SOARES: No, not even close.  I mean, it's tough to beat this one.  Two finals, two titles.  My first men's doubles.  First time me and Elena played.  We won.  It's her first mixed as well, after a couple tries.  She has two in women's already.   
Pretty special feeling.  Pretty special weekend.   
 Q.  Bruno, you said Brazil journalists and interviews.  Is this like the biggest since Guga?  
BRUNO SOARES: I think the biggest weekend, I would say.  We had some good achievements the past few years.  I won two slams in mixed.  Marcelo last year, he won French.  He finished the year No. 1.  That was very, very big in Brazil.   
I mean, it's the first time a Brazilian guy competes in two Grand Slam finals in the same event.  They were talking a lot about that.  And winning both makes it even more special.   
I mean, it's tough to compare or relate anything to Guga.  He's such a hero for us.  He's so above the sport and everything else.   
But for me it's a massive achievement.  I mean, it doesn't get much better than that.  I came here to play two events and I won both, so...   
 Q.  The world is coming to Brazil for the Olympics.  What should we know about your country's love of tennis and tennis in Brazil?  
ELENA VESNINA: Going to be a long answer now (laughter).   
BRUNO SOARES: Yeah, I mean, you guys hear a lot of things about Brazil.  I mean, not all the time that good.  We got some problems, you know, politics, sometimes not so safe.   
I mean, we're amazing country, good people.  Very friendly.  We're going to host Olympics in Rio, one of the most beautiful cities in the world.   
I visit the setup in December.  It looks really nice.  To be honest, I just hope they do a good job.   
We're famous for hosting well, for welcoming.  We're very warm country.  I just hope we can do the same during Olympics, everything runs smooth.  I know the peoples going to be really happy to have everything around there.  It's not everything up to us.  It's up to organization and security and everything else.   
I think -- I don't think, I hope it's going to be an amazing games.   
 Q.  Why are Brazilians so friendly?  
BRUNO SOARES: I don't know.  Kind of similar to Australia.   
ELENA VESNINA: And relaxed.   
BRUNO SOARES: Yeah, yeah.  We have a good life.  We live in a beautiful place.  We got beautiful women, a big coast.  It's the way we are, you know.   
We grew up with so many issues and problems and corruption and stuff like that, I feel people just learn to take life easy, kind of try to enjoy the things that we can get.  That's how I see it.   
 Q.  Elena, nice to have your first win in mixed doubles after four times?  
ELENA VESNINA: I think it's two times.  I think two times.   
BRUNO SOARES: I don't know.  I can Google it.   
ELENA VESNINA: Let's Google it.   
One in Australia here four years ago, and Wimbledon.  So three times.  Yeah, four times lucky.  I thought it's third time.   
I'm really happy about that.  And thank you to Bruno.  He text me at the end of the year in December asking me to play mixed.  I don't like to set up that early, you know, for mixed because you never know how you're going to do in singles and doubles.  It's quite difficult.   
But when Bruno texted me, I was like, Yeah, I want to play with Bruno right away, straightaway.  I texted him back, Let's do that.   
Yeah, it worked well.  I really had fun on the court and off the court as well.  He's a great person.  And, as he said, very relaxed and very calm.   
Yeah, it's just amazing to win another Grand Slam title in Australia.  I've always liked Australia.  It's my favorite Grand Slam.  In the beginning of the year when you're coming back from Russia where it's like minus 20, you coming here, it's summer, everybody is just so happy and friendly here.  I'm just really happy and humble about this win.   
 Q.  Did you talk to Andy Murray last night after the men's doubles?  
BRUNO SOARES: I did not.  Actually he ran after.  I think Jamie spoke to him a little bit.  I saw him running kind of towards the locker.  But I waited because we had to do TV.  So I did not see him yet.  I guess I'm going to see him soon.   
ELENA VESNINA: It was so nice from him.  I didn't stay.  I went to the hotel.   
BRUNO SOARES: We were a bit surprised when he showed up in the box.   
ELENA VESNINA: Yeah, good brother.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT