AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2013
Elena Vesnina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. VESNINA/Y. Wickmayer
  6‑2, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very good tournament this time around.   You have never been further than the first round here.   This has got to give you a lot of confidence to go better than the 2009 run at Wimbledon?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You feel really comfortable?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Yeah, it feels great to be in the final here at Eastbourne.   It's a really strong tournament, and I know that a lot of good players playing here, it's really tough to make final.  
I have always enjoyed playing on grass, and I really like the surface.   Yeah, it definitely will bring me some confidence before Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like for you today?   The first match it was quite windy and swirling, they were saying.   
ELENA VESNINA:   Yeah, it was very windy, but it was for both of us.   I played ‑‑I won my first title in Hobart, and it's really windy over there.   I played all matches with wind.   So now, after that, I think I'm prepared for all kind of weather.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised how quickly the match went today?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Yes, I was surprised.   I was expecting it's going to be very long and difficult match for both of us, because Yanina, she's a very dangerous player.   She's playing aggressive.   
On the grass it's kind of good style for grass, and she had great wins this week, two top‑10 players she beat.   And of course I was expecting a really tough match.  
But I think after first set she kind of lose her concentration, and it looks like she didn't know what to do.   Maybe wind was affecting her game also.   I think it's because of that.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about tomorrow's final?  
ELENA VESNINA:   It's going to be very interesting match, I think.   Jamie is a very talented player.   She has great hands.   She's playing all over the court.   
She's player who can play in the baseline and the net.   She has a great serve.   Definitely going to be very tough match for both of us.   It's her first final.   I'm pretty sure she's very excited about that.  
Yeah, I'm expecting tough match, and I'm really looking forward for that.  
   
 Q.   Some of the players were saying the courts here are some of the best they have ever played on.   What is your take of the courts?  
ELENA VESNINA:   That's true.   It's really good courts.   It's great preparation before Wimbledon where it's also really good courts over there.  
That's why so many players coming here every year and playing and really enjoying our time here.  
   
 Q.   How does it match up to Wimbledon, the comparison?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Grass?   
   
 Q.   How do Wimbledon and Eastbourne match up in terms of the courts?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Oh, that's kind of ‑‑Wimbledon, of course, have more courts than here, and it's just ‑‑I mean, it's very, very similar, I can say.   I like to play here and I like to play in Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   What's your record with Jamie?   Have you played each other?  
ELENA VESNINA:   No.   I'm really bad about statistics, against who I was playing, when I was playing, score.   I really don't know.   
THE MODERATOR:   They haven't played.   
ELENA VESNINA:   Catherine, she knows better than me.   
   
 Q.   Have you watched her at all this week?  
ELENA VESNINA:   Yes, I watched her match against Safarova a little bit, and today as well I watched half of the match, and I'm really impressed how she's playing.   I think she's in good form.  
But she played a lot of matches.   She's probably going to be a bit tired in the final, and I will try to use my chances in that final, and hopefully I will win it.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you won the doubles at the French Open.   Do you think that your great run this week has something to do with maybe getting some kind of confidence from that?   Because that must have felt pretty good.   
ELENA VESNINA:   Yeah, that's true.   Roland Garros, that victory gives me so much ‑‑I mean, so much happiness and so much relief.   I was waiting for that Grand Slam title for a long time.   
It's a little bit of that, a little bit of something else, and so I think everything came together.   I'm really happy right now, in general.   Not only because winning the final.   I'm just a happy person.  
   
 Q.   What is making you so happy at the moment?  
ELENA VESNINA:   A lot of things.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   I think you've dangled the carrot.   Tell us what you're talking about.   
ELENA VESNINA:   Later.   Not now.   (Smiling.)   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT