PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Elena Vesnina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/E. Vesnina
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was this just a case of running into probably the hottest player on the tour at the moment?   
 ELENA VESNINA: Caroline?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 ELENA VESNINA: Yes, she's one of the hottest player on the tour who is playing a lot of tournaments and she's always have good results on the tournament. Almost every tournament, she's playing quarterfinal, semifinal. So, yeah, was a great week for me and I'm really happy I was here in the final. Here in New Haven, it's a great tournament. I'm here first time. But I heard a lot of good words about this tournament. So I happy that finally I came here and I played in the final, so...   
  
  Q. How big is it for you to beat Mauresmo yesterday and get into the finals?   
 ELENA VESNINA: That was one of the biggest win in my career. Mauresmo, she's ex No. 1 in the world, and she won two Grand Slams. She's a great player. She's a great champion. And I wanted to play against her. Maybe indoor it wasn't feeling so special. But still it was a good match.   
 And I think both of us were fighting. We both want to be in the final. I was just really happy with my game yesterday. I think I just turned everything back after the first set.   
  
  Q. What did you see as the difference in the match today?  
 ELENA VESNINA: It is a big difference between indoor and outdoor. Especially I think it's a bit difficult to play indoor to come outdoors. But I don't do any excuses for today because Caroline, she was too good for me today. Maybe, yeah, I was doing a lot of unforced errors.   
 Caroline, she's a very good defending player. She's running. All balls are going on my side, so I need to do something by myself. I also need to create something. I was trying to go to the net. I was trying to be aggressive all the time. But maybe it's difficult to be in a good form through all week, you know. So maybe my concentration got down a little bit, and that's why it was few very sad mistakes in the first and second set.   
  
  Q. There was a point in the second set where you broke her to tie the set at 3-3. She broke you back. Was that a deflating moment?   
 ELENA VESNINA: I was not that upset that I lost my serve at 3-All. She played really good that game. I was still hoping, you know, that I can turn everything back because I had a feeling that if I would be a little bit more consistent, you know, if I would be a little bit more just not doing a lot of errors, I can win the second set, I can win the match.   
 But it was difficult because I was winning. I was doing winners and I was doing errors in the same time. So it was like, I don't know, too many errors. It's impossible to win a match if you're doing so many unforced errors.   
  
  Q. Is that what makes Caroline so good? She was just very steady, didn't make a lot of mistakes.   
 ELENA VESNINA: Yeah, that's her strategy. Usually she plays like that. She all the time make people to do errors because she's very consistent. She's moving on the court really well. She's covering all court. And she has a good feeling. You know, sometimes I think she's guessing where you're going to hit. She has a feel like Hingis a little. Before you hit, she was already standing there. Caroline, I think she has a little bit from Martina.  
  
  Q. What did you talk about with your coach?  
 ELENA VESNINA: He told me that I don't need to be so negative. He was like just enjoy the moment. Why I shave my hair finally? Let me enjoy the match. I was like, Yeah, why enjoy the match, I want to win this match. He just give me some tips with my few shots that I was doing mistakes. Nothing special. But actually it helps me in the second set. I start to play better after that.   
  
  Q. Did nerves play a part at all being probably in the biggest final of your career?  
 ELENA VESNINA: Nerves?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 ELENA VESNINA: Yeah, maybe I was a bit nervous. But, you know, we were waiting all day here. I think all nerves already came down. I don't have any nerves. I'm empty (laughter).   
 But we're just happy that we can play outdoors. Really, on other side, we wanted to play today, even outdoor, even indoors. But it was something special, you know, to play outdoors so people can see this match, TV, everything, like fans. For me, also I wanted to play outdoors. We were just happy we were able to play outdoors. So it looks like a real final.   
  
  Q. You played in Wimbledon, had a good result there. Coming off a semifinal here, do you feel you have momentum going into the US Open? Do you think you can repeat a fourth round or better there?  
 ELENA VESNINA: Hopefully. But you never know. Grand Slam is a different tournament. It's difficult to be in the form, you know, two weeks in a row, three weeks in a row. So I just need to stay positive and stay healthy. That's I think the most important thing. Just trying to win every match, trying to be aggressive, trying to be very consistent. So I think that's the key. So if everything will be together, I can repeat my best result.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT