MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: WEST VIRGINIA VS ARIZONA STATE
December 31, 2015
D.J. Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were the factors in the decision in the change?  
D.J. FOSTER: Best for the team.  After losing Jaelen Strong, we had a lot of missing pieces.  Luckily we were blessed to get Devin Lucien to come on, Tim White.  Had a lot of guys come up and step up this year.  Best for the team and kind of my future.   
I wanted to show I could play both positions.  Whether that chance comes at the next level will be for the future.  But just to be able to show I could do both positions, still be a runningback that could be out in the slot, whatever that may be, I can play any position.   
 Q.  Todd mentioned that, too.  Is that something you kind of realized after the fact, if you stick to the receiver stuff?  
D.J. FOSTER: Even my first freshman, sophomore year, I was still playing runningback.  That's what is nice about our system, even the runningback catch the ball in the backfield.  I know I was still showing those things, my versatility from a runningback standpoint.   
At the end of the day, it was something I thought I had the ability and talent to do.   
There's been ups and downs.  It was rough at first trying to change.  The tempo of the game is completely different as a wideout.  I thought I had a good season making that adjustment.  I definitely thought I showed I could do that at the next level.  I'm definitely a runningback that can play receiver, I would say.   
 Q.  Were you an ASU fan growing up?  
D.J. FOSTER: No.  I was a Cal Berkeley fan definitely.  A lot of my family, my mom was born in Oakland, my dad was born in San Francisco.  Definitely ASU is something I'm take for the rest of my life, A Devil for the rest of my life.   
 Q.  Is this your last game?  
D.J. FOSTER: My last game.  Went by fast.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
D.J. FOSTER: Right, as we hoped.  It's going to be a great game.  Watching the film on West Virginia, they're a great opponent.  That's why I'm excited about this bowl game.  Our record, I'm sure they could say the same, didn't end it up where we wanted it to be.  We ended up with a great venue against a great opponent.   
We're very similar with defensive and offensive schemes.  It's going to be a great game.  I'm excited.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
D.J. FOSTER: Their back end is very athletic.  No. 9 is their athletic guy, plays that adjustor role, plays in the slot.  We'll go against each other a lot.  They're a great defense.   
Offense, I know they have two great runningbacks.  I don't watch too much offensive film.  Air Raid, similar to some of the offense we played last year, like Washington State.  It's going to be a great game.   
We've seen a lot of stuff they do against other opponents.  Should be a great game.   
 Q.  (Question regarding matchups.)  
D.J. FOSTER: No. 9 is my matchup throughout the game.  Shoot, I move around everywhere.  I'll be in the backfield, slot, wideout.  Hopefully I get to go against a lot of their defensive players.   
 Q.  Anything you think you can exploit specifically?  
D.J. FOSTER: No.  Just kind of do what I've been doing.  Wherever I can fit in, go, try to make a play wherever they give me the ball, whether that's in the backfield, slot.  Whenever I get the ball, try to go make a play.   
 Q.  Last game for you?  
D.J. FOSTER: Yeah.  Bittersweet.  Being able to play at Chase Field.  My last high school game, I got to play at Chase Field.  Unbelievable ride, journey, how it started, where it's ending up.  I've been blessed with a lot of great people, teammates and coaches.   
 Q.  Is there a place you want to be?  
D.J. FOSTER: Whoever is willing to take me, I'm willing to play, no matter what.  The next level is more of a business, a lot of things that go into it.   
I'm excited.  After this game, January 3rd, I start that next chapter of my life.  I have a lot of great people around me, coaches that will help make that transition a little bit easier, focus on the next level of my life.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
D.J. FOSTER: I don't have a pick.  Of course, I like the Cardinals.  I'm a fan of a lot of teams.  There's a lot of great quarterbacks, offenses out there that I wouldn't mind being a part of.   
It's gone by so fast.  I remember the day I committed, putting that ASU hat on.  I never thought I would be where I am after the four years.  Not only statistically-wise, but how I've grown, everything I've learned, it's been unbelievable.  I never would have guessed.  It's been a great ride.   
I can definitely leave here saying I've grown as a man and I've learned a lot.  I met some of my best friends that will be at my wedding one day.  I met some of my closest friends on this team.  It's been unbelievable.  Just got to finish off strong.   
A lot of great seasons, a lot of great turnaround.  The way the program was before Coach Graham, it's been unbelievable how we turned things around.  I definitely can leave here saying this program is going in the right direction, most definitely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT