AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2001
Andrew Ilie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  You're going to have to do something about that band on the bottom of your shirt.
 
ANDREW ILIE: I'll have to snip it beforehand. 
 
Q.  Is that the plan?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah.  
 
Q.  You must be thrilled to be in the fourth round so soon?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It's great.  I went out there today and I really wanted to play a solid match all the way through.  You know, first set was a little bit shakey, but it's really hot out there.    It hit me early on.  I think it hit him, too.  It was good to get out of the first set.  Very important first set especially in these conditions.  Sort of got him down a bit and played some pretty good tennis when I needed to. 
 
Q.  Are you close to the standard you need to be playing?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, I played well enough to win.  That's all that matters.  You know, I couldn't really get too excited out there.  I would have burned too much energy.  As I said, the heat just struck me quite heavily today.  
 
Q.  Andre was just in here.  He said you're a talented shot-maker.  He said with him, it's important to make him play at a higher level for a long period of time, which I suppose is quite a big comment when you're playing against Agassi.  The question was do you play a match against Agassi any differently from the point of view that, you know, with your burning up mental energy, the emotions you show on court, do you play this one any differently?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, this is what it's all about, though.  It's about winning the matches you're supposed to win and saving it all up for the matches when you're the underdog and you're playing quality players like Agassi.  You know, I'm just going to go out there and give it all I have.  You know, if he is too good for me on the day, that's fine.  Let him play that way.  But, you know, I'm just really looking forward to a challenge.  
 
Q.  Are you capable of sustaining it? I guess Andre was suggesting that perhaps that might be your problem if you have one. 
 
ANDREW ILIE: Andre suggests a lot of things and so does Gilbert, doesn't he, yeah, in the paper.  But, you know, there's limitless possibilities out there, and we'll just have to find out.  
 
Q.  How long since you played him in a match that's sort of this big, do you think?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Since, well, best of five it's a difficult one.  Since I played Lapentti in the fourth.  But Lapentti's a very solid player, but, you know, I think this will be probably the most important best-of-five match I've ever played.  
 
Q.  Why is that?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Well, you know, I'm playing Andre, fourth round, Grand Slam and at home.  And I've been playing well, so I'm really looking forward to it. 
 
Q.  I spoke to some of your fans today.  They said what they really love about supporting you is the fact that they really help to get you over the line.  Do you think that's obviously going to be a big part in your match against Agassi?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Of course.  Again, they got me through today.  I was sort of struggling a little bit due to the heat.  But, you know, they really got me through, and I couldn't really, you know, show my appreciation as much as I wanted to but, you know, they really got me through again.  Hopefully, you know, we'll be able to, you know, get one on Sunday.  
 
Q.  Any clothing deals given all the exposure to your clothing?
 
ANDREW ILIE: I don't know.  We'll wait and see I guess.  
 
Q.  Do you prefer a day match or maybe you could be on center court at night? Does it bother you either way?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It doesn't matter.  It doesn't matter, you know.  As long as, as I said, you go out there, give it a good whack, we'll be fine. 
 
Q.  How (inaudible)?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Played him once in LA, lost to him in Australia.  Best of three there.  
 
Q.  There's one place left in the Davis Cup squad.  Do you think you deserve that on your form this week?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, I've actually discussed this matter with John and, you know, I'm actually pleased with the outcome of that discussion.  
 
Q.  What's that?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, we discussed regarding the, you know, the surface it's being played on and it's just going to, you know, we'll have to wait and see until after the Australian Open.  
 
Q.  In the second set, 5-1, you started to serve, first serve at 123.  What was the reason? You had been really going through a very weak period of time or it was tactical reason?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, I mean it's basically I knew I had the second set, and even if I sacrificed one service, one service break, I was not going to burn a lot of energy towards the end of the second set.  I wanted to keep it all for the start of the third.  
 
Q.  How I notice, from 5-1 it happened, then it was 5-4 suddenly.  And then you had some problem to get back to a very fast first serve. 
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, you know, it's basically, as I said earlier, if  -- just played good enough to win and, you know, wouldn't have really helped me if I had gone out there and started blasting 200 kilometer an hour serves and start cramping or pull a muscle or something like that.  I'm not saying that the opponent today wasn't a worthy opponent; he was.  He's a really good player, a really solid, really talented.  But under today's conditions and the way the heat was going, I didn't really think that, you know, I probably, you know, I thought I needed a bit of a breather in the second set.  And, you know, of course he could have back fired at me.  But, you know, got to take some chances.  If I burned out too early, and, you know, if I finished it really strongly in the second and, you know, been too weak in the third, and, you know, if he wins the third set, could go to four, could go to five, could go either way again. 
 
Q.  During the cramping front, is there any hint of recurrence in the last few days?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No.  I've been really, you know, as I said, I was trying to be really loose out there and not really, you know, get too tense and not really burn, as I said, burn too much energy by playing really hard-fought for an extended period of time.  Of course he was--  actually really good counterpunches, so playing really hard at him would have been a disadvantage for me.  
 
Q.  Do you know whether you're playing Sunday yet or being in the fourth round, whether it will be on Monday, for instance?
 
ANDREW ILIE: I don't know.  Probably be Sunday I guess.  But, you know, as I said, I'm not worried and I hope Andre is.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT