AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Andrew Ilie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Gianni Clerici, La Repubblica, Rome.  When you wear a kit, you use it to do the same as your shirt or you began when   -- I remember that in Paris.
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, I started it in Paris.  I used to get excited, but not that excited.   
 
Q.  Where did you get the inspiration from?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Didn't really get an inspiration.  I just thought, you know, I got to do something drastic to sort of break my bad run of losses that I used to have in 90  -- a couple years back, '98. 
 
Q.  Which one of the girls you think can follow your example?
 
ANDREW ILIE: I don't know.  I think Serena, or Venus came close to it any way.  
 
Q.  You must have been very pleased, you were gutsing it out today. 
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, I was really pleased.  It was a little bit slow start again, didn't think it was really going to be my day.  Couple things, it was a net cord there at break point, could have been an ace.  Then sort of broke some strings there, which hardly happens.  And, you know, it was sort of, you know touch-and-go there for a while but sort of relaxed a little bit more in the second and third and started playing some good tennis. 
 
Q.  Do you think that will give you confidence for your next step?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah.  Juan Carlos is a really good player.  I was really happy to get off the court, you know, even if it was in five. 
 
Q.  Was it particular meaning to your win because of the Davis Cup in a way?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, you know, I watched the Davis Cup on TV and found it, you know, very, very disappointing that I couldn't be there and support the guys and, you know, I just wanted to do my bit today.  
 
Q.  The crowd was great.  It was almost a bit like playing at cricket today.  The fourth set, did you find the crowd wasn't quite as boisterous enough for you?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, they were really great.  They really got me through when I needed them, and, you know, it was just great  -- a great atmosphere.  It was just a great atmosphere. 
 
Q.  Incredibly vocal.  I guess a disappointing thing, there was just as many outside the court as there were on the court.  There were loads of fans trying to get into the match. 
 
ANDREW ILIE: It was just great.  I'd really like to thank them all.  They really got me through the first match and this match especially and, you know, was just a great atmosphere.  
 
Q.  What do you think it is that everyone seems to warm to you? Perhaps someone like Lleyton, their opinion is more divided when you behave quite similarly?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It's sort of  -- I don't know.  It's tough to say, you know, the way the public looks.  If I looked upon myself, I'd be happy to give you my opinion.  I look at myself in the mirror and can't give myself four marks on anything.  It's just, I don't know, it's the way the public sees it. Lleyton's a great player, a great fighter, and, you know, it's just the way the public looks on the whole, you know, thing.  
 
Q.  Do you consider yourself a personality?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No.  No.  You know, I'll be a personality when I, you know, basically I can be able to keep winning matches and playing, you know, solid all the way through the year.  And I'm getting close to that, and, you know, hopefully I'll be a personality by the end of the year. 
 
Q.  Do you think your antics, do you put your opponent off? Is that any way behind your antics on court?
 
ANDREW ILIE: No, my opinion is that first and second match this year's Australian Open have been quite mellow for me.  And, you know, it's just trying to concentrate more on my tennis.  Because I wasn't that healthy at the start of the year, I was just trying to, you know, preserve energy.  But to get back to your question, I don't really want to put anybody off.  It's just the way I get up, you know, get pumped up.  Just like Lleyton.  And, you know, it's difficult to say.  I mean I'm not trying to sort of, you know, rub anybody's nose into it.  But if people get that idea, I'm sorry. 
 
Q.  John MaGraw (phonetic) the West Australian.  You were a very good junior player.  You seemed to live in the shadow of players like Rafter, Philippoussis, now Hewitt.  Has that been difficult for you in your tennis career?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It's actually been easier.  I'm regarded as a dark horse most of the time.  I enjoy that more than being in the limelight and being expected to win.  You know, I'd love to win some, you know, more matches and be able to be, as I said, win more matches in a row and have better results.  But, you know, it's  -- it's been difficult.  But it hasn't, you know, it's actually a big advantage for me.  
 
Q.  You're looking pretty thin, playing pretty well.  Do you see long-term goals as getting up sort of towards the Top 20, Top 10?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah.  My goal for the short term is to become, you know, Top 20.  And, you know, I'll certainly give it a good shot this year and see what happens.  
 
Q.  Paul Malone, when you play overseas, do you find it more difficult to play there when you don't  -- you can't feed off that support which you do get in Australia, and not just here but wherever you play?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It's actually, most of the places I go, I get quite a bit of support.  But, you know, it's just that it's my hometown, you know, I'm playing at home and not only that but, you know, the fans, you know, feel that, you know, I need a bit of help.  They're really encouraging me.  It's different, you know, I don't want to just do it for myself.  You know, I want to do it for my supporters out there, too.  
 
Q.  Chris, Associated Press.  Getting back to Lleyton, do you two guys talk to each other or compare on-court styles? Do you find  -- do you see similarities in each other or are you quite different?
 
ANDREW ILIE: You know, I really admire Lleyton, the way he performed.  He's really mature for his age.  And, you know, we don't really get together and talk tactics, if that's what you mean.  But, you know, I watched his match last night and I really, really felt that, you know, he's a great fighter.  He fought his way through.  He was down and out and he fought his way through.  You know, I admire him.  You know, hopefully, you know, you never know, we might get together during the Davis Cup.  
 
Q.  Is tearing your shirt good for your sponsor or bad for your sponsor?
 
ANDREW ILIE: It could be interpreted both ways.  I hope, you know, I wish that everybody sees it as a good, you know, a good way to get more publicity.  But, you know, I don't really think about that, you know.  I was just happy to, you know, today and the first match and the second match, you know, the public really, really wanted me to, you know, rip the shirt off.  So I couldn't let them down.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Was that just something you sensed?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Yeah, I mean today I didn't have to really sense it.  People were just screaming,  "Get your shirt off for God's sake.  Don't walk off and leave us like this." But, you know, it was just great.  I really, really enjoyed it.  
 
Q.  Have you actually derived any financial benefits from the antics that you've put on over the last couple of years? Has it attracted sponsors in any way?
 
ANDREW ILIE: I wish it had.  But, you know, I'd really like to thank a couple sponsors.  Wilson's been with me a couple of years now, not only because of my antics, and Holden.  At the moment I'm in between clothing contracts.  It's not really  -- I never really did it for the, you know, sponsorship side of it.  But, you know, didn't really catch on if that's what you mean.  
 
Q.  Nick Pets (ph) from the Herald Sun.  (Inaudible). Do you see any similarities between your situation and Jelena Dokic's situation at all?
 
ANDREW ILIE: Not really.  Not really.  But, you know, it's a really difficult, difficult situation, and I really don't want to comment on that.  I don't really know all the ins and outs of what happened and the way it went.  If I don't know everything about it, I'm not going to comment on it.  Sorry.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT