THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 21, 2002
Dale Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Okay.  Dale, may I have some general comments first on the afternoon?

DALE REID:  Well, I have to admit, I just realized for the first time in seven years that we can actually play fourball.  I think that's the first time we have ever won a fourball, and to do it 4 and 0, it's given us all a good feeling for going into tomorrow. 

I am trying to quiet them down a little bit because there is nothing over yet.  So we know there is still a big job to do tomorrow, so we are all going to have a quiet night tonight with caddies and players all together, so we are going to have a good chat, and a good think, and have a look at these pairings for tomorrow and, you know, see what we can do tomorrow.  Hopefully, we will come out on top.
Q.  How did you feel at lunchtime? 

DALE REID:  At lunchtime it was a bit hard.  I mean, obviously, I have been  -- you know, I am twisting the pairings around, and I was a little bit down after this morning with 3-1, because we usually do quite well in the foursomes, so 3-1 was quite a big difference there, but this afternoon I have to admit, I did put a couple of pairings there which I felt were  -- could have gone either way, but at the same time, I had to trust my players. 

There was two players out there I thought did extremely well today, Karine Icher and Cariedo.  They are not up there in Europe for nothing and they just played tremendous today.
Q.  What about Annika and Carin at the top? 

DALE REID:  Carin and Annika at the top, I didn't want to split them up this afternoon.  They are very comfortable together, and, you know, I wanted a point up early, especially after this morning's result.
Q.  How tired are you, Dale, right now? 

DALE REID:  I am not too sure, actually.  I am too tired to know.  You know, the 5  o'clock in the morning, it's been pretty exhausting.  I am usually first one here and the last one to leave.  I am just waiting to go back now so I can go and have dinner with my team. 

But, no, Pam and I are very happy.  Pam and I really clashed our heads this morning, and I think we really pulled off a good thing.
Q.  I just wanted to ask quickly about the draw, what your thoughts were. 

DALE REID:  I just saw it two minutes ago, Martin just put it in my hand.
Q.  Even the way you have put the  -- (Inaudible)?

DALE REID:  I have basically tried to do three strong in the front, three strong in the middle, and three strong at the tail end. 

Annika didn't want to go early, she likes to do her stretch and everything, and she said she was quite happy to go in the middle.  You know, I was just trying to switch around and do something that we haven't  -- that we don't normally do.  Cariedo, I thought, was a good match to go out early.  I mean, I think she was  -- was it 6-under or something today?  Cariedo is obviously playing well, the course suits her, so I thought it was a good match to go out with.
Q.  How about Laura?

DALE REID:  Laura is playing superb, she really is.  I mean, she is getting up on all the par 5's, but she is getting beaten on the greens.  Every time she hits an iron shot into the par 5's it's just sucking back with a 3-iron or a 4-iron.  But she has been such a big inspiration to the team this week, she is getting everybody going out there, and just with her attitude and jokes that she is cracking on the first tee, it's  -- just making everybody feel nice and relaxed.
Q.  Dale, I might have missed this at the start, but, first of all, were you surprised by 4-0 in the fourball this afternoon since it's never happened before?

DALE REID:  Well, I was.  You know, I mean, the four-nil at Loch Lomond, when we won the foursomes, that was a great result that had never been done.  And the fact now that we have actually done something that's never been done again, 4-nil in the fourball, those girls just played with heart today.  I mean, it's totally unbelievable. 

Q.  One other question about your lineup.  You claim Davies, Sorenstam, Carin  Koch again, you played every match; the US chose to rest Inkster, Mallon, Diaz. 

DALE REID:  It actually wasn't until I saw the drawing that I realized I played everybody again.  I wasn't necessarily planning to play everybody twice.  I was quite happy to sit some people out.  I thought Paula Marti looked quite tired this morning and I decided to rest her for the singles.  And I wanted to play Sophie again, and I thought it was a very good match, they get on very well together, to pair Sophie up with Laura, but Laura instructed me at the beginning of the week that she was playing well and she wanted to play all five matches, and I am not going to argue with her, she is bigger than me.
Q.  A couple of years back Europe went into the singles thinking we only need so-and-so many points.  Apparently, you gave everybody 12-nothing as the  --

DALE REID:  Well, we are not  -- I have never given anybody the notion of 12-nothing, but we know we haven't won this yet.  It's nice to go in with a two-point lead, but we are just going to try and tone things down and, hopefully  -- we don't want to party tonight, there is nothing over here and, hopefully, we will be having a good party tomorrow night.
Q.  Did you have any reservations about playing Tinning after she had a couple problems in the morning?
    A.   No, I didn't, not at all.  Foursomes is such a hard game, my opinion is Iben has been playing really well this week, and foursomes, so easy to lose momentum out there.  She was upset, she was a bit down in the locker, and I think that was the best thing I did was to replay her because it just brought her back up again.
.  Any more questions, folks? 
Q.  How well do you remember the singles at St. Pierre? 

DALE REID:  Very well.  We were up and, basically, St. Pierre, I thought we all played rubbish, I have to be honest with you.  Every single one of us, bar none, I think, we just did not play well.  And I think every team member of the St. Pierre would admit that.  We have talked about it before in passings when we have met up at tournaments and we are all quite ready to admit that we all played rubbish.  I mean, I was even par on that team and I didn't even play well.
Q.  And how will you ensure that there isn't the same deflation tomorrow?

DALE REID:  Well, obviously, we are all going to have a chat tonight, even Futch has already told me, 
Mark Futch, has already told me he is going to do his little speech tonight, and I said, "Go for it, Futch." 

So, you know, we are all going to keep each other going.  And I think that's  -- you know, we did it at Loch Lomond and we are going to do it this week and we are just going to get everybody going out there tomorrow.
Q.  And how will Raquel cope with a rampant and Juli Inkster?

DALE REID:  Well, Raquel, the way that girl played today, and the way she has played the last two years to merit being in the team, she is just playing great.  I mean, she can handle the pressure.  She is good under pressure.  She has just got that Spanish thing about her that she just wants to go out there and win.
Q.  Dale, thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT