THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2002
Dale Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we have the European Solheim  Cup captain, Dale Reid.  Dale, your overall thoughts of the day? 
DALE REID:  Obviously, after this morning, I would have liked to have been ahead this afternoon, but I think a - four result is quite fair the way everybody has played today.  I think we played superb this morning, the USA played superb this afternoon, and I think when you get a draw result, that shows how good the golf has been today. 

MODERATOR: Any questions for Dale? 
Q.  What did you think  -- did you think that you would be able to have a lead after the morning? 
DALE REID:  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, after being 3-1 in the morning, you are hoping for  -- to be honest, I was about halfway - ranked today, I was actually hoping for a 5-3, but, you know, things turn in fourball play, and I believe most of the Americans putted and played extremely well this afternoon. 
So, you know, if you are getting beat - about good golf, you can't complain.

Q.  What did you think about the match between Annika and Redman? 
DALE REID:  Yeah, I mean, obviously, Michele Redman, her putter was red hot, home girl, too, so the crowd was pumping her up, and she looked like she was really enjoying it, obviously a really big week for Michele, she was really fiery out there, so great match.  So looking at the pairings today, Annika could maybe go out there and get her back for this afternoon.

Q.  Your first group this morning, Paula and Laura went out fast, and pretty soon you looked up and quickly there were a lot of blue numbers up on the score board.  And they had to go to the tee, quickly had a twosome that was waiting for them, and all of a sudden there were a lot of red numbers up there. 
DALE REID:  There were a little disruptive, there wasn't enough time; I don't even think they had an hour. 

Q.  How much influence does the first match of a session have and did that influence at all your pairings for tomorrow?
DALE REID:  It does make a difference.  Laura is the type of player where she actually came off 18 this morning and wanted to go straight to the first tee rather than have the 30 minutes, this option that she had, she would have, quite honestly, just gone straight to the tee, but 30 minutes isn't a long time, and, you know, you try and grab  -- you are eating lunch on the way down the first fairway, basically. 
But she felt it was a little bit quick, but, you know, I mean, they had a great match today, I believe, so, you know, to get it back down 18 was a good fight back, but hopefully, we can get the pairings right in there today in a decent time so the girls can have lunch.

Q.  Dale, Laura played real fast this morning, three and a half hours, 18 holes, and this afternoon it was well over two hours the first nine holes.  Do you think Rosie might have been taking a little while to look at those putts, slow her down a little bit? 
DALE REID:  To me, Laura plays golf the way golf should be played.  I don't know what goes on out there on the golf course, five, six hours.  You know, I mean, it's like I said a few years ago, I mean, if I wanted to be on a golf course for six hours, I would become a green superintendent or something.  You know, to me, golf is getting spoiled with the amount of time that a lot of people are taking, and Laura just likes to get on with it.  That's the way she plays.

Q.  I am saying yes, but then in the afternoon they really slowed her down.  Do you think there was some gamesmanship going on?
DALE REID:  There could have been.  If there is gamesmanship, you have got to use it.  Sure, Laura has her own gamesmanship, so that's what match play is all about.

Q.  Did the idea that someone could drive it in that pond ever occur to anybody on 18?
DALE REID:  Well, I don't think it occurred to her.  She thought she had actually hit the drive perfect, when she saw it, she thought it was perfect, but it just took one bounce and straight into the water, so it was just pretty unlucky. 
I don't know if it got (inaudible) or what, I wasn't actually on that hole at the time, I was watching it from another fairway, but believe she made a very good bird 4 in the end anyway, so  --

Q.  How far is the hole?
DALE REID:  I am not 100 percent.  I don't usually use the yardage when I am playing, so it's  --

Q.  282 yards to the rough and 5 yards to the water. 
Q.  What about the  -- any comments on the new pairing, Iben and Mhairi? 
DALE REID:  Well, I didn't want to change too much this morning because, obviously, we all played well.  I have switched a few around, and I just feel Iben was playing quite well this morning, and I just think they are a good twosome that would  -- you know, I have been struggling for foursome pars trying to  -- we have been coming up with three names and then we will come up with another one, and it's been very difficult all week, so I think that ought to be a very good pairing.  Everybody else seems happy with it, so  --

Q.  Why?  I mean, what are their strengths?
DALE REID:  Well, Iben is, in my opinion, one of the next  -- one of the best iron players in the world.  I think she is my favorite, as Beth  Daniel, always has been, and Beth in her 20s was one of the best iron players going, and still is, for a 45-year-old. 
And I think Iben strikes her irons just as well as Beth does, and we have got some good par 3's out there, and, hopefully, that's what Iben will be doing is hitting at the par 3's. 
And Mhairi I don't think today had a good day on the greens, but I think she has been going out there working, and I think Mhairi is a good standing player to have for foursomes, so that was just my way of thinking, to get a really good team together.

Q.  Seeing all the pairings now, what's your overall  -- the matches tomorrow, you have seen them all now. 
DALE REID:  4 and 0.

MODERATOR: Confident.  Any more questions, ladies and gents?  Thank you, Dale. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT