U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 26, 2012
Dana Vollmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're going to go ahead and get started.   We have Dana Vollmer here, the winner of tonight's 100 Meter Butterfly. 

Q.   Dana, you used the word "relieved" a lot tonight.   How do you celebrate this? 
DANA VOLLMER:   I think I'm still in shock.   I know I have the 200 Free tomorrow and that's kind of how my mind goes, just focus on what I have to do next.   I'm so excited, and I think the relief comes from, I did a great prelim swim, breaking my own American Record in semifinals and just not wanting to mess up, was kind of where my nerves come from, not twitching on the blocks like I did in 2008. 
Just as soon as I was in the water I was excited and felt more in control of that race than I think any of my 100 Fly swims.   Feeling like I know there is more in there is really exciting as I head into London, knowing that I have a few more weeks to prepare and get things ready to go and then just letting it in London. 

Q.   Dana, you may have answered this a little bit, but just putting those two times in the bank, was it not about a time tonight as much as just taking that confidence and runin' with it? 
DANA VOLLMER:   I knew going into finals, it didn't matter what time I went, I just‑‑ I needed to get first or second.   Having the confidence of being able to put they go to those prelim and semifinal swims and know and go telling myself I didn't have to do anything crazy or spectacular, I needed to get myself on the team. 
Chasing down‑‑ I really want to go a 55, but in the final tonight I didn't want to go too hard my first 50 and then fade and happen to have someone pass me, so just really kind of getting a good, solid race.   Teri and I will review it and look at it and over the next three weeks, I know there is a lot left in there. 

Q.   Congratulations.   I understand why you might be relieved, but given the times that you swam and the two chances that you had to do this yesterday, why do you say you're "shocked"? 
DANA VOLLMER:   I think just knowing that four years of trying to get back here and build my confidence and being healthy.   It's not so much that I'm shocked at the times I went or I think making the team, it's just‑‑ it's amazing how it still feels like 2008 was just yesterday, in a way. 
To know what I've done in the past four years and the growth that I've had as a young lady and getting married and just so many things in my life that have change to do bring me to where I am now, it's just neat to reflect on where I've come since 2008, but it doesn't seem like it's been four years.   That's kind of the shock, too, having made the team in 2004 and knowing that was eight years ago and to get to do it in my favorite event and to be on the team is overwhelming it at the moment. 

Q.   You said how 2008 felt like it was just yesterday.   You've obviously put together a great body of work but did you have to do anything mentally to get back into this building and get your mind right? 
DANA VOLLMER:   Definitely.   When I walked in, I practiced in my mind and I knew that Trials‑‑ just thinking of Trials made me nervous.   When I walked into the pool it was kind of like hitting a brick wall.   I didn't think it was going to look identical to 2008.   It kinda threw me for a loop at first, and I found myself when I was swimming thinking about how I felt in 2008 and the nerves that I had and the pressure and almost like "doom" that I felt when I was there in 2008. 
I got into the competition pool and I made a point to kind of, I don't know the correct word, but unintensify the pool.   So I did some under water swimming and I did some jumps and a teammate and I came back to the warm‑up pool and we did some hand stands and I went around with my coach and we acted like we had never seen it before, and it was making it new again. 
I was realizing and telling myself I am in such a different place now, and when I think about myself and how I feel in the water, I was confident in what I could do.   I just had to keep my mind off of how I felt in 2008 and just focus on where I am now. 

Q.   What's it been like after 2008 to walk around and see your face everywhere and kind of become one of the faces of USA Swimming now after what happened four years ago? 
DANA VOLLMER:   It's really exciting!   When I first walked up to the pool here, that's the first time I've ever made it on the door!   So I still want to take a picture with that!   A couple of meets over the past four years I've always hoped to be on the door.   So that's exciting. 
Just to feel like I'm finally making a name for myself in the 100 Fly and just making a statement that I don't plan to get beat in that event, and bringing that into London.   I definitely have competition, Sarah Sjostrom posted great times this year so far, but it's been amazing just to feel like I'm starting to be recognized without my cap on. 
I love‑‑ you love the little kids and I gave my flowers away when I was walking around.   It's just really exciting to be in that place. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Dana and congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT