NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 29, 2009
Delonte West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DELONTE WEST: We're a very confident team. We got to give them credit. They are just like we are. They have been good all year, and they have made it to this point also, to the Eastern Conference Finals. No one said it was going to be easy.  
 We're confident here. We still believe that we should win the next two games, and we are approaching tomorrow like it is our last game.  
  
  Q. When you walked off the floor the last time here, did you say, If we come back, we can beat these guys? Because you had the opportunity, obviously the ball tipping off your fingertips.   
 DELONTE WEST: Yeah, yeah, I felt like we should win everywhere. We had the opportunities. Rashard, once again, stunned us again late in the game. But it was an opportunity in regulation, which is neither here nor there because that's the past. You are looking forward.   
 So that was, what, two games ago? And I don't even remember back that far.  
  
  Q. Neither do I. How do you feel physically?   
 DELONTE WEST: I feel good. Right after the game, got a lot of treatment. What happened, I got a hip pointer. Not quite sure when that happened. I got a pretty nasty bruise on my right hip. Feel great today. Got a chance to sleep in, take a long, hot shower. So shouldn't be no problems by tomorrow.  
  
  Q. The strategy y'all used late in the game in the fourth quarter where LeBron is out front, is that a little unusual even for you guys to do it time after time, possession after possession?   
 DELONTE WEST: No, no. You know, we feel confident in all our players. If he had been rolling, we give him the ball and get out of the way.   
 At the top of the key, you know, he is in a position where the defense really couldn't help. Anderson moving constantly underneath the basket, it kept Dwight's attention on Andy. So LeBron was free to just play playground basketball, playing one-on-one at the top of the key, and he won that game.  
  
  Q. What do you guys notice happens when LeBron goes to the basket and Dwight's there?   
 DELONTE WEST: Well, it is two unhuman forces meeting in the air, that's what it is. You know, you never know what's going to happen, man.   
 They are the -- the two of them I would say are the next-generation human beings. So we're witnessing something. So you never know what's going to happen, but you know there is going to be contact. And there will be a lot of athleticism involved.  
  
  Q. What does LeBron do? If you look at those 90 percent of the time, Dwight is picking up a foul.   
 DELONTE WEST: Well, he -- that shows he understands. That shows he understands what has to be done. It can hurt his team by getting Dwight into early foul trouble.  
 That's smart basketball. Besides Dwight, he might be the second biggest player on the floor. And why not? Go in there and see what happens. We might continue to do that.  
  
  Q. Did you notice anything other than Mo making shots? Difference in his pace, anything at all?   
 DELONTE WEST: Well, you know, I seen Mo Williams last night. He's been there, but, you know, you have to give Orlando credit, you know. They are defending him well.   
 First couple games you are out there and every time the ball swings to Mo, you can see the urgency in their defense. You get a communication out there of how they are gearing up to not let him take shots. They treat him almost like he is a Ray Allen-type of player.   
 We expressed that amongst one another, that they are playing good defense. They are closing out and making those shots tough for you.  
 But last night, he was in a good comfort zone, and he felt that rhythm in the defense. So I expect him to play big for us tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like the pressure might be on Orlando a little bit more now being that this is the last chance they will have at home?   
 DELONTE WEST: Well, the pressure is on everybody. There is a lot of scenarios that could play out, who wins where and who goes on or if it goes to a Game 7. So it is pressure on everybody.   
 But for the players, it is most important to have fun and enjoy this experience. We can't speak for what's going on over there. But we don't find no pressure here. We just know what we have to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT