NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 25, 2009
Delonte West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do you have to do to be able to get a win here? 
 DELONTE WEST: Well, we have to play better, number one. We got to play off the opportunities. We got to step up and knock them down. And we got to try to win the 50/50 battle, the loose balls, and limit them to one possession. We can't allow them to keep getting offensive rebounds and get second-chance shots.
 We take care of the little things, we will give ourselves an opportunity to win it.

 Q. You are one of the guys on this team that can really shoot. LeBron scoring 40 points tonight. What do you and Mo Williams have to do to help him out? 
 DELONTE WEST: We have to make plays. We have to make basketball plays. We are both capable of making plays for ourselves and others. 
 We have to play better. We have to play more aggressive, and we got to take it to them. We got our back against the wall right now. It is a long series, but tomorrow is a must-win.

 Q. Can you guys win if LeBron keeps scoring this percentage of the team's points? 
 DELONTE WEST: Yeah, yeah. We had our opportunities to make shots in the defensive rotation. It is going to take us to come in with an extreme amount of mental concentration, you know, because this is a very good team that makes you pay for every mistake. We have to limit our mistakes for them.

 Q. Last night we were talking about matchup problems. You said sometimes you do as much as you can and there is still a matchup problem. What do you think about that? 
 DELONTE WEST: Well, you know, they are obviously a bigger team. They have big perimeter players that can shoot the basketball. Not only that, they're able to look over our defense and make good and on-time passes, which is hurting our defense, causing us to rotate slower.
 Dwight steps to the line and knocking free throws down like that, it is hard to go to your hack-a-Dwight strategy. They are definitely hurting us. 
 We just have to do everything better, better execution. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT