MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 1, 2016
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a difficult finish on the final hole, but otherwise it was a good round.  What were the keys to your round today?
AI MIYAZATO: I hit the ball well all day today.  I had so many birdie chances, so I kept my round going to the end.  A little bit of disappointed on the last hole, but overall I played well, so I'm happy.
Q. This is supposed to be a course for the big hitters.  You've never been called a big hitter.  How does a player like you --
AI MIYAZATO: Well, you know, last year the green was really firm.  I remember that, but the cut was still 4-under par.  And I didn't feel that much easier last year, but this year the greens are a little bit receptive.  And I thought for me the second shot it was really easy to hit into the green more than last year.  So I gave a little chance to myself.  So maybe that was the difference.
Q. Yeah.  So it's being your second shots and your third shots?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  Like I said, I hit real well.  So -- you know, I was really comfortable with my swing, and had a good talk with my caddy and nice strategies out there.  So probably that's why I played well.
Q. How do you like the course?
AI MIYAZATO: I love this golf course.  I mean, yeah, it's in great shape.  It's so beautiful.  It was a little bit windier than I thought, but you know, since Monday, I kind of fell in love with this golf course, because it's so green, and like I said, it's in great shape.  So it's really fun to play on this golf course.
Q. You were the No. 1 player in the world in 2010.  How has the game changed since then?
AI MIYAZATO: Can I talk for two hours about that?  (Laughs).  It's been -- wow.  I go through so many things since then.  I had so many up and-downs, and it's like same as life.  You know, it's not going to be like keep going up all the way.  But I feel like my golf is so much mature than when I was No. 1 in the world, and like I said, I learned so many things.  And my golf is not perfect yet, but I started enjoying myself and enjoying my life, too.  And that's very more important than being No. 1 in the world.
Q. Has the game changed itself, like the LPGA Tour?  Has that changed?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  I mean so many girls are hitting so long.  And the golf course setup has been really difficult since the last couple years.  But you know, I think if I have a really good short game, I think I'm in good shape and I still have a chance to win.  So I'll just stick with my game.
Q. Yeah, it's been, what, 2012 is your last win?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.
Q. What keeps you going?  What do you enjoy about it still?
AI MIYAZATO: Well, I love my game.  I mean I love this game, and I love competing, you know, being in competition.  And I still have a passion to play golf.  And that's about it.
Q. But you found the balance between life and golf I guess?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, that's for sure, yeah.
Q. You're 31.  Seems like you've been around forever and you're only 31.
AI MIYAZATO: Well, thank you.
Q. Could you talk about your approach coming in to this tournament and this week?  Is it different from other tournaments in the past, sort of your mindset and approach as you start off the week.
AI MIYAZATO: Yes.  I played well last week as well.  And before that last tournament, you know, I had three weeks off because of the Olympics, and then that was a really good break, I guess.  It was kind of tough stretch until that moment, you know, before the three weeks off, because I played a lot of golf and I just didn't have a space, like much of my life.  So it was a good break, and I kind of felt really fresh, like refreshed before last week, and I'm like, you know, now I'm ready to the end.  My mind was a big change.
Q. And how do the greens here compare to the courses and greens in Japan?  Is it very different or would you say it's more similar?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  I would say the grass is different.  I feel like much more -- a little bit of poa annua ish this green.  But in Japan is always like bent green, and maybe a little bit of core rye.  So that's a difference.  But I love this green.  Like I said, it's in great shape.  So keeping good speed, and you know, the ball rolling really well.  So I love it.
Q. I see some Japanese media still following you around.  Is that something you still enjoy?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  They're really nice people.  They cover most of the tournaments, so I really appreciate that, because I have still quite a few fans in Japan, back in Japan.  So I think it's a really good thing.
Q. Does this feel like a little bit of taste from home, you get to speak your language and you're so far away from home?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, maybe.  But I have to do every day, it's kind of a little bit of tiring.  (Laughs).  No.  But like I said, they're really nice people, and I think it's nice to talk in Japanese, you know, my language, because I can be more honest about myself.
Q. And you get to stay in touch with all your fans over there, because you still have a big following and they get to see what you're doing over here so far away from home.
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  I don't know if I have huge fans in Japan.  There's quite a few.  But you know, I still want to keep playing well, and I just want to give back some good news to back in Japan.
Q. It's nice that they're following you so that you can do that.
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah.  Hopefully.  I'm starting to feel good with my game again, so hopefully I can get back good news to Japan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT