SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2006
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Ai, thank you for coming in.  Today terrific round today, second 66.  You're 10 under par with a one shot lead right now.  Start just talking about your day and how good it feels to be leading with one round to play.
AI MIYAZATO:  Yesterday I wasn't able to extent the lead towards the end, but today I was and I had a lot of fun today.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll take questions in English to begin.
Q.  I noticed after you sank the birdie putt on 18, a nice big smile came across your face.  What went through your mind at that point and what are your thoughts on being in the lead or on top of the leaderboard going into tomorrow?
AI MIYAZATO:  I really wanted to sink that birdie putt on 18 and I was able to do that and I was able to sink it like I imagined.  And tomorrow it will be the second time playing in the second group and I'll be nervous but I know I will have a great time.
Q.  You had the rain delay before the putt.  What did you do during the rain delay and did you think about the putt much?  It was sort of a tough putt to sort of wait on for 50 minutes.  What did you do during the rain delay?
AI MIYAZATO: I ate a hamburger. (Laughter)  It was a very short putt so I didn't think I was going to miss it.  I spoke with Morgan Pressel and stayed relaxed.
Q.  There's a good chance tomorrow you'll be paired with Annika Sorenstam.  How exciting is that for you?  And when you looked at her as you were growing up, was she always one of your idols?
AI MIYAZATO:  She is my idol.  She has been my idol and she is a player that I admire and someone I look up to all the time.  The last time I played with her was at the British Open.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q.  Have you played in the final group on Sunday on the LPGA Tour?
AI MIYAZATO: Yes, I have.
Q.  So what do you think your feelings will be like tomorrow as you go in?
AI MIYAZATO:  Last time I played in the last group I wasn't able to play as good as I wanted to.  So tomorrow I just want to concentrate on my game.
Q.  What was the biggest difference today from yesterday?  What did you do better today than yesterday?
AI MIYAZATO:  Yesterday, like I said, I lost some shots on the last three holes.  So today I just tried to make sure I stay concentrated and not do the same thing.
Q.  You mentioned playing in the final group before.  Is there one specific thing you learned from that time that you're going to try to do better tomorrow or put into play tomorrow?
AI MIYAZATO:  Like I said, I did get a little nervous and tried to maybe do too much.  And I will be nervous again for sure tomorrow.  But I think this will be a good experience for me and it will be a plus and I'll just try to enjoy it.
Q.  If you should win tomorrow, how big would that be back in Japan?
AI MIYAZATO:  It will be a big story, for sure.
Q.  Are you bigger than Ichiro in Japan right now?
AI MIYAZATO:  No way.
Q.  He's still number 1?
AI MIYAZATO:  Yes.
Q.  Where are you?  2?
AI MIYAZATO: Yes, I think I'm second.
Q.  Ahead of Matsui then?
AI MIYAZATO:  (Laughter).
Q.  How is it to be you in Japan?  What it's like to get all this attention and all this media?
AI MIYAZATO:  In terms of the media attention, I really think it is a plus for me.  It's an honor.  To be able to display myself to the Japanese fans, this is the only way I can show myself to the Japanese people, by playing this way.  In terms of what it's like to be me, it's a very difficult question.
Q.  A follow up.  How are you enjoying playing in the United States?
AI MIYAZATO:  Every tournament is very fun for me.  A lot of the players, they are welcoming.  They welcome me a lot.  I'm still studying English, but I'm fine.
Q.  (No microphone.)
AI MIYAZATO:  Takumi Zaoya.
Q.  Could you tell us how the weather affected your game today and how it affected the course?
AI MIYAZATO:  I don't think it had any affect too much.  It was raining towards the end.  I obviously didn't get affected by the rain too much because of that.  But maybe the game got a little receptive.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT