GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 29, 2006
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Ai, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  You're at 8 under par right now, three shots behind Mi Hyun Kim, but you'll be in the last group tomorrow with her, so you have a good chance to win your first LPGA title.  Go ahead and give us an opening comment on your day and then we'll take some questions.
AI MIYAZATO:  Everything went very well except for the last putt, but I had a lot of fun today.
Q.  When you play this well and have one bad hole to finish, is it easy for you to forget and move onto the next round, or does it linger?  Does it affect your confidence for tomorrow or your attitude?
AI MIYAZATO:  I have to forget.  Tomorrow is another day, I think.  I don't feel like this was the end of the world.  I still have a lot of chances left, so I'll try to play a good round tomorrow.
Q.  Ai, you and Mi Hyun might be two of the shortest players on Tour.  She was in here talking about how she has gone in the past to a long shafted driver to try to get some more distance.  I'm wondering if you've ever done anything like that in your career to try to improve your distance?
AI MIYAZATO:  I did extend my shaft a little bit, but I think to gain more distance, I think it's more physical, working on my physical fitness and strength.
Q.  You obviously have a good bit of media that follows you every week as we see here, and probably every day when you're out on Tour.  I'm wondering if you could talk about what kind of an adjustment that was for you at first, if you've gotten used to it, if you enjoy it or if it's difficult or just how the whole    how it is to have that much scrutiny?
AI MIYAZATO:  No, I didn't have to make any adjustments.  I feel it's an honor to have this many people from the media following me, so I try to enjoy it as much as possible.
Q.  Along those same lanes, we see the great success the South Korean golfers have had.  They all have each other to relate to on the Tour.  Is it difficult being on Tour so far from home alone with just yourself and your caddie and the media?
AI MIYAZATO:  Everyone, including everyone from the European players and American players and also the South Korean players, they've all welcomed me, so I don't feel like I'm alone or by myself on Tour.
Q.  If you were to win tomorrow, how crazy would they go in Japan over this?  How crazy would these guys go in Orlando over this?
AI MIYAZATO:  I don't know.  I'm sure it would be pretty big in Japan and good news in Japan.  I don't want to try to think about winning, I want to try to enjoy the atmosphere and the environment playing in one of the last groups tomorrow.
Q.  The wind has been very difficult for all the players.  Mi Hyun Kim was talking about the wind had changed a lot.  How difficult did you find the wind and how did you adjust to it?
AI MIYAZATO:  I think putting will be a key tomorrow, so I just want to try to concentrate on every shot and not try to think about who I'm playing against.
Q.  Could you discuss any difficulty or maybe what you've enjoyed about living in the U.S., perhaps food or driving or just any of the things that people take for granted that you've had to maybe learn quickly?
AI MIYAZATO:  I don't find difficulties living in the U.S.  I love the U.S., and that's why I came over here.  But I do feel sometimes that the American food might not be very good for me, especially because I tend to gain some weight by eating too much American food (laughter).
Q.  Can you talk about your fame in Japan and sort of what it's like for you when you're back in Japan?  Can you go out and eat without getting asked for autographs, or what's it like when you're back home?
AI MIYAZATO:  When I'm outside I usually try to wear a hat.
Q.  Getting back to that American food question for a minute, is there a particular type of American food that you say you've become addicted to against your better judgment like McDonald's or something like that?
AI MIYAZATO:  No, I'm not addicted to anything, but I'm surprised about the size of the food that they serve over here.
THE MODERATOR:  Can you go over your scorecard for us real fast, what you hit in and the birdies and bogeys, and then we'll take questions in Japanese?  You birdied No. 3.
AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah, second shot, utility, and third shot is    utility 4, and third shot is 75 to the pin.  I used a 52, to one meter.

No. 7, tee shot, then second shot is 86 to the pin.  I used 58, eight meters first putt, then three putt.

Birdied No. 8, 136 to the win.  I used 7 iron to three meters, in.

No. 9, my second shot I used 3 wood to 12 meters and two putt, birdie.

No. 11, second shot is 130 something.  I used 7 iron, and four meters.

No. 12, par 3, I used 7 iron and 0.5 meters.

Bogey on 13, 188 to the win.  I used utility 4, and second shot is over the green, two meters approach, and bogey.

No. 17, par 5, 203 to the pin, second I used 5 wood, over the green.  Five meters, birdie putt, I made it.  Used sand wedge from the back of the green.

No. 18 is 12 to the pin second shot, used 9 iron and maybe 10 meters, and two meters over, one meter over and in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT