FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 21, 2006
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  This is your second LPGA tournament after last week, Fields Open this week.  Wonderful course in Ko Olina.  Perhaps you can start by talking about playing in your second tournament and getting that first one out of the way and starting your second one.
AI MIYAZATO:  I don't think I played too badly last week but my putting kind of let me down a little bit.  Otherwise it was a satisfying week last week.  I'll try to maintain this level of play from last week.
Q.  What do you think about the World Ranking?
AI MIYAZATO:  About the World Ranking, I'm just think of it as something that I look at to compare myself to others.  I think the level of play that I did in Japan led me to the ranking.
Q.  Is your ranking higher or lower than you thought it would be.
AI MIYAZATO:  I wasn't really sure about the World Ranking system, but when it just came out, I thought it was higher than I first believed it to be.
Q.  What do you think about being ranked higher than Karrie Webb and Grace Park?
AI MIYAZATO:  I just can't comment on it too much but there will be times where I can get lower than they are, so I'll just try to maintain that level of play.
Q.  Do you want to ultimately be where Annika Sorenstam is at?
AI MIYAZATO:  That is a goal, but I just want to try to take it step by step.  And I'll just have to get more experience.

But that is an ultimate goal.
Q.  Are there any changes to your feeling because it affects the tournament?
AI MIYAZATO:  No, not very many changes.  I just want to try to maintain my focus and I want to try to do well.
Q.  How is the course?
AI MIYAZATO:  I've only played nine holes but I feel the greens are small.  It's not very long but I think wind will play a big factor, and I also think it's a great course.
Q.  What do you think a winning score and what do you have to shoot?
AI MIYAZATO:  I want to try to shoot 2 under per day.  In terms of the tournament, a three day tournament like last week, it might end up being like last week's score.
Q.  How do you feel about
AI MIYAZATO:  In terms of Brittany Lang, I played in a TV match yesterday and she hits the ball very long, but straight and she looks very mature.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT