KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2005
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP:  Ai, welcome to your first Kraft Nabisco Championship.  Talk a little about how it is coming over here to America and playing in a major championship for the first time.
AI MIYAZATO:  I'm very happy to be here and I'll try my best.
Q.  When did you get into the country, and how much have you scene of the golf course so far today?  Is this the first time you've played the golf course today?
AI MIYAZATO:  I flew in on the 16th and played a practice round on Friday.
Q.  What are your plans for the rest of the year, and are you going to try to qualify for the LPGA next year?
AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah, I will try to qualify in September, yeah.
Q.  This is as filled as the press room has been; do this many people follow you around all the time?
AI MIYAZATO:  Yes, all the time.
Q.  And do you notice them?
AI MIYAZATO:  Yes, I always notice.  (Laughing).
Q.  Is it a distraction?  It can't be too much of a distraction because you play very well.  It doesn't bother you or anything?
AI MIYAZATO:  No.
Q.  Will you be playing in the British Open this year?
AI MIYAZATO:  The ranking is only up through June so I won't know until that time in June.
Q.  Some people have said that to play well in America, you'll have to learn American golf courses.  Are American golf courses that much different than what you face in Japan?
AI MIYAZATO:  They are different.
Q.  How are they different, longer, more water or bunkers?  What's different about the golf course?
AI MIYAZATO:  Japanese golf courses are in the mountains and they are a little bit narrow.

The American courses are a little bid wider and easier to play.
Q.  What do you know about Michelle Wie, and are you looking forward to playing with her?
AI MIYAZATO:  I'm very looking forward to playing with her.  This is my first time playing with her, and she does look a little bit older than I do.
Q.  And also, can you explain why you like Annika Sorenstam so much; why is she a role model for you?
AI MIYAZATO:  I played with her last year in Japan and she's got a lot of confidence in herself.  She plays like she really enjoys herself.  She's my role model.
Q.  You won the World Cup, or you were part of the World Cup team, was that the biggest win you've ever had, and how does had a compare to the win you had last year in Japan individually?
AI MIYAZATO:  It was a big catalyst for making my career get started.
Q.  You've been successful over in Japan.  What are your expectations here in the U.S.?
AI MIYAZATO:  The LPGA is obviously very talented and I played with Grace Park last year at the British Open and I was able to see the difference in the skill level.  So I don't try to be successful right away.
Q.  When did you start to play, and why did you choose golf as a sport?
AI MIYAZATO:  I started when I was four and my brother they played.
Q.  Were you surprised at how well you did in South Africa, and would you change your evaluation of your skill level against the top players in the world because of that?
AI MIYAZATO:  The South Africa event was a team event so it was a little bit different but it is a big accomplishment.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT