KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2016
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great final round, I know you birdied four of the last five entering 18.  What really did you get going during that stretch?
AI MIYAZATO: Well, the first hole, I made a bogey and then I'm like, wow, it's going to be a long day today.  But after that, I had a really good self-talk and I hung in there really well.
I wasn't really having high expectations, but I don't know, I hit the ball well and my putting was really good.  Like I said, I had good self-talk, so it was a really good combination, I think.
Q. You said earlier this week you felt like your game was on the cusp of making that big breakthrough.  Do you think this week was that breakthrough performance that you needed?
AI MIYAZATO: For sure.  I haven't finished Top-10 since, I don't know, maybe a couple years ago, and finally I did it.  So I'm really satisfied what I did, and definitely gained my confidence.
Q. What's been the biggest thing in your game that you've been working on that you felt like really worked out this week?
AI MIYAZATO: Well, putting.  I've been struggling with my putting since a couple years ago, and that's why my game wasn't really there.  But I had really good patience and I know I can get through it.  Right now, I'm in the process, but just the difference is it's just I'm having fun more with my game.  So I think that was it.  I need this feeling till end of November.
Q. You told me you changed the loft on your putter.  Did you notice a big difference this week?
AI MIYAZATO: Oh, yeah, for sure, especially on these greens.  Poa annua is really difficult for everyone and you need to make the ball rolling straight as much as you want, so I think that was definitely a big help.
Q. How much difference in the degree of loft?
AI MIYAZATO: Two degrees.
Q. So little things but they help, but how much does this help you going into next week with the first major right around the corner.
AI MIYAZATO: It's huge, but next week is a different week.  I hope the golf course is in good shape because I feel like really ready for next week.  I'm just going to keep it going and see how it goes next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT