KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2016
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under, pretty good round, what came together for your game today?
AI MIYAZATO: I don't know, it was just nice and fun.  Played with Sandra today, and my game has been in good shape so far.  It just didn't show up in my results, especially last weekend, I missed the cut.  But I said, you know what, I'm playing good and just be patient.  Just keep trying and so it was like, I don't know, just no expectation out there today.  So maybe that was the key.
Q. What's one thing that really kind of turned around?  You said you'd been playing well, but what's one thing you had to struggle to get going?
AI MIYAZATO: Actually with my putter, I changed my loft.  My loft wasn't enough last week.  It was only like two degrees or something.  So I switched to the four-degree, and my ball running is so much better than last week's.  Probably that helped.
Q. When you know that you're feeling good with your putting and we know that you're such a good putter --
AI MIYAZATO: I'm still in the process I think.  It's just the first round I played, and especially these greens, poa annua is a little bit tricky.  But like I said, I feel my ball rolling, if I keep it in the right position, it's going to go in.  I want to keep that the next three days, too.
Q. I know it's been a slower start for you at the beginning of this year.  How do you keep going when you feel like your game is right there and you're on the verge of playing really well, how have you kept yourself going to be able to go out there and have a day like today?
AI MIYAZATO: It was actually tough the beginning of the season, because I know I'm in good shape, but like I said, just didn't show up in my results.
But it's just the beginning of the season.  Still a long way to go until the end of November, so there's no rush, take my time and just focus things under my control and see how it goes.
That was good self-talk, actually.  I didn't push myself too hard.  And, well, today I played good, so I feel good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT