ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2015
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome in our current co-leader in the clubhouse, Ai Miyazato, into the interview room.  Fantastic first round, 4-under 68.  You said you're very pleased with the round and just overall very solid.  Take us through the day and how you put together such a solid round?   AI MIYAZATO: I want to say I was pretty happy with my round today because I had a good start on 11.  I chipped in for my eagle and that kind of kept my round going after that, so it was a good start.  But, overall, I hit the ball well, and I hit the fairway and made the greens and made some putts.  So there were not many mistakes out there, so I was very happy.   Q.  Now this course tends to be known to suit long hitters which isn't exactly your game.  Why do you like this course so much and why do you play well here?  AI MIYAZATO: Well, first of all, thanks for saying that I'm a long hitter.  That feels good.  I'm not a long hitter, not just this golf course, I think it's a really good set-up, and it doesn't matter the distance.  It's all about position and where you are, wherever you hit, you are.  So I played maybe this golf course last nine years or so, and I have good memories.  But this year especially with Japanese new sponsor it makes a huge difference.  More the appreciation, and I feel more excited, and I feel more special.  So I had a great morning, so I think that's why I had a good start.   Q.  You mentioned outside that you saw the scores in the morning were a little high, and you thought it was going to die down.  How much of a difference do you think that made in terms of scoring?  AI MIYAZATO: Well, definitely the wind makes a huge difference.  Like I said, it's all about position and where you're going to hit it.  So if it gets really windy, for sure it's going to be really tough.  But when I teed off, it was already calmed down and no wind, and I kept that to the last hole, so I was super lucky. I saw so many high scores this morning, but I didn't know it was that much windy this morning, so I just realized how lucky I was out there.   Q.  How excited were you last November when they officially announced that there was a Japanese sponsor for this particular tournament?  I mean, were you ready to come play then?  AI MIYAZATO: I was really for sure at the time.  It's huge for Japan too because I've seen the ANA Airlines since when I was little, and it was always there when I would travel.  It just felt very special especially for the Japanese players.   Q.  I was going to say for all the Japanese players.  AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, for sure everyone is happy about it, and especially this tournament it has so much history, and I just really appreciate the ANA because they kept the traditions of this tournament.  Just everything's going well, and it's a very happy thing.   Q.  Has there been anything special for the Japanese player this week or in that regard is it just like the other players?  AI MIYAZATO: Well, once you get on the golf course you have to focus your game so you don't really think about it.  But when you take your time on the golf course, and sometimes the other players are playing I'm just standing still looking around and seeing the ANA sign and all the blue and everything, and it just makes me happy on the golf course.  It's just a great day.  A great start.   Q.  Name the biggest key of your game that you want to continue for the next three rounds what is the biggest part of your game that you want to carry over?  AI MIYAZATO: Just keep doing the same thing.  Stick to my plan just to hit the fairways and I think that's the most important.  Because like I said, I'm not that long a hitter.  So hit the fairways is my priority.  If I hit the fairways, the distance control is like, you know, I shouldn't say easy, but I can do that.  So just keep doing that and make some putts, I guess.  Just make it simple.   Q.  Did you ever when you first came here and saw the golf course the first year or so, did you think this was a golf course you could play or win a tournament on?  AI MIYAZATO: Well, when I first had the practice round that was on Monday.  But I saw the grass wasn't too long as much as the last few years, and the greens were really dry so it's tough.  But if the rough is not too long, I thought I could still play.  Like I'm not that really -- I mean, I can still hit a good round.  So I think that makes a huge difference.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT