RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One bogey on the card today,73, but that is one of the better rounds today.   What is making Royal Birkdale such a tough proposition for all of you at the moment?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Today was no wind out there but still tough because there's longer rough and the greens are getting firm.   Even though you're on the greens, still you're going to have maybe long putts or the short putts.   But you have to keep the momentum on the golf course.   
So it doesn't matter what happened the results.   You have to keep your mind to stay in the present, because you know it's going to be tough out there.   So you have to be patient and just play your game.   
   
 Q.   We've seen you challenge very strongly in this championship before, obviously you've had a third place and the last couple of times here you've been 11th and ninth.   What is it about this course that seems to fit for you?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I just love this golf course.   I have a good feeling on the golf course.   I don't know why, but I love links golf course and I love the local people here.   I feel like much more relaxed on the golf course.   You know, I played many times at the British Open, but this is probably the best golf course I've ever had.   So maybe that's why.  
   
 Q.   We've seen you challenging, I remember 2010, you had five victories in the one year and you were world No. 1.   How difficult is it to maintain form, because I know the last couple of years have been a bit tough for you.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes, I'm still in the process I guess, but the golf is the same as life, you have some up‑and‑downs and sometimes you've got to be patient and you've got to work hard to get through this.   
I'm not in a rush.   I'm just taking my time and doing my own thing, and now seems like my game is in good shape.   So, you know, this weekend, I'm so happy to play on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Meanwhile, all of Japan always expects Ai Miyazato, you never get away from that do you?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, I don't know about that question.   There's a few more Japanese players playing this week.   It's really fun to have big fans in Japan because it's definitely helping my game and hopefully I can good results for them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT