RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about today, how happy are you with that round?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I am very happy about my round today because my putting was really good out there all day long.   I've been struggling with my putting since last year, and finally I see my good stroke on the golf course, and that makes me really happy.  
   
 Q.   What has it been about the putter?   Suddenly deserted you?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, you know, just everyone has up and downs.   I knew my putter is not always good.   Just you have to take it sometimes and I just work hard to get through it.   
I've been working hard with my putting but it seems like I've lost confidence a little bit and now I've tried coming back.   It seems like what I'm doing is going to the right way, so hopefully I can play well tomorrow, too.   
   
 Q.   When you think back to when you first came to the LPGA Tour, it took a few years to win.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, four years.  
   
 Q.   And suddenly, you're away.   Do you feel like you can look back at those times and learn from how you managed to get into the winner's circle?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, definitely, four years' experience, it was definitely helping me right now.   You know, still, it is what it is, and the golf is still up‑and‑down.   But I'm enjoying it.   It's like the same as my life.   It's not always success.   I'm still learning something from right now.   But you know, hopefully it's coming together.   
   
 Q.   How important is this week for you to have a good week?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, this is a major.   This is my favourite major obviously.   I love links golf course and I love to see all the histories and all the local people here.   It just makes it fun for everything.   The major is always big for me but right now I'm just taking day by day so I just want to focus on tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How gettable was the golf course today, these conditions pretty easy.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Not easy.     It wasn't easy out there.   It was really tough.   The pin position was tough and the wind is still consistent.   Sometimes gust wind, sometimes not.   So you have to really commit every shot, and it wasn't really easy out there, but look at this weather, we didn't have this weather since five years ago probably.   The last couple years was like really in the rain and wind and we had everything, so I'm not complaining about it.  
   
 Q.   So if this wasn't easy and the wind really starts to blow and it starts raining sideways?  
AI MIYAZATO:   That's a good question.   I have no idea but it's just the British Open, including the weather, it's going to be really tough for sure.   So you have to just focus your game and see what's going to happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT