LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2013
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome or current leader Ai Miyazato into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great 4‑under par round today when conditions weren't easy to score out there.   You really got things going on your back nine.  
Take me through the day and how you were able to work through these conditions.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, it was definitely windier than yesterday so it was pretty tough out there.   But the first couple holes it was kind of up and down because I made birdie and bogey and birdie and bogey.   It was kind of roller coaster.   After that I felt like more used with this wind.   
Then the back nine I just made great putts out there.   It was great feeling.  
MODERATOR:   Stacy said that both of you really got things going on the back nine.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes.   
MODERATOR:   But was it fun?   Yesterday you both played really well.   Stacy said that you guys tend to play well on similar golf courses.   Is it fun to play with someone else that plays a similar straight‑ball game?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, Stacy is a really consistent player.   She won't really have a mistake.   It was definitely a great atmosphere these couple days.   It's always fun to play with her.   
She has a good sense of humor, too and she always makes me fun.   It was just really nice to play with her.  
MODERATOR:   You had success her last year when the wind picked up.   You seem it like windy conditions.   Does this really suit you, especially when it gets tougher for the rest of the field?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, I'm not sure if it suit me.   I feel really tough out there.   I'm pretty tired now.   
But, you know, like I said, I grew up in the wind and I like to play in this wind.  
This morning when I get to the golf course I'm like, now I'm in Hawaii.   Hawaii is always windy place, and always fun to play this weather conditions.  
I definitely have a good feelings from last year.   But you never know what's going to happen, so just take day by day and just do my best out there.  
MODERATOR:   We know you came so close in Phoenix to winning already this year.   How confident are you in your game and the way you've been playing?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I been playing really good.   Didn't have good putting in Nabisco, though, but it was really nice week off last week.  
When I get here, I was just really happy to be playing golf again.   I think my game is in pretty good shape.   It's golf.   You never know what's going to happen.   You have to focus every single shot.  
The greens really tough read, so hopefully I can keep it going.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for Ai?   
   
 Q.   Can you go over the length of your birdie putts today?   
AI MIYAZATO:   All birdie putt?   
   
 Q.   All 25 of them.   (Laughter.)  
AI MIYAZATO:   Let's see, No. 3 I had 12 feet.  
No.4 it was almost like 25 feet.   
No. 5 I had 10 feet.  
No 7 I got 12 feet again.  
No. 8 was 20 feet.   
No. 11 was 12 feet again.  
No. 15 was 20 feet.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday as well as you played you missed a couple short ones, right?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Was there an adjustment today?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.   I remember I missed my three‑foot birdie putt yesterday and couple times 10‑feet putt.  
Well, yesterday I shot 5‑under, so I didn't feel that I'm missing the putt, you know.   
   
 Q.   Beyond the wind, you've been leading here for about a year and a half now at this course.   What else fits you beyond the wind?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I would say greens.   Bermuda green I think.   Like from Okinawa they have Bermuda greens, too, so I'm used to these greens.  
I don't know.   I just have a good feeling with this golf course.   I think that's maybe why.  
   
 Q.   Help to be short in this course?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   When you look at the leaderboard and look at the height of all the leaders...  
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, height.   (Laughter.)   Well, maybe.   (Laughter.)   I'm tiny enough and maybe low center of gravity.   Maybe that helps.   I don't know.   
MODERATOR:   They asked Stacy how was it to be the tallest person in her group today.   She said that doesn't happen very often.  
AI MIYAZATO:   No, it doesn't.  
   
 Q.   I'm working on something about the volunteers.   Is there anything special or specific about here that has been helpful or not helpful?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, all the volunteers very nice over here.   It's like I would say over here the people are more having own time.   You know, they are like really relaxed and always smiling.   Just makes me comfortable to play golf over here.  
Like every time I get to the tee, the people say, the volunteer saying, Hi, how are you?   Sometimes Aloha, what's going on?   Just having a little chat, it's really comfortable to have.  
So the people are really nice over here.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Ai?   
Thank you very much, and best of luck the rest of the week.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT