THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a difference a day makes.  Can you just talk about wrapping your head around erasing yesterday and starting afresh today?
AI MIYAZATO: Turned out good, I think.  I played well, first of all, and the first hole was actually good.  I chipped in for birdie, and it was a great start.  That helped it feel like a brand-new round.  It's kind of weird to say this, but I didn't feel any different than yesterday.  I kind of said that yesterday, after they made the decision, to kind of regroup and do what I can do out there, so that's what I did.  I did my routine and just woke up early in the morning again.  I was fine.  You know, I was just ready for today.
Q. How good does it feel knowing this is your last event to put up a good number?
AI MIYAZATO: It actually feels good.  Well, right now, nothing to lose, and no fear and just feel joy of my game, and that's definitely helping.  Yeah, so I feel good.
Q. Odd day with Paula having to withdraw.  I mean, that has to be a bummer for you; you wanted to play with her.
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, it was kind of sad to see that, but I just didn't want to -- I said to her, just don't push too much because you need to keep playing well.  Just don't think about me, just do what you need to do, because I've played with you so many times and I still love you and I'm so proud of you, what you've done.  That's what I said to her.  So please just don't think about it.
And I think she made a good decision because it was really hard for her, and she just couldn't play like that.  It's not going to happen.  So I think that was a good decision anyway.
Q. Yani having a tough time, I don't want to get into your personal conversation, but sort of -- were you giving her words of encouragement down there?
AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I mean, we all know that feeling, and my perspective of like golf is just that much tough, especially mentally.  Even when you get an injury, it's tough, and even without the injury it's still hard to keep playing golf.  I totally understand what she feels right now, so I just keep saying, just keep trying; you're Yani Tseng, you're going to get through this.  We just kept talking about that stuff.  Hopefully she'll feel better tomorrow.
Q. When did you and Yani sort of click and become friends?
AI MIYAZATO: With Yani?  Well, first time I met her when she was like 16, I think, she was still an amateur, and she played one event in Japan, and I had a practice round with her.  That was the first time I met her.  And since then, I think we kind of see each other in tournaments, and that's how we became friends.  It's been a long time.
Q. Did you have to think for a long time about who you wanted to play with, or did you just know?
AI MIYAZATO: No, it took a while to make a decision.  It was like last minute that I kind of made a decision.  I'm like, Yani and Paula.  It was hard to pick someone.  But I think I made a good decision.  It's kind of hard, there's so many ups and downs between the three of us these two days, but even so, golf is such a tough game, so it's hard to see both of them, what's going through right now.  But I can be there like for them as a friend, you know, and then we still can support each other and encourage each other.  I'm glad I'm actually playing with them.
Q. Does it feel weird?  Does it feel like your last tournament?
AI MIYAZATO: No, it actually doesn't.  You know, 12 years ago until now, I did everything I could, so I don't have any regrets.  Like I said, I'm just having joy of my game right now.  I'm ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT