RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 11, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   Good afternoon and welcome to this year's Ricoh Women's British Open.   Ai, welcome.   You've won twice this year on the LPGA Tour, finished seventh last week.   You must be playing well.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, I'm feeling good with my season so far.   But last week it was kind of‑‑ I mean, the last month was kind of a little bit rough month for me.   
So last week, it was a really good feeling and I think I had a really good finish, so I'm very happy.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   You missed the cut last year but you had several very good performances in this championship.   Is it a tournament you enjoy playing in?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   Even today, it was super windy today but I really enjoyed the weather, and the golf course is in good shape, and really beautiful out there.   So I'm always, you know, nice to be here.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've obviously seen a lot of our courses now.   How does this one compare to the others that you've played?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, it's going to be an interesting week this week, because I heard that a few players that had a practise round yesterday and it was totally opposite wind direction.   
So the golf course is going to be not the same every day.   So you have to change the game plan every day, and you have to play really smart out there.   So it's going to be really difficult.   
But I'm just, like I said, it's really nice to be here always and I just love the atmosphere of this tournament.   So I'm sure I'm going to enjoy this tournament.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   And you have a terrific draw with Yani Tseng and Paula Creamer.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, nice!   Perfect.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Sound good to you?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, yeah, I'm not going to complain about it?   
   
 Q.   2012 has been a really good year for you with eight Top‑10 finishes.   What's been the key to your success this year?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, my short game is pretty solid this year and that's why I think I've been playing really well so far.   Also at the same time, I really enjoy my life.   
This is my seventh year on the LPGA Tour, but I feel like everything is coming together and now I'm just trying to be myself more than I used to.   So that's why I think I'm playing good so far.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy A competitive rivalry with your brothers?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, they are not playing really well recently, but still, you know, we compete with each other and it's really fun to play with my brothers.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Just how did you feel was it out there today.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, my God.   I couldn't hit the fairways today.   Really stressful.   It's just one of these days I think.   The British Open is always windy and sometimes rain and sometimes sunny.   You know, could be anything.   So I didn't hit well today but you know, it was my first day out here, so I think after tomorrow, it will be all right.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   And do you think the key will be staying out of the bunkers, the fairway bunkers in particular?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, definitely.   Also, you have to be like make sure where you're going to hit it because the wind affects it so much.   So you just need to make sure every hole, not like which hole, like a specific hole; it's like every single shot, you have to really focus.   So it's going to be really difficult.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT