U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about kind of rolling the momentum from last week into this week and playing well to start?
AI MIYAZATO:   You know, just last week was just last week.   You know, I try to forget about my winning because this week is just a completely different golf course and different conditions, too. 
So I just trying to shake it off everything and trying to make refresh and that's why I think I played really well today.

Q.   Are you ready for some air‑conditioning?   Was it pretty brutal out there?
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, yes.   I'm ready for that.   But I think I'm lucky, though, because I played in the morning, so it wasn't too bad, but the last five holes it was really hard. 
But I had the ice pack in my golf bag, so I'm trying to use that last few holes and that helped.   So it wasn't easy to keep really strong focus, but I think I could, so I'm very happy.

Q.   A lot of players said it kind of affects your concentration.   How do you fight against that?
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, just ‑‑ you know, just take one shot at a time and not really think about the past.   So you know, just trying to stay in the present every time, not really think about this heat, trying to.   But you know, just talking to my caddie and talking things, you know, things.   And I think that's it.

Q.   It's a pretty penalizing golf course.   Were there any holes where you missed a shot that really cost you?
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, yeah.   Definitely.   I think I got 14 on 15 greens today, but still I had two times three‑putt.   So if you get on the wrong position, then it's going to be really hard putt, you know.   Just you have to focus like where you're going to hit on the green.   So it's really difficult.

Q.   People were talking about how long this course is.   Is it living up to its pedigree.   Is it one of the toughest courses you've ever played on?
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.   I think so.   The fairways are not really tight, but the greens are just big and sloppy, so you have to get the right number every time and you have to make really strong decision, so it's not really easy out there.   But it's all about putting this week, so if you have a good feeling with your putting, then I think you're going to play really well.

Q.   Thank you very much. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT