LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 21, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to welcome the inaugural LPGA Lotte Championship presented by J Golf winner, Ai Miyazato. 
Ai, congratulations.
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you.
MODERATOR:   Shot a final round of 2‑Under par, 70 to win the tournament at 12‑under par by four strokes. 
But on the back nine, three of you, Meena Lee, Azahara Munoz, and yourself, seemed to be tied for a while.
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah. 
MODERATOR:   How did you win by four shots? 
AI MIYAZATO:   I don't know what happened, but I just focus my game and, you know, just finish by four shots.   But I was pretty nervous towards the end because I know that everyone is playing really well.   I have to finish really strong, so that's why I got really nervous.
But I just keep saying to myself just to be patient and no rush.   Take one shot at a time and see what's going to happen.   So I had lots of good self‑talk today.   And that's why I think I shot 2‑under today.
MODERATOR:   This is your eighth LPGA victory.   You're currently ranked 8th in the world, and you'll probably move up on the Rolex Rankings.   How nice is it to get a win here early in the 2012 season? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, it's so nice.   I been playing so well this year.   I was disappointed about the Nabisco, but than after Nabisco I worked on hard and kind of said to myself, you know, just to keep going.
So I'm very happy right now that I won this.   My mom was here and, my auntie was here, so it was very special time.   It couldn't be better. 
MODERATOR:   Last one from me before he we turn it to the media.   Last two times you finished runner‑up this season, Yani beat you.
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.
MODERATOR:   How nice is it to win and not have to worry about Yani this time? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Honestly, she is so good.   But, no, Yani has been playing really solid, and I'm very impressed about her.   We are kind of totally different types of player, but then it's so inspiring that she's playing so well.
So that's why I'm here.   We're kind of inspiring each other.   Just having a nice influence.   So I won this week, but then I'm looking for next week naturally now. 
MODERATOR:   Questions for Ai.

Q.   Can you tell us how long the birdie putts were?   Three of them were very long, yeah?
AI MIYAZATO:   Which ones? 

Q.   The birdie putts. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Last one? 

Q.   All of them. 
AI MIYAZATO:   All of them?   Oh, okay.   I don't remember anything.   (Laughter.) 
First one was‑‑ oh, yeah, the first one was ‑‑ I know in meters; is that all right? 
MODERATOR:   That's okay.
AI MIYAZATO:   The first one was seven meter, and 13 was‑‑ it was long, this one.   It was like about 12 meters. 
15 was six meters. 
And 17 finally was short, three meters. 

Q.   Were those the most important putts of the day, or were there some of the par saves that you felt better about?
AI MIYAZATO:   Definitely important putts, especially on 13, par‑5, because I made bogey on 12.   It was actually nice up and down, though, but after the bogey that I made birdie, that meant a lot to me.
I feel I just had a few chance to win.   I said to myself just keep it going.   So it was really.
INTERPRETER:   It was a birdie putt that kind of pumped me up for the rest of the round.

Q.   At what stage did you hear about Meena's double bogey?   Where were you when you heard about that? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, no, I didn't know that until 17, that she made double bogey at last.   When I saw the last time the scoreboard was, I don't know which one, 15 or 14 or something, so I thought we were tied. 
After 17 I realize she make double bogey, so...

Q.   Does that change what's going on in your head for the last holes? 
AI MIYAZATO:   No, nothing, because 18 is really difficult hole.   If I hit this tee shot I think I don't have to think anything, but before that I was still, you know, focus my game.
So nothing change actually. 

Q.   You make hitting the ball and putting look is easy.   Everyone in this room knows it isn't, but some people watching it on TV might think, Wow, that's real easy.   What can you say to those people about the work it takes?
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, definitely not easy, no. 
THE INTERPRETER:   It's definitely a compliment when people say that I make it look easy, but I also feel that it looks that way that maybe I'm playing simple and also playing in a good state of mind. 
So very happy. 

Q.   You kind of made the hoola look kind of easy, too.   Was that the first time you did it?
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, my God.   So embarrassing.   That was the first time that I dance.   Both ladies teach me really nice, so that's why I was like relaxing and had a good time.

Q.   How much time did you have to prepare for that?
AI MIYAZATO:   Nothing.   I just get there and just dance, so...
It was fun, though. 

Q.   Can you just talk about new event on the schedule, Lotte is a new sponsor, we're back in Hawaii, and you're the winner.   How does that all feel?
AI MIYAZATO:   So excited, you know.   This is the perfect place for a golf tournament, so I just appreciate Lotte having us this week.
It's really nice to come back next year to defend my title.   So, you know, still season long way to go, but I can't wait to come back next year. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Ai? 

Q.   Last year when you put together the group to raise money for Japan, I'm wondering, do you kind of have an idea of how much you raised?   Beyond that, what was the most meaningful part that you accomplished with that? 
THE INTERPRETER:   Roughly $130,000 U.S., and really like to thank that the three of us got together and was able to raise money for Japan, for charity.
But the things are still tough in Japan, so I want to keep on working and raise money.   It was definitely a good experience for all of us. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Ai?   All right, congratulations, Ai.
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you.   (Applause).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT