LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 20, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Ai Miyazato, our third round leader at the LPGA Lotte Championship.   You're at 10‑under par, a three‑shot lead over Cristie Kerr and Aza Munoz. 
A windy day and a tough day, but you played well.   Tell us about your day.
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, it was really tough out there.   Still windy, and basically same direction, but it's still tough to play out there.
But I said to myself because I played so good yesterday, just, you know, not trying to be like really greedy.   Just stay focused everything the shots, and, you know, try to manage myself. 
I really handle well, so I'm very happy with my round today.
MODERATOR:   No. 18, you hit a nice shot in there, very tight, rolled in the birdie.   How nice was that to extend your lead to three shots? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes, it was really strong finish.   I was really happy about this.   The 18 is really difficult tee shot, and of course second shot was really tough, too.   I had a really nice number today.   I just hit a nice and easy 7‑iron, and, you know, just a short bounce in front of the greens.   It was perfect, so I'm very happy with that, that I made birdie.
MODERATOR:   Last one from me before questions from the media.   For those who don't see you every week, you have a very slow and rhythmic swing.   Can you explain why your swing is like that and what advantage you think it gives you. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Why my swing is slow?   (Laughter.)   I don't know why.   I have this tempo since when I was little, so it's been like long time that I have this tempo.
But, you know, I'm not tall and I'm not big either, and so I just focus on, you know, like accuracy, you know.   So the tempo makes more consistent.   You know, hit the ball well, consistent and then the ball slice makes consistent, so that's why I keep my tempo so far.
It's actually not easy to keep tempo in this wind, though.   It was really difficult last few days.   But, you know, I had really good focus out there, so that's why I think I'm still can keep my tempo. 
So one more day.
MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   The weekend at Kraft, that might have been your worst weekend of the year.   What did you do in between Kraft and coming here that got to you this point? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Right.   Well, after the Kraft Nabisco I was very disappointed because I had such a great start the beginning of the season, and I felt really good about my game before the Kraft. 
But I couldn't putt.   You know, I just couldn't make some putts in the Kraft Nabisco, so that's why I didn't play well. 
After that, my dad is my teacher, swing teacher, and he is working my putting, too.   He gave me a couple tips, so I worked really hard with the two tips last couple weeks, and now it's, you know, perfect rolling. 
So that's why.   That's the difference.

Q.   I'm playing for like $150 on Monday.   What were the two tips? 
AI MIYAZATO:   (Laughter.)   Well, I had a wide stance last year with my putting.   Then this year I try to make a little bit narrower, but then after Kraft Nabisco it was too narrow so my putting stroke was a little bit off.   My balance was a little bit off, too.
So I'm trying to be a little bit more wide stance now.   Plus, my right grip was a little bit strong, too, so that makes more hook, you know, rolling with the ball. 
So now it's a little bit weak, good position, and so those two points. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else? 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the tour returning to Hawaii.   You enjoy playing here?   Do you enjoy being here? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, I love Hawaii.   I'm very happy to be here again.   I'm from Okinawa, which is very similar weather than people over here.   So it feels like my hometown here. 
And even though we have this wind, I'm very enjoying to stay here.   When I'm off the golf course, you know, you can just two to the beach and nice and relax. 
It's perfect place for the tournament, I think, so I'm very happy to be back here. 

Q.   Going into the last round, tell us what would be the key to this golf course?   And also going in with the lead, you've done that many times before.   What's the key to that for you?
AI MIYAZATO:   For tomorrow?   I think with the three shots leading is nothing mean for me, because if it's get windy tomorrow it's going to be really tough again. 
I heard it's going to rain too tomorrow, so it's going to be a tough condition out there tomorrow.
Just need to focus my game one more day.   Like I said, keep my swing tempo and try to hit the fairways and greens and make some putts, you know.
Just think really simple out there.   So that's the key points.   You know, not against any other players.   Not against the scores.   Just take the shots at a time and see what's going to happen. 

Q.   Last hole, what was your yardage and how close was it to the hole? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Which hole? 

Q.   18. 
AI MIYAZATO:   You mean birdie putt? 

Q.   Yeah, how far how far did you hit the 7‑iron? 
MODERATOR:   How far was your second shot? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, second shot was 154, and I hit 7‑iron.   Birdie putt was one meter, four feet.
MODERATOR:   All right, I've, thanks so much. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT