LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 19, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So 8‑under par overall.   You're tied for the lead right now.   You played a great round today.   Just talk about your round.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, my putting was really good today.   I had really solid so many putts, and I hit the ball well and I didn't miss any fairways today.   So my short game was actually really good too.   That's why I shot 7‑under.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the conditions.   Obviously very windy.   Everybody has to deal with it.   Was it similar to yesterday?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, been same direction since last couple days.   I'm kind of used to it now.   
But, still, it's not easy out there.   Just try and take one shot at a time and just focus my game.  
   
 Q.   There is a lot of really solid names on the leaderboard up there:   You, Kerr, Tseng, Pettersen.   Is there something about this course that all the top players are playing really well?  
AI MIYAZATO:   I don't know.   Maybe because it's in Hawaii.   You know, everyone have a really nice time outside of the golf course.   So just when you're off the golf course you can have a nice and relax time, and when you're on the golf course you can just focus like that. (Snapping fingers.)   
So that's why everyone is playing good.  
   
 Q.   With the culture of Hawaii, is your comfort level a little more maybe than on the mainland?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, I think so, because I'm from Okinawa in Japan, which is like same as here.   I grew up by the seaside, and when I was young I go to the beach every day.   You know, it's like over here.   
   
 Q.   How different was today's round from yesterday's round?   You played well yesterday, too.   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, I played good yesterday, too, but then towards the end I couldn't make some putts.   That's why I lost the scores and didn't finish really strong.  
But then I said to myself, you know, it was really windy, so that was good.   So I felt really good my game this morning.   That's why I play well.  
   
 Q.   Any changes on the putting?  
AI MIYAZATO:   No, nothing.   Just the mind.   That's the golf though.   Even though if it's windy, you just focus your game.   If you have a good self‑talk, then it's going to work, so...   
   
 Q.   People like me and you, we can go under the wind.   Does that help?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, how should I say?   I mean, wind is still difficult.   Like I said, I grow up kind of windy place, too, so when it gets windy, you know, it makes me thinking of my hometown, too.   
So it's pretty comfortable for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT