RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Ai Miyazato, one of our runners‑up into the interview room.   I know it's not the result you were hoping for.   It's not a victory, but pretty pleased with the way you were able to play today, especially considering all the delays in the weather and how crazy it was out there.
AI MIYAZATO:   It was definitely a long day, and I've never seen this weather this Phoenix before, but I will thank God we finished.
I played really well today, but I didn't make some putts on the Back 9, so that's why I think I finished second place, but I'm very happy.
THE MODERATOR:   I asked Na Yeon about the run that Yani went on on that Back 9.   What were your thoughts when you saw her come back out after that second delay and just go on a birdie run like that? 
AI MIYAZATO:   I don't know that ‑‑ over the breaks it seems like it worked on her, especially for Yani, because of her putting.   It just keep getting better towards the end, and she made some clutch putts.
That's the point, though, but you need to make some putts, especially towards the end.   But like I said, I didn't make some putts, so that's the decisive point. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know you talk about being happy to finish, but what was it like out there on 18 as the darkness was coming in?   Was it mostly just a rush for all of you guys to try to get this in today? 
AI MIYAZATO:   No.   I was just trying to make birdies.   Of course.   It was a little bit dark to read my birdie putt, but it wasn't breaking much in the end.   So that's why I missed the putt. 
But I think I had a good stroke, so I'm glad I made a par and we finished.

Q.   How difficult was it, Ai, to get into a rhythm when you had to go back out there after delays twice?   Was it difficult to stay in a rhythm with your swing?
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.   It was really ‑‑ the most difficult thing is no warmup for us.   You know, just suspended and then you're just back to the golf course and suspended and then back to the golf course again.   So it was a little bit difficult for me because all my tempo comes from the warmup.   So it was really a little bit difficult adjustment on the golf course. 
But yeah, it was really hard to pick up my pace. 

Q.   How confident were you feeling after the front nine and your performance?   Did you feel like that was a strong start that you were looking for today?
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, I was very comfortable with my game, and I thought I had a great start in the front nine.   So I felt really, you know, I had a good feeling with my game. 
But it just depend on the weather, especially on the 15.   I think the 15 was really a key point hole because if I made birdie on that hole, I think I still had a chance.   But it rained so hard, and it was really cold, and my hands was like didn't have a feeling, so it was really tough to make a birdie putt.   I mean tough to make a play good, but you know, but overall I played really well, so I still have confidence. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Ai?   Well, thank you very much.   Appreciate it.
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT