RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Ai Miyazato into the interview room.   Congratulations on a great round today, 6‑under, 66.   There was some wind out there a little bit today.   Conditions were a little different than the last couple days, but can you take me through your round and what was working well for you.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes.   Definitely it was more difficult than yesterday.   The wind makes more greens firmer, and I did have a long distance because some holes was really down wind, but still, you know, difficult to make birdies out there, but I got really good patience, and my putting is really good so far, so I made some good putts towards the end.   So that's why I think I shot 6‑under today.  
THE MODERATOR:   Six birdies, no bogeys.   Pretty impressive way to go around there.   Was it mostly just about trying not to make mistakes and when you got on a roll, feeling good about how you were playing?   
AI MIYAZATO:   No, I not really think that way.   I'm just trying to take one shot at a time and not really think about the future and trying to stay in the present every time, and it seems like it worked.   
So that's why I think I have one bogey so far, but still have tomorrow.   So tomorrow is very important for me.  
THE MODERATOR:   You're tied at the top of the leaderboard with Yani.   Not unfamiliar territory for you, I know.   I think you led by a stroke heading into the final round in Thailand and you played her.   How much of a challenge is it going into a final round when you're tied for the lead with her?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.   It's always fun to play with her.   I know her really well, and I think we like to play each other.   I mean I like to play with Yani.   I don't know about her, but you know, we are totally different types of player.   But it's very inspiring to play with her, so I'm very excited to play with her tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ai.  
   
 Q.   Six birdies, no bogeys on a day like today is pretty good, and you attribute it to being patient.   Can you tell us a little bit about how you learned to develop your patience over the years?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, it's not really easy to be patient, I think, because sometimes‑‑  
   
 Q.   That's why I'm asking.   
AI MIYAZATO:   I know.   Sometimes you can be really emotional like really easy, like sometimes get really angry and sometimes really happy.   But you know, just to try and accept everything about the results, and not really too excited about every single shot, you know.   
So if I hit a green, then I am happy.   If I hit fairways, I'm happy, trying to be happy.   And that's why I think ‑‑ I mean so far I could control myself really well.   
   
 Q.   How much different did the course play today because of the wind?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, I shot 6‑under, but it feels like I shot 10‑under today.   That much of difficult, you know.   
But yesterday I played in the morning, so green was a little bit softer than today.   And the fairway was a little bit softer, too, but the greens speed and the fairways firmness was pretty much the same as yesterday afternoon.   So just not really too much to think about the wind today.   Just you know, pick a target every single shot and try and focus on target and my ball, and it seems to work.   
THE MODERATOR:   Ai, tomorrow the conditions are expected to be a little worse, rains predicted, the wind is supposed to pick up.   Does that change your approach at all in how you enter the final round, and a lot of good players are up there at the top of the leaderboard?   Could it get interesting tomorrow?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, I just have no idea, you know.   It could be ‑‑ you need to make some birdies out there, but then could be you need to be really patient out there, too.   But like I said, playing with Yani and probably Na Yeon, I think, it's going to be really fun day tomorrow.   So just, you know, doesn't matter about the weather.   Just trying to enjoy the last group and see what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   You said that one of the things that you were doing during your shots that you weren't thinking so much about the wind.   How were you able to do that on such a windy day?  
AI MIYAZATO:   I grew up in the wind, because I'm from Okinawa in Japan, which is a small island.   And it's really windy place, so that's why if it's getting windy, it makes me think about my hometown.   So that's why I think in the wind ‑‑ when I play in the wind, it's really comfortable for me.  
   
 Q.   Normal?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Not really normal, but it's ‑‑ it's not really ‑‑ how do I say?   It's not really hard.   I feel like much more fun in the play, playing in the wind.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Ai?   Thank you very much and best of luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT