RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First off, great round today; 4‑under.   Can you just take me through the day and what was working well for you?
AI MIYAZATO:   I played in the afternoon yesterday, so you know, fairways and greens were pretty firm, but this morning it was really soft. 
And I thought I can be more aggressive, but I was a little bit impatient on the front nine, but on the Back 9 I made some putts, so I'm very happy with that.

Q.   I know Yani had a great Back 9 yesterday.   There have been some really good numbers turned in on the Back 9.   Is there something about this Back 9 that players seem to get things going on?
AI MIYAZATO:   No.   The key hole is par‑5, though, because there's are some short par‑5s on the Back 9, so if you get a green, you can have eagle chance on that par‑5.   So I think that's the key point. 
But it's the same as on the front nine, too, so if you keep making birdie on the par‑5, I think it's going to get a round going.

Q.   You've gotten off to a good start already this season and now playing well this week.   How are you feeling about your game overall so far this year?
AI MIYAZATO:   I'm feeling good with my game right now, but I got sick after Singapore, so I'm trying to come back right now.   But I'm still playing good, so I'm real happy with that, but still have two more days and hopefully I'll try to make birdies as many as I can and see what's going to happen.

Q.   What do you think is the biggest key this weekend?   You were talking about some of the par‑5s.   Is that one of the biggest keys on this golf course?
AI MIYAZATO:   Even for my driving distance, still you can get the green, so I think the par‑5 is definitely the key points, but this weekend is going to be like cold and rain, I heard, so should be a different golf course on Sunday. 
But still, just trying to hit fairways and greens and trying to make simple.   Should be fun.

Q.   Do you like desert golf?   Is this something that suits your game?
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah.   I like desert golf course.   It's totally different, you know, weather wise and the greens and fairways and the views are different.   But yeah, I like it.

Q.   And anything specific that you were working on coming into this week with your game?
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, not really, but on some short game, like around 80 yards, it's not really solid so far, so I need a little bit more practice with that and should be fine.

Q.   Getting a little better already in these first couple rounds?
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, better than yesterday, I would say.

Q.   That's always good. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Hopefully getting better the next two days.

Q.   Perfect.   Thank you.   Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT