HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 22, 2012
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE SCANLAN:   We welcome past HSBC Women's Champions winner, Ai Miyazato, to the interview room.   Thank you for joining us.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Thank you.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   A very close call last week at the Honda LPGA Thailand.   If you would, just talk about 2012 and obviously you're off to a nice start.  
AI MIYAZATO:   Yes, I played well last week.   I had a really nice‑‑ because I spent time with my family and I had a really good practise in Phoenix and worked with my coaches in the off‑season, so I was in good shape.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   How nice does it feel to come back to Singapore, an event like this with HSBC as a sponsor, trying to win for your second time?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I mean, it's always nice to be here, you know, I love this place, because the food is good and the people are really nice, and very clean city and everything is really convenient.   Especially the golf course is beautiful, and always challenging.   And this is my favourite tournament, and I have a really good memory since a couple of years ago that I won this tournament.   
Again, I had a good start last week, so I'm just, you know, ready for this week and hopefully I can win on Sunday.  
MIKE SCANLAN:   When you come so close to winning like you did last week, are you more mad that you didn't win, or are you feeling more confident because you were so close.  
AI MIYAZATO:   I definitely felt more confident, because after 18, I saw that Yani seemed a little emotional, and I thought if I could‑‑ that we are totally different style and she hits really far but I am not hitting really far.   
But I think I have a really good short game, so that's why I think we had a really good tournament but almost like kind of inspiring each other, too.   So it was really fun and also I have good confidence.   
   
 Q.   You have been a fantastic champion for women's golf in Japan.   Why haven't we seen more professional Japanese women players out of Japan competing at a high level on the LPGA on the world stage?  
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, because‑‑ there's a couple of reasons I guess.   But the Japan Tour is really strong, too, so it's definitely worth it playing in Japan.   But for me, I had a dream on this tournament since I was little, so this is my dream come true.   
But I think there's just so many younger players playing in the tournaments, the LPGA tournaments, too, so I think they have a chance to play to come overseas and play on the LPGA or whatever.   
But I think the level of play at the Japan Tour level is so high that people do decide to stay there.   But there will be some players that want to experience more and so you know, as the year progresses, they might be able to see more Japanese players come out of the Japanese Tour.   
   
 Q.   There are so many young women Asian golfers now.   Do you think that puts more pressure on you and what do you think it means for golf for women?   
AI MIYAZATO:   I don't think any pressure from them, because I think the golf is more worldwide now.   So there's no problems with Asian golfers increasing, but I also feel maybe the game of golf and the Asian personality, they fit really well.   So I think the more maybe Asian golfers increase, there will be more good influence on each other, as well.   
   
 Q.   How has golf come through this difficult time in Japan?   Are there more tournaments, or more people playing and trying to support the game?  
AI MIYAZATO:   I definitely‑‑ like especially right after the tsunami and the earthquake, and it was really difficult to focus my game.   
But finally I just have to focus my game and I can do anything for Japan, but right now I need to focus my game and try to make the people, the Japanese people, more happy, because that's the only thing I can do right now.   
Obviously it's been a very difficult time but I feel the Japanese people, as well as athletes, are all trying to get together to overcome this tough time right now.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned that golf and the Asian personality fit very well.   Can you explain that and does it mean we can expect to see even more golfers coming up from the continent?   
AI MIYAZATO:   Golf is a really funny sport.   I think in golf, physical stature maybe really doesn't matter that much, and it's also a game that requires patience.   And I think Asians are perhaps patient people, and they don't get too emotional at times.   So maybe that's why I feel that golf and the Asian personality, they fit pretty well.   
As for the second part of the question, I hope that more Asians do come out and play golf.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   Thank you, Ai, so much, and good luck.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT