SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Ai Miyazato into the interview room. Ai, thank you for coming in today. Good round today.  
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.  
 MODERATOR: Can you just take me through and tell me a little bit about how it went?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, you know, last couple days it was kind of windy, like really windy so I didn't feel like today was nothing about the wind.   
 But still the golf course is really tough condition out there. But I played really well because my putting was really, like really good, especially last five holes. So I made really good putts, and that's why I got really good finish.   
  
  Q. This is the LPGA's first time in Taiwan. Toll me how it's been so far.   
 AI MIYAZATO: This is the first time in Taiwan for me as well. I'm very excited to be here because I've never been here. But it's so, you know, fun to be here, because, you know, I can see that so many people are really nice over here, and the food is really good.   
 It's just too windy. But I really enjoy the weather, too, so I really like it.   
  
  Q. It's really windy out there and the conditions are going to stay the same if not get worse. How much of a factor do you think that will be for the whole week?  
 AI MIYAZATO: You know what? I have no idea. I just played really good because I kept hit the fairways and kept hit the greens, so that's why I played solid today.   
 But it still depend on the wind, and I heard that tomorrow is going to be rain as well. So just be patient out there and try to having a birdie out there.   
  
  Q. Go through your birdies and bogeys.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Starting No. 5, second shot was 117 and I hit 9-iron; birdie putt was seven meter.   
 No. 6, I hit 3-wood the second shot; the third shot was 40 yards; and birdie putt three meter.  
 No. 8, second shot was 125 yards; I hit 9-iron; and birdie putt was four meters.   
 9, I hit 3-wood second shot; third shot was 35 yards; birdie putt was three meter.   
 16, par-3, I couldn't get the green and couldn't get up and down.   
 18, hit 3-wood second shot; third shot was 78 yards with 52 degrees; and birdie putt was like one meters.  
  
  Q. Do you think the greens are a little bit slower or faster than yesterday?  
 AI MIYAZATO: It's about the same, I think. But if I get into the green, it's going to be really slow.   
  
  Q. Since the wind is a big topic today, can you explain what strategy you used to get around that? Also, after you hit the bogey that you just described, how did you convince yourself to come back and play well? Must have been hard to see that happen and try to make up for it.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Right. The first answer is I grew up in windy place, so I really like to play in the wind, in this wind. But today, like I said, last couple days it was really hard. Today wasn't too bad with the wind. But still, just make sure to try to hit the fairways and hit the green, like trying to play really simple out there.   
 Also, I played the back nine first today, so actually 16 was the first bogey today, but still difficult out there. I just trying to focus like every single shot. That's why I got really a good bounce-back in the back nine, I think.   
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you, Ai.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT