CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Ai Miyazato into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. Heading into the final round with another lead, take me through your round today and what your thoughts are. 
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm playing really good out there today. I had so many birdie opportunities. I had so many birdie opportunities out there. Back nine I just couldn't hit some putts. For some reason it just didn't go in. 
 So I tried to hang in there and tried to enjoy in the last group playing in the last group. So, unfortunately, just 1-under par today, but I'm very satisfied.

 Q. I was going to say, not every day you can have those really low rounds. But does it help you going through a round like this, maybe heading into the final round still in the lead but kind of got that? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, you know, I think I'm still, you know -- of course I'm still at the good position. I think I was lucky because I'm still tied for the lead. 
 I know that all the players are playing really well today, and everyone's getting pretty much close. But tomorrow I heard it's going to be bad weather, so I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.

 Q. What is the biggest key for you to being, I guess, to do what you want to do tomorrow? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, depends on the weather, but definitely be patient. But you can still be aggressive tomorrow as well. Because, if it rains, the greens are going to be softer than today, so you can still make a chance for so many birdies. So if I can keep good balance with that, I'll have a chance tomorrow.

 Q. They say tomorrow if they're not able to complete the round, there will be a playoff between yourself, Joh and Wie. I wonder what your feeling about that would be because it will probably be in the rain? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Either way, we need to finish the tournament, so I'll just play my style of golf no matter what happens. 

 Q. You're at the top right now. You're leading. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Uh-huh.

 Q. You're tied, right? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes. 

 Q. What are you going to do tomorrow that is special to try to distance yourself in your mind? What will be your golf game tomorrow to distance yourself from the rest of the group? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Distance. I think, you know, just trying to be myself. You know, I'm playing really good this week, so just trying to play like really simple. You know, trying to hit the fairways and trying to hit the greens and trying to make some putts, nothing different than the other days, I think. Nothing special in particular. 
 If I could just be myself, then I think my chances of winning will come.

 Q. It's also expected to be windy tomorrow. How is your game in the wind? You have good tempo and good ball striking that usually helps in the wind. How's your wind game? 
 AI MIYAZATO: I grew up in an area where it was windy, so I actually like playing in the windy situations. But if it rains, it will definitely be difficult. But because I'm used to those situations, I think there will be no problem keeping my tempo. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT