CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our current leader, Ai Miyazato, into the interview room. Thank you for joining us today. Congratulations on your round 7-under, 7 birdies, no bogeys. Can you take me through your day and what was working well for you out there on the course?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I had a really good feeling with my swing tempo today, so I kept it all the 18 holes today. That's why I really had so many birdie opportunities out there.   
 So my iron distance control was really good, and I had a really good feeling with my putting as well. So that's why I think I shot 7-under today.  
 THE MODERATOR: I know we were talking on the ride over about how no one in your group had a bogey today?  
 AI MIYAZATO: That was amazing.  
 THE MODERATOR: Is that something you've ever seen before in a round?   
 AI MIYAZATO: No, I've never had this before, so I was kind of nervous at the end because no one's making a bogey. But it was really enjoyable to play with Stacy and Maria today. It was really fun.  
  
  Q. We talked to some other players today that shot pretty well, like Michelle and Angela. They were saying they were trying to be patient because of the different conditions and the long irons into the greens. Did you feel that's what you did when you started to attack or did you feel pretty good from the start?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I don't think Michelle and Angela had long irons on the second shot today because they're long hitters. No, just kidding. I'm not a long hitter, but my long irons and my hybrid distance control was really good today. Because the greens are so big out here, so I thought I just need to be careful with the distance, and it seemed to really work today.   
 But that's it. I just kept the rounds going today, so, yeah. It was really fun to play.  
  
  Q. I just wondered, how would you after being world number one last year, what is your opinion of the season you've had this year and how much are you really looking for a win?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I did have expectations coming into this year since I had a great season last year. But there was the earthquake earlier this year, so that had a bit of an effect on me, both on and off the golf course.   
 But since the round in June, I started feeling very good about my game, and I was able to win at Evian. So right now I feel very relaxed.  
  
  Q. I believe you were out there and got one if not two sudden bursts of rain that came down. Did you think, oh, no, here goes the round? It's going to be a long afternoon and not many birdie opportunity when's all that rain came down?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I thought if it starts raining, I can accept it, but it only lasted when I was on the 10th hole, luckily. So I did feel very lucky about the weather today.  
  
  Q. I know you've been playing well of late and you had another Top 10 finish in Portland. Do you feel pretty good about where the swing is and kind of getting that tempo going again?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I'm pretty much comfortable with my swing right now. I found out that my grip tension was too tight last week, and I'm trying to get a loose tension with that, and it seems to be really working. So I just want to keep it until this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT