SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Ai Miyazato, our defending champion, into the interview room. Thanks for joining us today. Can you just talk a little bit about, first of all, your win at Evian, and how well you've been playing coming into this tournament?   
 AI MIYAZATO: To be honest, it was really an exciting moment because I kind of a little bit struggled in the beginning of this season because of the earthquake. It was really tough to focus my game because I went to Sendai for my high school, so I know a lot of people over there and many friends still live in Sendai. So I care about them.   
 But since I played at U.S. Women's Open, I feel like I'm kind of getting back clear everything, and I'm starting to feel really well with my game. So I kind of take a little step by step to Evian, but then I was really happy that I could win this year.   
 THE MODERATOR: What does it mean to you -- I know you were able to donate 20 million yen, what did it mean for you to be able to donate that to the effort and how much that win kind of helped Japan?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It's tough to explain it. Obviously to be able to donate, I felt very good about it. But I want to be able to keep doing it for the long-term. It's not just because after the win at Evian, but I'd like to keep on contributing in the future as well.   
 THE MODERATOR: Can you talk about this golf course. You won here last year. What is it that you like about this golf course, and what parts suit your game?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, last year the fairway was more firm than this year, I think, and the rough seems more thicker than last year this year. So it seems a little bit different shape. But last year because the fairways were really firm, I hit really long on. I couldn't hit really long, so that's why I'm playing kind of shorter than I thought.   
 I had many birdie opportunities out there. So to play, I think -- last year because the course was playing shorter than anticipated, I was able to really utilize my short game abilities, because short game play is a big role in the tournament. So that's probably why I also won last year.  
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to look at No. 9, the change? What do you think of the change?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I think it's more difficult than last year, you know. It was into the wind today and I hit driver, and second shot was like 170 to the front pin. So if you have a back pin, I think it's playing closer to 190. So I think it's going to be really tough, yeah, a tough hole.  
  
  Q. I think they moved No. 8 back. Do you think it will change the way the tournament goes because there's not the par-5s?   
 AI MIYAZATO: You know, I have no idea because I didn't get the green last year. It was almost for me personally I was laying up on the par-5, No. 8 as well. So it will be the same this year for me. So for me, I don't think it will be that big of a difference.  
  
  Q. I'd like to know who your childhood idol was? Is it an athlete, a person, who was your childhood idol?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It's tough to -- I think Annika, you know. Annika and Karrie Webb, because they were on the Japanese golf magazine like almost every week. They showed up their swings every week, and I kind of followed them since when I was 15 years old, I think.  
  
  Q. What was it like when you finally met them? Did they live up to your expectations?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I was so nervous. I played with Annika in Japan. I still remember when I played in Japan, and she shot like 9-under on the first day. I shot like a couple under par. But it seems like she makes the golf look really easy, but it was a great experience.  
  
  Q. Obviously now you are an idol for a lot of young golfers. What does that feel like? What does that mean to you?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Personally I don't see like I'm an idol. But looking at my age, I'm 26. So maybe it's not (indiscernible) that people follow me. But if I'm in Japan or America, it's an honor that people admire me and respect me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT