EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 24, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the 2011 Evian Masters champion, Ai Miyazato, into the interview room. Congratulations on your win today.
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you so much. 
 MODERATOR: Just give us some thoughts on what you're feeling now after your second win here.
 AI MIYAZATO: It's feeling amazing, you know. This is my favorite tournament, so I really happy that could win this tournament again. 
 Especially right now. In Japan we are having a really tough time, so I just really happy that I could do very some good news Japan.
 MODERATOR: After winning your first-ever tournament on the LPGA Tour here, and now to come back and win a second time, what does that mean to you? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I'm happy to win as many times this tournament as possible, and look forward to many more opportunities in the future. 
 MODERATOR: Last year you won five times on the LPGA Tour. It took you a little bit of time this year to pick up your first win. Were you pressing a little bit? Did you think, I want to get a win? What were your feelings on that? 
 AI MIYAZATO: It was so many happenings the beginning of the season, like I said. To be honest, I'm speaking Japan, too.
 Last year was last year, and then this year is going to be really fresh. I didn't, you know, in a hurry at all. So I just trying to take one tournament in a time. I just did working hard, and it's paid off right now.
 MODERATOR: Week of Japan, we all know how much the relief effort meant to you and the button that you wear at every tournament. Tell us what that's meant to you this year to be able to help Japan with your playing. 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Well, Momoko Ueda, Mika Miyazato, and I created this foundation. I'm wearing this button because I want to get as much help and support from not just Japan, but all over the world. 
 By wearing this button and playing, I have Japan in my thoughts, and gives me motivation to play as well.
 MODERATOR: Who did you have with you this week? Any family with you to see this win? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I have my parents here this week. You know, usual... 
 (Through translation.) It makes this special because this is the first time my parents were here and myself winning on the US LPGA Tour event.
 MODERATOR: Very cool. Questions in English first for Ai. 

 Q. It looked like it was quite a tough finish. You had a couple bogeys. I think 12th and 14th. Was there any nerves there? Were you feeling nervous? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I was nervous this morning. But I got really good feeling with my game this week, so I just really trusted myself. I didn't want to in a hurry at all, so I just stayed focused on my game. 
 But, yeah, I was a little bit nervous towards the end.

 Q. How did you react when your lead shortened to only one shot? And what are you going to do with this check? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) The first question, even when the lead was just down to one I was never in a hurry. I kind of expected that to happen. 
 And to your second question, I haven't decided yet what to do exactly, whether it'll be all the amount or a sum of it, but I'll definitely be making donations from this earning. 
 MODERATOR: Any more English questions? Yep.

 Q. On 14 hole you were in the collar of the green on the second shot. Why have you re-placed your ball at one club length?
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Today we were playing preferred lies, and the ball position, when the ball stopped originally after the second shot, there was a bit of turf behind it. 
 It was tough to get a good stroke, so I moved one club length - obviously not closer to the hole. 

 Q. Congratulations. Great win. Great play today. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.

 Q. How does this win feel different than when you won two years ago? We remember the excitement. I do. 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Obviously I'm excited again, but a lot has happened since my first win here two years ago. 
 This year, I really felt like I was playing for Japan instead of for myself. 

 Q. Just a word about Stacy Lewis. How impressed were you with her performance over the four days? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I played with her in the same group yesterday, and she doesn't make very many mistakes. And even though she was playing in front of me, looked like she was playing solid today as well. 

 Q. How will you spend your prize money? Sorry, I don't know if you've been asked already. 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Well, I haven't really decided at this moment yet, but, you know, maybe all of it or some of it will definitely be donated. 
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT