EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 21, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Ai Miyazato into the interview room. Thanks for joining us; congratulations on your round today. Take me through your round and what was working for you.   
 AI MIYAZATO: It was kind of difficult day because about the weather. Rain is going to like keep rain and stop and rain and stop again.   
 I made a double bogey on 5, and afterwards I got really good patient and I could control myself.  
 So I got nice bounce back in the back nine, and I was really happy with that.  
 MODERATOR: Was it putting today? What was working the best?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm feeling with my driver and iron shots, but I made a few birdies in the back nine, so my putting was pretty good.  
 MODERATOR: We talked about how you played at the U.S. Women's Open. Did you feel that carried over into how you played today?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I think so. But I think the U.S. Women's Open is already finished and it's already past it, so I really didn't think about it.   
 But, yeah, maybe that helped. Yeah. (Laughter.)  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about how comfortable you are here in Evian and how much you enjoy the whole environment and how that translates to good play.   
 AI MIYAZATO: You know, I have such a great memory couple years ago. That was my first win. I'm really enjoying the outside of the golf course, too. I love the food over here, and I really enjoy this town.   
 It's always nice to be here. Makes me feel good. That's why I think I'm playing really good.   
  
  Q. Also your feeling about the Evian becoming a major championship. What are your feelings on that?  
 AI MIYAZATO: I think it's great. This tournament always have good crowd and great atmosphere. Maybe, I don't know, some holes need to be change, but it's nice to have a major on this tournament. So I think it's a great idea.   
  
  Q. Congratulations. Good round.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.  
  
  Q. How are things going with the fundraising that you started for the relief in Japan?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) It's going great so far, the fundraising, and we've been able to raise a lot of funds.   
 And the fundraising, we have started to give the funds to the organizations we designated.   
  
  Q. Approximately how much money have you raised so far?   
 AI MIYAZATO: U.S. dollars?   
  
  Q. Yeah, U.S. dollars is fine.   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I don't know what the exchange rate is, but it's if it's one dollar to one yen it's roughly $130,000.  
  
  Q. Okay, so you're basing it in yen. $130,000 is an approximate. Through the beginning of this month probably, end of June?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Yeah, up until June.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about the effect that the circumstances in your home country, and especially in Sendai where you went to high school. How has that affected your year? You seem to be coming out of a little depression, a little sadness. Talk about that.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, to be honest, it was a little bit difficult to focus my game. I was trying to like not really think about it, but, honestly, like you said, I went to high school in Sendai and I know a lot people over there. Everyone is safe, but it was still kind of shocked and disaster for me and it was difficult.   
 But before the U.S. Open, I had, I don't know, a good talk with Mick and like I started getting clear everything. That's why I think starting playing good, and now I'm ready for the tournament.   
  
  Q. Could I just ask a little bit about next week, how you're look forward to Carnoustie and what you think about the course?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Obviously this week comes first, but I've heard it's a great course. I like links golf as well, so I'm looking forward to it.   
 MODERATOR: Any more English questions? Okay. Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT