U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ai, can you talk about your finish? You had a couple birdies coming in. 
 AI MIYAZATO: 17 I made birdie. Third shot was a 9-iron, and I hit into like five meter on the left side of the pin and I made birdie.
 And 18 was hit 6-iron on the second shot and I made seven-meter birdie putt.

 Q. Right before you got on your birdie run, Cristie had had made a few also. Did that help rally you seeing her get on a run?
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, it was really nice to play with them. Cristie play really well, and Karrie played also really well. So it was a nice atmosphere. 

 Q. Are you related to Mika Miyazato?
 AI MIYAZATO: No, but she's not, but she's from Okinawa, too. That's where I'm from, so Miyazato is pretty common name in Okinawa.

 Q. Are you guys friends?
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes, I know her since she was like 10 years old. We know each other long time.

 Q. You are both right there at the top. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah. It's really fun to play with her always. And especially in this tournament. It's really, really excited.

 Q. How are you handling the course? Have you hit most of the fairways today? Do you know how many you hit?
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I missed a few fairways today, but I got really good up-and-down like almost five times today. 
 So that's why I think the few birdies coming in towards the end, because I got really good patient during the round. 
 But it's really, really tough to play. I'm kinda tired already. 

 Q. You'll tee off around 3:00; what do you do now?
 AI MIYAZATO: I don't know about the tee time next, so I don't know. Just nice and easy and take a little break and ready to next round. 

 Q. Is it frustrating to have to stop playing after you had kind of gotten hot there at the end?
 AI MIYAZATO: Not really. It happens all the time on the LPGA Tour. I'm used to it.

 Q. How much of your winnings from this tournament and other tournaments are you donating to the Japan relief efforts? And is doing well in tournaments like this one a motivating factor for you to play well?
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, I don't have a plan with that yet, because I still need to focus my game. So I will think about it after this tournament. 

 Q. Does it motivate you to play well?
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, yeah, definitely. Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT