SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 1, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome defending champion Ai Miyazato into the interview room. Thank you for joining us.  
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.   
 THE MODERATOR: How does it feel to be back here with your last win?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I'm really excited to be here again, because I have great memories since last year with this win, so I'm very excited so far.  
 THE MODERATOR: Coming off Sybase where you made it to the quarterfinals, how are you feeling about your game right now?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I played really good at the Match Play, so I felt like my game is coming back and my confidence is coming back too. So I'm really comfortable with my game now.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Has it been difficult to focus on the course since the earthquake? Has that been part of the problem in maybe not getting the results you had hoped for this year?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, it was difficult after the earthquake because I went to high school in Sendai, so I know many people and all my friends live in Sendai, so it was a little tough to focus my game. Also I really want to play good because I want to (Indiscernible). That's why I think I kind of struggled a little bit with my game.   
 These couple weeks I realize that I just need to focus everything on the shots and just forget about it in a good way. So I started to feel really like my game's coming back. So it's really good condition right now.  
  
  Q. Do you think you put too much pressure on yourself maybe?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I did, a little bit honestly. And also I had such a great season last year, so I really want to -- I mean, I really want to have a good season also this year, so that's why I'm trying to work hard. But right now I feel like I just want to go at my own pace, so mentally I feel very good.  
  
  Q. Did you know a lot of people who were affected by the earthquake, and how difficult has it been to keep it out of your head at least while you're on the golf course?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, it hasn't been very difficult once I got on the golf course. But like I said, I really wanted to deliver good news to Japan with my results. Last year I was able to concentrate just on my game, but this year, because I focused a little bit more on my results, it maybe threw my game off a little bit.   
  
  Q. How are the fundraising efforts going with you and your fellow Japanese LPGA Tour players? How has that been going?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It has been going great. Fortunately we've been able to get great help, but it's something that we wanted to do long-term and not just short-term. So we hope to keep going and continue asking for support.  
  
  Q. How have you found the reception of your fellow players towards your fundraising efforts? How much help have they been and how do they feel about what's happening and continuing this fundraising effort going forward?   
 AI MIYAZATO: They've been very helpful and supportive. Many of the Tour members have told me that they'll try to do everything that they can to help Japan, so I really appreciate everything that they've done for our cause. They've also been wearing the badges that we made as well, so we're also very thankful for that.   
  
  Q. On an open and exposed links style course and always windy like this, do you have to change your regular ball flight and really hit the ball differently here or do you just hit it the normal way here?   
 AI MIYAZATO: No, basically I play it like normal. But it was pretty windy out there today, so I hit a couple low shots, but it's not every single hole. It's depending on the pins as well. But playing like normal, I think.  
  
  Q. How much do you like this course, and did you see any changes out there compared to last year?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I think it's tougher than last year, because the grass is thicker than last year, so that might affect the winning score, I think. But I love this golf course because I enjoyed it so much every time that I'm playing over here. It's because it favors the long hitters. But this is a course that favors the long hitters and short hitters, and course management comes into play a lot.  
  
  Q. You've been over in this country now playing for quite a while. How have you liked it? Does it get easier every year or still a little hard to manage your way around?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I actually feel that maybe it gets a little tougher every year, but I love playing over here in the U.S., and I find many challenges that I want to overcome and face every year. So there is still a lot to learn for me.  
  
  Q. Why is it tougher?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Because of all the top players that are competing for number one. That's always tough every week, and to have to perform to keep up can be very difficult sometimes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT