KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2011
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with Ai Miyazato at the 40th anniversary of the Kraft Nabisco Championship. You just came off the tournament course. Can you talk about how the course is playing and the state of your game right now?   
 AI MIYAZATO: The course is in good shape, as always, but No. 11 seems like longer than last year. But it's nothing that will affect my game plan. I'm in good shape, too. I'm playing really good, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like this is a golf course that you can be competitive on and win a major championship on?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, of course I do. I've always dreamed about on Sunday after the 18th jumping in the water. If I could do that, I mean, that's like my dream come true. But first I need to hit the ball, like every single shot and stay in the present and just stay focused on my game. Hopefully the results will fall on Sunday.   
  
  Q. What has it been like for you to be here with everything that's going on back home? How connected are you to the events back there?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It's obviously very difficult, but what I can do right now is to go out and play well so that I can bring smiles back on the faces of the Japanese people.   
  
  Q. What's the response you've had to your press conference last week and the announcement of the initiative? Has it been large, small? I'm sure all positive.   
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm very happy that the three of us are involved in this project because I think it's more effective with more people, more players. And I think this is a project that's going to take a long time, not something that we can just overcome right away. I have a long-term vision of it, and hopefully we can get that much support throughout my project.   
  
  Q. When will you go back to Japan?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm not sure yet, but I'm planning to play in Japan beginning of May. But then I'm not sure it's going to be on the schedule or not, so we'll see.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Ai.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT