CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. This week you're the Rolex Rankings No. 1. It seems to change every week, but do you think you can keep it maybe two weeks now?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I really hope so. If I make it, I'm really happy. But it's just too close in top five players. I just never know what's going to happen after this week, but I try my best.  
  
  Q. Talk about your fifth win of the season last week in Portland. How exciting was that?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, it was very exciting. Like earlier last week I got really good feelings, especially my putting was really good. So I kind of had really confidence. But then I didn't expect it so much because if it's high expectations coming up, it's really tough to keep control of myself. So just stayed calm and tried to be myself, and it happened, so I was really happy.   
  
  Q. I don't think you'd expect to win five times in a year. Are you surprised you've done that?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, it's very surprising, still.  
  
  Q. How have you been able to do it?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Good question. I had such a good off-season this year and really got good feelings since the beginning of the season. Just trying to stay in -- trying to keep my style. Like I'm not really hitting far with my driver, but then I really worked hard with my short game. So it makes my game, and that's why I think I'm playing so good so far. But I want to keep it going.   
  
  Q. The last hole last week on Golf Channel, they were showing you, you didn't want to see anything that Cristie Kerr was doing. Why?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It's not only for Cristie Kerr. Actually I really want to stay in the present, so I'm usually doing that; like I'm not really watching the fairways and greens, like standing just here and talking with my caddie and just like trying to catch myself and really stay in the present. So that's why I didn't watch.  
  
  Q. Would you make a comment on the golf course, your first impressions of this golf course this week?  
 AI MIYAZATO: It's really in good shape. I think it's a beautiful golf course. It's kind of fast, but the greens are a little bit -- like many undulations. But it seems like it's a windy place over here, so it depends on the wind. Maybe it's going to play really tough. If it's not wind, I think some players can shoot like really low scores, I think.   
  
  Q. Have you found the ground as firm and fast as maybe last week?  
 AI MIYAZATO: It's about the same, I think. Last week was pretty firm, as well. I don't know, maybe this week is a little bit more firmer than last week probably, yeah.   
  
  Q. What does the world No. 1 mean to you? How badly do you want it, to hold onto it?  
 AI MIYAZATO: I've had this question like 100 times (laughing). It's really good for my motivation, but my biggest goal is become the Player of the Year this year. I can experience many good things by competing around the top, so those experiences will really come into good use later on in my career.   
  
  Q. Can you tell me about practicing while standing on those balance balls, and when did you start doing that, and have you ever fallen off one of those things?  
 AI MIYAZATO: I started doing that practice last year -- no, it's almost like two years I'm doing that practice, and it's really worked for me because my swing is really slow tempo, and I need to be like really less tension with my swing. I do fall off sometimes, but it gives me a good sense of low center of gravity, so I really put it to good use when I practice.   
 THE MODERATOR: Ai, thank you so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT