RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the 2010 Ricoh Women's British Open Championship. If I could start by introducing Ai. She's won four times this year on the LPGA Tour. She actually finished tied 3rd at last year's championship. A very good links golfer, as well. How do you enjoy links golf? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, I love it. I like to play in the strong wind. And not a real big fan of rain. 
 But everything is really nice. I can see really trees. And it's just fantastic.
 THE MODERATOR: You've won four times on the LPGA Tour this year. Are you playing the best golf you've ever done? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I'm really totally happy about my season right now, but still many tournaments left and see what's going to happen. So I try my best, everything, in the tournament.
 THE MODERATOR: I remember you said last year it took you a while to climatize to the American way of life outside of Japan. Do you know if you're totally at home playing away from Japan? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, everything's kind of used to it right now. But still took a long time to -- it did take time for me to get up to this condition at the moment. But even -- even though it took a long time, I'm actually happy that I got here.
 THE MODERATOR: This week is obviously a major championship. The fact that it's Japanese-sponsored, does that make it even more special? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, that's right. I played with [indiscernible] from Ricoh today. And then fun time and -- I don't know too many Japanese sponsors we've had for the Women's British Open. But to have an actual Japanese company sponsor it, I feel honored.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Your English is excellent. How do you decide when you can't go any further and you hand it over to your interpreter? What's the key? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I always try my best. But suddenly when I start thinking Japanese in my head, then I just get stuck in my head. Like right now. So when I get stuck in my head, that's when I let my translator do the talking.

 Q. Your nail varnish, how do you decide on your colors each day?
 AI MIYAZATO: I bought the Japanese Nails magazine before the Evian Masters, and I found this design on the magazine and I really liked it, because painting the Union Jack on my nails, it's very nice -- I thought it's really nice for the next couple of weeks. So it's actually a perfect fit for this week. So I really love it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT