U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we're very pleased to welcome Ai Miyazato. You have been playing so well this year. I know you're not one of the longest hitters on the tour, and this is a big golf course. How well do you expect to play here at the Women's Open?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Um, well, I played 18 today. Seems like really, really difficult golf course, like I never play like this situation, I guess.   
 So it will be just need patience, and I think I need to change my mind. It's not gonna make birdies like every hole. It's just trying to make par or maybe bogey or something like that.   
 But just I gonna enjoy my game and trying having fun with strategy.   
 THE MODERATOR: Generally on the par-4s here, what sort of clubs are you hitting for your second shots, majority of the clubs that you use for your second shots?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It depend, but on like some par-4s I hit middle irons, and some par-4s hit 5-wood or something. So it's kind of (Through translator.) It depends.  
 THE MODERATOR: Sure, it depends on the length of the hole. I just wondered if you found yourself hitting a lot of 5-irons or a lot of utility woods or anything like that, just to see how the course is playing for you.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Um, let's see. Well, I would say like most of par-4 I'm hitting like middle iron, like 6-, 5-iron, something like that.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) This will be your sixth time playing the Open. Have there been any changes, or do you feel anything different? Especially having won four times already this year, is there any difference in mentality going into the tournament?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) So I feel more used to the U.S. Open atmosphere, especially this being the sixth time playing. Obviously I feel comfortable with all the experience that I've had so far playing.  
 And in terms of playing the tournament this year, I don't feel like I can really relax out there at all. I won't try to really go for the win. I'll just try to take one hole at a time.   
  
  Q. (From translation.) You said this is the most difficult Open you've played. Where do you feel that?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I feel the greens are very difficult, the undulation as well as the speed. Those two combinations I've never really experienced before.   
 And depending on the pin placement, I really need to be careful where I hit my second shots.   
 THE MODERATOR: Some of the players said they have putted off the green. Have you done that in your practice rounds?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, I've done that, like No. 10. It's kind of wide open in the front of the green. I putted, but it's breaking like forever. (Laughter.)  
 So I think I'm gonna chip some holes. It depend on the pin position, but... (Through translation.) So putting will be one of my options instead of just chipping.   
 THE MODERATOR: From the fringe?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) From the fringe.   
  
  Q. (From translation.) What did you do during the off week last week after the LPGA championship?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) So I rested for a few days earlier in the week and started training and practicing, but I didn't really push myself that hard. In practice I just tried to make sure that I still had my feel.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Is there anything specific you worked on in practice last week?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Well, I heard that the greens this week are going to be very difficult, so I imagined, you know, making putts that break a lot at the golf course that I practice at.   
 But my imagination and putting here really didn't match. They broke way more than I imagined.  
 THE MODERATOR: What golf course do you practice at?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm practicing at Big Canyon. I have a place in Irvine, Orange County.  
 MODERATOR: Okay. Big Canyon in California?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Uh-huh, country club.  
 THE MODERATOR: Big Canyon Country Club in Irvine, California?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It's in Newport Beach, actually.   
 THE MODERATOR: Newport Beach. Okay. Thank you. Questions?   
  
  Q. (From translation.) How are you feeling this week? Your father, who's your instructor, is here this week. Is there anything specific you're working on?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I feel good right now, and I feel with my putting is good, too. With my father, there's really nothing specific that we're working on, but we talked a lot about course management today.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) What do you need to do to conquer this golf course?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Well, every hole is unique on this golf course, but I just want to first concentrate on hitting the fairway.   
 And second, knowing where to hit on my second shot onto the green. I don't expect too many birdie chances this week, so I'll just concentrate on making par.  
 I guess there isn't really one key factor that I need to focus on. I just want to, like I said before, I'll take one hole at a time.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Ai. I appreciate you being here so much. Good luck this week.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT