KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Kraft Nabisco Championship. We're here with Ai Miyazato. Welcome, Ai. Good to see you. Obviously a wonderful start to the 2010 season. You were the champion at both the HSBC Singapore event as well as the Honda PTT Thailand. Tell us a little bit about how you felt coming out of the blocks this season. 
 AI MIYAZATO: It was great. I didn't expect that I can win two weeks in a row, but I played really well, and I got such a good off-season, so that was just nice to have a good start. 
 THE MODERATOR: You played well in Japan, as well. How about your play last week overall, the last couple tournaments? How would you assess those? 
 AI MIYAZATO: In Japan it was -- I had a tournament in my hometown, so the people were really excited, and it was nice to be home that week. And last week was really tough golf course for me, especially for my putting. So I couldn't make it three weeks in a row, but I'm still happy with my playing golf so far. I'm just ready for this week right now. 

 Q. You've had some success at some of the other majors but not here on the Dinah Shore tournament course. What's it going to take this week to break through? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I just love this tournament, but it's just -- it could still happen yet, because last year it was really hard work on Friday because I played in a really strong wind, and the other years it's been tough to get the good results. But right now I'm happy with what I've been through, what I've experienced, and hopefully this year I can break through. 

 Q. What is the biggest challenge on this course? Is it just the length? Some of the holes are extremely long. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, it's playing long, but I think the most difficult thing is wind, because wind is always changing like every single hole, so that makes me (sic) really tough to play out there. 
 But I think I also need really trying to be simple play, trying to hit the fairways and hit the greens and make some putts, because the rough is really thick, of course, and the greens are really firm, of course. But I just can't focus on those factors. What I feel is most important is to be able to focus on my game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT