HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Ai, we've been seeing you in the interview room a lot lately.  
 AI MIYAZATO: Good thing.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Another good round today, with an eagle at 16 that puts you in a tie for the lead. And Juli is about to putt, so we'll see if it stays a tie. Just talk about your day and the fact that you're aiming to get your second straight win here.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, it was really hard work out there, because pin positions were really tough. But I had a really good start because I made birdie the first two holes. But after that, I stayed patient I thought, so just trying to make par and trying to make really safe play. I did that really well, and I think that's why No. 16 I made eagle, so I was really happy. I think it's good and gets me ready for tomorrow.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was that putt?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It was like 12 metres.   
  
  Q. What is your take on the course? By the looks of it everybody seems to be saying it's a very difficult course.   
 AI MIYAZATO: The course is really dry, drier than the last few years I think, so that makes it really difficult to make judgments on distance I think. So that's why I think it's a little more difficulty I think.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about your relationship with Momoko? She was just in here, she's two shots behind you, also with a nice chance to win. Just tell us about your friendship and what you think of her as a player.   
 AI MIYAZATO: We know each other since like we were really young, and she's a really competitive player. She's also a really nice girl. Only one year younger than me but she's really mature.   
 So she's been playing like a few years on the LPGA Tour I think, and she's getting ready to win. So it will be really fun playing with her tomorrow.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about how much attention you'll get from Japan with the two of you trying to win tomorrow.  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Laughing). We'll see. I don't know. But, well, honestly, Japanese fans are really happy about this I think. So I think it's good for both the Japanese fans that follow women's golf, as well as the players that are in contention, too.   
  
  Q. Well-played. Can you tell us a little bit about how well you know Ryo Ishikawa, and do you think with how you did last week, and what you are doing with week, you will become more popular than him back home in Japan?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Good question. I met him a couple of times last year and I really don't know much about him but he seems like a really nice boy, only 18- or 19-year-old kid. But he's been playing really good so far, and, well, after 18 holes tomorrow, I'll see if I can be more popular tomorrow. Why not? (Smiling).  
  
  Q. What would a win -  
AI MIYAZATO: Well, this tournament it feels like it is a major, so I really want this title and it will be a special title if I can win this.   
 And looking at the past winners, they have all been great players, too, so I hope to be one of them tomorrow.   
  
  Q. We hear about how strong the Korean golfers are and how great the Korean golfers are, but it seems there are more and more coming from Japan, Moromizato and those guys. Can you say why golf has improved from Japan, and do you think those guys will play more in America now?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes, I do feel like there will be more Japanese players coming, and especially on the U.S. Tour. And I think the rise of these young players that are coming overseas is probably because of the effect of Annika and Tiger and how much they want to follow their path.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing with Juli Inkster tomorrow in the final round, and have you played with her before and where?  
 AI MIYAZATO: I first met Juli at the HSBC Match Play. I was able to beat her 1-up. But she's a very grateful player, I respect her as a person, too. It wouldn't matter if it's the last group of a tournament or if it wasn't, I would just love to play with her in the same group.   
  
  Q. Has the heat been a possible for you? Would you like to see some rain to cool things off a little tomorrow?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I am from Okinawa where it's very hot, so I'm used to the heat.   
  
  Q. (Do you agree with Momoko who said that Japanese golfers are on the rise)?  
 AI MIYAZATO: There are many players like Ryo Ishikawa right now that are from Japan and getting a lot of attention. And there are many women golfers, too, that have started to come on the U.S. Tour. So I think I do agree with Momoko in the fact that it will be a good steppingstone for Japanese golf this year.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT