HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2010
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Congratulations on your second LPGA victory at the Honda PTT LPGA Thailand last week. Welcome to the HSBC Women's Champions. If you would just tell us a little bit about what the last couple of days were like, knowing that you won the season-opening event on the LPGA Tour.  
 AI MIYAZATO: I felt really good. It was really hard work last week. You know, the weather was really hot and humid, and that makes me really tired. So I took the day off yesterday and now I'm ready for this week.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would, just talk about going into this week, if you really like this course, do you feel like you can do back-to-back wins?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, you never know. I still have a chance I think. You know, it's totally different than last week. This golf course is really good in good shape and seems to be really drier than usual. But just doing the same things again, just try to hit the fairways and the greens and make some putts and try to make good play.  
  
  Q. What kind of reaction did your second victory get in Japan?   
 AI MIYAZATO: Japan, I don't know, I haven't heard any, but it's been the Winter Olympic season. So it was huge news in Japan I heard, and my fans were very happy, so I'm very happy about that.   
  
  Q. What is it like after winning so early, do you change your goals for the season now?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, definitely makes a little bit more confidence, but nothing's changed. Just finished one tournament, and it's already past it. And just now I'm ready for this week and just keep continuing to good playing.   
 So feels really good, but I never know about my future, so just try and focus on my game, everything today.   
  
  Q. (What did you work on in the off-season)?  
 AI MIYAZATO: First I really worked on my short game on the off-season, so that helped a lot last week, too. And I'm a very long hitter, just normal driving average. So I think my game right now, my iron distance is really consistent and I have good putting. So that makes me really confident.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Tell us about this morning, how you enjoyed the Batik painting.  
 AI MIYAZATO: It was fun. It was different. I was really glad to be over there, and the paintings, yeah, it was different. I never did that before.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: How does it feel to now be part of that group, the top players from the Money List last year?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It doesn't really feel real to me still yet. But the important thing for me is to maintain my position amongst the top, so that's what I'll try to do for the rest of the year.   
  
  Q. How does the course compare to last year?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Last year, again, it seems like it's really dry, drier than last year. The fairways are really firm and the greens are really firm, so I think that's about it.   
  
  Q. How will that affect your strategy this week?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, it depends on the weather I think. I love this tournament but it always has the rain every year. That makes me a little -- playing longer than usual I think. Again, it's nothing to change my plan. Just keep hitting fairways and greens.   
  
  Q. How do you think you have changed from last year?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, definitely I got huge confidence from last year, and I don't feel like there's a big change in me, but a little confidence can be a huge difference mentally, so with that, and a good off-season, I think led to the win last week.  
  
  Q. What goals do you have now?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, my goal is to keep winning the rest of the year, but also that's easier said than done. But a goal for me this year is to become the Player of the Year. It's a huge goal for me, but I'll try my best to achieve it.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, maybe a little bit, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about length, playing on long courses --  
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, if you look at last week, it was a long-hitter's course and I was able to win. So coming into this week, you know, there might not be a huge advantage for certain types of players. But for me, I'll just have to play my type of golf no matter what conditions are.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Ai, thank you so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT