RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2009
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   AI MIYAZATO: Especially my iron shots are getting better. My distance is really consistent. So I feel good.

 Q. You got off to the perfect start today. Was that the key for you? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, the putter is not really easy (now) so I'm just trying to focus on my tee shot and it was a great start. So, it was good. 

 Q. Were you nervous out there, this being a major?
 AI MIYAZATO: No, not really. It was really comfortable. Again, my confidence is back, so I'm just trying to focus on hitting the shot. It was really comfortable.

 Q. You say your confidence is back. Is that because of last week? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes, definitely. 

 Q. And why did it go away? What was the problem? 
 AI MIYAZATO: It's kind of a long story, but when I came to the tournament, I needed understand the culture and I need to study English, and like some things are an adjustment so that makes it maybe difficult. 
 Now my English is still not good but my playing is really comfortable and my confidence is back. 

 Q. And how comfortable are you on this golf course?
 AI MIYAZATO: I played here three years ago and it was a really good finish. I like this golf course so much, especially like 17 is a really good hole and I have really good memories, too. 

 Q. Now, how big of a difference is it couple of shots out here, one or two shots behind the lead or three or four shots or whatever it's going to be tomorrow, is there a difference on this golf course because of the trouble that's out there? People can make big numbers very quickly, so going into the final round a few shots behind, what's that like?
 AI MIYAZATO: I think I have a really good position now. Depends on the weather and depends on the wind. That makes a really big difference, difficult for this golf course. I'm just going to focus on my game and see what can happen.

 Q. How much of a difference is it that you can win a major tomorrow --
 AI MIYAZATO: Just being patient. I knew it's going to be really tough for me tomorrow but it's same as everyone, so just be patient. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT