EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 26, 2009
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Ai, welcome to the interview tent. You're now the champion of the Evian Masters presented by Société Générale.   
 It was a playoff win. It was exciting. You've been on tour for four years. You're a Rolex first-time winner. What are your thoughts right now? Are you feeling anything, or is it all just overwhelming.  
 AI MIYAZATO: I feel very happy at the moment. I was dreaming about this when I was young, so my dream has almost come true. I feel great.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: What does it mean to win this tournament in France with a strong field? You said it was special for you to win here.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, I had a pressure because of the chance to get the win, but it was really comfortable and I could control myself all the time today.   
 (Through translation.) I feel I have grown about my golf.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Talk about today, about how the course progressed. The round was a little up and down, but you played strong through it.   
 AI MIYAZATO: I made a great birdie on the No. 2, and I feel really like confidence after that. So, I mean, I was really play good because I hit fairways, keep hitting the fairways, and I hit the greens.  
 But I had so many good birdie chance too, but I couldn't make it. That makes me really pressure on myself. But I'm just trying to make me like really calm and stay in the present. That really worked.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: This is the first playoff you've been in on the LPGA Tour.  
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Is that any different than in the past, or did you draw on your experience?  
 AI MIYAZATO: It was different. It was totally different. Just trying to focus my game and hit -- trying to hit the fairways and the greens again.   
 (Through translation.) Well, I just knew I had to make a lot of birdies. And, you know, after making those birdies, if I end up not winning I could accept that. So that was okay.  
  
  Q. You've been runner-up a couple times. What does that mean to be here and to have done this?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I went through a lot of tough times especially the last couple years. But Nick, my caddie, stood by me the whole time. We grew together as a team, and I'm really happy that we kept it going.   
  
  Q. There were a lot expectations about you the last five years, and you didn't manage to win a tournament. Is that a relief today?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) It was obviously a relief, but I do also feel a sense of accomplishment that I achieved this great win.   
 But also just so many things going through my head at the moment.  
  
  Q. How much of an honor is it for you, knowing that Hiromi Kobayashi won here 12 years ago, and now you won here?  
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Every time I walk up the stairs to the locker room, even more so than the last few years, I tend to see her scorecard a lot this year. Caught my eyes.   
 You know, when I saw it I want to achieve what she achieved. I respect her a lot, and I feel very proud as another Japanese player to have done the same.  
  
  Q. She also won on the first sudden death hole, as you did.   
 AI MIYAZATO: She did?   
  
  Q. Yes. It is destiny?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Oh, wow, thank you. I didn't know that.   
  
  Q. You've had so many victories in Japan. How do you explain that it took you five years on the LPGA Tour to win a tournament?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) When I had a good success in Japan I was still very young. I was just going for it, not scared of anything.  
 When I came to the States, I had to adjust to many things, like the culture, the language. Those things obviously played a huge part.   
 I don't think the length of time that it took me to win was that important. I just feel that the four years that took me was very valuable.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: What does it mean in Japan for you to have this win?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I have very many fans in Japan, and I want to thank them for their support. I'm happy to give them this win and share this win with them.  
 I also want to thank my family for their support, because they've been standing next to me this whole time. I'll see them next week, as soon as possible.   
 I also want to thank all my sponsors as well for all the years they supported me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT