EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 25, 2009
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Ai, welcome to the interview room. You've had quite the journey. You've already talked to a lot of people, but we appreciate your talking to us.   
 Your round today was very up and down and you rally lead and now you're just one stroke out of the lead. How did you mentally get through that, and how do you feel going into tomorrow?   
 AI MIYAZATO: It was a little bit shame on the last finish hole, but I had really good comeback after the, like, three. I'm still playing good. Like I'm really comfortable with my playing, so I'm really happen with my position now.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: The course today, can you describe how it's playing? A couple of players have said the greens are tough based on the direction the grain is on the greens.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Uh-huh. Yeah, it's a little bit grainy. Like yesterday's rain makes a little bit slower today, I think. So you got to hit like really strong like contract with the ball.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Okay. Questions.   
  
  Q. We watched you from the 9th. Apart from the last green you putted very well today.   
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah, my putting is really good so far. I have really confidence with my putting. I think I have really good stroke now, so comfortable.  
  
  Q. It's a terrific looking leaderboard from our perspective. A lot of former champions and then players like you looking for your first victory. When you look at what the tournament is and you're playing at the Evian Masters and you're right in the pack trying to go for the trophy, how excited are you by the prospect of what could happen tomorrow?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I'm very excited first, and I'm really happy with my position because I'm still have chance to get win tomorrow. So that's really nice.  
 (Through translation.) Just makes me happy that I have a chance to win tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Is it something you expect or something you hope?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) If I have too much expectations then usually it doesn't go my way, so I just hope that I can play my best.   
  
  Q. Is there a strategy? Is it a course where you can keep attacking, or do you have to be careful about how you play this course?   
 AI MIYAZATO: I think kind of both. But I need to -- I'm sure I need to make some more birdies tomorrow, too.  
  
  Q. What sort of score do you have in your mind? Or is it too early to say?  
 AI MIYAZATO: Probably at least I need 4-under tomorrow.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Looking at coming through the gallery and the fans, do you feel like you have more fans here, or that's just the way it is wherever you go, that a lot of people want your autograph?   
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I think most of the kids are the ones that want my autographs, but I do feel happy that I have fans here. I think it'll be a good chance tomorrow to have my name remembered by a lot of French people and the fans here.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT