LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 6, 2009
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. You had a very good round today. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Thank you. 
 JASON TAYLOR: 7-under today. You're 10-under overall, a couple shots back from the lead. Talk a little bit about the day you had. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Okay. Well, I had the solid round today. I kept rounds going, especially front nine. I made five in a row birdies. I'm very happy about that. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. You teed off a little bit earlier than some of the girls. Safe to say it's very windy out there now. Do you feel a little fortunate you got in most of your round before the wind? 
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, it was very strong after 13, I think. It was really hard on No. 15, too. Like I hit the 3-wood second shot. I hit yesterday like 5-iron or something like that. So it was very tough. 
 But I think I was lucky, I think. 

 Q. You had a birdie streak going there on the front nine, holes 2 through 6. What seemed to be working for you during that streak of play?
 AI MIYAZATO: Well, it was very simple. Like hit the fairway, get the green, and make some putts. But I had really good focus today, so that's why I kept the rounds going, I think. 

 Q. You came to America from Japan with very high expectations placed on you by others. We've seen the same thing this year with Ishikawa coming out of Japan. Have you talked a him? How do you deal with those expectations? 
 AI MIYAZATO: That's a good question. I met him last year in December. But I haven't talked that much with him. But seems like he's really nice guy. 
 (Through translation.) He looks like he's enjoying it out there. He's still 17. There's still lots of golf and life left to come. You know, I'd rather have him just concentrate on his game than answer expectations, just take it easy. 

 Q. You came in today several shots off the lead. Now you're in pretty good position. Were you coming into today's round thinking you needed to shoot around a certain number to get into contention? If so, what were you thinking you would need to get in contention for the final day? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) No, I did not set a score to shoot before the round. I just tried to focus on my own game and make as many birdies as possible. But I do tend to get tense when I want to get good results, so I tried not to do that. 

 Q. You had a bogey on 18. Your second shot, what happened there? You left your first putt a little short. 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) It was a very strong wind. I was very satisfied with my second shot. It's just that I left my first putt short. Yeah, so that's the only thing. 

 Q. On 18 it looked like you hit a wood into the green. It looked like the other players hit woods, as well. Was that because of the wind or were you in a position where you would have had to hit a wood anyway? 
 AI MIYAZATO: It was actually hybrid. The yardage was 179 or something like that. But it was a little bit into the wind, so that's why I hit hybrid, so... 

 Q. Describe yourself as a player. What's the best part of your game and what's the part of your game that still can involve the most improvement? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) My strong part is that I'm able to have fun playing. I've been through a lot since I've been into the U.S. But I've been able to overcome that. I think one of my other assets is that I can play with a smile on my face. 
 Things I still need to work on is when I get into contention, I still feel pressure that I never felt before. I need to be able to make a good swing and make a good putt under pressure. 
 (In English.) And my English, too (laughter). 

 Q. Since you still fight with getting too tense, how will you feel if you have the lead playing in the last pairing tomorrow? 
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) Yes, I do still get tense and nervous. But I try not to hide from it. That's what's important for me, I think. And it's important to enjoy the pressure, as well. It's not the end of the world if I can't overcome it, so I'll just try to focus on my own game. 

 Q. At the Kraft Nabisco the second day, did you play?
 AI MIYAZATO: Yeah. 

 Q. The wind today, is it similar to that, or was it windier that day? 
 AI MIYAZATO: No, Nabisco was windier, definitely. 

 Q. With that kind of a wind, working with your caddie, taking a little longer to decide on a club, does it take a little longer playing in something like this?
 AI MIYAZATO: (Through translation.) I think it just depends on where my ball is. I try not to take longer. I just want to try to keep the routine the same as usual. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Thanks. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Thanks for the patience. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT