HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2009
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you. Ai, you've had a great round for the start. You've had some success in your past three seasons, but to start off well the first round at the HSBC Women's Championship, how are you feeling right now? 
 AI MIYAZATO: I played a bit good. I'm really happy today because I hit straight. I hit my driver, and I get the green and make the putt. It was really simple. But I feel really good right now. 

 Q. You said last week that you're ready to win, meaning your game is ready to win. This kind of proves it, I suppose. 
 AI MIYAZATO: Yes. Well, I played well in Hawaii, and I played well last week as well, but I couldn't make some putts last week. 
But my putting is feeling really good this week, and I love this golf course, so I have confidence right now. 

 Q. Just wanted to find out what happened on 18 for you? Your only bogey for the round. 
 AI MIYAZATO: I just missed the second shot to the right a little bit. I missed the chip like 40 yards, so I missed it. So I made two putts. 
 Yeah, but I think it's still tough. It's certainly a good hole, but I made enough birdies today, so I don't feel any disappointed today. 

 Q. Could you just tell us how fired up you are this season? And how important it's going to be for you to actually win a tournament? 
 AI MIYAZATO (via translator): I'm really confident right now. I prepared really well during the off-season, so I'm 100 percent satisfied about my game at the moment. I could say that I am fired up about the season more than ever. 

 Q. Overall, are you surprised you're leading today?
 AI MIYAZATO (via translator): Well, I'm not surprised, because it's just a result of what I've been building up for the last few seasons. So I think, you know, what I've been working on showed today. 

 Q. Last year, you started the tournament in a similar position.
 AI MIYAZATO (via translator): There's really nothing in particular that I'm going to look back on from last year. It's a good, tough course this course is. But all I have to do is maintain my concentration. I can't control the result, so I'll just do my best for tomorrow. 

 Q. How do you feel having a press conference in English? 
 AI MIYAZATO: I feel good. I'm still studying English, but I'm always feel honored to be like sit down here and have a question so I feel very good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT