RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2007
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for coming in and joining us.  You're playing well recently and you're at the Old Course here at St. Andrews.  Have you had a chance to go out and play the course yet? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  Only today. 
 PAM WARNER:  What were your thoughts on the course? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  It's just an amazing place.  I can feel the history and this golf course is tough.  But, well, everything is really fun for me.  So it's great, just great. 

 Q.  (What history did you know about the course)? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  That's a good question. 
 Just about the organisation before, about the formation of the R&A, that was formed about 340 years ago.  I heard about that, but other than that, nothing in particular. 

 Q.  (Back in Japan you were under a lot of pressure to win, do you feel that it's affecting your performance here)? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  No, I don't feel any pressure at all.  I actually like the pressure.  And I don't think -- even if I do, I don't feel that relates to me playing negatively or badly.  And I also want to think positively about those kind of feelings that I get, and make it into a good -- makes me concentrate on the situation a little bit better. 

 Q.  How does this course fit you? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  I think you can play the course in many ways, and it suits many types of golfers. 

 Q.  (Have you been in any bunkers or anything that you recognise as landmarks)? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  I especially remember about two years ago when the men's Open was held here and when Jack Nicklaus retired at this tournament at this golf course; and I also know about Tommy Nakajima, what he did in that Tommy Bunker, I guess is what they call it. 
 So those are some of the particulars.  I don't know the other particulars of each of the other holes. 

 Q.  Did you drop a ball in the bunker today? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yes, I did. 

 Q.  Did you get out? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yes. 

 Q.  In one shot? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  Actually twice.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  (Were there any surprises for you on the course?  When you first saw the first hole, were you surprised at the shape of the hole)? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  I noticed that there's no real difference between the fairway and where the green starts, as well as on each of the tee boxes, I can't really see the fairway.  I thought that was different but fun. 

 Q.  The wind here is not like you've seen in Japan; how do you play it? 
 AI MIYAZATO:  I've always felt that I'm a pretty good low-ball hitter, so I don't think I need to make any particular changes.  And I also feel that shots from 50 yards from the green, I really feel like the wind will have a big effect on those kind of shots.  So maybe I'll have to do a little bit of 80-yard shots that roll on the ground on the fairway.  So I feel like I do need to be able to -- to be more careful around the greens instead of just trying to hit the fairways all the time. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT