HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  I know it's tough being runner-up,but it's your best finish on the LPGA Tour.  You had a great round out there.  Can you talk a little about it, what you're feeling getting this close, and knowing you could possibly get your first win very soon.   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Well, I think I really played well today, and then, you know, just missed a shot and some putts on the first couple of holes.  I tried to play aggressive after that and I played well, really played well after that on the back nine.   
 So I'm disappointed but I feel like satisfied because it's my best finish on the LPGA Tour, and the experience this week will lead to a better finish next time around.   
  
  Q.  From your point of view, do you put pressure on yourself to try and win in the United States and on the LPGA?  Do you feel like that comes from yourself or do you feel for your country you want to win?  Where does the pressure come from?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Actually I didn't feel the pressure.  I wanted to play here when I was young.  I was dreaming about this tournament, like these tournaments, like U.S. Women's Open and the other tournaments.   
 I'm still here and chasing my dreams, and I'm very happy that a lot of people are cheering for me.  But that does not make me feel any pressure.   
  
  Q.  Was it difficult to get back in the match because your opponent was so steady all day and rarely made any major mistakes?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I didn't feel any frustration.  She played well but I also think that I played well, too, and I still had very many chances to overcome.  And I played with the same kind of emotion, no roller coaster, just steady emotions, as well.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about 15, I think you missed -- it was a 6-foot putt on 15.  It seemed like if you had gotten that, maybe you would have had certainly a better footing for the last few holes.  Can you talk about that putt and where that was a crucial moment in the match for you?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  That's true, it was a very important putt.  But even if I were to make that putt, we would still be all-square.   
 But I was satisfied with the way I putted.  I have no regrets, and maybe I need to practice putting.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you, and Ai, thank you, as well.  Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT