HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2007
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Ai, congratulations on your 1-up victory.  It was a long day and a lot of holes out there.  Can you just talk about the day in general?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  It was so long today for me, because I played really well, but I think a couple -- the last five holes, I didn't make birdie putts.  I still needed birdies so just stayed patient.   
 I got a little luck today and really enjoyed these two rounds.  So it was fun, but I'm really tired now.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Ai, you have a lot of folks out following you every day, and they all want to see you get your first win.  Is that something that's come into your mind, especially today?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Well, during the second round, the second match, if things were going well, going into tomorrow's matches -- well, I wasn't thinking about winning.  I just concentrated on my play and that maybe led up to the result.   
  
  Q.  Does it become easier or harder tomorrow, possibly facing two matches with your experience today knowing exactly how hard it was for you today?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Well, today is just today.  So as long as I can play with good rhythm tomorrow, it should be okay.  But it just depends on the opponent, depending on who I play, it could get really tough or it could make me play with my own rhythm.   
  
  Q.  Have you faced Maria before in a match-play scenario, and what do you know about her?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  No, I have not played a match against Maria.  I know that she hits the ball really long, has a good short game, but because I am a little bit shorter off the tee, I'll just have to hit quality shots.   
  
  Q.  A quick question on the 11th hole, it looked like a turning point.  What was the reason the official came over?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  The first one, first match, her ball hit my ball.  My ball was the one that got moved, so I just wanted to make sure if I could replace it back to its original spot or not.   
  
  Q.  And did you feel any change of momentum after that?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah, I think so, because she missed her chip shot.   
  
  Q.  Could you describe your birdie on 18, the winning birdie, just walk us through that?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I hit 5-wood on my second shot, and the third shot was like ten-yard chip and then up-and-down.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  How far was the putt?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  (Indicating four feet.)   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Four feet?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Ai, thanks a lot and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT