MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2007
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Ai, thank you very much for coming in.  You had a fantastic round, 5-under.  Can we go over your scorecard real quick?  No bogeys, and five birdies.   
 AI MIYAZATO:  No. 3, I hit 3-wood second shot and then 58 third shot and to five meters and birdie putt.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far out for you?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  62 meters maybe.   
 No. 5, I hit 5-iron and three meters.   
 8, I hit pitching wedge second shot 104 yards and then four meters.   
 10, I hit 7-iron second shot, three meters from 150.   
 11, 89 to the pin second shot and 52 (wedge) and two meters.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can you just talk about your round?  You were 2-under coming in, you've had a pretty consistent day.  Are you excited about where your game is at?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  It was really fun today and then especially my putting was really good.  Yesterday was -- my stroke was a little quick, so I changed my putting rhythm and then played better today.   
 So I stayed patient through the back nine but I really enjoyed myself.  It was fun.   
  
  Q.  You've had several top finishes, good finishes in your rookie year.  Have you given thought to what it will feel like to break through and win one on Tour?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I'm going to because I still have a chance I think.  (Laughter) So getting better from last year, my English is getting better, also.   
 I have confidence now, so be tough.   
  
  Q.  You talked about your English improving.  I understand you've worked pretty hard on that in the past year, how far have you come and what have you done to improve that, as well?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I just make friend I think, talk to a friend and talk to my caddie, talk, talk, talk, talk, that's it.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  How far have you come with your English from last year when you were out here to this year?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Like this (indicating an inch).  I need more practice.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Have there been other adjustments you've had to make now that you're on Tour in your second year, along with the language?  What else has been sort of a challenge for you?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I still think I need to improve on my short game skills, and also on my putts when I need to go low in a round.  Those are a couple of things that I need to adjust.   
  
  Q.  What would the reaction be back home if you won this tournament or any tournament?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I think it's going to be crazy, I think.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Do you feel ready to do that?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah, I'm ready.   
  
  Q.  Winning is not a new thing to you, though.  You've won on the other tour several times; so you kind of understand what to do when you get in position?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah.  Yeah.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What is the difference between winning on the JLPGA and trying to win out here on the LPGA?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I think this Tour is more competitive than the Japanese tournaments, so I need more confidence.  I need more patience.  I need to try to get more birdies.   
 I need to be able to believe in myself a little bit more on this tour.   
  
  Q.  Given the higher, competitive nature here, does that make you play more aggressive?   
 AI MIYAZATO:  I think so.  Converting the chances, those are basically not any different over here than the Japanese Tour.  But I feel like I need to be able to show myself a little bit more on the American tour than the Japanese Tour, show my skills, show my game and my mental toughness and all those kind of things.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  Ai, good round.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT