MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2006
Ai Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIPBulle Rock Golf CourseHavre de Grace, Maryland June 10, 2006  Third Round An interview with: 
 AI MIYAZATO
 
PAM WARNER:  Ai, thank you for coming in and joining us today.  Nice round out there.  Currently at 7 under.  Tied for the lead.  Do you just want to talk about your day.
AI MIYAZATO:  Today?  In English?
PAM WARNER:  Sure.
AI MIYAZATO:  I stayed in good flow all day.  Especially my putting the first half of the round.  And I was able to stay concentrated throughout the day.
PAM WARNER:  Could we go over your scorecard?  Start your birdie on one.
AI MIYAZATO:  No. 1?  I use a 126 yards and I use an 8 iron.  And about that much.  I don't know feet.  It's like that.

And then the second shot was there on five, was 180 yards to the pin and then I use utility five, number five, and four meter for my birdie putt.

Number 6, 141 to the pin and then I use 7 iron.  About six meters, I think.

Bogey on 14.  Let's see.  I missed my second shot.  Ball went off the green to the right side and then third shot was, I use 52 for chipping and I missed the putt from three meters.
PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 17.
AI MIYAZATO:  Yeah, 176 to the pin and I use 5 iron.  And three meter.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.  We'll take questions for Ai.
Q.  You played a really good round today but towards the end your shots kind of got a little erratic.  What do you think are some of the reasons?
AI MIYAZATO:  Some of the reasons include at impact, I didn't really have good timing at impact and I tended to think too much during the round.

But then when I started hitting shots to the pin it got a lot better.
Q.  You played a round with Lorena Ochoa today and you beat her score wise.  What do you think about that?
AI MIYAZATO:  I really was able to concentrate on my game today.  It is my second time playing with Lorena and I feel like she's the type of player that can show her true self in the last round and play a really good round.  So I did have a lot of fun.
Q.  What was your most memorable par saving shot or hole?
AI MIYAZATO:  The 12th hole, the par 3.  I think that was a really good par save.
Q.  What were you feeling on the putt for par on the 12th hole?
AI MIYAZATO:  I was able to putt with confidence and the line was a hook line, right to left.
Q.  In the second round you hit into the water on the 12th and did that ever come across your mind on the third round?
AI MIYAZATO:  No, I didn't really have any bad image of the second round, but the timing at impact was a little bit off around that time.  So that's why maybe I missed the green on the right side.
Q.  After making three birdies on the first front nine did you feel like you could go further?
AI MIYAZATO:  No, not really, I didn't have any changes mentally either.
Q.  Besides the one today, were there any settings that made you feel like you were playing in a Major tournament?
AI MIYAZATO:  Let's see, if you missed, besides the one you missed the tee shot, it leaves you with a difficult second shot.  So hitting the fairway was a little    was a big key today.
Q.  The question was, the ruling that you had on 12, what was, what did you ask?  What did you have the rules official for?
AI MIYAZATO:  I conferred with Christina Kim because Paula Creamer said that she didn't see the initial drop and after the drop the ball went beyond the line, the line of the two club lengths, but after it rolled the ball didn't get closer to the pin.  And that's what Christina thought also, but I just wanted to double check with the rules official that it was the correct drop  and that the ball didn't go closer to the pin from the original drop.
Q.  Did you do anything special to maintain your concentration?
AI MIYAZATO:  No.  The course itself makes me stay concentrated.
Q.  You've been in contention two weeks in a row and will probably play in the last group two weeks in a row.  What sort of things will you use from the experiences from the last couple tournaments?
AI MIYAZATO:  I believe that these things, you just have to take it step by step and just because last week you were doing really well, it doesn't really change overnight or the following week.  And I just need to stay concentrated on my game.
Q.  Do you feel satisfied with the transition that you've been having since last week?
AI MIYAZATO:  Whether I'm satisfied or not, it's a little difficult to say because it's a different course and last week is last week.  But even though    but I am satisfied with the way I played last week.  But this week, like I said, I just need to maintain my focus and it's a little bit difficult to compare the two tournaments.
Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard today and where?
AI MIYAZATO:  I look at the leaderboard on the 17th and I didn't really feel like I wanted, that I should go any further or try to calm myself down.  I just saw my place in the tournament.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much.
AI MIYAZATO:  Okay.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT