KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 14, 2015
Joanna Klatten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You must have been feeling it out there today, weren't you? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   I played really solid.   I made a few bombs which is nice, but it was just solid.   I've been playing pretty good lately.   Just struggled with the putting the last few tournaments, but today it was fixed.

Q.   What were the conditions like? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   It was really cold at the beginning, but throughout the day it got warmer.   It was a little bit windy.   But, yeah, pretty good. 

Q.   Let's say that you may be on top of the leaderboard at the end of the day.   What would that mean?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Well, it's nice because I haven't had a very good stretch lately.   I mean, this is one of my favorite courses all year.   I feel very comfortable here.   It suits my eye really well.   I think you have an advantage if you're among the long hitters. 
Yeah, it's definitely a good thing for tomorrow.

Q.   Did you have last year's final round in mind at all playing this first round?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   In a way, yes.   You know, that's where I had my first double eagle, last year in the last round, and it's not something you forget.
So it brings back a lot of good memories.   I only have good memories about this course.   It's such a great track and great crowd.   It's fun to play here for sure.

Q.   What do the good memories do for your confidence? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Well, it definitely helps.   You know, if you're comfortable on a course, if it suits your eye, it's definitely an advantage.   Whether you've been playing bad or good before that, it's good.

Q.   You birdied I think five hole in a six‑hole stretch:   3, 4, 5, 6, and 8.   Could take us through that stretch... 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yes, of course.

Q.   ...and the putts that you made?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   I started with hitting a par‑5 in two, No. 3.   Yes, I made a birdie there. 
Hit it to three feet on 4. 
Then I made three bombs between 30 and 45 feet, so it was fun.

Q.   Was the putt on 8 the longest?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   The putt on 8, you know what?   It wasn't the longest.   The longest one was on the par‑3, No. 5. 
I was just at the front of the green, so I think it was at least 50‑feet putt or something.   It was great. 

Q.   Better to be lucky than good sometimes. 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yeah, exactly.   Yeah, I definitely had luck on my side today.   I had good breaks and it feels good.   Lately it felt the other way around, but I knew that it always evens out. 
Today it definitely did.

Q.   You mentioned the course suits your eye.   Is there something in particular about it?   The way you see the ball?   The way you approach the tee ball? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Well, first of all, it's same type of grass, same type of courses I'm used to at home in Paris.   So, you know, just familiar. 
I don't know, I just love the way it looks.   It's in great condition, so... 

Q.   Was there a last‑minute caddie change for you this year?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   Well, not really last minute, but I parted ways with my previous caddie and I've got Greg Sheridan who works with Natalie Gulbis.   She's not here.
We make a great team.   I really like having him on my bag.   I feel very comfortable with him.   He's a great caddie, so it's a nice change for sure.

Q.   When is the last time before this week that he was on the bag? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   It was last year in ManuLife in Canada.   I think we finished like 17th, which I was very happy with that. 

Q.   Sure.   You have had a great deal of success in Europe and Australia, and less so here stateside.   Anything you can put your finger on? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Well, I mean, it's such a better level here.   It's not even comparable how much better the players are out here.   The courses are longer, you know, the greens are harder.   Around the greens is harder. 
So it was an adjustment, but I feel comfortable out here.   I just love it out here.   It's great golf and everybody is very hard‑working and takes it very seriously.
It can only make you better. 

Q.   Up and down kind of start, but really crazy awesome back nine.   Take me through your round a little bit. 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yes, I played pretty solid all day.   You know, it was kind of a slow start, but, yeah, started heating up in the back nine, which was the front nine.
No, I hit the par‑5 in two.   That was the start of my birdies.   After that I hit one shot three feet that was not a birdie. 
After that, three out of four I made like bombs.   It was between 30‑ and 45‑footer, so it was fun. 

Q.   You finished tied 18th here last year.   Anything in particular about this course that kind of suits your eye?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Yes, everything.   So I came here for the first time last year, and from the practice round I loved this course.   It suits my eye really well.

Q.   Any particular part of your game that it suits? 
JOANNA KLATTEN:   Well, so like for par‑5s, they're all reachable, I think.   I think they are.   And so that's always an advantage for me. 
And, yeah, I am comfortable with most tee shots.   Yeah, no, it's just perfect for me. 

Q.   Is there anything you've been working on the past few weeks, like something you found in your swing that made you think you were going to play well this week?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   My long game has been really good lately.   I've struggled with putting the last few tournaments, especially the last one, so I decided to change everything about my putting. 
With my coach back at home, Randy Smith, we just tried to find like a putting style that would feel natural to me. 
I'm actually really surprised that that paid off already.   (Wind interference.)
I mean, I just putted great today, so it was fun.

Q.   You're in the lead thus far.   What is your mentality?   Three more rounds left.   What is your mentality going into the rest of the week?
JOANNA KLATTEN:   I mean, I've got nothing to change with my long game.   It's been good for a while.
So just got to try to have fun and keep the same putting results that I've had and just ‑‑   yeah, if it ain't broke, you know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT