BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Megan Gustafson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa - 55, Northwestern - 45
MEGAN GUSTAFSON: I think it's just being able to really come out and punch first.  We've kind of had that mantra all February long, and so just keeping that going, keeping the energy high right away, I think it helps us.  Obviously today it really helped us because they were coming back there at the end.  But we're just really happy that we had a great first quarter.
Q. Lexie hit two huge shots at the end of the game.  How important was her contribution today?
MEGAN GUSTAFSON: Yeah, it was really important.  I love seeing people, especially today Lexie stepping up.  I got in some foul trouble today, and so it's really nice to be able to depend on outside shooters.  Not only does that help out everyone else, but it opens up things down low because they do have to focus on the shooters, as well.  Again, I love the team basketball we played today, and I'm just really excited to move forward here.
Q. When you get off to a start like you did, 20 points in the first period, only one point for Northwestern, what does that do for your confidence?
MEGAN GUSTAFSON: Yeah, it boosts it a lot.  To be able to hold them to one point in the first quarter, that's huge.  Not only were we able to score and to put the ball in the bucket, but we were able to get stops on defense, and that was really important.  That's been an emphasis all year long is to be able to get those defensive stops, and we were able to do that today.
Q. Building on that, with the 22-1 start, did the team get a little complacent allowing Northwestern to get back into the game in the second quarter and even in the second half?
MEGAN GUSTAFSON: Yeah, we came off a great first quarter, held them to one point.  I think that kind of gave us a little bit of breathing room.  We might have relaxed a little too much, and so they were able to come back in the second quarter, but I think down the stretch we were able to finish and keep them from coming back all the way.  Again, I'm just proud of our grit.  That's kind of what's required in the game of basketball, especially when there's runs like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT