NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 23, 2003
Martin Brodeur
Jeff Friesen
Jamie Langenbrunner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was it like on the bench?

JEFF FRIESEN:  Obviously, people know me.  I am a very emotional hockey player, and for something like that to happen, a lot goes through your head.  And certainly obviously Pat didn't quit.  He was saying, you have got to move forward, Marshy, and it was just saying, hey, let's go out there and it turns out Marshy gives me a great pass to redeem myself.  It was a good feeling to get that one.

Q.  Where does that rate among your goals scored?

JEFF FRIESEN: Obviously, it's the biggest goal I have scored.  I never had a chance to play for the Stanley Cup, and to have that goal go in, and now I get a chance to go  -- it is a goal I will remember and definitely a game I will remember.

Q.  Marty, you must have watched a lot of Giguere in the last little while.  Can you compare and contrast your style with his? 

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, he's a butterfly goalie.  I think he's really technical.  He doesn't play the puck as much as I do, so definitely, that's a big difference between me and him, and he's been playing awesome.  I think technically, he's as good as anybody out there and he's playing with a lot of confidence.  But the fact that he's a butterfly goalie, I think is more similar to Patrick Lalime or Patrick Roy, these type of goalies than me. 

Q.  You have had so much success with the Gold Medal and Stanley Cup.  This was such a tough series.  Where does this victory rank because it was such a hard seven games?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  I think this is the situation we are in, 3-to-1 lead, coming back in the building that isn't really to fun play in, with their crowd, with their fans, it definitely ranks up there.  I think we played some great Game 7s along the way in my career, and this  -- the fact that it is on the road, I think you just go out and you live this experience with 25 guys, and you get emotional when you go through a team like that on the road. 

Q.  Marty, how much do you see the upcoming Finals as a matchup between two super goalies?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't know.  I will answer a lot of questions from now to the end of this series about Giguere, so definitely -- it's not new for him.  I have played a Final against Patrick Roy few a years ago that was the same thing.  It definitely should be a great battle.  I think we're meeting -- the two teams that are there are because they are team-oriented team and it should be exciting hockey.

Q.  Jamie, can you just take us through the two goals you scored, and just maybe talk about how it felt to get those goals and Joe Nieuwendyk, a good friend of yours, and him emotionally upset being out of the series  --

JAMIE LANGENBRUNNER:  I think Joe has been a big leader for us all year, and to watch him not be able to play and the effect it took on him affected all of us.  We were all I guess a little moved by his showing emotions.  He's usually a pretty, I don't know, tight to the belt guy that doesn't show everything.  It was something, maybe just a little bump there in the second period and it definitely did me  -- first goal, pretty lucky, Sergei took a good hard shot, puck came right to me, I was kind out of position by the time I got it coralled and tried to bank it off his skate and fortunately it went in.  Second one was just a great play by our first guy in the forecheck and I was able to get the puck out of the corner and just throw it at the net up high and good screen. 

Q.  Yesterday you were talking about your favorite Game 7 memory being the game in Philly where the late goal scored and it took the crowd just all the way out of it -- was this exactly like tonight? 

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Same kind of situation, it's amazing.  It's one of the best feelings when you are by yourself and you play as a team and people are going crazy and that crowd was just unbelievable and it's like we threw like just a cold shower to them.  When you play in a building and you play against all these people, it's kind of nice to be able to do that.  We did that against the Flyers a few years back and boom, again now, it was awesome.  I thought exactly about our conversation the day we scored, you know what, that's what I said yesterday, so definitely it kind of turned out pretty good. 

Q.  I am sure you were asked this but Pat said you were almost suicidal on the bench.  Everybody told you that you will get your chance and he said that you owed him one.  How does it feel getting it after all that happened?

JEFF FRIESEN:  Yeah, well obviously that was, you know, devastating play.  You just can't do that in that kind of a game.  You turn around, you try to backcheck and it's a 3 on 2, it's in, you know, I was suicidal yeah, definitely not an understatement, but they just, you know, few of the guys just said go through it, and I just got my frustrations out.  I tried snapping my stick, it wouldn't break, then just wanted to give myself a chance to redeem myself.  And Marshy made a great play and it went in for me.  It was something I will definitely remember, this experience.

Q.  Talk about the save on Hossa, ten minutes left or so,  --

MARTIN BRODEUR:  He had a few chances.  I don't know if you are talking about -- the one he came around  -- the one when I went down? 

Q.  Yeah.

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Kind of a miscommunication that I had with Nieder, I kind of got -- threw the puck back into the play and I think he wasn't really ready, he kind of threw it right down the pipe after that.  I just reacted.  I saw the puck was kind of going away from our player and I saw Hossa coming in, so I kind of challenged him and I went down on my side and hit me right on top of my arm and I was able to keep it in front of me.

Q.  Jeff, what sense do you have of the Canadian franchise waiting ten years without getting to the Stanley Cup Final and how would they be taking this in Meadowlake Saskatchewan right now?

JEFF FRIESEN:  Hopefully they are rooting for us.  But obviously we got a lot of Canadians on our team.  I am sure a lot of those people in Meadowlake are Oiler fans or Leaf fans.  I am not sure how many are Senator fans, so hopefully they are excited for the chance for a Meadowlake kid to go to the Finals, it will be the first time.

Q.  Marty, two years ago against Roy you were the younger guy, the challenger, he was the old guy.  Now he's talking about retirement.  You are the older guy in the Final and Giguere is a challenger; is this a first day of a new era?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Definitely.  When I look around me and there's not too many guys that are older than me anymore it kind of hits you a little bit, but it's a new wave of goalies out there that are doing real well.  You look at the Patrick Lalime, and Giguere and Marty Turco and Jose Theodore, a lot of goalies coming up and doing real well for their hockey club.  For me it's been ten years, it's been a great ride and hopefully continue for a lot more.  Definitely young bucks coming up and doing real well and getting a lot of publicity.  I am sure you guys are going to watch him on the Jay Leno Show and see him talking there.  Wish I could be, but it is in New York I guess.  Something he has been taking it the right way.  There will be a lot of pressure on him, a lot of pressure on me because, I think people expect a lot of things, but that's part of what we do and we're definitely going to try to hold my title here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT