NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 17, 1999
Jamie Langenbrunner
James Patrick
Michael Peca
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First 10 minutes of that first period looked like your team had trouble getting any type of offense going.  You were much better in the second half of the period.  What did you do differently?
 
JAMIE LANGENBRUNNER:  I think they stuck -- they played real tight defense.  I think the longer we stay with it, seems to wear them down a little more.  It is tough going out there and working hard. 
 

Q.  Hitchcock said before the game he wanted your team to come out and play much more physical than you did in Game 4?
 
JAMIE LANGENBRUNNER:  I think we started to last ten minutes started to get after them a little better.  Once we get going, create a few more turnovers.  The ice isn't real good out there, a little tough out there. Just got to stick with it. 
 

Q.  12 goals in the regular season; 10 in the Playoffs, you have been excellent thus far.  Do you feel more pressure to score now that Brett Hull got the injury; Mike Modano got the injury and they are struggling a little bit?
 
JAMIE LANGENBRUNNER:  I think all of us are putting pressure on ourselves; tough time of year; a lot of guys battling injuries.  We have a veteran group and everybody kinds of puts the extra work in and tries to make the difference. 
 
Q.  How goes the battle tonight?
 
JAMES PATRICK:  It is a defensive battle.  It is really bad ice.  It is just a lot neutral zone play; a lot of play down low in the corners, so it is just a lot of tough battles.  There aren't that many shots; looks like it is another 1-goal game.  We just got to battle for one more. 
 

Q.  I know you are getting your chance here with the Sabres paired with Jason Woolley who likes to take some chances.  What is your role with this team, aside from providing experience?
 
JAMES PATRICK:  I am more of a penalty killer defensive defenseman; especially paired with Jason, I know he is jumping in a hole.  I learned early just to back him up and keep it simple; let him make the plays; that is what he does best. 
   
 
Q.  Michael, that second period it was difficult to get shots, difficult to get scoring chances for your team.  Why?
 
MICHAEL PECA:  Well, not until the last seven minutes we started doing the things we needed here to create chances, win the battles down low and get the puck to the net. 
 

Q.  Your primary role has been really to play a defensive role against Nieuwendyk and Modano.  Is there a point in time when you have got to try and go more on the offense?
 
MICHAEL PECA:  Well, we try and keep it -- we don't try and get into any sort of defensive shell..... Certainly we want to just stay poised and commit ourselves to play the game we can; open up a lot of them to get chances that we feel we can create just as much if we play the same way. 
 

Q.  What do you have to do in the third period to come out with Wayne?
 
MICHAEL PECA:  Just play like the last seven minutes; started really creating a lot of chances for ourselves, getting guys to the net, getting the "D" involved and that is what we have to do that for the next 20 minutes. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT