BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alex, always good to finish with a big bird at last.  Little bonus heading into Saturday.  
ALEX NOREN: Definitely.  I played very good all day and hit pretty much every green except for one and, you know, you get a lot of chances here, you know, lot of wedges especially on the front-9 and I didn't, you know, get close enough for the birdies and then finally I was like, "This is getting all the way back to the hole" and it did.   
 Q.  We talked about the patience though because you know you'll have a lot of opportunities.  How do you keep going forward if you're not hitting it close or not making some of those putts, kind of keep patience in the round?  
ALEX NOREN: It's like golf.  We play golf a long time and we know that sometimes just not happening and you got to stay patient and all you can do is try to improve and improve your game and see what's wrong with your game, what's wrong with the shots that are not getting close enough and then you work on it.  But if you lose your patience, it's not a great game to play.   
 Q.  At the beginning of the week it looked like maybe a Top-6 finish would be good enough to get you into the Tour Championship.  How much are you thinking about it, are you just trying to find good golf?  
ALEX NOREN: I am thinking about it.  It's that kind of tournament.  You really want to get into the last one and, you know, I looked at the Playoffs last year, you know, when I wasn't a member and I really wanted to play all those four and then so I'm trying my best.   
 Q.  Two more days like today and I think you'll be in Atlanta.  Good playing so far.  
ALEX NOREN: Thank you.   
 Q.  Good day's work.  
ALEX NOREN: Overall, I'm very happy with 4-under.  I know there's a lot of chances out there and I drove it good during the day and -- it's tough to make a lot -- just tough sometimes to get it close enough with the wedges.  They tuck the pins away and going to have a lot of patience and paid off in the end.   
 Q.  You had so many wins at various parts of the world but you're still chasing the first win here.  You got close earlier in the season.  How you would you kind of sum up your kind of chase of winning in the States?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah.  I mean started good with a few chances, you know, in the spring and I'm trying to get back into that game again and it definitely feels a lot better this week than last month or month and a half and out here it's tough, it's tough to win anywhere and try your hardest and see -- you know, I'm trying to figure out what I need to do in my game and take that next step, yeah.   
 Q.  Is it a matter of just getting reacclimated to playing on U.S. soil, is that any kind of factor at all?  
ALEX NOREN: Of course.  But now I played a lot of tournaments over here, that helps a lot.  It's all experience with the rough and the greens and, you know, the weather is always little bit hotter so the course seems to get firmer and it's just -- yeah, it's a matter -- it's just experience, I think, yeah.   
 Q.  Are you one of those conscious of FedEx standings day-to-day?  
ALEX NOREN: I know what I have to do to get in the Top 30 and so I'm thinking about it a little bit, this week especially, moreso than maybe during the middle of the season.  This is my only chance to get in it and therefore I think about it a little bit more.   
 Q.  How excited that Thomas confirmed his four picks going back to France?  
ALEX NOREN: It's going to be great.  All we're trying to do is get our games in shape and I'm focusing on my energy on this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT