THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Six birdies yesterday, six birdies today.  How are you feeling?  
ALEX NOREN: Good.  I feel good.  It was so warm, even at the start of this round it was so warm, and just I came off a decent start and then kind of a sour double bogey on 5 maybe, 4?  4.  But then I'm really happy with the way I played after that.  I hit most of the fairways, most of the greens, and started hitting it better and better.   
 Q.  Webb rattled off a ridiculous round.  Did you see the number?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I saw it.   
 Q.  Are you surprised?  
ALEX NOREN: No, I'm not.  He's a great player, and this course, if you manage to make -- take care of the par-5s, there is some birdies and eagles to be had, but you got to play well to do it, but obviously he did.   
 Q.  How hard is it going to be to catch him?  
ALEX NOREN: What is he, 15-under?  Well, it's going to be tough if he's playing the way he's playing around here.  It's going to be very tough.  I think everybody's going to try their best.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into the weekend?  How do you approach it?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, I don't know what the weather's going to be like.  If it's similar weather, similar winds, there is a lot of birdies to be had, so my mindset's going to be, first of all, trying to hit the fairways, trying to hit the right clubs off the tees.  It's very important to be in the fairway because even if you're in the rough, it doesn't look so bad most of the time, but it's hard to hold the greens from the rough.  So just trying to hit fairways and be aggressive if I'm on the fairway.   
 Q.  Do you anticipate the setup and stuff being harder tomorrow after what Webb did?  
ALEX NOREN: I think the greens are going to be probably firmer and firmer.  We're not going to have much rain, no thunderstorms, I think, so there's still -- like they're softer than last year.  I remember last year I think it blew a little bit more, and that's going to make the scores possible out here.  If they firm up it's going to be just tougher and tougher.  So you never know.   
 Q.  Walk me through the putt at 16 where you had the chance for eagle and your reaction afterward.  
ALEX NOREN: It was a tough one because I thought it was a double-breaker.  In the end it was probably just right-to-left.  I thought it was going to -- I saw Russell Knox' putt kind of go the way I thought mine was going to go.  It didn't go that way after probably one of my best shots ever into that green.  So yeah, that was a bit annoying to miss that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT