WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're continuing to be put in this good position?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I played really solid today, I thought.  A lot of those within six feet birdies, that helps a lot.  So I felt like I was playing good enough to win out there, and obviously my putter was good.   
 Q.  The wind died down compared to the last few days?  
ALEX NOREN: It's humid and the ball stops quicker on the greens.  You can be more aggressive with longer irons.  It plays a little bit easier, yeah, so you can be more aggressive.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ALEX NOREN: I think I played very good all day, had a lot of chances.  A few chances within six feet for a birdie.  That helps.  It's tough to read these greens with the long putts.  You have to get close.   
 Q.  We talk about Patrick Reed being a great match play player.  You're proving this week and last week, as well, that you are equally as good.  What do you do well as a match play player?  
ALEX NOREN: I don't know, I like the format, it feels like the last nine holes on Sunday.  You get more intense.  You've got to be a little bit more aggressive, a little bit more tense and a little bit more into the game.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ALEX NOREN: I think it was nice.  I hit a few shots really close.  And on these greens, it's very tough if you're outside five or six feet.  And you get a few birdies within short range, it's nice to do that.   
 Q.  Strong performance out here.  
ALEX NOREN: I'm very happy.  He's such a tough competitor.  I played good.  I managed to hole a few birdie putts.  When we both had good chances, he just missed and I managed to make those.  It could have turned the other way quite easily.  But I'm very happy.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, he won the first with a par.  Then this is very, very nice for a birdie on 4; and then birdie 5, and then a swing all of a sudden in my favor.   
 Q.  When we looked at the statistics before we started the show today, it shows how well you've been playing this week.  
ALEX NOREN: It's one of those courses you know where to put it, and it's quite clear in your mind what you have to do.  It bounces a lot on the fairways, it bounces a lot on the greens.  It's nice to play on these courses.  It's like a links course.  So I think my game gets better on a course like this.  Just trying to keep it up.   
 Q.  What do you know about Cameron Smith?  
ALEX NOREN: I've never played with him.  I know he's a nice guy.  I've not really seen him play, so I don't know what to expect.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT