WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Grabbed the early lead, never let him catch up.  You end it here on 16.  Your thoughts on how the match went today?  
ALEX NOREN: I started out good, like a few under after 6.  And then made two bogeys there, 7 and 8.   
And he played good there in the middle and had a lot of chances.  I was fortunate to come out on top here because he played good.  It could have gone either way, I think.   
 Q.  You were in this position a year ago, when you lost to Dustin Johnson.  Did that experience help you today or is it with match play it's so different?  
ALEX NOREN: It obviously helps.  The more times you're up here, the better.  And in match play you can never count out the other guy or never try to give the other guy the holes.  And I think I've learned that.   
I got away with it on 12 today.  I was thinking about trying to go for a birdie, but it's such a tough pin and then got away with it.  That stuff you learn by playing match play.  But it's nice to be through it.   
 Q.  Kevin Kisner tomorrow on the semifinals, your thoughts on playing Kevin?  
ALEX NOREN: I played a round with him late last year.  I haven't played much with him.  We played a lot in college.  He was on the rival team.  That will be nice tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about the start, what happened then and how you finished it off.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I started well with 3-under after 6.  I felt like I had it going.  And then two quick bogeys on 7 and 8.   
He played great.  And I was fortunate he missed a few on 9, 10.  So I felt like it could have gone both ways.  But in the end, I played a little bit better again, put some pressure on him, I think.  He chipped in on 14.  But other than that, it was very even tee to green.  And I probably had a little bit better putting.   
 Q.  Is it mental fatigue, is it physical fatigue?  
ALEX NOREN: I don't know what it is.  But it's quite tough.  It's a lot of rounds.  Same course all over again.  It feels like it's pretty tough, especially with the heat.  It's been a lot cooler the first few days.   
 Q.  You're going on this course again tomorrow morning, a semifinal?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I'm so happy to be in the semis.  I wanted that last year when I lost to Dustin.  Yes, really looking forward to it.  It's going to be a great day.  It's a fun course to play, especially match play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT