THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You come up just short.  However, this is your best final round performance while being in contention.  What positives can you take away from the day?
ALEX NOREN: Well, I played pretty good.  I played the best round this week.  I played good yesterday but didn't feel as good and got away with it.  Today I hit a lot better iron shots, especially down the stretch.  I'm really happy I got back in the game.
I bogeyed 11, 3-putted 11 and bogeyed 13 and birdied 14, 16, which felt really good to make that putt on 16.
Then I wanted that birdie on 18.  Perfect position in the fairway, but just a little bit left.  I thought it was in the bunker but it was just shy of the bunker, which is a little bit tougher shot.
Q. You said something interesting before we came on, that you feel like you got beat today, as opposed to beating yourself, like maybe at Torrey Pines.  How different does this feel?  You have to feel positive heading into the WGC?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I feel good.  It's great being able to play against the best players in the world, and that's always been my goal.  You know, it's so much fun playing those nine holes.  You've got so much adrenaline, nervous.  I'm very nervous.  But you just want to get that win.  But yeah, it's like keep on trying.
Q. I know it has to be exciting and a little bit disappointing all at the same time for you right now?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I had a good chance in 18 and didn't take it.  Didn't hit a good enough second shot.  But I'm happy the way I came back from 14 on.  I played a lot better.  I'm happy with that.
Q. I thought you got a bad break on 18.  I thought it had pleasant of pace to get down into the sand?
ALEX NOREN: I wish it was in the sand.  It would have been a lot easier shot.  It was straight into the wind.  But in the rough, it's very dry, you don't get much spin and it was a little bit downhill lie.  I was quite happy to just get it within a birdie opportunity range and kind of didn't hit the putt as well as I wanted.
Q. How about the birdie putt on 16?
ALEX NOREN: That was sweet.  That was the best putt all week I think.
Q. Second and a third place finish now.  You must feel comfortable out here.
ALEX NOREN: I do.  That was my goal coming into the season, just to be able to play with these guys on these courses, and you know, prove to myself that I can do it and I'm just going to try to get that win.
Q. Any thoughts about the playoff on the 18th?
ALEX NOREN: Well, I think it's somewhat of a tougher -- if you don't have enough club to go on the right of that green, it's a tough shot if you're left.  But it's quite a lot of green there and it plays a little bit more downwind the second shot than it has all week.  So the guys, we all hit it far enough to come in with like a hybrid, 2-iron, 4-iron, something like that.  It's not a tough pin position, I don't think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT