THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 24, 2018
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lowest round by anybody this week, a 65.  What was that down to?
ALEX NOREN: Well, you know, yesterday I came off a bad start, 4- or 5-over early, and then tried to push myself making birdies and that didn't go so well.
Today, I tried to play a little more conservatively.  Tried to hit the greens, if I made birdie, that's great, but tried to make pars and get on the green because chipping out here is very fast, tough bermuda.  But I hit as many greens as I could.  Probably a little bit easier that way.
Q. Special shot into 18.  Does it remind you of Wentworth when you shot a 62 last year?  More challenging this one, though?
ALEX NOREN: Well, I don't want to watch myself --
Q. I'll just tell you how good it is.  It's in the air now.
ALEX NOREN: Good.  Yeah, it was a little bit easier wind on 18 I would say than yesterday, and straight off the right, and I had enough club, which is always good when you're trying to hit a fade.  When it came off, it's exactly what I wanted.
Q. You're no stranger to winning golf tournaments, but you came so close a few weeks ago at Torrey Pines.  Can you lean on anything from that experience that helps you going into tomorrow?
ALEX NOREN: I think over here, like I said earlier, you need to hit fairways and greens, just don't force too much.  With the greens a little bit softer, you can go for it a bit more.
But here, even though with the rain last night, they are pretty firm.  Just try to make pars and 5-under, like you say, was a low round.  It's a tough golf course, and I was 5-over yesterday.  I'm very happy about today but I'm just going to try to play my game and see what happens.  I'm happy with the way I played today.
Q. Big improvement from yesterday.  How were you able to get it around in 5-under?
ALEX NOREN: Well, like I played yesterday, I felt like I didn't play so bad.  But when you miss greens out here, it's tricky, and today, the ones I missed, I managed to make up-and-downs and just maybe hit a little bit better, try to hit a lot more greens, even with wedges, not trying to go for the pins as much because they tuck those away.
Then you start off with a few birdies the first few holes, and then you're such a different mind-set.  It shouldn't be but it is.  Yeah, just overall, just a little bit better I guess.
Q. We're seeing lower scores today.  How is this course playing differently than from what we saw Thursday and Friday?
ALEX NOREN: I would say less wind, a little different wind, not straight in on 17, for example.  15, as well, plays a little bit easier.
And then, you know, the rain last night, made a little bit of a difference to the greens.  You can go for them.  They hold a little bit better, especially with iron shots, like hole 10, they stop a little bit quicker.  Then people probably get more aggressive and you've got that feeling that you could actually make birdies.  Yesterday was just brutal.
Q. You had a chance to win a month ago at Torrey Pines.  How much will that experience help you as you're in the mix heading into Sunday?
ALEX NOREN: A lot; this is why I play on Sunday.  I'm a few back but anything can happen, and I'm just trying to put a good round in.  I know there's so many good players ahead of me, and behind me, as well; I know that from the past.  You think you have a chance when you're leading and stuff.  You just have to post a good round and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT