THE 146TH OPEN
July 20, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALEX NOREN: I played pretty well.  And the times I missed the green, I saved myself from bogeys.  And then the two par-5s coming in helps the mind a little bit.  Because it was pretty tough up until 14.
And then I got a chance on 15, and that's what you're hoping for.
Q. (Inaudible.)
ALEX NOREN: Well, I mean, I think I tried to come a little earlier to majors, play at least all those three days prior.  If I play a tournament before sometimes on other events, you want to start on Tuesday.  But when the courses are tougher, you need to see more of it.  And three days helps in the preparation, especially here in links golf.  On Monday was one wind, Tuesday was another, and now it's back to the same wind as Monday.  So it keeps -- your caddie has to be on the balance ball.  You've got to get the right shot, because it's a tricky wind.
Q. (Inaudible.)
ALEX NOREN: Well, better off the tee.  I gave myself pretty much on every hole I could go for the flag.  And my iron play wasn't probably as good as it's been before.  But it's also tough.  You try to calculate all the bounces and in the end maybe your focus is too much on all those numbers here and there.  And I think you get a bit of feel for this, as well.
But it's a very calculating place.  You need to -- it's like playing two par-3s on a par-4 hole.  You need to just hit good shots.
Q. (Inaudible.)
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I mean especially when it's a bigger event, like the Wentworth, I know I can do it now and the majors are -- it's just a few more good players you have to beat.  But the confidence is there.  But I haven't done it in a major and that's what I'm trying to do.  And it's a little bit tougher and I've experienced that.  And I'm just trying to improve what I need to improve and we'll see what happens.
Q. (Inaudible.)
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I mean I've worked a lot this year on hitting both ways, draw and fade.  And today I probably hit more draws than fades.  When the wind is strong it's tough to hit.  A fade goes pretty short, and the irons and the draw seem to go longer.  You have to calculate a lot.  And all those par-3s are playing tough, crosswind on pretty much every one.  And it's tough to get close to the holes.  It helped a lot with the rain last night and this morning to make it a lot softer, which is a lot easier, of course.  But the fairways are still running.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT