HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 27, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is your confidence?  
ALEX NOREN: Confidence is okay.  I've had a good season so far with like half of the tournaments have been good, and half maybe not as well as I hoped to.  But yeah, it feels nice.  I like this place.  Very tough course and it's a very good course.   
 Q.  Your incredible victory at the BMW PGA spring ed you forward to eighth place, one behind Henrik.  Be honest:  How much would you like to edge in front of him?  
ALEX NOREN: I haven't really thought about it.  Other people have asked me, too, how would you feel but I haven't really thought about it.  There's so many things in this game and that's not one that pops into my mind often.  And he's been up there for so long, so it feels a bit weird to hear that question.   
 Q.  Erin Hills was an odd week for us to evaluate how all the top golfers were doing that but leading into that you were on top results.  How does your game feeling at the moment?  
ALEX NOREN: It was nice to play some tournaments in America, the TPC PLAYERS and Wells Fargo.  That really gave me a lot of confidence to play.  Here you play the same courses all the time and you get used to them and you know kind of coming back here, after a good finish last year, you have good memories.   
When you come to a new place, it can be a bit odd and it can be harder to kind of prepare, and the guys over there has played those courses for so many years in a row and stuff like that.  It was nice to get some good results there.   
 Q.  It's a very important time on The European Tour with so many Rolex Series events coming up and of course the majors.  How would you like to be eight weeks from now?  
ALEX NOREN: You know, it is a great season coming up.  Every tournament is unbelievable.  I think The European Tour has done such good work in getting these tournaments to like incredible money and stature.  I'm looking forward to it, and we'll see what happens.  But I'm trying my hardest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT