BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As an eight-time winner on The European Tour, where does that round of golf rank among your best?  
ALEX NOREN: Probably my best ever.  It's a tough course mentally coming down the stretch.  It's not super narrow, but it's just if you hit it a little bit wayward, it can cost you.  And I putted probably the best I've ever putted.   
 Q.  Seven-shot deficit on the first tee, what were you thinking?  
ALEX NOREN: I wasn't thinking much of the deficit.  I was just trying to play a good round of golf and get into next week on a high.  I was finishing the last hole yesterday very bad, and I mean, I was pretty angry after the round, and then took a long rest and tried to just have a good day.  Came out holing putts on 1 and 2, so anything can happen from there.   
 Q.  The second shot on 18, what was your number and what was your plan?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, the number was quite good.  I knew I had a little bit of adrenaline and the 5-iron, it was a 5-iron yardage with a bit of adrenaline in there.  The flag was in a great position because I knew I couldn't hit it over the green, and I could just hit it as hard as I could and maybe a touch -- try to hit up towards the wind a little bit.   
It's not much.  But it felt like a nice number.  I hit a 5-iron and it just came out perfect; that one shot you want to see in the air.   
 Q.  Strong list of pursuers now.  What will you do for rest of the afternoon?  
ALEX NOREN: Just eat and hang out.  I might lose by how many shots -- but there is a chance.  I'm enjoying my afternoon, yeah.   
 Q.  You've won four times in 2016 but where does that round of golf of 62 compare?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, if I end up winning, it's probably the happiest moment ever.  But there's a lot of golf left but it's a very nice position to be in, because I didn't really finish off my round good yesterday.  Feels good.   
 Q.  On 18, an incredible second shot.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it was very nice.  I had a good number, and knew I couldn't hit it over the green with that club I had.  If I just struck it all right, I would get over the water.  So it was a very nice number to have, and then it was probably one of the best shots I've ever hit, yeah.   
 Q.  Starting birdie, birdie, do you think mentally, it's going to be a good round?  Do you get that positive vibe straightaway?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and then I was close on 3.  And 4, if you hit a good tee shot, you've got a great chance for a birdie or even an eagle.  I felt I had a lot of adrenaline the whole round, and it's a nice feeling to have, and to finish it off, it feels very nice.   
 Q.  I think you broke the course record, which stood for about 40 minutes or so prior to you.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's a new course, so this is the week to get it, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT