THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Overall thoughts on the day?  Do you like where you're at?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I don't know how many I'm back, but I'm happy with the way I played.  A couple of shots better would have been very nice, but that's how it is.  I got to look ahead to tomorrow and looking forward to it.   
 Q.  How difficult were the conditions today?  
ALEX NOREN: Very difficult.  I thought that in the beginning, especially up until like 14, then it calmed down a little bit and -- well it's nice with the trees, it keeps you a little bit out of the wind.  Those open holes are very windy.  But I'm happy with how I played and the golf course is not easy to get close to all the pins and that's, you're putting from a lot of eight yards away or something like that.   
 Q.  What's the game plan for tomorrow, given that you know that this is a risk-reward type course, you can go after it, but you can also find danger.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I think you got to play somewhat sensible, most shots just try to err on one side, always leave yourself kind of the uphill lie, so to speak, but you can be quite aggressive because you get a lot of wedges.  It's a big mix, a few long holes, a few very short holes and a lot of in the middle there.  So I'm going to try to be quite aggressive and it's all how you tee, how you put your tee shot.  If you place them really well you can be quite aggressive I think.  Because you get, the ball stops well from the fairway, so it's just firm when you come in with really long clubs or from the rough.   
 Q.  Talk about that finishing three holes, if you're in the mix tomorrow like obviously it's a pretty tough thing to negotiate, but chances there, right?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I think that, well the toughest one to get to is probably 17.  You got to hit some crazy great good shot to get close to that.  But 16, I think that it's, it hasn't played very long this week.  Today I had a 5-iron in.  And then you can manage to stop the ball on the green, if you flight it high enough.  But just err on maybe the left side of it.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you like the idea of having a somewhat gettable par-5 late in the round in a championship like this?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's nice.  I think that one is nice and then 18 is probably going to be a pitching wedge, gap wedge, something like that.  It's gettable.  It's tricky as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT