WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Win on the 16th hole here today.
ALEX NOREN: Again, got off to a good start.  Tricky conditions today, really tricky.  My putting was better today.  He's a good player and you never know when he's going to make a lot of birdies.  I was never really sure of this, but it's nice to get the win.
Q. You have to feel fortunate to survive the bunker plays on the last two holes.  Those were not easy shots on 15 or 16.
ALEX NOREN: The last one was really -- that was probably impossible.  But the one on 15, I don't know how to play that.  I've got to learn how to play that.  Those are tough with the wind, I think.  But to get a win with a good pitch on 15 was nice.
Q. You won both matches, I assume you change nothing before tomorrow, right?
ALEX NOREN: Change nothing.  I heard the wind was going to be totally different, maybe some thunder.  We'll see.
Q. Another great victory today.  Tell us about it, please.
ALEX NOREN: It was really tough conditions.  This course is -- a lot of holes get very tricky.  But it was nice.  I played okay and putted a little better than yesterday.  It's a tough opponent and he's going to make some good birdies here and there and you never know when they are going to come.  I was never, never sure.
Q. Early advantage, wasn't it?  You built up a strong lead.  Do you protect it?  What is the mental progress out there?  What do you do?
ALEX NOREN: You can protect it a little bit, especially in the windy conditions today.  If he's got a wedge in his hand, it's not as easy to make birdies as without the wind.  It kind of helps in the favor of the guy leading a little bit because you can play more conservative and maybe play eight, ten yards away from the pin sometimes and try to make par.  Try to force him to make birdies instead of he has a lot of chances for birdies, you know.
Q. You are in a very strong position.  I assume two wins you don't change anything?
ALEX NOREN: No, I'm not changing anything.  I'm trying to stay kind of where I am.  I think the game is okay.  And it's really enjoyable to play this match play.  It's nice to play a match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT