ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your verdict on today's effort?  
ALEX NOREN: A lot better off the tee.  Never in any problems.  A little bit longer off the tee, it helps a lot.  You can get a few more wedges out there instead of longer irons.  And I putted better today than the first two rounds.   
 Q.  Do you feel your form is a continuation of last season?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, coming into this week, it didn't feel as good as last year.  But I did a lot of training and tried to do this and that, but didn't really work out the way I wanted to.   
But you know, when you get into -- especially working with your caddie, and get into the normal routine, it's a little bit easier to get back into kind of the same style of golf that you are used to playing in tournaments; and maybe not trying the shots that you would like to use -- you're using the shots that you think you can pull off, and it usually works better, yeah.   
 Q.  Why did you feel you needed to do the training?  
ALEX NOREN: I've always played a fade, and I tried to straighten it out.  Maybe get some more distance.  A little bit of chipping and stuff with my coach.  But it's a long process you've got.  To do that, it probably takes a few years to change your game a little bit.  Obviously my game was great last year.  Well, you just always want to get a little bit better.   
 Q.  10-under; looking forward to tomorrow?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's going to be nice.  I came out to a good start today compared to yesterday.  Felt a little bit easier.  It's nice.  I like this course and it's a nice tournament, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy the break after a long season last year?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, but I mean, like I said, it's a little too long maybe.  I took a month and a half or even more, and it probably would have been good with a tournament in there somewhere, just after Christmas or something, just to get back at it.  Maybe I'll change next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT