TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 8, 2019
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obvious disappointment to bogey the last but overall how pleased with your day's work?  
ALEX NOREN: Very good. Front nine I played great. My back nine, a lot of chances. Didn't make that many birdies as I wanted, but 11-under after two days, I'm happy with, and hoping for a good weekend.   
 Q.  We've spoke between your return to form. What's behind it? What's clicked in your game recently?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, I played a lot of tournaments and try to work on my whole game. Maybe not focus too much on parts of the games like I've done before, like just try to get the whole game together, play a lot of golf on the golf course and maybe just trying to add both shapes, draw and fade, and that helps a lot.   
 Q.  How quickly does the confidence return when you start seeing the ball doing what you want it to do?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, then it's quick and you just need a good -- some good routines on the golf course, instead of kind of forcing stuff. I've been struggling with the putting over this year, and you know, you try to over read or try to do this and this, instead of just doing your routine and get into it.   
Once you see some go in, you know, your confidence goes back. So it's not that far away.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to the weekend and being in this position?  
ALEX NOREN: Very much. You know, this is what I want to do and I love playing for the win.   
 Q.  Overall, happy with the round?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, very good. Front nine, I played the best I can play pretty much, and the back nine, I had a lot of chances and you know, the short game kind of went on me a little bit. I'm happy with 11-under total. See what the weekend has.   
 Q.  Last week, you missed out on the WGC. Missing out on that, how much of an incentive to get back to that situation?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, that's what I want to do. You want to win tournaments. You want to play your best, and not getting into those big ones, it doesn't feel very good at all.   
 Q.  What are you going to do now? Are you going to practice at all?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, practice a little. Hit a few shots that I didn't manage to hit that well out there, and see if I can fix that for tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are the positives you're taking out of these first two days?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I've played so many good shots. Yesterday, I played probably the best I've played, and today the front nine was amazing. So I take out a lot of positives. You know, if somebody said you get 11-under after two days, I'd take it.   
I just have to refocus and not think of what it could have been today, but that's how it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT