NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I take it there are plenty of smiles when you have a round like that here.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's tough to smile out there because it's quite tricky, demanding and bouncy and this and that.  It was a lot of fun to play, but you've got to stay on your game.   
 Q.  A lot of fun; serious?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's fun.  I enjoy this course and I think you've got a lot of opportunities but you've got to play the right way.  It can bite you pretty fast.   
I enjoy that.  You have to think on the tee shots.  There's a fade up here or a draw down there with this club or that club.  Like 18, I was really lucky, but standing on that tee is quite exciting to play because you've got to hit a decent shot.  It's not just hit driver all the time.   
It's a fun golf course, yeah.   
 Q.  You've played it before; is it harder this year?  
ALEX NOREN: I have never played it before.   
 Q.  Never before?  
ALEX NOREN: Never before.  It's the hardest one I've played.   
 Q.  Tell me exactly what makes it hard.  
ALEX NOREN: I think it's just that the greens are, you know, not really small but they put the flags in small areas of the greens, and I don't know what you call it --   
 Q.  Kikuyu grass?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and the greens go up, it's quite small areas where they tuck the pins.  Sometimes I'd make a bogey and get a birdie back, and you go for these pins, they are tucked very well.   
Me and my caddie, we tried to stay patient and tried to hit a lot of the right part of the greens to have an easy putt and maybe not too much pressure on the iron game or the wedge game, and then try to get it close but not be stupid.   
 Q.  You're coping with the heat and the altitude at the same time.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's very warm.  I didn't eat and drink enough today.  I was struggling in the end.  But it didn't affect my game but I was very warm.   
 Q.  Are you having any chance to look around and enjoy end of the year, see the animals?  
ALEX NOREN: We were scheduled to go but the thunder came in the Pro-Am and I didn't go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT