BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 16, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today was from the outside looking in, the toughest of your four rounds, around the turn specifically, but you ground out a win and eventually won by two shots?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, you know, I had a tough time with the distances off my wedges and irons in the middle there and my caddie stepped in.  You've got to play the shots this and this way, and he helped me out a lot with that.  Sometimes you're a little bit blind yourself.  You think you hit a good shot but it comes up short, and you never want to blame yourself but he kind of told me what was going on.  Because we work a lot, he helps me out on the driving range a lot, as well.   
Just trying to get it together and then the last 3 1/2 holes, I managed to play the best I played all week, so I'm really happy and proud about that.   
 Q.  Did you foresee this time of the year you would be a three-time winner on Tour in 2016?  
ALEX NOREN: No, I didn't see that.  I'll never believe in myself that much to believe it; it's amazing to be here now.   
 Q.  You must be believing in yourself much more now?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I believe in myself, but the big thing is like you don't have to play a perfect game.  You just have to be a few parts of your game need to be strong to get a win.  My putting was probably the best thing this week.  I holed a lot of putts.  My chipping and wedge game was a lot better, so it helped me out.  Maybe the driving wasn't the best but I didn't lose that much ground on it.   
 Q.  What means more to a golfer, the title against your name, the trophy or the prize money?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, to me, hitting that last shot stiff instead of chunking it and 3-putting, that means the most to me.   
 Q.  What's next?  
ALEX NOREN: Next is Portugal.   
 Q.  Beyond Portugal?  Tell me about next year, the next few years.  With three wins, you matched what Rory McIlroy did last year and went on to win The Race to Dubai.  You've got a big future.  
ALEX NOREN: Well, I try to stay humble.  I try to stay humble.  I know golf is a tough game.  I take any win.  A win is great but I'm humble like that.  I don't see much, looking too much ahead, no.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT