BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 16, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Having three wins in a very short space of time, do you have to pinch yourself?  
ALEX NOREN: It's an amazing feeling.  Honestly I never thought this would happen.   
 Q.  We've long known that you're a very good player.  How have you transformed it to this kind of level?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, just kind of worked on the whole game and not being too picky on hitting this and this shot and staying on the range for six hours, coming home, kind of devastated I'm not pulling the right shots off.   
I'm trying to look at it a little bit more long term and enjoy golf a bit more.  I love playing golf and that's just how it should be, and not trying to put too much pressure on myself and look this way or that way and just find something that worked and then played with it that day.  Then the next day you try to become better, but not putting too much pressure on yourself to look a certain way or this or that.   
 Q.  That enjoyment seems evident because you're smiling even if you've got a one stroke lead down the stretch when others might be nervous?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, I mean, yeah, it's like before, I was so    the result was everything.  If I won here, my life would be great.  And now I enjoy playing these last nine holes.  It's unbelievable fun.  And even if I wouldn't have come out on top and had that fun, and that's how I few it a lot more now than before.  Because before, I would be so angry if I didn't win.  Now it's like I probably wasn't good enough today, and if I lose    that helps me coming down the stretch not having life or death thoughts.   
 Q.  Take us through the last round just a bit.  Because you started superbly, let it lip and had a wonderful escape at 12.  
ALEX NOREN: I've had some trouble with the driver but I got off to a good start there.  And then I couldn't really hit the right shots into the greens and made two bogeys where earlier this week I made up and downs.   
And then they were playing pretty good.  Bernd was playing pretty good and I was leading by only one shot and I was quite angry at myself because I couldn't hit the right shot at the right time.   
Then 12 was a big boost for me.  I hit the right shot off the tee and then I was by a root and I couldn't really chip out because I thought it would bounce too high.  I said to my caddie, if I hit a low iron slice, at least I get it under this, and if it goes in the water, it goes in the water.   
But I thought, I really thought, I could pull it off.  And I'd rather hit that shot than a chip out that I didn't believe in, and then I would be really angry.  If I hit it in the the water, then so be it.  But I pulled it off, made a par, almost a birdie.   Then I had a lot more kind of fire in me after that.   
 Q.  Are you conscious of your rise in The Race to Dubai, the World Rankings, three wins brings a lot of points and prize money your way, doesn't it.  
ALEX NOREN: The only thing that helps me not think too highly of myself, is that my game obviously has been very good, but I see a lot of the guys I play with, they hit better shots here and there, and I see a lot of things I want to work on.   
Obviously my putter helped me out tremendously this week, and I just want to be able to pull off all the shots I see around, the players I play with    Andrew Johnston, Beef, he hits the driver incredible, and I'd love to hit the driver like he does.  I'm working on that rather than just be too happy with my results.   
 Q.  And you're carrying on working; you're not taking a break?  Going to Portugal and other big ones?  
ALEX NOREN: I had so many bad tournaments in the past and being down the bottom my first few years, so I'm very happy about this and I don't take it for granted.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT