BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I saw you coming in, you were smiling.  Has the mood changed from the last hole?
ALEX NOREN: Sometimes it goes like that.  I'm happy about today.  I played a lot better than yesterday.  Yesterday was more of a struggle and get a good score in, putted really good yesterday.  And today was more relaxing, more green hits, more fairway hits.  So in the end, I'm happy.
Q. You seem to have momentum from the way you finished yesterday and spun off with birdie after birdie after birdie today?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, hit the wedges really good and it was nice playing with Andy Johnston today.  He played really well, and it obviously helps.  You kind of spur each other on.  Walters played good, as well.  So it's nice to be in a good group, in a good-playing group.
Q. Does it help with Beef there with the home crowd cheering and supporting him all the time?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, the crowd, it's great, it's like fairways lined.  There's a lot of people, yeah.  He obviously brings them out here.
Q. You've been used to it for years but this season is stellar, isn't it.
ALEX NOREN: It's good.  I'm practicing quite hard and it pace off sometimes, and this season has been good.
Q. But you always used to be famed for your practice and it didn't always do your health the best of good.  You've changed things down the years.
ALEX NOREN: I've changed a little.  I've tried to change the whole game and play a lot more golf off tournaments, as well.  I joined a golf club with no practice range which is fantastic, in Sweden.
Q. Do you get to play that all that often?
ALEX NOREN: I play every morning, and you can skip around there in 2 1/2 hours.  It's a brilliant course.  Jack designed it.  It's a nice course.
Q. Sounds like it's helped change your attitude a little bit.  Probably fatherhood, as well?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, fatherhood, it helps a lot now.  Double on the last, now I'm trying to get her to sleep at the right time, feed at the right time.  Obviously my girlfriend does the most of it but it keeps your mind off golf.
Q. How much of the gloss has been taken off by the double bogey?
ALEX NOREN: It's fine.  I don't dwell on it too much.  Just more concerned with how I played and how I played the shots needed to be in the top of the tournament.  Today I'm happy about my game and I'm happy about how I played, how I putted, how I stayed mentally in the moment.
Yeah, so I'm more concerned about that, because the last hole, maybe it's not deciding if I'm going to win.
Q. There were hundreds and hundreds of people following you around, partly because of Andrew Beef Johnston.  How was it playing in front of packed galleries?
ALEX NOREN: It's nice.  I love playing here.  London seems to draw a lot of crowd and it's very nice.  Andrew is great to the crowd.  He's playing great golf but he's also the nicest guy to the crowd I've ever seen.  I hope we all can learn from that.  You need also confidence to be obviously nice to the crowd and know that they are there for him.  It's great.
Q. So are you going to start whipping up the crowds, thumbs-up to everybody?
ALEX NOREN: No, but I think instead of shushing them and be quiet over there, be quiet over there, it's a great attitude he has.  I think we all -- it's nice to see that.  I think the crowd over here, nobody's interrupting our game anyway.  They know golf very well and they are quiet when they need to be.  It's a great crowd.
Q. And you're at the top of the leaderboard alongside him now, 10-under par, and that means if the weather were to pick up this afternoon, you would be with him again tomorrow?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, there's a good chance of that.  I've played with him a lot recently, and it's nice.  He plays a good game and it's nice to compete against him.
Q. You call him Andrew?
ALEX NOREN: I call him Andrew.  I don't know him that well to call him Beef.  I call him Beef every once in awhile.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT