ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 6, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your fifth consecutive win takes you into the final.  Describe the sense of achievement?  
ALEX NOREN: It feels amazing.  Going into the week, I didn't play very good at the PGA.  I thought if I get a couple of wins, that would be great, and now I'm here with five and it feels fantastic, yeah.   
 Q.  34 birdies and an eagle in 78 holes.  Have you ever played better consistently?  
ALEX NOREN: Probably not.  I've hit a lot of fairways.  I hit the drive a little bit longer than usually and putted great.   
 Q.  Putting great, obviously to all of us, we've seen you hole a lot of great putts, crucial putts at crucial times, any particular key to that?  
ALEX NOREN: I've been messing around with the putting, as well, trying to get a good feel for it.  Now finally, you know, I feel great over the ball.  I don't know, it's just reading them right and kind of working with my caddie on the reading a little bit.   
Yeah, I'm just happy this week is going great, I'm happy with it.   
 Q.  Predicting 30-mile-an-hour winds tomorrow; what will the golf course be like in those circumstances?  
ALEX NOREN: Pro-Am was probably 15, 20, and I thought it was a lot of tricky holes coming down the back nine.  It's going to be tricky, probably side winds, this and that.  I'm looking forward to it.  I don't mind the wind.  I don't like the rain, but I don't mind the wind.   
 Q.  You've won in Scotland already, how special to do it again?  
ALEX NOREN: Fantastic.  I've never even been close in a match play event before, and it's pretty hard mentally these matches, but I like it.   
 Q.  You don't seem to be down to play the next two events; is that correct?  
ALEX NOREN: I'm not.  I'm going to have a break and for three weeks, one week holiday, two weeks of training, and then looking forward to the rest, what is it, eight, ten tournaments left.   
 Q.  So you wouldn't change, even if you won?  
ALEX NOREN: I don't think so.  You know, then I may be play, don't get in, and then I kind of -- because I need these two weeks to really work on things that I think is going to be necessary for the tough stretch of tournaments coming up.  If I manage to make The Ryder Cup, you know, that would be amazing.  But I don't bet all my money on doing that.   
 Q.  Something about the Scottish air that suits you?  
ALEX NOREN: I like it.  We were in muggy air last week in New York, and this is nice.  You can play 36 holes and you're not even sweating.  It's been great weather.  It's been three days of perfect weather.  Tomorrow is going to be a little breezy I heard.   
 Q.  Is this the best form of your career?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, probably best consistency.  And I thought this year has been quite consistent.  Maybe not super golf all the time but pretty consistent.   
 Q.  All your wrist problems are over now?  
ALEX NOREN: All good.   
 Q.  Do you feel that 2014 season, you missed the most and you tried to make up for last season?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, you know, golf is golf and I'm always trying to be really happy with the good stuff because you're going to get a lot of bad stuff.  It's a tough game.   
I'm not thinking about that season at all.  I'm just working with my coaches and my caddie to try to get better.  Maybe not so much the result all the time.  Just hit the shots needed to beat the better players.   
 Q.  Who is your caddie?  
ALEX NOREN: Lee Warren.   
 Q.  How long have you been with him?  
ALEX NOREN: This year.   
 Q.  Any early match play memories at all?  
ALEX NOREN: We played a lot of match play in the amateur circuits.  I did all right.  Probably both good and bad.  But we won some, like European Team Championship.  We did all right.  I was okay, nothing special.   
 Q.  Who was on that team when the European Team won?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, that was Swedish guys.  I don't think anybody plays right now.   
 Q.  Has The Ryder Cup been in your thoughts ever since you won The Scottish Open?  
ALEX NOREN: Not really.  I mean, I was so far out coming into the Scottish and we had two majors right after that.  I've been working my whole career on trying to be in the now and not look too much ahead.  So I haven't thought that much about it.  If I get in, that's amazing.  If I don't, then I'll try to get in next time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT