ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 5, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX NOREN: It was a long day, and it was very nice to get a win out of this one because it was a battle.  He played steady, and then I got a break there on 16.   
 Q.  Out of the thick stuff?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and managed to make par.  He made bogey there.   
 Q.  You must have been looking forward to coming back to Scotland so soon.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, I love these kind of courses and links golf.  I thought, you know, we haven't played match play in so long, so I was looking forward to that, as well.   
 Q.  When did you play match play last?  
ALEX NOREN: I think it was the WGC like three years ago.   
 Q.  How much confidence did you take from Castle Stuart?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, it's obviously really nice, because -- well, I don't really think about it when I play.  But obviously it helps when it gets a little tight.  At the end, it feels like I've been here before and then -- and I like being there.  I'd rather win earlier, of course.  But it's really nice.   
 Q.  Are you subconsciously relaxed when you're in certain situations, knowing you've got the win behind you?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and obviously the more of succeeding when I felt pressure.  That's the main thing because it's hard to practice that if you don't play tournaments.  Obviously that feels really good.  I don't think about the win too much, more that.   
 Q.  How pleasing was it that your win was followed up by Henrik, the way he did, as well.  Terrific couple of weeks.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and especially in a major.  We've been longing for that in Sweden, and it's great for the whole country, and especially Henrik, and the way he did it, it was quite amazing.   
 Q.  Of the top seeds, you're sort of the last man standing.  Do you have the belief that you can go on and complete the job over the weekend?  
ALEX NOREN: I hope so.  I definitely really hope so.  It's tough.  Match play is tough.  I've played three good matches and I just need a lot of rest now because I can feel it in my head, it's been a long day.  This match play, I think takes a little bit more out of you.   
 Q.  Especially two rounds in the one day.  
ALEX NOREN: When you watch the other guy, what he does, usually you just go about your business and if he plays great, that's great for him and it's great for the group.   
But here, it's kind of like what he does, and you maybe adjust your strategy a little bit.  Then mentally, it's a little bit more, you know, a lot of fun, but also maybe a little bit more tired than I would be 36 holes on my own.   
 Q.  Plenty of rest tonight, early to bed -- how about the wee one?  
ALEX NOREN: Most of the time she's not too bad.   
 Q.  What's her name?  
ALEX NOREN: Iris.  She's five months.   
 Q.  Nice Swedish semifinal tomorrow with Johan.  
ALEX NOREN: Tomorrow I play him, okay.   
 Q.  Have you played him before?  
ALEX NOREN: I've played with him in practice.  That's going to be fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT