ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEIL AHERN: Alex, congratulations, how does it feel to be the champion of the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open?   
ALEX NOREN: It feels amazing.  By far the biggest win in my career in a great field of players which I'm really happy about.  So it feels amazing, and I probably can't believe it.   
NEIL AHERN: You were certainly coming under pressure there quite a few times during that round, but you didn't show it.   
ALEX NOREN: Well, I practised some with Martin Kaymer back in the day, he looks so calm when he was leading, and I tried to do the same.  Maybe that kind of gets over to my game a little bit.   
It was pretty tough out there to see those guys making a few birdies, and so many players just behind me, that's always tough.   
 Q.  Your fifth European Tour title, and like you say, the biggest moment of your career, you must be absolutely thrilled.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it feels amazing.  I doubted myself so many times during this round, and it didn't feel real, but hopefully soon it feels real.   
 Q.  So many twists and turns during that final round.  Did you just blank out on what everybody else was doing and just focus on what you were doing?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, you can't really do anything else.  But I was playing with a guy, and Hatton was playing really good.  Didn't hole out as many putts as he wanted and had a lot of chances, and I did, as well.  It got a little bit frustrating from hole maybe 5 to 11; I thought I was going to make a couple of birdies there.  Didn't happen.   
Then was a must-birdie on 12 that I made, and after 12, it felt really nice, a good shot in on, was it 14, with birdie there, or 15.  That one felt really, really good.   
 Q.  This course is obviously a place that will have a special place in your heart forever, won't it.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and I had a really sour finish to 2012.  I missed out from four feet to get in a playoff.  I remember the locker room guys were -- I felt like they were feeling with me.  They are really nice up here.  They have been great all week, kind of like a second family cheering me on, and to pull through; it's always when you play abroad, you don't have the same support as at home.  But here it feels like the crowd is really nice.  Everybody is very friendly, cheering us on.   
 Q.  The Open next week, your attention turning to that, how much are you looking forward and how well can you do?  
ALEX NOREN: It's a totally new week.  I've played this game long enough to understand that I take whatever good stuff happens with a smile, because it's always up-and-down and I'm just trying to get more happy days than bad days.   
So next week is a totally new week, and I'm just trying to prepare as normal and try not to think too highly of myself all of a sudden.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT