ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL SYMES: Thanks for joining us, pretty miserable day but you must be happy with how it ended.   
ALEX NOREN: Very happy.  The last nine was very tough.  But after all, when you think it's not that many brutal holes, it's just that the easier holes get tougher, the medium holes get tougher, and it's just about staying dry, which is the main thing.   
PAUL SYMES: And the birdie on the last, nice to have a two-shot gap, as well.   
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, very nice.  Choose the wrong shot -- chose the wrong club and ended up down there but really happy with making that putt.   
 Q.  Must be nice to finish the day the way you started at the top of the leaderboard.  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, and that's what I was trying to do to put in a good round.  I didn't expect this weather to come in, but well, it is what it is.   
 Q.  Is that the joys of links golf?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, at the same time, the course plays pretty much the same; it stayed dry, and maybe another course, it would have flooded.  So it's pretty nice to play on these surfaces in this weather.   
 Q.  I'm sure you won't be taking anything for granted, there have been a lot of twists and turns today and could well be a few more tomorrow.  
ALEX NOREN: I've learned that when you lead, it's not certain that you're going to win, if you just hold on it.  Anybody, even 6-, 7-under tomorrow, can shoot a brilliant round.  It's going to be tough.  I'm trying to putt in a good round and work with my caddie one shot at a time, as the thing says.  But just trying to putt in a good round.   
 Q.  Is it important just to ignore what the others are doing, just concentrate on what you're doing?  
ALEX NOREN: It's so important.  It's very important.  I think, you know, as I learned when you play on this tour, you're just trying to hit one shot at a time, and being with a caddie it helps a lot to focus.  It's just trying to make as many birdies as you can and see what happens.   
 Q.  What kind of weather would you like tomorrow?  Do you like playing in heavy rain or strong wind?  What would suit you tomorrow?  
ALEX NOREN: I think two-club wind would be fun for everybody, to dry off the course a little bit.  Because then you're going to see a lot of birdies, a few bogeys here and there.  I think it's going to be fun.   
I like a little bit of wind.  I don't prefer the rain.  I don't like the rain.   
 Q.  Can you talk through the shot on 17?  It looked like the rain was coming down at its heaviest and you hit a shot under the umbrella to see it go close?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, to not sound cocky, it's a good pin today, all the way back and everything bounces towards that pin.  So I was trying to hit a fade that goes to the middle of the green and then kicks on to the flag, and we got a good club, a 6-iron that had a good yardage.  I hit the shot that I wanted, so I thought it was going to be maybe five meters short, but it ended up being very close.   
 Q.  You've obviously already won four times on the Tour, but what would it mean to get another win under your belt and to climb back up the World Rankings to somewhere where you've been before, in the Top-50 maybe?  
ALEX NOREN: Especially this kind of tournament, it would be a huge win for me.  And the ranking points, the biggest.  So that's what I'm trying to do, yeah.  I'd love to get a little bit higher in the rankings so I can get in the tournament without having -- the scheduling gets a little bit easier.   
 Q.  Given you've had three pretty tough days condition-wise here, do you still feel pretty mentally and physically fresh with one round to go and also The Open next week?  
ALEX NOREN: It's pretty nice, to lay in, have a 3.20 tee off.  That helps.   
No, but it is a little bit frustrating when you tee off late and preferably today, we would have wanted to tee off earlier.  I hope we tee off earlier tomorrow.  Well, it's late, but with experience, I've been out here maybe nine or ten years now, and you just try and do something else during the evenings, during the mornings and then try to get out here with a fresh mind.   
 Q.  Am I right in saying that you had a wrist injury at the start of the year?  
ALEX NOREN: Well, I was out 2014, all of 2014, not this year no.  I had a little baby in the beginning of the year that I was out for maybe about two months because of that.   
 Q.  And with these lay-offs, has that made you even hungrier now to get more victories?  
ALEX NOREN: It's only my I think 11th tournament this year.  I feel fresh and it's very nice to have the time off in between tournaments to kind of prepare and to be a little hungry.   
 Q.  Just wondering how aware were you of the sort of Olympic situation this week?  I think I'm right in saying even if you do win, you would miss out fractionally behind David Lingmerth.  
ALEX NOREN: I haven't really thought about the Olympics.  I think we have so many good tournaments, we have four majors and WGCs and great events, and I think, you know, I'm so happy that we have so many good organizations that put up brilliant tournaments.  So I think Olympic has to do a pretty awesome job to stand up even an event, like a middle event on The European Tour.   
I haven't really thought about the Olympics much from my own sake.   
PAUL SYMES: Thanks, Alex.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT