ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALEX NOREN: I like this place.  It's a really fun course to play.  A few very tricky holes and then a few holes where you can go for the green in two on the par 5s and you can reach I think two greens today on the par 4 in one, which is very fun for us.  Some weeks, we play courses where it's tough all the way around, and here, it's kind of a really nice mix, so I like it.
Q. Are you confident then that you can keep this momentum going?
ALEX NOREN: Well, you know, it's going a little bit better throughout these two rounds.  Yeah, well, I'm really looking forward to it.  Anything can happen on the weekend, but yeah, I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Is The Open next week a distraction at all, or is it a case of focusing round by round?
ALEX NOREN: I'm trying to focus on this, and then The Open starts on Thursday.  I've got enough to think about before that.  So no, I'm really not focusing on that at all.
Obviously it's great to play in wind like this as a preparation, getting the right equipment for The Open.  This is a good test for it.  But it's a big event, one of the biggest on Tour, and not seeing this as a training for The Open, more like an individual event.
Q. How do you feel you've maneuvered your way around this course for the second day in a row?
ALEX NOREN: It wasn't easy either, but I managed to hit some good shots.  Especially on my back nine, the front nine.  So you know, it got better and better.  Played steady on the front nine, and then you know, my last nine holes, I really got it going.  It's always nice when you get it going and then another birdie maybe drops, and that's what happened today.
Q. There was something that the switch was there, or it was the change of halves in the way the wind blew?
ALEX NOREN: Well, I just kind of worked on my swing, and you're messing around and all of a sudden I got a little bit better strike, and a little bit better strike.  Mentally, that's nice; if I get a better strike, maybe I can reach that hole in one or that hole in two.  There are maybe some easier holes on the front nine today.  2 played shorter.  3 played shorter.  Also the 6 was reachable today in two.  Mentally that's a big fun factor, and then obviously holes play easier, you get a chance for birdies.
Q. You were probably fearing the worst, because there were all these forecasts of wind up to 30 miles an hour.  You've been a little bit lucky.
ALEX NOREN: We were really lucky yesterday.  The guys that played in the afternoon, it was a lot tougher for them, but that's the way it is sometimes.  Yeah, but it was a lot nicer today.  But the wind was pretty tricky because it's in a crosswind all the way around, a little bit of help, a little bit of hurt, so there's a lot of thinking out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT