OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2016
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 66 today, what do you make of that performance?
ALEX NOREN: Well, I was very happy when it was all over because it didn't feel that good warming up and stuff.  I hit my irons really good all day.  Pretty average driving.  Was tough on the few holes, a lot of draws here and I don't like to draw it.  So I'm really happy, yeah.
Q. You said you warmed up, wasn't feeling quite right.  What do you do when you go out on the golf course and mentally adapt to that?  Do you have to change your game plan when you feel like that?
ALEX NOREN: That's the thing, like the last two weeks, I hit a lot of fades off the tee and here you know it's a drawer's course.  So you feel a bit down, as a fader.  But you just have to accept it and maybe play less aggressive on some holes.  But I missed a few shots and got away with it and then I putted pretty well.  The irons were good, and then it helps a lot.
Q. If only all the down days added up to 66.  Going forward, rest of the week, what do you make of the golf course and the way it's playing?  Is it a course you love?  You were second here last year.  What is it about here that you really like and how has it changed?
ALEX NOREN: They have made small changes with the bunkers, run-offs and more rough than last year but the rough is quite nice this year, not super heavy.  So I think if you are get the ball somewhat in play, you've got to get your irons close, because the greens are very flat.  So I think if you're putting well, you can hole a lot of putts.
Q. What are your thoughts on starting with a wonderful low score like that?
ALEX NOREN: Well, very happy.  I hit a lot of good shots but a few bad shots and got a way with it, and then you end up with 66, so I'm very happy.
I didn't really expect it, and then it feels even better.
Q. I take it, it's nice when you have walked away from this track, second place last year, coming back in, must feel good?
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, felt really well.  The practise rounds went pretty good.  As I said, I like fading the ball off the tee, and this is a drawer's course.  I just maybe play a little bit defensive on some shots, and you can go for others.  I'm really happy with 66.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT