AMUNDI OPEN DE FRANCE
October 16, 2019
Alex Noren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CLARE BODEL: We welcome to the press room the defending champion, Alex Noren.   
Alex, tell us what it's like to be back here after such a fantastic win last season.   
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it's great. The course is in fantastic shape and it brings back a lot of memories. Last time it was a different climate but the course plays very similar to Ryder Cup in terms of it's more green than we usually see it.   
But overall, it's great.   
CLARE BODEL: Obviously after that win, just a few months later, you were back here again for another memorable occasion, your debut in The Ryder Cup. You get asked about this all the time, but that putt on 18, what a moment.   
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, it was great. The whole match was over, but we kept playing and it was nice that that -- to put a final point on the board and it ended like that, was fantastic for everybody.   
CLARE BODEL: And also, this is a prestigious title for you to win, one of Europe's oldest National Opens. Must have been great to get that trophy in the cabinet.   
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, first time I was here in 2007, first time, and my friend was on the bag and we just shook our heads because we thought it was too tough. The course was brutal and it's still very tough.   
But the more times you're here, the more you understand where you want to hit the ball, where to be aggressive, where to be defensive, and it's one of those courses just like -- I rank this as high, up there with Wentworth tournament, the BMW PGA Championship there. It's classic tournaments, classic courses and tough courses.   
It's great to go from thinking it's too hard, too difficult, to end up winning. I was very proud of that.   
 Q.  Considering the good memories you have on this golf course, do you think it's the best way to get back to a positive dynamic, since you had a tougher 2019 after the 2018 season?  
ALEX NOREN: Yeah, wherever you've played a lot of times and good memories, it's always good. I played a few new courses in America which was -- I mean, it's not as big of an advantage, especially when I played here since 2007.   
Like I said, it's definitely good.   
CLARE BODEL: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT