BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a wonderful round out there today.  You started the round with five birdies in a six-hole stretch.  Talk about that.  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, yeah, I started hitting the ball really good, hitting it close to the hole, making many so putts.   
Then I slowed down in the middle of the round.  I had a couple good chances that I missed.  Then I hit a really good second shot on the Par 5, 15, after bogeying the 14th.   
So it was good to birdie that hole, and then two more birdies for a really good round.   
 Q.  It's a new course this week.  Everybody is just seeing it.  How you did you prepare for this round and what do you like about this course?  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, it was good to play a good practice round on Monday.  The course was really wet.  On Tuesday actually.  It was really wet, but we had a good practice round.   
I really like the golf course and the greens are rolling really good, so I'm enjoying it.   
 Q.  I know it's only the first round, but what would a win here this week mean for the season and in general for you guys?  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Yes, I don't want to think about it this early.  But, yeah, it's in the back of my mind.  Not only winning would be great, but the consequences:  two years back on the PGA TOUR after being in Europe and going back and forth.  Now play here much, it would be amazing.   
 Q.  Do you think at all about the Open Championship?  It's at Carnoustie this week.  I know you had a tough time there a few years ago.  Finished one shot out of the playoff.  Do you think about that much?  Is it kind of neat to be leading a tournament the same week?  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, I'm really happy to be here and to have a good round here.  Of course I'm thinking about the Open, and especially because it's in Carnoustie.  Eleven years ago was such an incredible time for me.  It was a tournament that pushed me over to the PGA TOUR, so it's really huge for me.   
But happy to be here and enjoying it.   
 Q.  Fast start out there today.  Talk about the fast start.  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, I've been hitting the ball good for a while.  Since I won in Germany last year the results didn't show, but I've been hitting it really good and only making some mistakes here and there.   
The last few weeks I eliminated mistakes, and it's paying off and showing the good playing.   
 Q.  Did the course become more difficult?  Did conditions change?  It was kind of like pars after that.  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  No.  I saw I was leading but didn't affect me.  I really just missed a couple putts on 9, 10, short chip on 11, then three-putt on 14 that kind of hurt me.   
Then come back with a couple birdies and felt really good.  I played very well.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that score is going to hold up for the day?  
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  I'm really happy with the score, 7-under.  I don't know if it's going to hold or not, but I don't really mind.  7-under starting is great.  Just practice the rest of the day and relax.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT