THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 3, 2012
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about the great round today, ties the low round 67.   Just maybe some of the key shots. 
ANDRES ROMERO:   It was a great front nine.   I was 3‑under.   And then after 10 and 11 I kind of went down a little bit.   But after the shot I hit on 12, I just played different golf from there, and it gave me a lot of confidence. 

Q.   Why did that give you some confidence? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   That hole was probably the most hard today, and that pin placement on the back was really tough.   And I hit a great shot, and after that I started getting a lot of confidence in my shots.

Q.   What did you hit into 18, and did you know what that putt meant? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   I was very concerned about the tee shot, and then I hit a pitching wedge from 160, and I was very concerned about the line, and I wanted to make sure that I was on it and I could give myself the opportunity for birdie. 
My putt was just amazing.   I knew I was going to make it.

Q.   What does this do for your confidence tomorrow, for your U.S. Open qualifying? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   Unfortunately I won't be playing the U.S. Open qualifier tomorrow.   I have to go back to Argentina for some business that I have to do. 

Q.   You're a very confident golfer, a very aggressive golfer.   Where does that come from? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   I've been playing like that since I've been a kid.   I've always been really aggressive, but that's why I post sometimes birdies and bogeys and all kind of colors.   But I've been learning, and I've been just learning how to be less aggressive sometimes and just go for the green and just try to learn. 

Q.   Can you give an example of a time when maybe in the past you would have gone for it and maybe gotten yourself in trouble, and now you thought, I'll just do this instead? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   I'm always confident, and I play on the edge, and I just want to go for it.   I knew that on 18 it was crucial for me going for the pin and just trying to make the putt. 

Q.   When you woke up this morning and you were in the pack, you still thought, I'm going to do everything I can to win this, as opposed to just come in comfortably top 10 or whatever? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   Yeah, I woke up knowing that I had to reduce the bogeys I was making, and I just thought about the birdies that were already there, that I was making birdies already.   So I had to try to keep making pars, and that was going to happen. 

Q.   To be this close, do you feel like you've got a chance to get into a playoff? 
ANDRES ROMERO:   Nothing is lost.   I will wait until the last putt, and if I have to go for a playoff, I will be more than happy to do it, otherwise I'm super satisfied with what I did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT