JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2018
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After the 71 yesterday, another 64.  Feel good about playing well again?
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Yes, I feel I been playing really good.  I played really good the three days.  The only problem yesterday in the middle of the round I made a mistake and I lost my focus.
That was the only problem about yesterday, that the second nine I wasn't focus and I couldn't do what I been working on.
Other than that, I been playing well.  I played well again today.
Q. Did the heat lead to maybe that lack of focus yesterday?
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  No, no, the heat didn't have anything to do with it.  I made some mistakes.  I wouldn't let them go.  I really punished myself, so I wasn't able to keep playing the same way the last ten holes.
That was pretty much it.  The heat didn't have anything to do, because I live in places with a lot of heat and it's okay with me.
Q. Despite the rain delays, was that any sort of a mental obstacle to deal with today?
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Yeah, the rain delay is kind of funny, because on the 1st hole it was the first rain delay.  We hit two really bad shots, so I was already not feeling very well.  So the first rain delay I came and I chilled and I came back out with a different attitude to start the day all over again.  So that delay kind of helped me.
And then the second delay we only had a second shot on 18.  And, yeah, I was very focused and on a roll, so I was feeling good to just go ahead and finish.
Hit the shot I was going to hit and I hit a good shot to the middle of the green and two-putt.
Q. If you hit two bad shots and you have to stop and go inside, are you just thinking about those two bad shots over and over?
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, no, because -- yeah, I thought about a 3-wood from the tee box because I hit it great yesterday on the range after we played.  To go to the first tee and hit a bad one again, I didn't like that at all.
I thought about that for a little bit, but then I calmed down, chilled for a while, and we came out with a different attitude.
Q. 14-under now.  Must be feeling good about your position.  How do you hope to finish off the last day?
ANDRES ROMERO: (Through translation.)  Well, I feel pretty confident I'm going to come back and feel same way as today.  I'm really hoping for that, but of course is the pressure and the thoughts about last round and being kind of close to the lead.
I always have the dream of going back to Carnoustie, so it's going to be a little bit of pressure, but I think I'm going to handle it.
Q. Did he say he likes the course?  Does it fit the game?
THE INTERPRETER: Yeah, he was telling him that, yeah, he's been here nine times, so he was almost feels local.  He really likes the course and he knows where to miss and not to miss, so he feels pretty comfortable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT