ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 22, 2009
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome defending champion, Andres Romero, to the interview room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans. Thank you for coming. First I'd just like to ask what's this last year been like since winning? What's the feeling like coming back here as the defending champion?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: I'm very happy to be here. It is a very nice city. I like it very much. And it brings me a lot of memories of my victory last year. I'm very happy to be here.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Before we open it up for questions, just obviously a big time for Argentina and Angel Cabrera's Masters victory. Did you do some celebrating with him or on your own or with him?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: It was a very special week. I watched it on TV there at Augusta, all of his rounds. But the last holes I followed him on the cart with his manager and his professor. I felt very nervous that those last holes, but then I was very happy for him.   
 It's very important for golf in Argentina and Latin America. I'm very thankful for Angel, because that opens our eyes to know that we can win these tournaments.   
  
  Q. Are you tired at all going to the masters, back to Argentina and then back here?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: Last week also I played in Cordoba in a local tournament with Angel, his golf course on Cordoba Golf Club. That was also a special week there because we celebrated almost every day with him (laughing).   
 But I also found some of my game that I've been -- I didn't play very well in the Masters, so that week helped me to get my game again. Well, anyway, I'm tired.   
  
  Q. You take more pride in winning here last year or winning Rookie of the Year honors for the whole season? What's more important?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: To winning here in New Orleans, it opened a lot of doors for me, and it was very important. But the Rookie of the Year award it's just one year I can win it, just one year. I think that's very important, because the players are the ones who are choosing that prize, so it's very important.   
 But, anyway, the title here in New Orleans gave me that opportunity to win that prize.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about the way the course is playing this year? Do you feel any difference than from last year?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: I don't find any difference, big difference. The only difference is in my game. I am not with the confidence that I was last year when I played here.   
 But, well, I hope that all the memories that I find at every hole gives me the possibility of finding my game again.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that you had found some of your game last week. Could you elaborate on that? What it was that wasn't working that you worked on?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: It's just a matter of confidence. Playing there in Cordoba, that is a course that I like a lot, and I always finish in a good position. Last week I finished fifth.   
 But it's a matter of confidence. That helped me a lot to finish in a good position to be in the hunt last week.   
 I think that the only week that I played good, really, this year is in L.A. in the Northern Trust Open. Then I couldn't find my game. So I hope that last week and I start finding my game here.   
  
  Q. Do you use an instructor or is it mostly a homemade swing and you work on things yourself?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: It's kind of weird because a couple of years ago I didn't practice with a teacher, I just followed my instincts. But since this year I've been practicing with my professor, and, it's the more I practice with him, the worst results I get (smiling).   
 But anyway, I think it's not a problem of swing, it's all in my head. As I said before, confidence is, I think, the most important thing in my game. When I have confidence in my game, I play good, and I don't have problems with my swing.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Looking ahead to the Presidents Cup, there is a possibility Argentina could have a high number of representatives with Angel, the young countryman that won on the European Tour. What are your thoughts on that?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: It's like the Ryder Cup for us, for the International Team. We all want to play there. And the last time two years ago I was really close to play, but I couldn't.   
 I hope to play this year, because Cabrera would play, Camilo is playing also. Well, that's one of my goals for this year to play the Presidents Cup.   
  
  Q. Are you superstitious, and if so what will you use this week to boost your confidence?   
 ANDRES ROMERO: I don't know, but I made almost the similar things as I did last year. I am in the same hotel and more or less everything is the same. I have to play good now.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: We appreciate your time. Thank you for coming in. All the best for your defense this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT