BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2017
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. BMW International Open champion, how does it feel?
ANDRES ROMERO: I'm really happy, after ten years winning on The European Tour, especially here in Germany.  I'm really, really happy.  It's so nice that my caddie is here, as well, my friend, and I want to thank my family, my manager, my brothers and sisters.  I'm really happy.
Q. What about that first putt on 18?
ANDRES ROMERO: Well, I haven't been in that position for a long time, so it felt a little funny, only on that 18th hole, because I was playing great golf.  And then I was looking at the leaderboard and I saw that the other guys missed the green on 17, but I didn't want to look at that.  But I was a little nervous.  I hit it just behind the first putt but ended up doing good.
Q. At what point in the last round do you think you could win the tournament?
ANDRES ROMERO: Well, I always thought I had a chance, but when I made the birdie on 8, I knew I had to birdie 9, and then after a really good par on 10, everything looked good for me.
Q. We're going to see a lot more of you on The European Tour, yes?
ANDRES ROMERO: I'm very happen-that I'm going to be here on The European Tour again.  I enjoy it here and I want to say thanks to the BMW people because if it wasn't for them, that they gave me an invite for this event, I don't have any category, and this is going to be life-changing.  So thanks a lot for BMW.
It's been a great week and I'm looking forward to play The European Tour.
Q. You made seven birdies over the last 11 holes.  Were these the best two hours of golf you ever played?
ANDRES ROMERO: Well, not only those two hours, but the whole round was very good.  I was focused all day.  I didn't make my bogeys.  That is a rare thing for my type of game.  The last few holes I noticed I made seven birdies, but the whole round was excellent.
Q. The first putt on the 18th green, were you getting a little nervous when you realised you could win?
ANDRES ROMERO: Well, when I arrived to the 18th green, I felt nervous, really nervous for the first time.  I didn't want to look at the screen, at the guys that were playing the 17th hole.  I was trying not to look at it but I felt nervous for the first time, a little shaky, and I hit it just behind that first putt.
It was an excellent round, 7-under today and with no bogeys is huge for me.  I was nervous when I got to the 18th green but finally when I was thinking with two putts I could win the tournament, I was really nervous.  But hopefully, yeah, I was going to do a 2-putt and now I have my trophy and enjoy this moment.
Q. What does this win mean to you?
ANDRES ROMERO: It's huge for me because I only have part-time status in the PGA TOUR, and I didn't have any status here in Europe.  So this win gives me the choice to play here and I'm happy for that.  They asked me if I wanted to become a member but I didn't know I was going to play this well.  So now that I won, I have the option, and it's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT