WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2007
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did you know you were playing with Tiger the first two days? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, it's going to be exciting, difficult at the same time.  I admire his game a lot, so to have him in the same group the first two days is something I'm looking forward to. 

 Q.  Did you know that you were playing with Tiger? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I just found out 30 seconds ago. 

 Q.  Is it hard to believe how much has happened in the last two weeks with Carnoustie and with Alemania? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I had a third at the British, a win, now playing with Tiger.  It's great.  I didn't even have this tournament obviously on my schedule, and to now be paired with the No. 1 player in the world, it's complicado; there's a lot going on, and I'm just really looking forward to it. 

 Q.  This is only the second time you've played in the States.  You've played in the PGA last year, right?  This is only your second tournament in the U.S., correct? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I played in the PGA last year.  The only time I've played prior was the Golden Bear Tour, played a couple of events in 2004.  Yeah, I'm glad to be back and looking forward to taking a good look at the No. 1 player. 

 Q.  Do you think you're going to open some eyes with the way you hit it? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I don't know how well I'm going to be able to hit it with the No. 1 player standing next to me. 

 Q.  What did you hit into 18? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  52-degree wedge. 

 Q.  What did you think of the course? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I love the course.  It's a great course.  The greens are perfect.  They're very tight fairways, but that's what makes the golf course a challenge.  If I can keep the ball in play off the tee, I like my chances. 

 Q.  Your trophy from last week, did you -- how special was that?  Did you keep it or do you have it? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  It's in the room right now (laughter).  It's in a safe place.  My caddie has it in a safe place. 

 Q.  What was that conversation with your Uncle Miguel like after you won?  Did you talk to him right after you won at the Deutsche Bank? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I actually haven't had a chance to talk to him yet.  I spoke to my family right away after the win.  I won't mess around with my swing until I get home and hit the range when I get back home. 

 Q.  But your uncle is your biggest influence, he taught you the game? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yeah, he's still my coach.  I mean, I started watching him and playing with him, getting taught by him, and he still takes care of my swing. 

 Q.  How inspiring was it for Angel Cabrera to win the U.S. Open for you? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  He definitely inspired me.  It was great to see him win on TV, and I think it opened up my eyes and told me that I could do this, also.  It not only helped me at the British Open, but it inspired me to win last week, also. 

 Q.  Where were you when Angel won? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I saw it actually in the airport.  I was at the airport on my way to Munich, and we were lucky enough to catch it on TV. 

 Q.  Was your play at the Deutsche Bank surprising given the disappointment you must have felt at the end of The Open, in the closing holes of The Open, to come back and play so well the next week? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  There was one shot.  I took that play at the British Open as a motivator and it actually gave me more confidence for the following week.  That's the great thing about golf; you get -- it was just one shot, but I got my revenge against golf (laughter) with that one shot.  I got it back the next week. 

 Q.  On switching clubs on 17, did you learn to trust your instinct next time? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  At the moment I wasn't 100 percent confident in my club selection.  I felt like hitting a 3-wood, then I went back.  After I hit that shot and it bounced off the burn and out of bounds, I went back to the 3-wood and executed.  But at the moment I wasn't as confident in my club selection. 

 Q.  What's the deal with the nickname Pigu? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yeah, it just came about at the Jockey Club back home.  The other day I was asking where it came from, and they said it just came up, so we just kept rolling with it. 

 Q.  How old were you when you turned pro, because you couldn't have been very old, right? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  16, very young. 

 Q.  Were you a caddie at some point, as well? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yes. 

 Q.  Was it at the Jockey Club? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yes.  I live near the Jockey Club. 

 Q.  Do you think after Thursday everyone will know who you are? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Definitely yes.  I just hope I don't get caught up watching Tiger and stick to my game.  But they'll know who I am because it's in the pairing sheet. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT