THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 29, 2007
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Congratulations, and how does it feel to win the Deutsche Bank Players Championship of Europe, your first European Tour title?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  It feels nice, a lot of things going inside.  You know, especially after the British Open last week, I was playing great, and I think the key this week was my putter.  That was the best part of my game this week.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You had a big lead at one point but then a double bogey on the 9th.  Did you start thinking, you know, perhaps I'll play a little bit more conservatively?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, sure, after the double bogey at the 9th I was playing easily, nicely, no worries.  And then it gave me a lot of confidence, the birdie on the 11th.  And after that, sure, I played more conservative.  And I loved the way I finished, with a birdie on the 18th.   
  
  Q.  It's been a marvelous week for you after the Open and now doing this.  You've actually replaced Angel Cabrera, the U.S. Open champion, on the Order of Merit.  What do you think to all the success that's suddenly come to you in seven days?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I loved the way Angel Cabrera plays, after he win the U.S. Open that he opened all the doors for the Argentinians, and I was thinking I have to do my share now.  That helped me a lot, and I'm very grateful to Angel.  Because he won the U.S. Open, I have even more confidence for me to play good golf.   
  
  Q.  You won a lot of money today.  What will you do with it?  Also, do you come from a well-off family, or was your family quite poor?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  In the last two weeks I've won a lot of money.  I don't think yet what I'm going to do with the money because I have two big tournaments next week and the week after and then I'll think what I'm going to do.  I don't come from a rich family, also I don't come from a very, very poor family.  I think it's a standard family life, like everyday my family goes to work and come back day after day.   
  
  Q.  You have the World Golf Championships coming up next week and then the U.S. PGA Championship.  That will be eight weeks in a row.  Do you think you can keep this up?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yeah, of course the British Open changed a lot in my life, and I'm going to play eight weeks in a row.  That is too much for me because after six weeks, I start to miss my family in Argentina.   
 Usually I cannot play great after six weeks.  But there are two big tournaments and I'm going to try my best, and hopefully I'm not going to miss my family.   
  
  Q.  Staying on the American theme, what's been refreshing about you this week is the smile, the attacking golf and the enjoyment.  Will you change for America or will you play just the same attacking style and go for it?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I don't know how are the courses the next two weeks, but I'm going to try to play my way.  I know I make a lot of bogeys, but also I make a lot of birdies.  But I have to see the golf course.  If the golf course has a lot of trouble, sure, of course I'm going to take care and play more conservative.  But probably at the end I'm going to play my way.   
  
  Q.  When you were in Ireland you won a car, and at the time you said you would take it home and drive it on the beach.  Have you been able to do that, because we heard that maybe you cannot take that car back to Argentina?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, to get that car in Argentina it's complicated.  It's too many papers, it's almost impossible, so I'm not going to take that car.  But now I have enough money I can buy a new car there (laughter).   
  
  Q.  What were your thoughts after the Argentinian fans ran up to you with all the beer and the champagne and stuff like that?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, it's a pity they threw away all that champagne; I prefer to drink it (laughter).  Anyway, I like the way the Argentinians celebrate all the time, and I'm very happy because they treated me, as well, that way.   
  
  Q.  Will the fame and the money change you, or are you just going to carry on the way you have?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Hopefully I will not change the way I am, but sure, now getting more famous, there's going to be a lot of people around, especially when I get to Argentina, and I'm going to probably need my privacy.  But I'm going to enjoy the first things I will do when I get there is to have a barbecue with all my friends and my family.   
  
  Q.  Eduardo Romero was talking about you during the week, remembers when you were caddying and begging balls and tee pegs from him.  You're with the same manager and you've now already earned more money than Eduardo probably earned in about 10 to 12, 15 years during his career.  What do you feel to that?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  No, Eduardo helped me and also Angel with balls and gloves, it's as simple as that.  I like the way they are, also I like Eduardo and Angel because they never change, and I hope I can be the same.   
  
  Q.  Talking about Eduardo and Angel, Angel's nickname is El Gato and Eduardo's nickname is El Pato.  What's your nickname, or do we have to give you one for the future?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I have a nickname.  The nickname is Pigu, but that means nothing.  It has no really meaning.  One person gave me that name when I was a child, and then I asked what does it mean.  Nobody has an idea.  It has no really meaning.  So probably if you would like to choose a nickname for me, I'll be happy with it.   
  
  Q.  Angel Cabrera said when he won the U.S. Open he managed to knock football off the pages of the Argentinian papers but only for two days.  Do you think you will also be able to knock football off the pages at home?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, the next two tournaments I'm going to play and then go back to Argentina and probably going to make a party the next three weeks.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Enjoy the party, and enjoy America, as well.  Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT