THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 27, 2007
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Andres, thank you very much and very well played.  Leading at the moment.  You must be very pleased with your play at the moment.   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I'm playing very well.  I had a double bogey on hole No. 2.   
 But then I did four birdies in a row, so I am just -- 17 I birdied again.   
 I'm very happy even if I 3-putted the last hole.  Very happy.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Did it remind you of last week at the open where you had a double bogey, and then a run of birdies and then...?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Double bogey on second hole is easily changeable and in Carnoustie it didn't really help to do it on hole 17.  Hopefully I'm not going to do the same on Sunday.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Take some questions.   
  
  Q.  You're a very exciting player to watch, because you go for everything, it seems.  But then a lot of people say you showed some inexperience in the Open Championship.  Was there a shade of that a little bit at the last when you hit that putt seven or eight feet past?  Were you being aggressive or is it inexperience?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I don't have enough experience, obviously, to play such a big event in Europe. I won so many events in Argentina, but, yeah, experience is something that I'm obviously looking for.   
  
  Q.  Two questions.  First, have you learned a lot after Carnoustie?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Pressure, being under pressure, that's -- walking with very important players and all the people around, that's helped a lot to learn.  I played with Jim Furyk and obviously that helped to just give me a little bit of pressure.   
  
  Q.  Are you enjoying that pressure?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yes.  I like it.  I play very well under that pressure, but obviously it would be easier without it, but I played very well last year at Loch Lomond and The Open, this event.   
 I'm just hoping it's going to get better than last year.   
  
  Q.  How much have you been inspired by Angel Cabrera?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  After winning the U.S. Open, he took a lot of pressure out of me, especially talking about last week, obviously.   
 Walking on the fairway he was just more relaxed and whatever happened, happened, so I was very relaxed thanks to him as well.   
  
  Q.  Do you intend to stay an aggressive player?  You've had seven birdies today and maybe with a little bit of a lag of a putt on the last you wouldn't have lost a shot.  Do you intend to stay aggressive because that's what's making you exciting to watch?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yes, I would like to keep going this way, that's the way I play and I'm going to keep going this way.   
  
  Q.  A question about your character, it seems to be that you enjoy the game so much that you don't bother about losing putts or strokes.  Is this a specialty of you?  And the second question is what does the name on your bag mean?  The translation?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I love what I'm doing, so it's very easy to walk on the course and enjoy what I'm doing.  I'm just loving what I'm doing.   
 One of the members of my club gave me the name on the bag.   
  
  Q.  Does it mean anything?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  No, it doesn't mean anything.   
  
  Q.  You say you enjoy it so much, have you always been able to say, "Bad shot, I'm just enjoying myself, I don't mind"?   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I just think that we're not machines, so we're human.  So obviously when you have a bad shot, you're not very happy, but I try to look forward after and then just keep going and try to forget about that bad shot.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything in life that does upset you?  Anything.   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I'm not happy when I play a shot bad, but obviously what you see is what I show.   
  
  Q.  The first Romero to come on the European Tour, I remember it well, and as he does still, he never stops smiling.  You're very much the same.  You got the same name.   
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I'm obviously not trying to be copying him, I'm just being myself.  I really enjoy what I'm doing, so I feel very lucky to be a golf player and I really love what I'm doing.   
 And I enjoy it all the time.  So that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT