THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, Andres Romero, 6-under par for the Championship.  You had all the chances until you came to the final two holes and dropped three shots.  How do you feel that you could almost be leading The Open Championship at this stage? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I feel very pleased, but the pressure certainly caught up with me and the pressure the last two holes on such a big event. 
 I hit a very bad second shot on 17.  I also had a lot of very bad luck, ricocheted it off the burn and went out-of-bounds. 
 Hit a great drive on 18.  I hit a poor second shot, but in spite of it all, I'm delighted.  I'm just going to sit and wait and see what happens. 

 Q.  What club did you hit out of the rough for the second shot on 17, and were you aware of your position on the leaderboard at the time you played the shot? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I was aware I was leading.  I hit a 2-iron as the second shot.  I wasn't certain of what club I wanted to play; perhaps that was my mistake.  I was doubting between a wood or an iron.  The second time around I did it the way I should; I hit the right club. 

 Q.  Obviously at this stage we don't know how it's going to end up, but assuming you don't win, what will be your overriding emotion at the end of the tournament? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Well, last year I had the chance of getting myself into this tournament, and I've certainly thoroughly enjoyed my experience playing this year and I look forward to playing next year. 

 Q.  There's a certain gentleman called Jean Van de Velde who is famous on this course for a bad finish.  Do you have any concern that your final two holes might see you ranked up there with him? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  There's one advantage, I did it on 17, not 18.  But I could be put into that category by some.  I certainly wasn't thinking about Jean Van de Velde at that moment.  I was very concentrated and what happened, happened, and unfortunately it ended with a double bogey and a bogey. 

 Q.  How did you prepare coming into this Open Championship? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  This is the fifth event in a row that I've played.  I played two very good rounds coming into this tournament at the previous one, and I played two very bad rounds to end that tournament.  Nevertheless, I came into The Open feeling very confident.  I practised, I practised a lot on the green.  I played the green extremely well, so I can't complain.  And I hope I keep on playing the green like I have this week. 

 Q.  Why didn't you lay up, play it safe at 17? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  The lie of the ball wasn't bad enough for me to take that decision.  I thought I had a chance to get it on the green.  I was thinking of hitting a 3-wood -- I should have hit the 3-wood, stuck with my initial thought.  I didn't; that was the result. 

 Q.  Do you wish now you played it safe? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I never considered playing safe. 

 Q.  Have you ever played a round like that before, with so few pars and so many birdies and bogeys and double bogeys and whatever else? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  Yes, I recall having played in Mar del Plata in Argentina in a tournament there, and it was a pretty similar round as this one, so it's happened before.  Nine birdies, one eagle, and many bogeys. 

 Q.  You seem to be very smiley and quite happy.  I was maybe expecting you to be more upset with what had happened. 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  I am happy.  When the best players in the world are here and I played the tournament I played, I played with the No. 2 in the world, I felt very comfortable playing with him and I felt I belonged there. 

 Q.  So no disappointment at all? 
 ANDRES ROMERO:  No disappointment at all. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT