TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you describe your shot?  ANDRES ROMERO: So I was one of the first ones to get to the tee box out of the group, and I was waiting and noticed a sign over on the left-hand side of the tee box.  I was looking at it and noticed that it had a Travelers logo on it and said something about a hole in one.  So when my caddie got up to the box, I asked him to translate it for me.  He said it's a hole in one Rolex deal.  He said, oh, that's interesting.  Let's see what happens. So got the shot off and when it headed towards the hole and disappeared, I couldn't believe it.   Q.  What club?  ANDRES ROMERO: 7-iron.   Q.  Yardage?  ANDRES ROMERO: 177.   Q.  Third hole in one on TOUR.  Does this one stand out among them?  ANDRES ROMERO: In 2010 in the playoffs I holed one out in Boston, and that was one of the big reasons why I got to play the next round of the playoffs, so that one was certainly special and a big deal.  Last year I had a hole in one at Las Vegas, but this year is definitely going to be special because I'm always going to have a memory of it on my wrist.   Q.  You also won through Quicken Loans a years worth of free mortgage payments for a lucky fan that will be drawn from an online raffle.  Just talk about that and how not only were you able to win something but you won something for a fan out there.  ANDRES ROMERO: It's great to do something great, but it always feels a little bit better knowing that you're going to get to help somebody else out as well.  So this is kind of a double benefit.  I obviously get to win something here, but it makes you feel even better when you get to win something for somebody else and know that you're helping somebody out with a year's worth of mortgage payments.  It gives somebody else the benefit as well.   Q.  Where's the location of that bunker?  ANDRES ROMERO: The bunker's definitely in play.  You've got to carry it.  After I hit it, I hit it so solidly and so straight.  I knew I'd really put a good hit on it.  Honestly, as I was approaching the tee and visualizing the shot, I think that's where I hit it in.  I visualized the shot and knew it was going to come off great.  So that was a big step in hitting the ball well.  After I hit it and knew I had pured it and watched it get to the green, it went in.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT