WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL B
March 8, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Tomoyuki Sugano
Sho Nakata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Japan - 6, Australia - 5
Q. You won two games in a row, and you are just a step ahead to clinch the first round.  How do you feel about this?
HIROKI KOKUBO: First inning, we had an opportunity but we couldn't score, and then the momentum was tough for the first couple games.  But the guy next to me, Sugano, pitched very well.  We just gave up only one run in the fifth inning.  That's a big key for the game.
And also our bullpen worked well, and among all -- let me explain the whole of this game.  Nakata got the go-ahead home run, and so that's the conclusion of this game.
Q. You mentioned you put Sugano in the second starter, not the first game.  What is the strategy at that point, using Sugano for the second game, not the first game?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, as soon as we recognized that the first game is Cuba, we recognize that we send Sugano for the second game.  That's our option.  Because just in case we couldn't get the win for the first game, we just want to make sure to get the win.  So that's why we put Sugano for the second game, not the first game.
Q. Mr. Nakata hit the go-ahead home run, and in the dugout, you had a big smile.  How big is Nakata's go ahead home run for you?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, when I was talking to the pitching coach who was going to pitch from the bullpen.  Actually, I didn't see the impact.  I apologized to Nakata that I didn't see his at-bat.  Thanks to Nakata's home run, the momentum is very huge for Team Japan and it's a huge run for the pitcher.
Yes, Sho is in good position throughout batting practice, and I feel he's going to hit later.  Nakata is always hitting behind Tsutsugoh, and I look forward for him to succeed for the next game, too.
Q. How big was Tsutsugoh's home run?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Like I said, we couldn't score the first inning, and that haven't very effective.  So to get rid of the bad mood, Tsutsugoh swung hard, and that two-run was sort of an insurance run so that we could get the win.
Q. Now you have a day off, and the day after tomorrow you have a game against China.  It's going to be another important game.  How do you prepare for that next game, playing against China?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, let me remind you guys about one point.  This is only one down.  When Okada gave two balls, no strikes, and Kobayashi walked to the mound and had like a little break, that was a big point, too, for tonight's game.
Some of the players might have a day off, but will try to have the best preparation and ready for the third game.
Q. Sugano, you gave up only one run.  How do you feel about it?
TOMOYUKI SUGANO: Yes, my first run, that was a long base hit after two runs.   That was something I regret.  If possible, I would like to go through to compete the fifth inning.  That was my aim, but I couldn't.  But moreover, the team scored more than I gave up the run, and it's a big part, so I just pre petitioner for the next game.
Q. How do you feel about your first WBC experience?  How is the WBC game to you?  How do you feel about it right now?
TOMOYUKI SUGANO: Yes, Tokyo Dome is my home game, and I get used to it.  The atmosphere is so unique.  It's something unusual.  So this is just one of the most unforgettable days as a pitcher, and this experience can give me a lot of credit for my baseball career for sure.
Q. For this tournament, you are going to have another opportunity as a starter for very important games.  Tell us about your feeling for the future.
TOMOYUKI SUGANO: Yes, like yesterday's tough game against Cuba, Australia's offense is very -- they hit hard and they swing fast comparing to like a week ago when they played against exhibition games.  They are very sharp.  When it's a do-or-die tournament, who knows what's going to happen in the future.  So we tried to eliminate the minimum and tried to do our best, what I can to contribute to the team.
Q. Congratulations for your first base hit, your first home run in the tournament.  What was in your mind in your at-bat?
SHO NAKATA: Yes, like they said, Sugano pitched very well, and we tried to score first for him.  That was something I felt.  That's what I felt.
Q. As soon as he hit the home run, the atmosphere in the Tokyo Dome changed.  How do you feel about it?
SHO NAKATA: Yes, I hit the edge of the bat.  So as soon as it hit the ball, I was crying, "Please go, please go over the fence."  So I was pleased at that time ball go over the fence.
Q. Today, Suzuki hit first, and you are the only one without having a base hit on the starting lineup.  Was it something, pressure you felt, because you are the last person to get the base hit for the two games.
SHO NAKATA: Yes, before the game start, I was joking with Suzuki, about who is going to hit base hit first, and Suzuki hit first.  I just felt I'm the only -- I'm the like anchorperson much the team, that's how I felt.
Q. From now on, you are going to have another key opportunity at-bat for the tournament.  What's in your mind for the future?
SHO NAKATA: Our offense is in very good condition and I'm going to try to hit as hard as I can.
Q. Your third pitcher, Senga, he pitched great.  At this time you put Senga in the sixth inning.  Do you have any availability for when you put Senga in the future?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, as of now, Senga is probably the second pitcher of our roster.  Our bullpen worked well, especially for Makita.  He's not the same as last night.  Most likely, Senga is going to be the second pitcher, probably.
Q. Although you won, that was a tough game during the middle of the game.  Especially for the ninth inning, you could have scored more insurance runs and you could have sent a sacrifice bunt and you could send a pinch-hitter for Kobayashi because you have bench depth for the pinch-hitters.  For the pitching staff, Miyanishi, when Miyanishi pitched, you could have oh no being a catcher, because Ohno is always catching Miyanishi's pitch.  Their owner is the same team.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, I don't have 100 percent deny to accepted the pinch hitter for Kobayashi because we are leading.  And talking about Miyanishi, so far, Kobayashi is our main catcher.  That's why I didn't have an option to change catchers for Miyanishi.
Q. There is a game, Netherlands against Chinese Taipei, and that made Chinese Taipei and Team Korea eliminated from the tournament.  In your second tournament, you are going to face against Israel and Netherlands.  Do you have any idea as of now?  In 2012, you were defeated by Team Netherlands, and for you, it's another opportunity for revenge.  How do you feel about it?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, I was watching Israel on TV, and I feel it's a tough team.  I can agree that they may clinch the first round.  I am expecting the Netherlands to come to Japan.  The key for the Netherlands, when VandenHurk pitched.
The WBC in 2012 is different, but Netherlands and Israel is a tough team to compete against.  That's how I feel right now.
Q. Before the tournament started, you didn't expect the long ball, like double and triple home runs, but when the tournament starts, your offense has a lot of base hits.   How do you feel about that?
HIROKI KOKUBO: To be honest, I didn't expect the extra base hit, so I was happy.  I have an option who is going to change and who is not going to change, who is not going to move.  Like Nakata, they are the key person.  So I'm happy about that.
Q. You hit a home run off the very first pitch in your at-bat.  Is this something you learned from international matches?
SHO NAKATA: Well, I'm not for sure about that.  We never faced the pitchers.  We don't have that much information, especially for the international matches, especially when I was struggling, I am tending to take the pitches.  So in that at-bat, I'm trying to full swing at the very first pitch.  That was something that lead me to the home run.
Q. Jon Deeble mentioned that you are at the major league level a while ago.  When you pitch in such an international match, did you learn any new experience?  Did you learn any thought throughout the international match?
TOMOYUKI SUGANO: Well, I am so pleased and honored that Jon Deeble mentioned me, but it's not 100 percent.  I can be better, and the offense of Australia is swinging harder than I was expecting, and they took the pitch very good.  So I felt that I just faced very solid, good hitters.  International matches, I faced very solid hitters, so I just trust myself and try to be aggressive for the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT