AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 10, 2010
Wade Davis
Evan Longoria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Tampa Bay Rays 5
  Texas Rangers  2

 Q. Longo, what is involved in playing? How much pain is the leg in? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: You know, it's just all of the I guess they call them modalities in there. Laser and phono and sound and a bunch of stuff that I don't really comprehend, but it's been progressing me. And like Joe said, I put my faith in those guys and they did a good job in really judging the time that I needed to be ready before the playoffs. And there's not a whole lot of pain involved, it is just more going on a day-to-day basis and trying to be in the lineup every day, and really trying not to reinjure it at this point. 

 Q. Now you two are tied. You are tied 2-2. The Rangers and the Rays are tied 2-2. But the way four games played, do you feel like you are going back home with a 50-50? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: No, I feel a little better than 50-50 going home at this point. We've really battled to get back to even in the series. And I think we have a lot of confidence going home, and being able to finish the series in our home ballpark. 

 Q. Wade, you had the lead-off runners on I think in four innings. You get the big double play to Guerrero. Talk about a gritty effort. Talk about the outing today.
 WADE DAVIS: It was a struggle sometimes. It was an uphill battle with that team. They have got a pretty dangerous lineup, and they don't give you a lot of time to get comfortable. So it is a tough game. 

 Q. Evan, when the passed ball got Zobrist to second in that inning, did you kind of in your mind think you might get an intentional walk with first base open in that situation with two out? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: Sometimes it crosses your mind. But at the same time, I have done that in the past where I think that might happen and I go up there and have a bad at-bat or kind of give away the at-bat. So at this point I've just -- before this series started I didn't have much success at the plate, so I was really just trying to go up there every at-bat and kind of just grind away and have good ones. And I think Derek will tell you that he didn't throw that ball exactly where he wanted to. 
 So I haven't been able to hit those mistakes throughout the course of this series. I am just happy that I was able to in that situation right there. 

 Q. Can you talk about it wasn't so much the home run trot as kind of the home run limp. Can you describe your running style today? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: I kind of felt like Kirk Gibson going around the bases as little bit. But there are times when I have to try to push it, like break up a double play or get to second base on those balls that I hit in the gap. And then there are other times where a roll-over ground ball or in that case -- I know I hit the ball out of the ballpark I'm not really going to run as hard as I can around the bases. 

 Q. Wade, I know you mentioned you battled today. Can you talk about the fifth inning situation with bases loaded and Guerrero up and your approach in the at-bat and how it get to get out of that one. 
 WADE DAVIS: It felt great. He is one of the most dangerous hitters in baseball. If you make a couple of mistakes, it can change the game. At that point in the game for me it was the game. If he gets a hit or hits a homer, it is a different ballgame. 

 Q. Evan, with you guys fighting so hard all season to get home-field advantage, any explanation why the road team has won every game so far? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: Well, I mean there is no explanation for it. I think really the only explanation would be that neither club has played well at home. We didn't play well in the two games at home, and they had their few opportunities here, like we had at home, and they weren't able to get the big hits. So if you look at it in that aspect I guess that's what happened. Nobody has been able to really break through at home. 
 So again, you know, we've really battled uphill to be able to get this series back to even. And I like our chances with Dave on the mound again and us being back at home for Game 5. 

 Q. Evan, you guys really didn't look good coming out of Tampa. The hitting wasn't there, the Rangers pitching dominated you and they were coming back to a place they played very well. What does it say about this team, that you were able to come back and get this thing even and go back home? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: I think when we were leaving Tampa, a lot of the guys were talking about the series in New York where we lost the first two games and bounced back and won the next two in a very big spot. So I think that was pretty fresh in a lot of guys' minds, and that's really what I kept drawing from, was our ability to bounce back in that situation. And our ability to be able to do that here, and the belief that we can. 

 Q. Evan, you had two big series in 2008 and then you struggled in the World Series, have you talked about it the first couple games here? You always talk about the stage, this is where you want to be. How nice is it on the stage even if you limp onto it today to be on it? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: Again, I am just happy to be able to play in the playoffs. When I injured myself in New York, that was all that was going through my mind. We were already in the playoffs, "how could you do something so stupid?" basically. But again, the training staff has done a great job and I just have been able to get myself back to healthy and again, keep grinding the at-bats away and I was finally able to come through today. It felt pretty good. 

 Q. Evan, Cliff Lee has put together incredible postseason numbers. How do you guys beat him? 
 EVAN LONGORIA: He has great postseason numbers. And Cliff, he is a warrior. He will go out there and battle pitch for pitch with whoever is on the mound against him. And I think what we have to do is just remember that we've had good success against him, not in the postseason, and try to take that into this next game. And also, the fact that we've played in the last game of a series. We played in a Game 7 against Boston in 2008 and that's another experience that we can draw from. And hopefully use to our advantage to win the game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT