NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Andrei Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Everything was to the hand.  Everything was like with resistance, so it is very hard to play that way when the team plays that way.  It is very hard to keep going inside.  And every time they force you to take outside shots, it is very hard to play that way. 

 Q.  So is there more energy involved in that?  How do you get to do that? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  I don't think it is more energy.  It is more focus, more smart, you are thinking about it.  Sometimes as players we have a tendency when the game is going in hard, you kind of lose attention.  You kind of, you know, relay everything is going to be all right. 
 You need to get yourself ready to do the job. 

 Q.  Even the bench did a pretty good job on that. 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  What do you mean "even"?  They almost every game -- not every but almost every game. 

 Q.  It wasn't happening down there. 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Yeah, I know.  That's why I say "almost."  We have huge confidence in our bench, huge confidence.  They were playing great during the whole season.  For most games they are outstanding. 

 Q.  Andrei, when you are not getting your shots like you and Mehmet had been getting a lot on offense, does it make it easier to say, I want to work hard on defense and contribute there? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  It is easy to say?  No, it is not easy.  Believe me, different, but as long as we win 20 points, I am fine with it. 

 Q.  It seems like, Mehmet, for example, had a huge night on Duncan last night and didn't score a point. 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  You remember the series against Houston.  He had been terrific on the out.  He didn't really contribute offensively because it is hard to do.  It is hard to play both ends with the same intensity, make points there, make stops there.  It is 48 minutes you are running back and forth, working, working, working.  It is very hard physically. 
 I don't think a lot of players in the league can do it, and Mehmet did a terrific job on stopping Duncan.  That's what we needed from him yesterday. 
 Next game we will need him to score.  So every game you have a different picture of the game, different scenario of the game. 

 Q.  So that being said, do you like the mix of guys who are playing hard on defense and contributing on defense? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Definitely, definitely.  You seen an example.  We won by 20 points, beat San Antonio.  Nobody can believe it.  Mehmet didn't score points.  I scored like two points. 
 So, you know, like from your starting five, probably only two guys scored.  But, still, we won the game.  That's all that matters.  That's all we need.  We don't care about a lot of points right now, especially we are in the Conference Finals.  I want to be in the Finals.  As long as we are winning, I am fine. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT