NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 24, 2007
Andrei Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How do they get themselves shooting a little bit better? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  It is just a matter of shots.  I don't think it is struggling.  We get back in a position playing positional basketball, play like Golden State.  They don't play plays, they are just running and very dynamic game.  Right now we have a multi-positional game, pick and roll over the top.  It is very hard to get a quick position to shoot the ball. 
 We should involve them a little bit more.  We should probably set up better offense, set up better execution because I don't think we really set it up because the last two games, I don't think we really played offense, you know.  I think we are more trying to outplay them but not like setting good screens, play good every single position. 

 Q.  Andrei, would it help you guys to get physical? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  I don't think we are losing the game because we are losing physical game.  I think it is more execution and more paying attention because, you know, they score lots of shots out of, like, lack of concentration.  They just cut and get an easy basket.  Ginobili cut and get an easy basket.  Parker cut and get an easy basket.  If we cut it down, I think we will be fine. 

 Q.  They like to do that, the Spurs, they like to do that, penetrate, kick, dish, find that open man on the perimeter.  It worked really well for them the other night? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Most of the teams do that and most of the teams we've played in the playoffs play that way. 
 I don't think this is the thing that has hurt us.  I think again layups is killing us.  Layups is destroying us because when you are working hard defensively, you get easy layups.  It destroys your will to play defensively. 
 That's why we need to be more concentrated inside and concentrate on those layups. 

 Q.  Is it a matter of not -- there is not help under the basket? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  I don't think it is help.  It is more like paying attention because, again, like lots of layups, we have Oberto and Ginobili, which is we never -- because, you know, Duncan, Parker, Ginobili, they will score the points.  All we can do is just play hard and make the easy shots.  I don't think some of the shots they earn, they just lay it in the last couple games. 
 We need to really make it tough for them to score. 

 Q.  You are back at home, does that matter to you? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Of course, of course.  We expect to be have a packed building tomorrow.  We always play much better at home because I think our fans force us to play hard. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT