NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Andrei Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What can you do better on? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Like in the second half, I mean, we pretty much controlled the game.  We executed the offense, we delivered the ball inside and we were playing much harder defensively.  So that was the keys. 

 Q.  Your guys' entire offense is based on getting easy baskets.  In the first half there weren't any easy baskets.  What do you need to do? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  First quarter wasn't that bad and only 12 minutes we were kind of off our offense and didn't really execute. 

 Q.  You guys just got stagnant on offense? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  In the playoffs, you know, you can't lose concentration at all.  Like, I think games against Houston, like the first two games, we controlled the game.  The five, six minutes, it was kind of -- we didn't play well.  The same with San Antonio, they are playing pretty good one quarter, 12 minutes, we're done. 
 We need to be a little bit more patient and concentrated for all 48 minutes. 

 Q.  Do you have confidence in the way you guys played in the second half? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  I don't think it is confidence involved.  I think it is more thinking and paying attention. 

 Q.  Do you have to do more to the big three or do you not have to worry about them and just concentrate on getting Oberto and Finley in check? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Maybe, maybe.  You know, I think it is not only like the one, two, three guys.  It is more like -- more our defense and more our offense.  We don't need to look at San Antonio again, same with Golden State, same with Houston.  We don't need to look at their guys.  We need to look at our plays than much more trying to stop any guys. 
 We need to make a stop.  We need to play defense, but mostly we need to understand our conception of the game a little better. 

 Q.  You talked about getting to Boozer inside and the focus on that.  The first game of each of the last two series you guys were able to get it to Boozer.  He had to make his own way.  Are you confident you can get him back involved in Game 2? 
 ANDREI KIRILENKO:  Definitely.  If we involve him, he's our leader.  This year he is doing a terrific job.  He is MVP.  So we need to use him a little bit more because he is a guy who can win us a game.  So we need to deliver the ball to him. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT