TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2018
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lucas, things didn't get off to the best start for you today but you made a great recovery and ended up with a fine 67 to finish the tournament?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Thanks.  Three of the four days have been 2-over par after four, five, six holes.  I've not had a good start all week.  I've stayed patient.  I know I've been playing well and I know there's a few birdies out there if you do play well.  Yeah, I've been battling the putter a little bit all week but yesterday and today it warmed up a bit on the back nine.
Q. We talked earlier in the week about it being a good scores course, but it's quite tricky off the tees.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: The rough isn't that thick but you have absolutely no control out of it.  There's a few holes where you can make some bad scores, like 18, maybe not so much, but 10,11, you don't have to hit terrible shots to make a bad score there.
There's a few holes where -- I made double-bogey on 6 twice this week.  There's a few holes but as you said that's a good bunch of holes where you can make birdies, as well.
Q. You had four successive birdies; nice to get that run going coming home?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I was 2-over after four, made two silly bogeys out of nowhere, and then birdied 5 and 8.  Had a very easy chip on 7 and didn't get up-and-down there.  Birdied 8 and 9 to get 1-under for the day which I was quite happy with at the time.
Hit a decent drive just a little too far left on 10 in the water and made bogey.  It was nice to follow it up with a few birdies.  Hit it to a couple feet on 11, which was really nice.
Q. How much confidence have you taken from that win in Scotland to take into these three big events at the end of the year?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, a lot of confident.  But that was messed up a little bit last week where I think I shot 16 over par for the week and just struggled the entire week.
This week, a lot of positives I can bring with me to South Africa and Dubai.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT