ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2018
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM CARLISLE: Congratulations, 5-under par round at the Home of Golf to win the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship.  Can you just sum up the day?   
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it was a great day.  Obviously one of the best rounds I've played all year.  I played well recently and I've come close a few times, lost in a playoff in Switzerland, which obviously hurt.   
Yeah, it feels really good.  It's really nice to sit here right now and yeah, I'm going to enjoy this one, no doubt.   
TOM CARLISLE: We saw your name slowly creeping up the leaderboard.  How much were you paying attention to that?   
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I was looking at all the boards.  Didn't really look like I had much of a chance to be fair.  It looked like Tyrrell was going to run away with it.   
I just kept going about my business, and we knew the last -- the back nine was going to play tough.   
So I thought if I could throw in a few birdies there, I would still have a chance.  Yeah, I didn't rush it.  I didn't try to make birdies.  I didn't force them and they just slowly came and that one on 16 was really nice.   
TOM CARLISLE: You started the day on 18, and The Road Hole would be the finish.  What were your thoughts?   
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was obviously nice to start with 18 this morning because it's a good birdie chance.  A nice way to get going, and make birdie there as I did, that's one early, so you can get a good start.  But then playing 17, it's nice to know that you normally have 18 which is a good birdie chance, so if you bogey 17, you can get it back on 18.  I didn't really have that.   
But yeah, hit a great drive and hit a really good second shot that didn't need to go much more to be good, and then completely misjudged the first one.  Hit a decent enough put the second time and wind didn't affect as much as I thought.  Yeah, completely misjudged the first one.  Thought it was going to be really quick, and it wasn't.   
 Q.  Quite a good eight days for Danish golf with a winning Ryder Cup Captain and Thorbjørn.  You talked about being inspired being at The Ryder Cup; you certainly were.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I've never been to The Ryder Cup before, but Thomas was kind enough to invite me down on Saturday, so I went.  He showed me a little bit around.  Obviously a busy week for him, but saw the team room and the locker room and I would lie if I said I wasn't inspired going home from there.   
Yeah, I was so delighted for Thomas.  It's been amazing to see all the work that goes behind The Ryder Cup, and being close to him, it's been amazing to see how much work he's put in it.  For him and win and the way they played the whole week, so delighted for him.  I hope he's enjoying some down time now.   
Yeah, I was definitely inspired, and I definitely want to make that team some day.   
 Q.  Have you heard from Thomas or Thorbjørn in the last 24 hours?  Have they reached out to you?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's pretty hard to tell but I'm sure there's a few messages in there.  When I won in Portugal, Thomas was the first one that called me, and I'm sure all the boys left me nice messages and stuff like that.   
 Q.  When you win at the Home of Golf and you're not on 18, did you make a point of walking across the Swilken Bridge, soaking that up there?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I enjoyed that walk up 18, and probably even more, because it's not like I needed a birdie or anything, so I could walk up there in peace knowing that it was all over.  So I really took that in and enjoyed that.   
 Q.  Denmark are the World Cup holders and Denmark won the Eisenhower Trophy this year for the first time.  Can you give us a sense of what Danish golf is doing right?  What do you think the secret is?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I'm not sure what the secret is, but I think us Danes, we are good at working hard.  We are good at putting hours in, and the guys that won the Eisenhower Trophy, I know all three of them, and they are massive talents, and they know how to putt the work in, as well.   
But I think it's -- I don't know if it's necessarily a Danish thing.  I think it's as much a European thing.  I think you saw how they all came together last week, and some of them, you know, they are the best players in the world, but it almost looked like they took their game to the next level.   
I think us Danes have always enjoyed team formats.  We had a strong Danish squad when I grew up, and won a couple of European Championships and stuff like that.  So yeah, I think it's more of a -- yeah, I think we are good at coming together.   
 Q.  Could you please talk a little bit your team and the work you've been doing to get to this point?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: My team?  Well, a lot of it started when I hired Jonathan smart, who standing in the back there, probably doesn't want the attention, but a lot of it started when he came on board.  I think we started working around -- Morocco was our first event, and yeah, since that, we've had a win now, eight tops in about 15, 16 events.  We've done really well and he's been a huge part of my success, so no doubt.   
I didn't play well the first few months of the year.  I think going down to Morocco, I barely made anything on The Race to Dubai.  It's been really good since.  I think I worked a little bit smarter, a little bit more on the stuff that I have to, where  before, I was really good at working a lot and maybe not with the same kind of plan.  So I think I've had a nice plan in motion since he came on board with knowing exactly what we wanted to do.  As I said before, I've been close a few times, and to close it out today was really nice.   
TOM CARLISLE: Thank you very much for your time.  Congratulations once again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT