PORTUGAL MASTERS
September 24, 2017
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're the Portugal Masters champion.  How did that feel?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It feels very good.  It's obviously a nervous day for me and it feels very good to come out on top.  I've had a few looks at it before, but to finally do it, and as we talked about the other day, it's not been the year I'd been looking forward to to be honest.  It's been really tough and fighting for my card and all that stuff.   
So to have a really good event and to come out on top, it feels amazing to be honest.   
 Q.  Three times you've led going into the final day and never quite managed to make it before.  To shoot 65 and 24 putts, what's pleased you most?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I feel like I went out there and took it a bit more, where I think maybe before, I think I hoped that someone would kind of hand it to me or kind of fall in front of me.   
Today I went out there and made four birdies on the first eight holes, and kind of tried to take the event.  Yeah, to be able to make a couple of birdies on the back nine, as well, felt really good.   
 Q.  And to get a victory, obviously life-changing, puts you inside the Top-50 in the Race to Dubai, which completely changes the approach to the end of the season.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Completely.  It's been a terrible year so far for me, so I knew I needed a couple of good weeks to keep my card.  But to win here, it changes a lot.  It means a lot to me.  I feel pretty good.   
 Q.  And you join a great list of Danish golfers who have lifted trophies on The European Tour, like Thomas Bjorn, must be nice to be named in the same company?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, very much so.  Obviously learned from all of them, especially the older guys.  They have been very nice to me with advice and stuff.  But it is nice.  I've played out here for four years now, and been in contention a few times and never really made it; so to do it now, feels amazing.  You start to doubt it's ever going to happen, and you know you need a week where it all comes together.  Thankfully that week was this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT