100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2016
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're holding a bottle of champ pain courtesy of the hole-in-one at the second.  Great way to start your round?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Oh, it was a great way to start my round.  It's my first-ever hole-in-one, so that was pretty sweet.   
So I started off on 1, hit a bad drive in the rough.  Had to lay up, up-and-down, and saved my par.  Then hit a great shot on 2.  It was a perfect number for a 7-iron there, downwind.  Hit a great shot straight at it.  We couldn't really see it.   
It looked like it went in, but about five guys just back of the green, nobody clapped or reacted in any way, and then Matteo said he thought he could see it right behind the pin.  Grabbed my putter out and we started walking, and when we got a little closer, we could see no ball on the green.   
 Q.  Is it true that your clubs didn't arrive if you're using a borrowed set?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, Nike made me a new set.  Thought my clubs got lost on the way down here.  Still not found them yet, so they made me a new set yesterday.  Luckily I'm with a great team that made the exact same clubs that I have.  I haven't really noticed too much.  But yeah, maybe I should just keep these now and let the airline company keep my old ones.   
 Q.  Sometimes difficult to calm down after the adrenaline rush of holing in one, but you seemed to do so brilliantly, three birdies in the next four holes.  Was that easy to do or quite difficult to move on?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was really easy.  I was really happen and I hit a good one drive on 3 and hit a great second shot to eight, nine feet.  Barely missed out on eagle there.   
Made birdie on 5 and 6, as well.  So yeah, it was a great start, and I think it's what I've been needing.  I've played decent lately, a lot of improvement.  Couldn't really get any momentum, and obviously I did with the hole-in-one there.  So that's nice to continue and shoot a good score today.   
 Q.  Hole-in-one at the second, lovely start to the morning.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was a great start early on today.  Struggled on the first hole.  Hit a wayward tee shot right and had to lay up and up-and-down there to save my par there was nice.   
Had a great number on 2.  Hit it to about a foot yesterday in the Pro-Am.  Then we were joking, I never made a hole-in-one, I was probably going to never make one because it always ended up like that.   
Hit a great shot.  Looked like it went in but we couldn't really tell, and nobody around the green reacted.  I think there was about five guys behind the green and didn't clap or react in any way.  Matteo said he thought he could see it right behind the pin there.   
So grabbed my putter and started walking but as we got closer, I could see it was in, so that was nice.  First hole-in-one ever, so that was great.   
 Q.  Not bad to have a magnum of champagne as a result?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: No, it's good.   
 Q.  Do you drink it?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I'll probably have a glass of it.   
 Q.  You'll celebrate a good round in total, because I don't know if this was inspirational, but you kept it going in lovely style.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Hit great drive on 3, as well, and hit a great second shot on 2, eight, nine feet, just missed that for another eagle but then made birdie on 5 and 6 again.   
So a great start and I think that's what I've been needing these last few past weeks.  I've been playing decent and seeing a lot of improvements.  Just haven't really put any good rounds together.  Got a little momentum off that hole-in-one there and it was nice to back it up on the holes after, and nice to shoot a good number today.   
 Q.  It comes after trying circumstances, not only the results, but with the clubs.  Tell us the story.  You didn't have the clubs that you wanted at the start.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, didn't get my clubs on Tuesday.  They still haven't found them.  Luckily Nike made me a new set exactly like my own, so I haven't really noticed too much.  Missing a few bits and pieces in my bag but other than that, it's really good and very helpful.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT