BMW MASTERS
November 13, 2015
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What then are your thoughts on shooting a wonderful round of 66 to rise right to the top?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it was a great round and obviously finished off with some good birdies coming in.  A great birdie there on 6.  Tough par 3 today.  A couple good birdies coming in.  Nothing much really happened on the first nine, just played really solid.  But thought it was a good bit tougher than yesterday with the wind up.  Some of the holes were playing really long.
But yeah, made some good putts.  Made some good par saves, as well, to keep the round going, so that was nice.
Q. Peter Uihlein shot a 66, as well, and said the two of you fed off each other.  Was that the case?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, that was fun.  He had seven birdies in a row and I was cheering him on.  He just missed out by an inch for his eighth in a row there, and I was really hoping that would go in.
We had good fun.  He's a nice guy.  We played three rounds together in Turkey, as well, so it was nice and nice that we both played well.
Q. It's not bad yourself coming home with five birdies on that back nine for you, is it?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Oh, that was great.  As I said, nothing much really happened on the front nine there.  I played good and solid and then made some putts on the back nine there, which was nice.
Q. I take it the course is that bit harder today playing that little bit longer because of the rain and the cold, and the winds are up a bit.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, definitely, the good thing is obviously the fairways are soft, as well, but the greens are, so if you miss them, it's a little bit easier to get up-and-down.  You can play it all the way out to some of the tougher pins.
So, yeah, it was tougher than yesterday, so I'm really happy with my round.
Q. With this wonderful run of form that you're on and coming so close of course in Hong Kong, are you feeling more and more confident when you're in this position?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Oh, yeah, definitely.  It was nice in Hong Kong to prove to myself and to everyone else that I can still compete up there.  So hopefully I can do that again this week and just come up one place better than last time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT