UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts after a performance like that?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was great.  I really enjoyed it out there with Justin.  He's a really good guy and we kept making birdies, especially around the turn.
So I played some good golf today and it was nice to get off to a good start, as well, to take some of the pressure off.  So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. He said the two of you fed off each other.  We got that impression.  Did you, as well?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Oh, yeah, definitely.  We kept making birdies and he made a birdie and then I made a birdie.  It was good fun.  I really enjoyed it.
Q. I take it that really aids the focus, as well, because you know the battle, the heat, with a guy right up against you?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I didn't even -- I lost track of how many we were under for the day coming down the stretch here.  We pretty much played against each other out there, so that was good fun and I really enjoyed it.  So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and hope it's going to be more of the same.
Q. In the end, it means you've shot a low round of the week, a 63.  Does that mean it's easier to bear a bogey at the last?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Obviously it's not fun to finish off any round with a bogey and not -- especially not today.  I really thought I made that putt on 17.  I hit a really good putt that just broke off at the end.  And hit a bad tee shot on 18 there, pretty much my only bad shot of the day.
So not the way I wanted to finish, but still, I'm very happy with the round today.
Q. Are you always as controlled and composed as you seem?  You're certainly giving this demeanor of no particular nerves right at the moment.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I'm not sure about that, but it is still Saturday.  Tomorrow is the day where it all comes to an end.
But I really have to give a lot of credit to my caddie, Todd.  He's really good at keeping me grounded and lightening the mood if I get too serious or nerves start showing up, he's really good at helping me with that.  So I've got to owe a lot of the credit to him.
Q. Sometimes we don't give enough credit to the caddies, but he's a character, isn't he.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Oh, definitely and we have good fun.  We laughed a lot the last couple of days, so we're having good fun and obviously it's nice to be up where we are playing against guys like Justin.  It's all good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT