UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 23, 2015
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Today I played well, I thought I played better than I did yesterday, and had two silly bogeys where I 3-putted from birdie range.  So had two or three 3-putts yesterday, as well.  So I've been struggling a little bit with the pace, but made some really nice putts out there, as well.  And the game is in decent shape.   
 Q.  Has it made any difference playing in the morning compared to the afternoon, apart from that very, very early alarm call?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was very early.  I think just a quarter to five.  But it was nice; it was not as hot this morning, which was really nice during the warmup.  But it got warm really quick.   
 Q.  You're certainly feeling it now, I take it, and it's like an oven among the trees in places.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, some places, I think it was the ninth tee box, we were just standing there and it was so hot.  But it's nice, the weather is great.  Got to drink a lot of water, stay hydrated.  But other than that, it's great.   
 Q.  Are you looking at leaderboards?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I'm looking a little bit and seeing where I'm at and trying to keep up with the other guys, and hopefully I can keep on doing that this weekend.   
 Q.  It's fun company up there with Justin Rose and Ian Poulter.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, definitely.  Some good names this week.  Great field.  I know I've got to play my best this weekend if I want to keep up with those guys.   
 Q.  How much have you learned from, say, South Africa and other occasions of being up there?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I've learned a lot.  I think in Italy a month or two back, I think I handled myself a lot better.  The week after in Germany, as well, two decent weeks there where I had a chance of a good result, and thought I handled myself a lot better than I've done in the past.   
So obviously that helps and I've learned a lot about myself and how I react to those type of situations.  So hopefully I can use that.   
 Q.  Can you enjoy an afternoon here before getting back to work again?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I'm going back now, have lunch now, hit some balls and then go back and take the rest of the day off.  This is my seventh week, so I'm starting to feel it a little bit.  But I'll keep going and hopefully I'll get my eighth week next week in Turkey.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT