WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 31, 2019
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough match out there this morning?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it was a good match.  We didn't play great to start.  We both played a bit better on the back nine.  He hit a great shot into 16.  It was a good match.  I didn't get to put the pressure on him today like I did in my two matches yesterday.  I didn't make the putts I had to.  I didn't hit the shots when I had the chance.  So, yeah, disappointed now.  But, yeah, Matt did well.
Q. What's the mentality that take into your afternoon match with Francesco?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I mean, right now it hurts a bit, so I probably need a few minutes.  But give me a bit of lunch and a half an hour, and I'll start thinking about this afternoon.
My game is not far off.  These last nine I played pretty solid.  I just need to make a few more putts and hit a couple better shots.
Q. When you come to the semifinal of the WGC, you know it's going to be tough.  Tell us just how difficult it was out there for you and how tough it was to get close to Matt Kuchar, the way he was playing?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it was tough.  You know, neither of us played really well on the front nine and, you know, I didn't do much, made a lot of pars and he made a few birdies and a few bogeys.  So it wasn't too exciting.  And then on the back nine we both started playing a bit better.  I had a few chances on the back nine, just didn't putt well enough.  Just didn't put pressure on him when I needed to, which I succeeded with yesterday.
Yeah, disappointed right now.  But he did well.
Q. There was a moment on 17, where a question was asked and you showed that you've got it in you to answer some of the best players in the world by holing that putt.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, obviously it was nice to give myself a chance down 18, and then the same thing on 18, didn't hit it close enough, didn't put pressure on him really.  And lost a few holes like that out there.  So it's a nice putt to hole, but it doesn't really matter too much now.
Q. I know it's tough and you've got the consolation match, but there's a lot of people here this week that now know who you are, and there's a lot of support from people.  How good is it to do that at this level?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's brilliant.  Obviously yesterday it helped my case a lot.  And I can see from my Instagram and so forth that a few people have gotten to know my name from yesterday.  So it's been a great week, no matter what happens.  But, yeah, it stings a bit now, I've come this far, and I'd love to have a chance in the final.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT