WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations.  Great playing against a world-class player.  You have to be very pleased.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I played really nice today.  Other than the last two holes, I didn't really make mistakes.  Only had an 8-iron into 16 here and missed it, the only place I could miss it.  And then the three-putt on 15.  Other than that, there weren't any mistakes in there.  Putted lovely again today.   
Just a very solid round of golf.  Henrik gave me a good fight until the end.   
 Q.  Now the elite eight, you're going to face either Tiger or Rory.  That's pretty exciting stuff.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, you can definitely say that.  I've been focused on this round, obviously.  But, yeah, I couldn't help but notice yesterday that if I were to make it through, it would be one of those two guys.  Yeah, it should be a fun afternoon.   
 Q.  "Elite Eight" is an NCAA basketball reference.  I don't know if you're aware...  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, I love basketball.   
 Q.  You're a debutante.  How satisfying to get past Henrik Stenson?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, very.  It was a really tough match today.  Henrik didn't give much away.  We all know he's one of the best ball-strikers out there, and he definitely showed that today.  He hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of really good iron shots, never gave anything away.  I made a couple of mistakes in the last couple of holes.  But other than that, we didn't really do much wrong.  I putted really well today and that was the difference.   
 Q.  This afternoon you going to go up against either Rory or Tiger.  Any preference?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's not great, is it?  But to be honest with you, it would be fun to say you played against Tiger.  I'd love that.  But I also know that that's not going to be very easy.  So not saying that Rory would be.  But, yeah, it will be fun either way.  Looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Tell us about your match this morning with Henrik.  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it was a brilliant match.  My second and third round we kind of traded on making mistakes, and giving holes away and bogey and stuff.  But today wasn't anything like that, except for my couple of mistakes in the end.  We didn't really do much wrong.  A lot of fairways for both of us.  A lot of good iron shots.  And I just putted really well.  That was the difference.   
 Q.  Tiger or Rory, it'll be a true test again this afternoon?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, you could say that.  It will be fun.  We'll see.  It's not going to be easy against any of the two.  To be fair, it's not going to be easy against any of who is left in this event.  It will be fun and I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT