WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it's up there, that's for sure.  We had a great match.  It's a shame it had to end like this.  It really didn't deserve that.  And obviously I'm happy to come out on the winning side.  But we had a great match.  And I really, really enjoyed playing with him today.  I've never played with him before, so it was a cool experience for me and obviously to say I've beaten Tiger, there's not a lot of guys that can say that, so it's up there.
Q. We were talking a little earlier, not only have you never played him before, you've never met him before.  What was it like being inside the ropes with the greatest player of your generation?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's so different to what I've ever experienced before.  And I've played with some good golfers before, but I've never heard so many yell his name and all the stuff all the way around.  And it was really cool to experience.  And I actually thought it was really enjoyable.  But it must be hard, as well, doing that every day.
Yeah, the support out there was great.  A lot of people yelling my name as well, and having a bit of fun with it.  So there was support for me as well.
Q. Congratulations.  I interviewed you on an emotional day when you won at St. Andrews.  How are your emotions compared to right now?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's a shame it had to end the way it did.  Our match today didn't deserve that.  We played really well.  When you think of the the conditions, we played really well.  We didn't really give each other much.  It was a great match.  And it was really fun to play against Tiger.
It's a shame it ended that way, but I'm happy to be on the winning side.
Q. In any way overwhelmed with the presence of a great man on the golf course?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, he's my golfing hero and has always been.  And I remember taking his book to the range and studying his swing and trying to make it look like it.  Didn't succeed at that, but I've always looked up to him.  And he was very nice to play with today.
You know, it's a lot of support obviously for him but a lot of people yelling my name and trying to get it right, at least.
Q. A lot of golf, obviously, played, still a lot of golf to come.  Thoughts on tomorrow and physically how are you feeling?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Tired.  That was tough.  For some reason I felt -- I felt less nervous this afternoon than I did playing against Henrik this morning.  Maybe because it's Tiger and expectations, so maybe a little bit lower.
But, yeah, tired.  I'm not ready to think about tomorrow yet.  I'm going home straight to bed.  Seeing the little one.  So it's been a long day, but, yeah, I'm happy to be through.
Q. Talk about today's match.  High quality match.  High winds, you had five birdies and an eagle.  That was well played on both sides.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, especially when you think of the conditions, we played really well, other than when I hit one in the water on 11.  We didn't really give each other much.  We had to win the holes.  Tiger had a great stretch on the front nine where he stiffed a few and made a couple of good putts.  So it looked a bit uphill there.  But, yeah, I made some great putts coming in.  Yeah, and hit some good shots, played really well on the back nine.
Q. You must have thought you were headed to No. 12 after this, Tiger had four and a half feet and you knew that was going in or at least you thought, right?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, as I've said now, it's a shame it had to end that way, because it was a great match and we made birdies.  It's not like we were just making bogeys everywhere.  It's a shame it had to end that way, but obviously I'm happy to be through.
Q. As a young man in Denmark you idolized Tiger Woods, studied his book, right?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, as many others, he's my idol and still is.  What he's done and what he's done for the game is incredible.  So just to get the chance to play against him today is pretty special.  And I've got to be honest, I'm pretty proud of saying I beat Tiger.  There's not many people that can say that.
Q. What a day.  You beat Henrik Stenson and then Tiger.  That's pretty special.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, and I've played great all day.  So they were both really tough matches.  Henrik played great, as well.  Gave it a good run in the end.  So it's been good golf all day.  I had a couple of rounds in the group play, where we were kind of making mistakes and giving each other holes, and there's been none of that today.  I played really solid and can't wait for tomorrow.
Q. So where does that rank in your golfing experiences?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it's up there.  You know, just to get the chance to play against him is just -- it was pretty incredible.  And he was really nice out there.  It was a great match.  We played pretty well, both of us.  Made a few birdies, and it wasn't easy out there with the wind.  It was a great match and unfortunately it had to end this way, but I'm happy to be through.
Q. Talk about your thought going around there, playing against Tiger.  The crowd supporting him, but there was support for you.  What was it like out there?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It was loud.  It was like nothing I've ever experienced before.  I've played with a lot of good players but nothing can compare to that.  A lot of yelling, a lot of stuff going on all the time.  Yeah, it was a good bit of support for me, as well, so that was nice.  But you can see, like he's not just my idol, but a lot of other people.
Q. When you hit your tee shot on 17, you think that's a good tee shot and then arguably the best golfer puts (inaudible).  You have to expect he's going to keep working?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, he's hit his irons beautifully, controlled them really nice in the wind today.  Had a good stretch on the front nine where he hit some close and made the putts.  It was a good match.  We played really well.  Had to make birdies, and had to make an eagle on 16 to tie the match.  It was really cool.  And a great experience for me to play with him.
Q. You played Henrik Stenson this morning and Tiger Woods in the afternoon.  That must rank way up there as a fantastic day of golf for you.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it's been a pretty good day, that's for sure.  Yeah, and both great matches.  As I said the other day, I had a couple of matches in the group play where we both made a few bogeys and maybe the golf wasn't that great, but today it's been two really, really good matches.  And I'm sure it will be just as tough tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT