WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you know how things stood as you progressed through the round?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I didn't, actually.  I've not seen anything from Justin's match.  My caddie is the one who told me when I missed the one on 18 that he had halved.  Yeah, I just knew that I had to win.  Luckily it ended up, it's been a couple of stressful days but I'm happy to come out and go through.   
 Q.  You actually clinched the round of 16 with your par on the 17.  But still you went through a match play record to look as presentable as possible.  50th seed, you have a date in the fourth round against with Henrik Stenson.  Your thoughts on that match?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It should be fun.  I like Henrik.  I don't think I've ever played with him actually.  But, yeah, it should be fun.  And he's obviously been playing well as well.  So, yeah, we should have a good game.  And I'll tease him a little.  We'll have a little bit of Swedish-Danish thing going on.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Not really, but Paul Lawrie Matchplay I've played twice.  Never done very good in it.  Other than that it goes back to amateur days.   
 Q.  Did you have any expectations at all when you got here, given the nature of the whole format?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: It's a tough format because anything can happen.  Like today, three of us could go through.  And anything could really happen.  So even if you win the first two, you can't really relax.  It's a tough format.  And it's been three really stressful days.  I'm worn out.  So I'll go home and rest up now.   
 Q.  You said "stressful days", were they good days?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: They are now.  Yeah, they've been good days.  Obviously tough finish yesterday and I'm happy today's finish wasn't as tough.  Yeah, it's been a little stressful.   
 Q.  What did you do yesterday?  Did you let him back in?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: I hit it just short of the green here.   
 Q.  From a win to halve, I guess the reason I ask that, is that easy to dismiss going into today?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Probably maybe wasn't such a bad thing because it gave me a little bit of a -- a little bit of a drive or kick up the butt.  Maybe it wasn't the worst thing in the world, and I'm happy it didn't affect or cost me anything.   
 Q.  What is the Danish phrase for "kick up the butt"?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Don't really have.  Yeah, a kick up the butt.  You want it in Danish?   
 Q.  What's it been like playing on Tour the last month or two?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it's been great.  I've really enjoyed it.  I've really enjoyed my American adventure.  It's been good.  I've liked -- the courses I've played have been great.  And it's awesome to compete against the best players in the world.  That's what we all want.  So it's nice and I'm happy this week that it goes a little bit longer.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you, where are you going next week?  Did you ask for a spot in San Antonio?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, they gave me one, so I'm playing next week and then the Masters, and then I'm going home for a few weeks.  So I've been over here since the week before Mexico, so I'm looking forward to going back soon and having a bit of a rest-up.   
 Q.  Were you in LA?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: No, so I came over the weekend before.  Played Mexico, played Honda, had a week off but stayed here because the family is out, PLAYERS, stayed here last week.   
 Q.  You said "stayed here last week", where did you stay?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Last week I stayed in -- have you heard of Congaree?   
 Q.  Is that in Ohio?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: No, it's in South Carolina near Savannah.  It's the most amazing place I've ever been.  My Dunhill partner from last year he started it.  If you ever get a chance to go, it is the most amazing place I've ever been.   
 Q.  Did you stay there twice?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: No, the week before we stayed in Orlando, didn't do much.  Went to Disney World.  Unbelievable place, though.  Highly recommend it.   
 Q.  What's kind of your plans for the rest of the year?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: To be honest with you, after Masters I've not really made many plans.  I've got PGA, British Open and all that, and I'll kind of fill in.  But going back to Europe and playing a bit more over the summer.  I've kind of based everything up to the Masters and we'll see after that.   
 Q.  Are you eyeing a special temporary membership?  
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Of course.  If I do well, yeah.  That's what I'm hoping for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT