WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Lucas Bjerregaard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a big name opponent you drew in the opening round.  You took him down and you made it look easy with 3 and 2 win?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: The last couple holes were a little more stressful than I was hoping.  I hit a good drive on 15 and then, yeah, pretty simple pitch shot in there that I messed up pretty bad.  But I played well today.  I didn't make many mistakes.  I made that one on 15 and hit a shot in the hazard on 3.  Other than that I put it in some good spots.  Drove the ball nicely.
I didn't give too much away.  And then made a couple of good putts where JT had hit it closer than me and he missed those.  So there was a couple of match play moments in there that were pretty key for me there.
Q. When you knock after a player of the kind like Justin Thomas, it has to do wonders for your confidence moving on?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, it's great.  Obviously it's a tough match and, yeah, I know I've been playing well lately and I must have played well again today.  So it gives me a bit of confidence and it's a nice way to start the week.
Q. Talk about what the major swings in the match were.
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Nine and 13 were the big ones.  9 I tucked my drive a little left in the rough and didn't hit a great wedge shot in there, and he hit a good drive and a decent wedge shot.  And what are we, I'm 1-up at the time.  I made a long putt there and he then missed his.  And 13 was exactly the same.  He stuck it in close and I didn't.  And then I made my putt and he missed us.  A couple of classic match play moments there that were key for me.
Q. Do you consider yourself an underdog in that match?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yes, of course.  I'm pretty sure everyone did, of course.  It was frightening getting the email with the tee time and seeing him playing him first.  I'm like, eh.
But yeah, I've been playing well, and, you know, I was confident that if I played well and stuck in there, I could give him a bit of fight for his money.  And I know it's just -- yeah, those two moments there seemed to do a lot of good, not just win those two holes, but they seemed to put a bit of pressure on him.  It was really nice for me.
Q. How much confidence do you take from a win like this and going forward?
LUCAS BJERREGAARD: Yeah, he's one of the very best players in the world, so it gives me a lot of confidence.  It was a great way to start the week.  And I'm really pleased with how I played today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT