U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 18, 2019
Lori Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A little bit better results-wise from yesterday.  Is that an accurate statement?  
LORI KANE: Yes.  I think I was much more comfortable on the greens.  I still did have, I think, maybe one or two three-putts, but it was a little better.  Still missed a couple of shots that I should have had, and then I had some chances that just didn't go down.  I think this week total I've had four balls hang over the edge of the hole and not fall in.  Maybe tomorrow they're going to go down.   
 Q.  How about just the difference in the way the course played yesterday and today?  Pretty similar?  
LORI KANE: Actually a little bit different.  I think the course -- I think they probably gave it some water last night.  I mean, I think with the heat, they needed to.  Again, I was at 9:30 so I think by the time the leaders get around to the back nine, they might be a little hotter.  But the air is -- I mean, it's humid, so it's a little bit heavy feeling.  The pin locations, I thought it was a really fair test today, and it's gettable if you've got the right clubs in your hands and you can get on the right sides of the holes.  A little bit different than yesterday.  I played so late that, again, I think I said to you last night, it was difficult seeing.  So today much brighter and easier in that regard.   
 Q.  Makes it easier to read the greens?  
LORI KANE: Yes, a lot easier.  There was no shadows at all today, and you could really see where the grain was and late last night, the last three or four holes I couldn't.   
 Q.  What do you do, and what's your expectation for tomorrow?  
LORI KANE: Well, you know, I want to finish as strong as I can.  I think there's a sub-par round in me, and I remember the last time I played, it was either the first Open in 2001 or the second Open in 2007, my memory I think is -- I want to say the first Open.  I didn't have a very good first round, switched irons, and by the end of the week I was seventh, and I think after the first round I was probably near the last or the very bottom of the field.  I'm in the middle of the pack.  I think the thing about this Senior Open is that we're not playing a lot of competitive golf, so we're still knocking the rust off.  And I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I'm really fortunate that I'm even playing, so it's good.   
 Q.  How is the elbow?  
LORI KANE: A couple shots today I had to hit out of the little fescue bushes, it pinched, but nothing that an Advil can't help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT