GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 26, 2002
Phil Tataurangi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you fill for joining us.  Great two days of golf.  Great position for the weekend.  Why don't you make a couple of comments and we'll go into questions.
PHIL TATAURANGI: I played pretty solidly.  I enjoy this golf course.  I enjoy courses that are demanding and require a lot of strategy to play.  And when my game is on I've played well on those courses.

Q.  Did you leave anything out there?
PHIL TATAURANGI: Oh yes.  Unfortunately.  I played well the front nine and hit the ball well on the back nine.  I put myself in the places I needed to put myself and had a lot of opportunities.  I just missed some putts.

Q.  How do you feel going into the weekend?
PHIL TATAURANGI: Great.  My game has been pretty solid all year and I've just seen steady improvement.  If I can just keep on improving over the weekend that would be great.

Q.  Was it two years ago you had the physical problems?
PHIL TATAURANGI: Yes.

Q.  Somebody said you might not come back here with such bad memories.
PHIL TATAURANGI: You can take it one way or the other.  You can either look the bull in the face and take it by the horns, which I did last year, or you can run away.   In 2000 when I played poorly here and felt poorly and was unhealthy all around, it was a combination of about a year's worth of playing under injury.  It was disappointing.  I let myself down.  After taking 2000 off, I feel strong, physically and mentally, to come back and play.

Q.  Talk about your year overall.
PHIL TATAURANGI: I'm playing solid.  I changed my off season.  I dropped midway through last year what I was doing wrong.  I've never gotten off to a good start all the years on tour.  I was kind of looking forward to the off season midway through last year.  What I was doing wrong was, I was going back to New Zealand, taking some time off and working with my coach about two weeks, a week or so before I would come back to play tournament golf.  My game would need a little bit of work and we would do some mechanical changes in my swing, but I never got a chance to play rounds of golf with the changes I made to my swing, and I would come out and my swing wouldn't be in good enough shape to play and I would lose confidence.  It would take me all over the west coast to get going.
Last year, as soon as I got through Q-School, I went straight home and worked with my coach for the next two weeks prior to Christmas, didn't take any time off, played with my friends and played rounds of golf, did a little bit of practice.  Just played a lot of golf over the Christmas/New Year period and came to Hawaii feeling like I was ready to play tournament golf and I haven't taken a decent break all year, at the same time my schedule has only been like a couple of tournaments in a row, a week off, and a couple tournaments in a row.  So I just feel like from the get-go my game and my swing was ready to play tournament golf.  Mentally I was read to play, and I've just kind of been topping it out on my weeks off.  It's been a big change around and seeing the fruits of it.






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT