ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 25, 2015
Amjad Javed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So your thought for a second or two that you had Ed Joyce bowled, bit of a shock that the    AMJAD JAVED: It's a part of the game.  Sometimes it comes off by us in particular and sometimes it doesn't come off, but it's a part of the game.   Q.  Ever happened to you before?  AMJAD JAVED: I've seen that, but never with me.   Q.  Would you say it was Kevin O'Brien and Wilson's partnership, or would you say that there were so many run out chances, you guys just couldn't get the wickets?  Was that one of the reasons?  AMJAD JAVED: You can't say that   you can say that it's unlucky that we couldn't hit the wicket, but we drove a catch off Kevin when I think they required   I think their hundred was about 10 runs.  I think that was a crucial time.  Definitely if you are giving a chance to a Kevin O'Brien type player, Kevin will take the match away from you, yeah.   Q.  Do you think that it all boiled down to keeping them down in the last 10 overs the way they played and the way you played?  Do you think drop catches, missed run outs, is it due to the fact that you haven't played such close contests?  AMJAD JAVED: Definitely if you are getting some good games against test playing nations, good exposure, definitely.  Then the boys will learn from their mistakes.  In a tournament like this, a big tournament, and suddenly you're playing in front of a TV and you're dropping, then all the morale has gone down, and we can't do much to the players, but again, we have to boost the players up.  So inshallah, next game you'll see the energy back.   Q.  Manjula bowled seven over and then he had that kind of an injury.  How crucial was that, that he couldn't bowl his entire quota of 10 overs?  AMJAD JAVED: Yeah, he's our main bowler.  He's our main bowler.  We are using him in the powerplays.  Yeah, he got a cramp and definitely the condition out there is a bit humid.  So it's good that we will be working on our fitness, as well.  That was, I think, a big setback that we couldn't use him for his three overs.  Yeah, he's very useful in the powerplays.  Most of the time we are using him in the powerplays, yes.   Q.  And can you just tell us about the partnership, because that was just absolutely stunning from where you were, 130 for 6, to take it to 280, and something about Shaiman's innings, you were the closest and you were the one on the other side.  How was the innings from your end?  AMJAD JAVED: He is one of the best players we have on our team, yeah.  On his day he can really score quick runs for us, and we have seen it.  Yeah, I just told him that we have to play our natural game.  It doesn't matter if we have lost six wickets or seven wickets, we have to play our natural game, and once we start the counterattack on them and they were making the runs.  We just kept going.  So we kept going, and it helped us.   Q.  In that partnership there was the couple of overs there from Kevin O'Brien towards the end of the innings where Shaiman was moving across the crease and Kevin was trying to bowl wide.  Did you feel in that moment that Ireland were struggling to cope a little bit with the partnership?  AMJAD JAVED: Definitely.  If you scored the last 10 overs you score 100 runs, definitely bowled wide.  He is bowling at you and you are just moving away from the crease on the off side.  He doesn't have like  a bowler like Kevin O'Brien, he doesn't have that much pace.  He can't bowl 150 plus.  He's just 120, 130, so Shaiman, he was set and he was just trying to take runs.   Q.  And just a little bit more about Shaiman, he has a reputation for being able to hit out.  Do you think his confidence is going up and up?  AMJAD JAVED: Definitely.  He's very dangerous, yeah.  Once he starts scoring he will score more and big runs.  Inshallah, next game you will see that.   Q.  Could I ask you just in regards to the next World Cup being reduced to 10 teams, how do you feel about that, and is it pretty frustrating?  AMJAD JAVED: I think ICC should see that, that the performance of the associates in this tournament, and then they can decide whatever they want to do.  But I think they have to introduce more teams in the World Cup.  The teams are not coming straightaway from the World Cup, they are going through a process and then they are qualifying for the tournament.  So I think they should increase the teams.   Q.  Were you surprised that Ireland bowled first?  What were you going to do if you had won the toss?  AMJAD JAVED: No, I think we were supposed to bat first only, so it's not a surprise.  The wicket was very good for batting.  I think we scored 280 runs, so     Q.  You were surprised that Ireland bowled first?  AMJAD JAVED: That Ireland bowled first?   Q.  They won the toss, yeah.  AMJAD JAVED: I think it's their choice, but we were batting first if we won the toss.   Q.  You seemed to get more movement in the second innings under the lights; is that right?  AMJAD JAVED: I think it helped us.  We took all the wickets, but some run out chances got down, so yeah.   Q.  Was there a bit of a dew factor coming in in the last 10, 12 overs?  I think Tauqir mentioned there was a bit of dew because the seamers were not able to    AMJAD JAVED: I think the ground, it's just a partnership that took the match away.  You can't just   sometimes some players say it's a dew factor, but I think it was okay, the dew factor on the grounds.  But it's okay.  Some missed chances, some run outs.  Yeah, that's it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT