U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2017
Taylor Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got 2-up, but then there was a stretch in the middle there where Celeste made a couple of birdies and retook the lead.
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Yeah, she birdied 8 and 9, and then it was all square, and then actually I bogeyed 10 and she went up 1, and then I birdied 11, got it back to all square, and then on 12, we both parred.  I actually lipped out for birdie.  And then 13, she hit it in the left rough, which is really thick, and just instead of taking an aggressive line, I just went a little left just because it would have been really hard to get up-and-down from there, so I just wanted to make par, which I did, and then that got me to 1-up.
And then I parred the next hole, and she bogeyed, so then I got back to 2-up, and then the next hole was pretty crazy.  She hit it in the right bunker, which is really hard to hit out of, and then kind of chunked it out of there but got out of the bunker, and then she hit it like in the back side of the green and made like a 50-foot putt, and I was on the fringe, and I went back and forth with the line and then picked it, and then I knocked it in from the fringe, so then that got me to 3-up, so that's kind of how it went down.
Q. I know it's a long week and you're tired and I want to get you back out there, but when you were down, when you had the lead and kind of slipped to 1-down, did you just kind of block everything out --
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Just kept going.  Hole 11 has kind of been my hole for the week.  I think I've birdied it four out of five times, so I knew going into hole 11 that I still had this, and then the par-3 I've hit really good shots into the par-3, as well, missed the green yesterday, but other than that, I've been pretty good in that final -- like that four-hole stretch.  I love that four-hole stretch.  I think I've bogeyed hole 10 three days in a row, too.
Q. After you get through that, that's your stretch there.
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT