U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2017
Taylor Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A mixed day overall?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Yeah.
Q. Jennifer is a very strong person.  She hasn't actually been trailing all week.  Did you have a sense at all that she'd be a tough matchup?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: I knew she'd be a tough matchup.  I mean, I could have won the match if I played my game, and I didn't play my game at all.  I honestly don't know what happened out there.  I just didn't -- just swing felt a little off.  Didn't trust everything as I did on all the other matches.
I mean, going head-to-head with Jennifer was a great experience.  I've done it before and I look forward to doing it in the future, but definitely I feel like my game is strong enough to beat her in the future.  It could have happened today but I just didn't play good.
Q. When did you play against each other before?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: We played at Disney and at Rolex.
Q. Was that stroke play?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Yeah.
Q. So obviously, if you can think of a shot to win a match yesterday in 19, you won another match in 22 holes, and you won this morning, and I know you wanted more than that, but for the week, how do you feel in general?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: This week was amazing.  It tested my game a lot.  I've improved a lot over the week, and I'm just going to take a lot of positives out of the week.  Look forward to next year because that's really cool that I don't have to work my butt in a playoff again to try to qualify.  But everything start to finish has been amazing, and I really appreciate all the staff here.
Q. Do you feel like you found out some things about yourself this week in this competition against these players and what you were able to pull off?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: I hit a lot of quality shots this week.  I'd probably say like five to seven shots could have went in the hole but were all tap-ins.  Everything about my game was really great this week.  My short game around the greens wasn't as good as it is normally, but I learned so much from this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT