U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2017
Taylor Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about it.  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: It was a grind the whole way.  I started off really strong.  I was 2-up through 3.  Could have went 3-up through 3, missed a short putt for a birdie.  I was really -- never really nervous out there until I got down.  She won three holes in a row.  I haven't really had a lot of experience -- I haven't had any experience in a USGA event.  It's my first one.  But it's been amazing.  I mean, that shot, I had like 179 into hole 1.  I didn't hit my drive --   
 Q.  The extra hole?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: In the extra hole.  My hand fell off my club on the drive or like slipped off.   
 Q.  So what happened?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: So I had a longer way in than I would have.  The other girl was like 150 yards in front of me.  So probably the best hybrid I've hit in my entire life.   
 Q.  Which hybrid was it, and what was your yardage?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: It was 3 hybrid.  It was 179.  My caddie is amazing.  I probably wouldn't have hit 3 hybrid or any of the shots all day.  He's a member out here, and he just knows the course really well, so we played it as like a 195 shot, and the hybrid is a 200 club, and he told me to aim right, and I'm like, no, I'm going right at it, so I went right at it, and three to five feet, and then made the putt for birdie.   
 Q.  How long was it?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: The putt?  Three to five feet.  I don't know exactly how long.   
 Q.  Obviously Haley is a huge hitter, long hitter.  I don't know how much shorter you were than her, but were you right there with her?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: There were a few holes, but she hits it so long.  I didn't get down on myself because she hit it so long.  It's all about putting the ball it play, doesn't matter how short you are.  It just comes down to your short game.  I had a couple hiccups, but it was really fun out there.   
 Q.  What do you have to do to get up for tomorrow?  I know you played a lot of golf today.  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: I'm just going to rest.  I might go practice.  I don't think I will.  Played 36 today, so I think I'm good.   
 Q.  Same strategy or does anything change from today to tomorrow?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: No, just going to take it one shot at a time, stay in the moment is the biggest part.  I mean, I came in and barely made the cut to get into this, and now I'm in the elite 8, so it's incredible.   
 Q.  Your first round here was not especially strong; am I correct?  
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Yeah, so I came into that -- I played really good the first round, and then we were kind of rushed on the final four holes.  I made three bogeys in the last four holes.  But the second round I didn't have a lot of confidence coming in, was really nervous, and then it got me ready for match play because I came out here and said I had nothing to lose, just go hit the ball, do what I know I've done my whole life.  So just went out there -- it's a different mindset, which I love playing match play, but my ball-striking has been amazing this past week.  I mean, I could have holed at least ten shots, but they're like right here.  Yeah, it's amazing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT