U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2017
Taylor Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 22 holes is a lot, so how did the match get the whole way out to 22 holes?  Was she leading?  Were you leading?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: I was leading.  I got it to 2-up after 16.  I made a clutch putt on 13, I think, and then I made another one -- she made it from 30 feet, and then I made it from 15 feet.  I won the hole before that, so I stayed 1-up.  I birdied the next par-5 to get it to 2-up, and then she birdied the next hole, so it went to 1-up.  Then I bogeyed the par-3 after that, so it was all square.  So it was all square going into 17 and 18, and then we both bogeyed 17 and then parred 18.  I actually hit probably the best shot of the day.  I hit it in the rough on 18, and I had to go at it, so I did, and it hit to like 10 feet, but I missed the putt, so that's how it went into a playoff.  Both birdied the first playoff hole.  She lipped out for birdie on the second playoff hole, both parred the next hole, and then I birdied the hole after.
Q. Tell me about your birdie on the 22nd hole.  How far was it?  How was your approach?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: I had 142 out, and it's like a perfect number for me, just 8-iron, and my caddie told me that I have nothing to lose, go right after it, and the pin is tucked right, there's a bunker in front of me, and I'm like, there's nothing to lose, I'm going right at it.  Went right at it, three feet, maybe five feet, and I thought I missed it actually, but then it snuck in kind of.
Q. Did you have butterflies today on the first tee, being your first match play event here?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: It's my first USGA match play event, but I played some of the ones in Florida, so I'm kind of used to the situation.  I love match play.  I just like the mindset.  It's amazing.
Q. What do you think about your first USGA championship experience?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: It's been amazing.  Every part of it.
Q. What's your favorite part?
TAYLOR ROBERTS: Probably the way the staff treats you.  They're just amazing.  They always want you to do the best.  I have five staff members watching me out there.  It's just amazing.  They always want you to do well.  All the gifts we got was amazing, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT