MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 19, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Jack, when Pettitte got that double play in the first inning, he had thrown 22 pitches.  He only threw 111 in the game.  Were your batters too aggressive or did Pettitte take advantage of their aggression? 

JACK MCKEON:  Well, I tell you, he had good stuff tonight.  There's no question about it.  You got to tip your cap to Andy Pettitte, he did a great job.  Kept us at bay.  Only had a couple infield hits going into about the seventh inning.  He did a great job.  We talked about it all along, pitching is gonna win.  Their pitching was better than our pitching tonight. 

Q.  Do you have any hints about your starting rotation after Game 3?  You used Pavano tonight.  Does that take him out of the mix?  Where does Willis fit in?

JACK MCKEON:  No, we brought Pavano in just to get an inning work.  He generally throws on the side today.  We just wanted to give him an inning work.  We wanted to give Fox an inning work.  It was the perfect situation to get all those relievers in who hadn't pitched in the last few days to get in there, get their feet wet, get an inning in.  Doesn't hurt Willis or Pavano as far as starting on the fourth game. 

Q.  What makes Matsui such a tough hitter?  He's been giving everybody a hard time all month.  Does he remind you of any other player in the past?

JACK MCKEON:  No, it's the first time I had a chance to see him in person.  He's a pretty good player.  If you get to count 3-0 and lay a fastball down the middle, I think you could be a pretty good hitter, too (laughter). 

Q.  You've been able to start Conine and Lowell and Cabrera and Encarnacion because of the DH here.  Have you thought about which player won't be able to start Game 3 Tuesday night? 

JACK MCKEON:  Well, if you'd been following us any length of time when we didn't have the DH, you could probably figure it out.

Q.  I thought perhaps you could just clarify in case you make any different decisions based on what you've seen?

JACK MCKEON:  Right now, not in a position to make any different decisions.  I would say we'd go the same way.  We were very successful in being there in two of the other series.  I don't know why I should change. 

Q.  What do you think Redman's problem was today, the pitcher?  He sort of couldn't get started today. 

JACK MCKEON:  You can't keep pitching behind.  I mean, Redman's problem, the last couple games, is he stays behind hitters then you have to come in; the hitter has the advantage.  You got to pitch, stay ahead of the hitters.  Tonight he was too many times behind guys.  He got hurt.

Q.  Do you think the weather had anything to do with it?

JACK MCKEON:  No, I don't think so. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT