NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 14, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you sleep last night, were you nervous?  I know you've been there before, but does this upset you at all going into a big game?
 
JACK McKEON: No, I slept good last night.  I slept good the night before.  I feel good today.  We'll see what happens. 
 
Q.  How long can you reasonably expect Pavano to go tonight?
 
JACK McKEON: Nine innings (laughter).  I don't know, he's been a guy that's been able to give us seven good innings most of the time.  Hopefully he can do it again tonight. 
 
Q.  At the beginning of the series the bottom half of the Cubs batting order seemed to have been hurting you, and someone drew your attention to Alex Gonzalez, and apparently you have done something.  Can do you care to tell us what you've done?
 
JACK McKEON: I think we're making better pitches on him now than we were.  You have to remember some of these guys, the first time ever pitching in the postseason, and probably had a lot of adrenaline flowing, and maybe sometimes didn't pitch within themselves.  But I think of late the Redmans and Becketts the second time out, they pitched a little bit differently.  And probably had better location.  So that's probably been a big asset. 
 
Q.  With all the talk over Prior and Wood and so forth, are you able to use that as motivation to your guys, to point out that they're really getting no respect, or no one really expects much out of them?
 
JACK McKEON: I haven't used it, but they realize that those two guys are pretty good pitchers.  But they also realize that they can be beat.  And our guys have a lot of confidence that they can handle them.  We seem to do all right against them in the previous times.  Maybe we didn't win, but we felt like we could hold our own against those guys and hopefully that maybe these two games we'll get a break or two, to go along with handling them. 
 
Q.  How much have you enjoyed this whole experience at this stage in your career, have you said if you want to come back next year or not?
 
JACK McKEON: I've enjoyed it tremendously.  It's probably the most enjoyable year I've ever had.  We have a great bunch of players that have dedicated themselves to winning, and are unselfish, and are fun to be around.  As far as next year, I told management when I took this job, I'd talk to them after the season.  Maybe I want to come back, maybe I don't, maybe they don't want me back, who knows.  We'll worry about that later on. 
 
Q.  It's a chillier and windier night than you had last week when you were up here.  How do you think that will change the aspect of the game?
 
JACK McKEON: I don't think so, when you're in a playoff atmosphere like we are, I think weather is not a factor.  I think that our guys are well aware of what's at stake here.  And I'm quite sure they're going to go out and play to the best of their ability, as are the Cubs. 
 
Q.  You just said that weather is not a factor, but you talked about getting a break against Prior and Wood, not necessarily with the cold, but with the wetness.  In your speed game, with bunting, could the wet weather create one bad bounce and give you the break you need?
 
JACK McKEON: The field's been covered for two days, and I don't think it's going to bother anything as far as the running track or the infield.  The outfield may be a little wet, but I don't think that's going to be a factor.  Our biggest problem is getting them on.  If we can get them on, we can cause some problems.  But we've got to get them on first.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT