NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 11, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jack, you've pointed out that this is a seven-game series.  But at this point how would you describe the challenge that lies ahead for you guys to advance?
 
JACK McKEON: There's no question it's a seven-game series, and this is a big challenge.  But I think if you go back to the record books, there's a lot of clubs that came back from three games.  We're not out.  We're going to be battling tomorrow night.  We have a good pitcher going tomorrow night.  Our problem has been our starting pitchers, we haven't been getting mileage out of them.  We're down 4-0 every night, bases on balls, we talked about that again.  I think five of the eight runs was scored on bases on balls.  You can't have that if you're going to win. 
 
Q.  Jack, when you spoke to the pitcher, did he give you the impression that there was any one pitch that could have gotten him out of the inning?  Did he believe he was being squeezed on any of them?
 
JACK McKEON: Well, I didn't think he was being squeezed on any pitch.  We thought a couple of pitches early on it was pretty close.  But once again I think the other side was complaining, too.  The umpires, they're going to miss a few, they're human, and we missed a few, too. 
 
Q.  When you talk to your team tomorrow will you mention to them what happened in 1984 when you were down two games to none, and came back and won three straight games?
 
JACK McKEON: I might.  It would be a good story.  You can't give up.  A seven-game series, it's been interesting, except for our pitching has let us down.  That's been one of our keys, and we haven't been getting the pitches that's as consistent as we're getting.  If you look on the other side, we've got almost the same amount of hits, and they got 7 runs, we got 3 runs, whatever it is.  But it's a case of our pitchers giving up bases on balls, having poor location.  And maybe it's the first time in the playoffs and it's jitters, who knows.  It's good experience, anyhow. 
 
Q.  You mentioned a few minutes ago about being down 4-0 every night it seems like, and the bases on balls.  How has Lofton being on base seemingly every game, first time up, changed the complexion of the game?
 
JACK McKEON: He's like our guys, we always talk about how offense centers around the first two guys.  And a lot of them, their offenses are similar.  They're keyed on Lofton, he does an excellent job.  He's a professional.  He's got a lot of experience, especially playoff, World Series experience.  Knows how to play the game, intelligent man.  And he's a winner.  And he's always been a winner.  And he'll battle the heck out to get on base.  And when he does, especially early in the game and first inning, and the last three games he's been causing real problems.  I mean our guy got him one ball, two strikes, he takes a walk.  We've got to close those kind of guys out if we're going to win.  You have to go after them.  If they get a base hit early, fine.  I don't have no complaints.  But to put these guys on base with walks, the 8th hitter, leadoff hitters, guys in front of Sammy and guys in front of Bonds, you know, its ridiculous.  Let them hit the ball.  Let them earn it. 
 
Q.  The first time you went out to talk to your pitcher in the third inning, you looked 
 pretty animated.  What did you tell him? 
 
JACK McKEON: I told him it was a lovely evening (laughter), we were waiting to get him back in the dugout so we could hit, hurry up and get the inning over.  That's about it. 
 
Q.  The past few weeks is Willis getting tired or nervous or what's his problem been?
 
JACK McKEON: Well, were you at the game tonight?  What happened in the first inning?  
 
Q.  He walked people.
 
JACK McKEON: That's his problem. 
 
Q.  Is that from nerves or tired?
 
JACK McKEON: That's his problem since the All-Star Game, bases on balls and getting behind in hitters, and having to come in.  That's his biggest problem, staying behind hitters.  When he was 9-and-1 he was successful, staying out in front and challenging hitters.  After the All-Star Game he became a little different type pitcher.  It hasn't been as successful as it was in the first half.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT