NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 10, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your lineup tonight, have you posted that yet or filled it out?
 
JACK McKEON: Same as it's been.  I've got it posted at Marino's (laughter). 
 
Q.  Will you talk about the situation with Lowell?  I know you want to get him in there, but obviously you don't have a place to put him.  Have you talked to him extensively about it?
 
JACK McKEON: Well, we talked a while back.  It hasn't changed since we talked.  I'd like to have Mike in there, but as I said, we're going this way.  It's unfortunate that he got injured, it's too bad.  But we'd love to have him but right now we're going pretty good, and I just don't feel I'd want to change the lineup. 
 
Q.  Would Dontrelle pitch if you were down 2-1 in the series, and what if there was a rainout?
 
JACK McKEON: Absolutely Dontrelle is going to pitch. 
 
Q.  If the game got rained out?
 
JACK McKEON: He could pitch tomorrow.  And if it's 2-1 our favor, 2-1 their favor, he's going to pitch tomorrow. 
 
Q.  I know that you start with a plan A and plan B, and you're saying that your lineup is set and apparently there is a great concern of getting Mike in there, but there's no place for him right now.  When do you feel that you need to look at plan B?
 
JACK McKEON: When we feel like we can find an open spot for him.  If somebody starts to tail off, we might have to use Mike in that situation, or an injury. 
 
Q.  Your team had a terrific home record in the second half.  Was that a reflection of how you were playing or is the ballpark particularly advantageous for you?
 
JACK McKEON: I think it's a combination of both, really.  We play well here, and I think our fans energize our guys.  And our pitchers seem to pitch good here, and the hitters seem to hit better here.  So I think the fans and the ballpark, it's a combination. 
 
Q.  Do you think range factor on defense is going to make a difference in this ballpark?  You guys have better range in a lot of instances than the Cubs do on defense.
 
JACK McKEON: I think that applies to any field, really.  The guy's got good range on one field, he's going to have good range on another field.  Our guys are extremely quick out there, and hopefully we have more range than the other club. 
 
Q.  Was Derrek Lee disappointed when his consecutive game streak ended, and what does it say about him that he likes to be in the lineup every day and play as much as possible?
 
JACK McKEON: He was very understanding when he got hurt there, and it was a question -- I went to him and said how bad do you want to keep this streak going?  You can always find a way -- he could catch the ball, but he couldn't throw it.  I said we get a big lead or something like that, I can always put you in as a defense replacement or pinch runner or get you in 
  the game some way if you want to keep your streak going.  He said, no, he wasn't concerned about his streak, just go ahead and do whatever you think is right.  I put him in one day and what I saw I didn't like, so we didn't have any problem keeping him out. 
 
Q.  How much is a concern with Dontrelle that he might caught up in the moment and try to overthrow tomorrow?
 
JACK McKEON: I don't know, he's been through it.  He pitched against the Giants.  And he's pitched in the tough series we had with the Phillies and the Mets and Atlanta, so he's experienced enough that he's not going to have any problems. 
 
Q.  I know you've been asked about Juan a lot, but can you talk about how hard a worker he is, and how important he is at the top of the lineup, maybe an example of how hard he works?
 
JACK McKEON: Well, he's like the Cubs guy, he's an outstanding leadoff man and has speed and they know how to play the game and they're always trying to make the pitcher go deep in the count if possible.  Juan is a tremendous individual, not only as a ballplayer, but as a person.  He's one of the few guys that I have known, him and Tony Gwynn, that they've worked harder than anybody I've ever seen in the game.  These guys are constantly trying to improve themselves and they're workaholics.  This guy was at the ballpark early today, and he can't get out on the field, but he's taking extra hitting, practicing on his bunting.  When he's going on the road, he's checking out Wrigley Field, he's checking out the Giants park in San Francisco, to get the angles, and the little things that make him so special.  This guy has made himself into a heck of a ballplayer.  And all the credit that he gets he certainly deserves because he's made himself that way.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT