NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 7, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jack, was Mike Lowell the guy you were going to have pinch-hit in that situation, or were you considering anybody else?
 
JACK McKEON: It was perfect.  We know that he's got some power.  And he was the guy we wanted in that situation, especially when they brought the left-hander in.  We knew he was capable of hitting the ball out of the ballpark, and he did it.  It couldn't happen to a greater guy, really.  Mike has been hurt.  The other kid came in, Cabrera has done an outstanding job offensively and defensively, and it's tough to get Mike some at-bats.  But he handled it like a pro.  He's a team player.  He understands the situation.  And I was very happy to see him be able to deliver the winning ball, and also make him feel like he's part of this thing, too. 
 
Q.  We talked earlier today, and you said Game 1 was a very important game, to get the series off on the right foot.  With that in mind, you're obviously very pleased with the outcome?
 
JACK McKEON: Yes, we are, we're very pleased.  The Cubs would have been pleased too.  It was an interesting game.  When you look at it, I think only you guys and myself included thought that it might be a low scoring game, the pitching the both clubs have.  I guess that's what we know about this.  It turned out to be a slugfest, and all the top pitchers, and top relievers gave up some runs, and anybody who likes a high scoring game, they got it today. 
 
Q.  Describe the feeling of the Marlins when Sammy's ball was hit out of the park?
 
JACK McKEON: We didn't celebrate, for sure.  I think there was a pause right there.  And say, hey, you know, hold him right there and we'll get him later.  That's about the way it was. 
 
Q.  You guys repeatedly went down -- got behind in the San Francisco series, and come out and get down four runs immediately here.  What is it about your team, why are you so resilient?
 
JACK McKEON: I said that earlier, yesterday or the day before, whenever we were over there, that this is a resilient club, and these guys don't quit.  We battled back.  Beckett got in trouble, gave up a few runs, and then pitched superbly for four or five innings.  And then the three run homer, and the kid ties it up, and that's the way these guys have been playing all year.  I can't pinpoint it and say there's any particular reason, it's just the way they are.  And I hope it continues. 
 
Q.  How important was it knowing that you have to face and Wood now, that you got to Zambrano early and were able to get through the first game and take care of business the first game?
 
JACK McKEON: Regardless of who is coming up, we want to win the game.  We didn't want to win because Prior and Wood are coming up.  You know, just -- just what I said earlier, any particular day, you can beat anybody in this League.  And no one's a sure thing.  We figured that Zambrano would be just as tough as those other guys.  It was important for us to win each game.  We're not thinking about Prior or Wood or whoever they have over there.  That's a good ballclub, they're tough pitchers, but our guys are battlers. 
 
Q.  With all the conversation about if you lose this game you have to face Prior and Wood, and doesn't this win even up all that conversation?
 
JACK McKEON: Oh, absolutely.  You know, we're not concerned about who we have to face.  We know that the pitching staff of the Cubs is very, very strong.  And we feel like ours are strong, too.  And we also know that some days they're going to have excellent days, and some days they're going to have off days.  And to worry about two or three days from now is crazy.  We've just got to play one at a time, and hope you get lucky and get the breaks.  And we're fortunate to be a good club, and facing a well managed club from Dusty Baker. 
 
Q.  What was said in the dugout after the first inning and by whom?  There must have been some sort of rallying after you went down 4-0?
 
JACK McKEON: We have a lot of cheerleaders, the veterans, the guys that have been around, Mike and Andy Fox, and Banks and Lowell, and those guys, they keep those guys on their toes.  They don't let them give up and keep pecking away.  The enthusiasm was still there, despite being down four runs.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT