NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 7, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jack, I know Game 1 hasn't been played yet, can you look ahead to tomorrow's pitching match up, is that one of the better ones?
 
JACK McKEON:  I don't even know who's pitching for them. 
 
Q.  Mark Prior and Brad Penny. 
 
JACK McKEON:  I'm only concerned with today.  They've got good pitchers, and we've got good pitchers, so it will be a good matchup, whoever is pitching tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Reading the papers here and watching the news broadcast, a lot has been made that the Marlins are sort of the ugly duckling of this playoff.  Did you know nobody wanted you to win, or you were this ugly duckling team?
 
JACK McKEON:  Well, everybody has their own favorites.  A lot of people want to see the Cubs win.  A lot of people want to see the Marlins win.  We're rooting for the Marlins.  Somebody here wants the Marlins to win. 
 
Q.  Jack, you were here in '84 as general manager with the Padres, played the Cubs in the playoffs.  Coming back now, is that like coming back full circle or two circles or semicircle or what's that like to be back in the dugout this time?
 
JACK McKEON:  It's nice to be back.  I was in a different capacity in '84, as it is today.  But '84 was a very exciting year, and especially for the San Diego club.  Now I'm with the Florida club.  And I'm in a different capacity.  And it's very exciting for me, because it's the first time I've been in postseason as a manager.  I'm excited just like all our players are, and I imagine like the Cubs are, for being in the playoffs.  It's going to be an exciting series, and we'll try to do the best we can. 
 
Q.  I read something that you had at one point in the season asked that the radar gun be shut off when Penny was pitching.  Is that true, and if so did you think he was getting too much in love with his velocity?
 
JACK McKEON:  I never asked for the radar gun to be shut off.  One time it was broken, another time it was shut off.  But I don't think that even matters anymore.  Some of the young pitchers at times, you not only see it in the Major Leagues, but you see in high school and colleges.  They all have a tendency to look at the gun, see how hard they're going, and see if they can top it.  And what we try to do is impress on our pitchers that we want you to get command of your stuff or whatever is your comfort zone and the zone you can get guys out in.  And our guys have not paid as much attention to the radar gun as they used to.  I think sometimes it's a detriment, really.  But what are you going to do?  That's how we scout today.  We scout by the gun, we don't scout by how the guy can get a hitter out or how the ball moves, it's how hard you throw.  And everybody is looking for guys that throw hard. 
 
Q.  If you had not been hired by the Marlins, what would you be doing this time of year?
 
JACK McKEON:  Well, who knows?  I'd probably be sitting home waiting -- watching this on television or waiting for the game to start. 
  
 
Q.  At mass today, I'm wondering if people recognized you, and just how the Cubs fans who have seen you out and about treated you, have they talked to you, what has been the reaction that you've heard from Cubs fans here?
 
JACK McKEON:  In Chicago?  
 
Q.  Yes, and if people recognized you at mass?
 
JACK McKEON:  No, not too many people recognize me in Chicago.  But I can go about Chicago without any problem. 
 
Q.  You've been in this game for so many years, what are your emotions here, just hours before taking over as skipper for your first National League Championship Series?
 
JACK McKEON:  I'm very calm.  I don't feel any different right now as I did playing the Phillies the last ten days of the season or the Braves or playing the Giants, really.  It's just another game.  I guess maybe because I've been in it so long, and have seen so many, been involved in so many of these games.  I imagine when they announce the introductions, you get a little emotional, butterflies start to show. 
 
Q.  You put the brakes a little bit on the running game when you took over as manager, and were more selective in your use of it.  Do you have the same philosophy going into this series or have you thought about changing that, and letting it go the way it was when you took over?
 
JACK McKEON:  We try to run intelligently, we don't try to set stolen base records, and I think early on that was the case.  And when I first took over, I saw some situations where I didn't think it was very intelligent the way we were running it.  Everybody has a green light.  They can run at will, unless they stop them.  But I try to impress on them that to run intelligently, and remember to watch the score, how many men are out. 
 
Q.  Do you use the same number of signs, where you'll put the steal on or take it off, other than when you managed the Padres versus the Reds?
 
JACK McKEON:  No, I've had clubs that could run, I do it the same way.  I think sometimes you can run yourself out.  You've got to look at your offense and see what's working for you at that particular situation or that particular game.  And you try to use the best -- use your best instincts which way you should go.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT