NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 4, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did you get any sleep last night? 

JACK McKEON:  Yeah, we had some.  No problem.  Went out with my family, about 20 of them here, 24 of them here.  We had a good time.  Yeah, we got to sleep. 

Q.  What is your lineup today? 

JACK McKEON:  Cabrera is back at third base.  The rest of the lineup's the same.  Same as it was for Game 1 and 2. 

Q.  Why is Cabrera back? 

JACK McKEON:  Well, we want to get Mike in there.  Going to try to break him in slowly, get the kid back in there. 

Q.  Did you think Lowell looked a little rusty or uneasy yesterday? 

JACK McKEON:  It's hard to say.  You know, when you don't get any hits in, you kind of look rusty.  It's like when you don't score any runs, don't get anybody on base, you say the club is a little bit, you know, not exciting or doesn't look like it has any effort.  But that's one of those things. 

Q.  The Giants' decision on who to start the day, did that affect any of your decisions?

JACK McKEON:  Not really.  I mean, you know, Felipe has got to do what he thinks is right for his club.  We know we got to play the game.  We know the pitcher's that are going to be out there.  Really doesn't make much difference who's out there - we still have to win. 

Q.  If you win today, any preference between Atlanta and Chicago? 

JACK McKEON:  If we're lucky enough to win today, we'd just be happy to play either one of them. 

Q.  Have you talked to the team about not looking too far ahead since you have a lead in the series? 

JACK McKEON:  No, we haven't talked to them.  I'm pretty sure this club here understands where they are, and where they're headed.  They're keeping a pretty even keel.  They play one game at a time.  We're not worried about tomorrow, next week, you know, we got our business to do today. 

Q.  Could you talk about the performance of Pavano, what he's meant to you? 

JACK McKEON:  He's done a good job coming out of the pen.  You know, one good thing about Carl, he's had experience out of the bullpen in the past.  So that helped us make the decision skipping him as a starter, putting him in the pen, making our pen stronger.  And what he's done the last couple games has been outstanding, coming in in crucial situations, bailing us out.  Hopefully he can do it today again if we need him. 

Q.  Is your entire bullpen ready tonight? 

JACK McKEON:  Well, we haven't 
checked with them all yet.  But knowing these guys, they're going to up and volunteer to get in there if they have to.  They realize what's at stake.  You'd like to not use Fox, if you could.  If he says he's ready, what can you do? 

Q.  For a player who hasn't played a lot in left field, could you talk about the defense that Conine has given you? 

JACK McKEON:  I'm pleasantly surprised because I never saw, you know, Jeff play that much at any position.  The job he's done in left field has been remarkable.  We see Pierre make outstanding catches.  This guy's made about four or five in the past 10, 12 days that have just been outstanding.  You know, he gets to the balls quick, he gets a good jump.  I mean, I was real surprised to see how good an outfielder he is. 

Q.  Have you talked to Penny today about pitching?

JACK McKEON:  Penny's probably going to be ready.  Haven't checked with him yet.  I know Brad, he's volunteered in the past.  After he pitched a game or two, when we had a long game, looked like might run out of relievers, he's come up wanting to bail us out anytime.  I know he's going to tell us he's ready. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT