MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 25, 2003
Jack McKeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   So much is made about your pitching Beckett today, but you either have Redman or Willis.  Redman didn't pitch that well that time.  I guess you would take your best shot not to have to play a Game 7 at Yankee Stadium, right?
 
JACK MCKEON:  I am glad you think like I do.  (Laughter.)  We were going with our best  -- the guy that's pitched best for us in the Playoffs and we're playing one game at a time.  We played that way all year, we're not going to think about Game 7.  We may have to play Game 7, but right now we are not thinking about Game 7.  We are thinking about Game 6.  We're going to try to do the best we can to win Game 6.  We thought this was our best option.  
 
Q.   Jack, were you able to get out in Manhattan last night see a show?  How much did you think about tonight's game last night and then in the early morning hours?
 
JACK MCKEON:  Well, as all you guys know, I am a big New York play advocate and I go to the operas and stuff like that, and, you know, like to listen to classical music, so I kind of just relaxed a little.  I turned on my  -- I can't think of the guy's name now, the music, and listened to music. No, really, seriously, me and my wife went down, walked around town a little bit, got something to eat, didn't do anything.  As far as thinking about the game, I didn't think about it too much.  It's very -- we know we got a very tough club to play tonight.  We also know that game 4 is always the toughest one to win, so that's about the extent of it. 
 
Q.   Jack, you have some veterans like Pudge and Conine, yet you bat Cabrera fourth.  Does that show you that he's impervious to pressure, that you can put a 20 year old  --
 
JACK MCKEON:  I think when you look at what this young man has done for us during the course of the season, he's a very mentally tough kid.  He doesn't get intimidated.  Very tough under pressure.  And has been a big game player for us.  I didn't have any qualms about sticking him in the fourth slot.  He's a guy that when he's up there something good happens.  I'd like to get him up every inning if I could.  But guys like Lowell, Conine and the other veteran players that have been around, you know, they help him out occasionally, but he's pretty special boy.  
 
Q.   When you make a decision like you do on Beckett, besides talking to Beckett himself, which is key, do you network with your other people to decide whether this is the right decision or not?
 
JACK MCKEON:  Well, we have talked to some people about it.  Some of our personnel.  We discussed it before we made the decision.  But I mean, I don't  -- you know, I get amused sometimes.  I don't know who I should contact, anybody else I should contact and see what we should do? (Laughing). 
 
Q.   You said you'd call us.
 
JACK MCKEON:  But, we got to make a decision.  I am paid to make the decisions.  I made the decision.  If it's good, I am going to be a genius.  If it doesn't work out, I will  -- they will want my head.  You know, really, in this position, we are going with the best we got, the best guy that has pitched in the Playoffs for us.  We're not afraid to go with that.  Beckett being three days' rest, everyone makes a big deal out of that.  As I said, I hope he can do it, on three days' rest.  If that happens, we will be very, very happy.  
 
Q.   What was Pav's reaction when you told him if there is a Game 7 that he has got the ball and is there any concern  -- because he has had problems in the past going more than 6, 7 innings, any concern about that?
 
JACK MCKEON:  With Pavano?  
 
Q.   Yeah?
 
JACK MCKEON:  We're not even talking Game 7.  We'll talk about that later, if it's necessary.  Right now, we're talking Game 6.  But on the other hand, we did tell him that if he went to Game 7, he'd be the pitcher and he wants the ball.  Yeah, he went into  -- well, you guys talking about the 6 and 7th inning when I took him out after 8, they were raising hell because I took him out after 8.  Make up your mind, which way you want to go? (Laughter).  Can't win on this thing.  (Laughs).  
 
Q.   A lot of people in baseball seem to think if the Marlins win it will be some mammoth upset.  Does your team see it that way, that you guys are the underdogs?
 
JACK MCKEON:  I think we are the underdog to a certain degree because no one picked us to be where we are today and everybody picked us not to beat the Giants and not beat the Cubs and how we didn't have a chance against the Yankees either.  This is a very, very tough club.  This is a good club and these guys believe in themselves.  They are very confident.  We like the role of being underdogs.  We're going to go out and play nice and loose and be the best we possibly can tonight.  If we win, great.  If we don't happen to win, I am still going to be very proud of these guys and I think every one of these guys should hold their heads up high and say, "Hey, we gave it our best shot and we did one helluva job."  And I don't think anybody should feel sorry for themselves because if it wasn't for the great attitude and desire and determination my players have, we wouldn't be here today.  It's a tribute to the great effort they put forth by being able to be sitting in Yankee Stadium today hoping to win a Championship.  
 
Q.   Everybody talks about the Yankees and we have gotten the curses all in this series, but if you look at the short history of the Marlins, here you are on the brink of a second Championship in 11 years, which is basically unheard of for an expansion team.  I know you weren't here in 1997.  Different ownership, different general manager and management, still there's a factor here and suddenly the Marlins have to take a place in baseball history that really is unheard of.
 
JACK MCKEON:  Like I said, that's a pretty good tribute to the players and to the front office and the previous people that had something to do with it.  Dombrowski here with the Marlins before and made some great trades and the great job that Larry Beinfest has done, he has been outstanding in acquiring the keys that put us over the top this year.  In my opinion, I think he's the executive of the year, hands down, because he made deals that helped this club more than any deals that helped any other club to get to the World Series.  Ownership has been great.  Mr.  Loria has been super in telling the fans out there that he was sincere about putting a winner in South Florida, and you know, not only did he do that, but he talked the talk, but he also walked the walk when he had to put up a lot of extra money to secure these players at trading deadlines.  I think it's a compliment to all the people in the organization for the great job they have done and I think the fans have supported us and they energized South Florida baseball again.  I think you are going to see this continue for years to come. 
 
Q.   What has been more satisfying for you, managing to get the most out of the players you have, or trading for and signing and putting together the pieces for a winning team?
 
JACK MCKEON:  No, I like managing much better than I did general managing.  That was a joy, but on the other hand, this is much more competitive; see I have to meet with you guys all the time, see, (laughs)  -- sometimes I don't like it, but I have to meet with you.  I enjoy the competition.  You have to make decisions, pressurized situations everyday in this job, and you have to be strong to make those decisions and I think I am strong enough and tough enough to know that some are going to work and some are not going to work, and some, you are going to get criticized for.  But I think I have got thick skin so I can handle all of that.  But it's a joy managing and especially when you got a group like I have this year, these guys and the coaches have done a tremendous job and I can't say much how much I love these guys.  
 
Q.   Nobody much wants to talk about defense in baseball but your team not only seems to be a great defensive team but has great range and doesn't make mistakes.  Talk about that as one of the underlying effects of why you guys are where you are at?
 
JACK MCKEON:  Well, I think when you look at a ballclub throughout the whole season, some of you guys that have covered us, we have always said pitching and defense is going to win for us.  We got, in my opinion, the best defensive club all around in the Major Leagues.  I know I managed a number of years in the Big Leagues and I have never had a defensive club as good as this one. That in itself helps the pitching.  When you got young pitchers like we have they are developing and maturing, this is what we tell them, "Put the ball over the plate, let the guys hit the ball, don't try strike them out.  With the infield and outfield you got, hey, they will make the plays for you and our infield has been remarkable."  I don't think they get the credit around the country that they deserve.  We got some guys out there that won't win gold gloves, but are truly outstanding.  It's like the guy at first base, Derrek Lee, he's like a vacuum cleaner out there.  Second base, shortstopper, are magicians out there.  Third base, Mike Lowell, is a good defensive player, but doesn't get recognized because of the fact that he hits a lot of home runs and he's more recognized as offensive player.  But outstanding defensive guy.  And they all work together.  You guys really haven't seen these guys perform.  They have made a few plays in the series here that has been spectacular, but when you live day in and day out with these guys and see some of the plays they make, our local writers could tell you these guys are fabulous.  
 
Q.   Did you need this run and to manage these players to feel like your baseball career is complete and what effect has it had on how you feel about your years in baseball to have had this run with this group of players?
 
JACK MCKEON:  Well, it all goes back to the players.  We could not have had this run without these players and the attitude and I can't stress that enough.  But as far as I am concerned, this is the best run I have ever in my career.  It's been an enjoyable ride.  I have to thank my players for making it an enjoyable ride because, like I keep repeating, they are just great individuals and tremendous attitude on this ballclub, this chemistry that we have this year that I don't think anybody in the game will ever have again.  
 
Q.   Just to go back to Mr.  Loria's hiring of you, he said that you came to a lunch, he was blown away.  What preparation did you do to meet him?
 
JACK MCKEON:  First of all, I didn't go down to meet Mr. Loria thinking I was interviewing.  I went down there for a BS session, talk about baseball.  I wasn't down there to impress him or anything else.  I was down there to just talk baseball.  We never discussed the manager's job whatsoever.  I think really when you  -- I don't think he will mind if I tell everybody, but when the two-hour lunch was over to show you that I wasn't trying to impress him, I said thank you, Jerry (Laughter)  -- he's told me that many a time.  He said, "Well, I knew this guy wasn't try to impress me, he called me Jerry."  (Laughter.) When we had a nice lunch talking about baseball and philosophy in baseball and never had any mention of the manager's job.  In fact, two days later, when I got a call, I was almost shocked that they were making a change and asked me to come down.  
 
Q.   If it's up to you, do you plan to be back next year and if so, how long do you plan to continue to manage?
 
JACK MCKEON:  I don't know.  I told ownership that we would talk about that at the end of the year.  Let me put it this way, as nice as I can, I like what I am doing.  Casey Stengel went to 75, so if I decide to stay, I got two more years to go.  I don't think I can catch Connie Mack.  (Laughter.) I don't think I want to.  
 
Q.   Do you plan to be back next year?
 
JACK MCKEON:  I just said I enjoy what I am doing.  I would like to let my ownership know that first, okay.  Okay guys, I will see you after the game.  Hope it will be the last game.  No, really, let me say this:  I thoroughly enjoyed being with you guys through this postseason.  I had a ball.  You guys have been great and I appreciate it. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT