COUPE ROGERS
August 5, 2013
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/P. Polansky
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A great effort out there.   What are your thoughts on how the match went down?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, started off, I wasn't serving great the whole match.   He wasn't really serving his best either.   Kind of evened out a little bit.   Had a little bit of a slow start, getting broke in the first game.   I was able to break back.   I was fighting hard.   
Other than my serve, I think I played pretty well from the baseline.   I was moving really well, staying on top of him.   
I won the first set really tight.   Got that break at 5‑4, then was up actually 2‑0 in the second set, feeling confident.   
But I played a few sloppy points on my serve, lost that game.   I think the toughest game was the next game, had 15‑40 on his serve to get that break back.   Yeah, ended up losing those points as well.   
In the end, I think, yeah, I played a pretty solid match, had some chances to win.   Would have been really good to win.   Would have been really excited.   
Even though I lost, I'm just going to take some positives from this and try to move forward.   
   
 Q.   What is the hardest thing about having him on the other side of the net?   
PETER POLANSKY:   Well, he stands close to the baseline and just kind of redirects the ball.   I don't think he was going down the line as much as I thought he would be going down the line.   He really likes that short angle cross‑court on the backhand.   
He's a little bit unpredictable.   You never know where he's going to go.   Sometimes he rallies cross‑court, plays soft, then he'll hit a forehand, hit it pretty hard into the corner, other side.   You don't really know where he's going all the time.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it was at one point you ran out of fuel?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Maybe not ran out of fuel.   But I think maybe my intensity dropped a little bit.   I could feel it drop a little bit in the second set.   Like I was still moving fine, not really tired out there.   But I felt like my intensity was just one half notch lower.   
I could feel myself actually getting pushed back a bit further from the baseline during the points.   He was stepping in a bit more.   I was trying to push him back and move in a little bit.   I just found I had a little trouble doing that.   
   
 Q.   At a set and 2‑Love, any danger you felt too close to winning?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, it's possible that's when my intensity did drop a little bit.   Could have been almost like a sense of relief that I had an opportunity.   Dropped just enough to let him back in.   
But I still think, like, I was moving fine.   I just wasn't the same level as before.   
   
 Q.   You're roughly the same age.   Do you have any history with him?  
PETER POLANSKY:   No, it's the first time we played.  
   
 Q.   Juniors or anything like that?  
PETER POLANSKY:   First time we played a match.   In juniors, we always played together.   I went to IMG a couple times, and I practiced with him.   We used to play doubles together in juniors.   We made the semis of junior Australian Open doubles when we were like 17.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel positive about the whole week, qualifying?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, for sure.   It's a good week for me.   I think I raised my level a bit this weekend playing against better players.   But I think it will give me a little boost of confidence, being able to serve out some tighter matches, like ones that I've been losing recently, confidence knowing I can go out against any player, you know, beat almost anyone if I'm playing well or smart.   
   
 Q.   Where do you go from here?  
PETER POLANSKY:   I think I might train next week.   Actually like 10 out of the US Open quallies, maybe a bit more, maybe 12, 14 out.   Hopefully I get in.   I normally play well in, so I'd like to get into that.   If not, I'm just going to cry a little bit (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Are you going to tweet anything about this match?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Possibly.   
   
 Q.   Can't be anything you didn't say in your press conference.   
PETER POLANSKY:   Okay (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT