ROGERS CUP MEN
August 6, 2012
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. POLANSKY/M. Ebden
  0‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You cruised through the first set pretty easily, and then things went downhill from there.   What happened?   What changed?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Well, I know in the first set he just played ‑‑ you know, his level just, he just wasn't there.   He was missing almost every single ball.  
And then just completely 360ed from there.   I guess I had those two break points at 15‑40 in the first game on his serve in the second set.   He held that game, and then I got broken the next game.   After that, it was just‑‑ you can call it a disaster, I guess.  
Yeah, it wasn't a very good performance on my part.   
   
 Q.   How frustrating is it to have that happen here in your own backyard basically?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, it's very frustrating, especially having a big tournament like this, such a great opportunity.   Not just playing in the tournament, but the draw that I had, just so many chances to be had.   Just wasn't able to perform today.   
It's frustrating because it happened last week as well where I was up a set and almost a break, and then the match just turned around a little bit from there.  
But you got to move on and hopefully learn from this.  
   
 Q.   Two years ago you knock off Jurgen Melzer here.   The crowd really got behind you in that match.   Was it different today being a day match?   Did you feel the same kind of support?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, obviously crowd wasn't as big as two years ago.   I didn't really think about that.   I was just right from the start going out there trying to play my game.   I was pretty focused.   You know, I did have the crowd behind me in the beginning, and then the match went on and it wasn't great tennis, so I think some of the people weren't as excited into it.   
But I didn't let their behavior dictate my play.   
   
 Q.   What parts of your game do you have to maybe work on going forward in your future?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Well, if I watch this match I'll probably say everything.   But normally I play pretty well and I've been playing well this year, so just very disappointed how this match turned out.  
I still need to work on just being more consistent.   Not from the groundstrokes, but just my level of play and being able to keep up my good level for three, four matches in a row.  
I think it's important also just work on those bigger points.   Got to be able to convert those bigger points.   Like at 6‑0, 15‑40, if I converted one break point I would have been up a break and whole different story.   Maybe he would have kept playing the way he was.   
I think it's just more playing lots of matches and working on closing out those important games.   
   
 Q.   Anything that went on psychologically that hampered you a bit or you started thinking too much or thinking something was wrong?   Anything that went on psychologically that you can point to?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Maybe a little bit.   I did get ‑‑ I wouldn't say nervous.   Maybe just a little bit when I got broken in that game in the second set maybe just deflated a little bit and started to think how he was playing.   I mean, he was playing pretty poorly and how I missed a shot, that I got broken there, and now I'm down a break in the second set.   Anything can happen.  
I tried to stay in there.   Mentally I was fighting, but I just couldn't ‑‑ for me it seemed like I couldn't put the ball in the court no matter what I was trying to do.   
Yeah, trying not to think about that right now.   
   
 Q.   How often do you play a guy that hits that many slice backhands to you?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, not that often.   It's pretty rare you see a guy who chips his backhand as much as he did.   I mean, he wasn't doing much.   He was staying low.   I thought I was doing an okay job of keeping him back, but I wasn't taking advantage of it in any way.   I was letting him do whatever he wanted with his backhand even though it wasn't hurting me.   
So for sure I could have put more pressure on him with his backhand, on had his backhand side, but I just wasn't feeling anything today after that first set.  
   
 Q.   And the forehand pass in the last game, you had a really good chance to get back on serve there.   Would like to have that one back, I guess.   
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, I mean, felt good coming off my racquet, but then just seemed to fly a little bit too much.   I don't think I missed it by much, maybe a foot or two.  
I thought for sure I had him on that one.  
   
 Q.   Generally what do you think of his game?   It's a little bit different than most guys.   
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, his game is okay.   His serve is okay.   On the deuce side he mixes it up all right; he goes out wide.   On the ad side I think he goes mostly T.   He hit a couple big ones out wide on the bigger points.   
From the back I felt like he wasn't able to hurt me.   Most of the time it was just me going for too much and just sailing along.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT