ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2009
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/P. Polansky
  6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did that feel to compete so well against one of the world's top players?  
 PETER POLANSKY: I mean, obviously it felt really, really good. At times I was playing really well and I was able to compete with him, and at times I think there were just a few too many mistakes which showed why I was the weaker player out there.  
 But overall I competed really well, and for me it was a great experience playing well in front of such a big crowd and in front of the Canadian home crowd.  
  
  Q. Are you a little disappointed? You had a lot of break points and -- you both had a lot of break points and didn't really take advantage of it.   
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah. I mean, it was tough a little bit in the end of the second set with the shade on the court and the sun being so low. At times it was tough to see the ball that well.   
 I think I was returning pretty well and had some opportunities that I couldn't really convert, but it's just the way it goes.  
  
  Q. What was your feeling when you were up 3-0 in the first set?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Well, I knew I was off to a good start. He was a little tight in that first game, too.   
 He threw in that double on break point, and I just tried to focus and keep playing my game. But my serve wasn't really there today. I think I was serving like 50%, so that could have been a bit better.   
 You know, I just tried to take it one point at a time and just play my game.  
  
  Q. You had three games you were down 15-40 and you came back with some big serves.   
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah, that made a big difference. If you got those games, the score could have been much different.   
 I hung tough in those games, and I think one of them was at 5-All in the second and, you know, that could have been 6-5, 7-5, maybe. It was good to hang in those ones.  
  
  Q. What do you take out of this experience, getting to the second round playing really well against a top guy?  
 PETER POLANSKY: It's been a great tournament for me. You know, just like the Slams when I quallied for the Slams and I played well there and have tight matches with good players, I mean, it's always good for my confidence and me believing that I should be in top 100 and that my game is there.  
 You know, it kind of sucks that I lost, but it's a good motivation to, you know, really, really push and get to those goals.  
  
  Q. Do you have an event before the US quallies?  
 PETER POLANSKY: No, I'll take a few days off after this and maybe a week of training and head over to New York.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT