ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2009
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. POLANSKY/B. Agostinelli
  6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That was the resumption of a long rivalry? It's been a while since you guys played?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah, I think the last time -- we only played once, and it was when I was I think 11 or 12 and I lost 0 and 0. It was good to win that one. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. How did you feel you played out there?  
 PETER POLANSKY: I think I played okay. Few too many mistakes, but I mean, there were obviously a little bit of nerves going on. But on the big points I think I was able to come out pretty big or play well on the important ones, especially in the tiebreak.   
 He was a bit nervous I think in the beginning, which helped me get the first set.  
  
  Q. Djokovic in the next round?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah, I think it's tomorrow. I had a lot of pressure on this one, and next one not so much, so I can go out there and just play. I think it should be good.   
  
  Q. The pressure that you felt, was that kind of self-generated or was it the environment?   
 PETER POLANSKY: Well, you know, you're playing in a big tournament, and luckily I drew another Canadian. Obviously he's not really ranked too high and he's just coming from college, so I just thought there was probably a lot of expectation on me to win that, even though he's a good player, but obviously I'm the more experienced player and just expected to win that one.   
 You know, I've had a lot of close practice sets with him in the last month and a half, so I knew he was going to be pretty tough.  
  
  Q. Did he play Davis Cup because you were sick?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Well, he was going to play, anyways. Fred was the one that took my spot because I was sick.   
  
  Q. Talk about the strategy of tomorrow's match. I mean, you playing one of the top in the world. So with a guy who won the tournament two years ago, how do you approach that?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Well, obviously he's a good player, and pretty much everyone in this draw is a good player. You know, I've been playing well, and I think my forehand might be able to match up with his, backhand maybe not so much.   
 You know, I just have to play my game and just take it one point at a time, go from there.   
  
  Q. Have you played on center court before?  
 PETER POLANSKY: No. Oh, actually I did play here -- four years ago I played quallies against Bjorkman on center court. I lost 3 and 2.  
  
  Q. Is that going to be intimidating, or you just put that out of your mind?  
 PETER POLANSKY: I don't think so. Even this afternoon when we came back from the rain delay, there was way more people in the crowd, so I think tomorrow, playing an afternoon match on center court, it will be busy, but I think it won't be too much for me to handle.  
  
  Q. Do you try to feed off the energy of the crowd?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Even though I was playing another Canadian, they seemed to like me a bit more today, so I'm sure they'll do the same tomorrow.   
  
  Q. The rain delay, did that have an effect on you?  
 PETER POLANSKY: I think it was a little more of an advantage for him. Even though I was up Love-30 on his serve 1-All in the second set when it happened, but I think he had a little bit of time to cool down and relax and take in his surroundings and what was going on.   
 He was able to step it up a bit in the second set, so I think it wasn't his -- his nerves kind of settled a bit after the rain delay.   
  
  Q. Would you have preferred that a victory like this come from an established player rather than the way it kind of worked out that you faced a guy kind of lower in the rankings?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Obviously, you know, a win is a win. But playing -- obviously I would have preferred to win over a higher-ranked player, but maybe if I played a higher-ranked player I wouldn't have won. I take it as a good opportunity for me, and I'll just see how the next one goes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT