ROGERS CUP
July 22, 2008
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. LEVINE/P. Polansky  
6-2, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Just to start with, I guess the positive angle, what was it like to have that kind of cheering section behind you?  
 PETER POLANSKY: You know, it was fine. I mean, it's not often you get to play a tournament in Canada, and especially one this big. It's nice that, you know, everyone was behind me.   
  
  Q. You've played, especially this year, all over the place. How far was your commute from Thornhill today?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Like 10, 15 minutes, so it's pretty good. Especially coming from home and, you know, being actually at home at like a tournament in Canada and at home it's good.   
  
  Q. How long have you known Jesse, and do you keep in touch on a regular basis outside of your competitive encounters?  
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah, I mean, when we were 11 or 12 we were playing tournaments together in Toronto. So, I mean, I've known him for a while. Even through juniors we used to play the same tournaments.   
 When we were both starting out in pros playing the same Futures sometimes, and last year playing some of the same Challengers. We've known each other for quite a while.   
  
  Q. How much pressure do you have or how difficult was it for you to be one of the sole people carrying the Canadian flag into this event?  
 PETER POLANSKY: There's not too much pressure playing in this tournament. It's a really big event so there's not too much -- they don't expect you to win the tournament or sometimes even get past the first round.   
 Today I really felt I had a chance to win my match, and it's just too bad. Yeah, I just kind of feel that everyone is behind me. I don't take it as pressure but kind of as an opportunity.   
  
  Q. Do you think that this was a good opportunity because Levine has played in qualification a great match yesterday? You were supposed to play against Baghdatis who I think is 32nd. You both could face Rafael Nadal in the second round, so it was a great opportunity for you.   
 PETER POLANSKY: Yeah, for sure. We both knew that the winner would play Nadal. We were both -- gave us something more to want to win for.   
 But, yeah, I mean, he's played two matches in qualifying and had a little more play on these courts. Being in a couple matches already before playing today it helped a lot.   
 But, you know, he played well. A couple things that I didn't do too well today. Yeah, I thought it was still a close match.   
  
  Q. In the first set, why it was so hard to win your serve?   
 PETER POLANSKY: I don't know. I mean, I didn't hold serve once in the first set. He was returning well and I would break back the first couple times, but I just couldn't hold my serve.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT