ROGERS MASTERS
August 6, 2007
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Peter. 

 Q.  Do you think he was just a little bit better than you or were there other factors, like your hand, stuff like that? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  No, I don't think my hands was a factor.  I think he was just playing steady.  He hit a couple big forehands when he needed to.  But I think most of the time I kind of just gave him a few too many free points off his second serve.  I was trying to go for it a bit more. 
 I had like three breakpoints where I hit the same return long, backhand return long.  I think just the bigger points I wasn't really able to convert them as well. 
 I was up a break twice in the second set, and he was able to break me back both times right after.  In the tiebreak, I was up 3-Love, 4-2, something like that.  You know, I just kind of gave him a few too many points when I was up. 

 Q.  On the set point, you missed one of those backhand returns. 
 PETER POLANSKY:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Do you think it was because you were going for too much; he hit a good serve? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  You know, I don't know.  Just kind of got up on me a little bit.  I just tried to step in a little bit, caught it a bit late. 

 Q.  Towards the end, you seemed to have a cramp in your leg. 
 PETER POLANSKY:  On one of my serves in the beginning of the tiebreak, I noticed that when I landed, my calf cramped for a split second.  I was trying to be careful with it.  Then on the approach forehand, when I pushed off, it cramped right on that one.  That's when I kind of knew -- that's when it felt a lot worse, on that one. 
 On the serve, it was tough to push off, so I double-faulted the next point, then I missed that return. 

 Q.  They talk about learning from losses and stuff like that.  What did you learn today?  Can you tell right after a match or is it something you have to think about? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  Yeah, I mean, you know, right now there's so many things I just wish I could be out there again.  You know, I mean, I just think it was a great experience anyways.  I mean, playing in front of a crowd like this, big tournament like this.  Even though, you know, I knew I could have won today maybe, I know I can compete with these guys. 
 I'm not really out here just kind of trying to, you know, just -- I'm not really just happy to be here.  You know, I actually believe this year, you know, I could have won a couple of rounds if I was playing well. 
 I think everything, this whole thing, has been a learning experience.  It's been great this whole tournament.  I know he was a qualifier.  He's played a couple matches before me, but his ranking was, you know, still 130.  He wasn't one of the higher-ranked guys, but his level is there. 
 It was just an all-around good experience, I think. 

 Q.  What happened to your hand in the first set? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  Three days ago I had a blister out of nowhere.  It got better.  But I tried playing with the tape off today.  Near the end of the first set, the blister kind of opened again.  I just got it taped up again.  It wasn't too much of a problem. 

 Q.  Some bad luck? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  A little bit, but it's okay (smiling). 

 Q.  Where do you go from here? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  I'm just going to take a few weeks off now at home, just rest up and get some fitness done.  I mean, I've been on the road, this is my seventh week in a row.  It's been quite a while since I've been home.  You know, just go home, relax a bit. 
 I'll be playing some challengers again in the States I think in September. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you're a little worn down, seven straight weeks? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  Well, when I was in Italy, it was all on clay.  You know, I got back and had to go straight to Granby, which is really fast courts.  You know, I don't really feel too worn down.  I mean, it's a little bit tough mentally playing seven weeks in a row, even though I've been feeling great.  I just think, you know, why play eight in a row.  I just thought I'd take some time off. 
 I don't think I was really worn down from it all.  It was all right. 

 Q.  How would you sum up your progress so far this year? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  I think so far this year I've been doing really well.  I just started playing more and more challengers these last couple months, been able to qualify for more, winning some rounds now. 
 So, you know, I think my progress, so far I've been doing great.  I know now if I go play challengers, most of guys in the draw I know I can win on any day.  I know they're good players, I won't win them all, but I just believe that I can beat them now. 

 Q.  You'll be able to get into a few challengers without qualifying.  Will that make it a little easier? 
 PETER POLANSKY:  Yeah.  Some of them in the States are a little bit tough.  I think my ranking is like 320, 330 now.  I should be able to get into main draw in some of them, maybe be one of the top speeds in quallies if I have to. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT