ROGERS CUP MEN
August 5, 2014
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/P. Polansky
  6‑2, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You said last night that this must be one of the highlights of your career.   Were you able to take some enjoyment in it?   Will you look back at it with some enjoyment even though you lost?
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, for sure.   Even though I lost 2 and 0, still really enjoyable, had a lot of good points.   Thought it was a good match for me.   I was able to see some things. 
Obviously that was my first time playing, you know, someone of that level.   But, yeah, I thought it was a good match overall.

Q.   You practiced with him, so what's the difference between practicing with him and playing him in a match?
PETER POLANSKY:   180‑degree change.   But in practice I think he's trying to work the points a bit more in practice and getting a lot of rallies in. 
Today was like ‑‑ serving first ball is like corner to corner.   I felt like when I did get into a rally and I had him pushed back a little bit, put some pressure on him, then I was able to have a couple of good rallies with him and take advantage. 
I found the biggest difference was, you know, just the way he started the point the first two balls, serving first ball.   And serving, when I was serving, I didn't serve great but when I did hit some, I hit good ones and he was returning well.   Right off the bat, the first ball he's trying to kill ya.

Q.   Did you ever find yourself watching him just because he's such a beautiful player to watch?
PETER POLANSKY:   You mean during the match? 
Q.   Yeah. 
PETER POLANSKY:   No, I was just trying to hang in there, win some points on my serve.   Had a lot of chances to hold on my serve, and I didn't convert any.
You know, I thought I returned well.   I made him play a lot of returns.   I thought he served unbelievable.   He hit so many lines, so many aces.
But, yeah, I thought it was a good match.

Q.   You talk about guys like Roger Federer, and clearly he's a legend, but you beat a guy last night who made it to the semifinals at Wimbledon.   Are you still feeling a bit of confidence?   What do you take from this tournament as a whole?
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, I mean, winning rounds here, winning matches, and practicing with these players it gives you a lot of confidence.
You know, I really believe that today's match was‑‑ you know, it was good for me to see how he works a point and, you know, what to improve on, what I need to do and what I need to do to get better.
But, yeah, I think it was a great tournament, and, you know, I look forward to keep improving the next weeks.

Q.   Was there an intimidation factor that played a part in the result against Roger tonight, or was it purely just the level of his game that affected you out there?
PETER POLANSKY:   I think not so much ‑‑I wouldn't call it intimidation.   I think maybe a little bit of nerves the first couple of games, you know, really trying ‑‑I wanted to have a good start, but I got broke the first game and double‑faulted on the first point, I think.   I didn't play a great game the first service game.
Yeah, I would say it's maybe just a little bit of nerves, playing against him in a big crowd.   And I think it's more wanting to do well and, you know, believing I could push him and I wanted to do well.
Yeah, I wouldn't really call it too much intimidation.
Q.   You got off the court kind of late last night.   Can you talk us through what your timeline was like after leaving the Rexall Centre?   Did you have trouble sort of getting to sleep last night, knowing who you were facing today?
PETER POLANSKY:   No, I think it was pretty routine last night.   I finished up here, just the usual shower, light stretch, grabbed a bite in the player lounge, pasta with chicken, went back to the hotel, took it easy for an hour and a half, and was able to fall asleep pretty easily.
You know, I slept in today.   Had a good breakfast and good lunch, had a good warmup.   I felt pretty good physically.
Q.   If you would have a match tomorrow, let's say, same time against the same guy, do you think it would be better for you with that next match, having this kind of experience today?
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, for sure.   I think, like I said before, it was my first time playing someone of that level.   I played Djokovic in Montreal a few years ago, but I think it was a little bit different story.   I was getting in the point more, having lots of rallies.   Whereas today he was really taking advantage of the first shot that he had, and, you know, putting pressure from the very first ball.
But I definitely think if I went out there tomorrow I'd maybe push him a little bit more.

Q.   What happens now, Peter?
PETER POLANSKY:   Take a couple of days off, rest, and my next tournament will be the US Open qualifying.

Q.   You're not going to play quallies for Cincy?
PETER POLANSKY:   I think the cut right now is like 110.   I don't think I'll get in.   That one is normally a lot stronger.   I think the draw is a bit smaller. 
But if I do get in, maybe I will think about going.   It would be last minute, because I'm still quite a ways out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT