ROGERS CUP MEN
August 4, 2014
Peter Polansky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. POLANSKY/J. Janowicz
  7‑6, 6‑4 
   
 Q.   How special is it for you to get those victories here on home soil?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, especially at a tournament like this, too, a Masters event, you know, there's a lot on the line, a great opportunity to do well.   Just really excited to play well in front of a home crowd and got the crowd support that you don't get too often, and it's a great feeling.  
   
 Q.   Does the recent success that Milos and Vasek have been having been really helpful to all of you as a Canadian contingent to strive for more and sort of pump you up?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, definitely.   When you're around your peers and your peers start doing well, I think it pushes everyone and gives everyone a bit of extra confidence, saying that I'm training with this guy, maybe I'm beating him a little bit in practice, and look where he's ranked.   
I think for sure it gives us all a little bit of confidence.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the match yesterday between Milos and Pasek?  
PETER POLANSKY:   No.   I think I was practicing around that time.   I didn't catch that.  
   
 Q.   When you win a match like this, does any part of you think you're a part of this, this wave of Canadian tennis?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, I have had some success here before, and it's all just about pulling through these wins, one, two, or string a couple in a row.   It just all helps making yourself believe in yourself and that you really can play in these tournaments.  
   
 Q.   Am I right to assume that you haven't faced Federer before in an ATP event?  
PETER POLANSKY:   No, this will be the first time.  
   
 Q.   How do you go home and regroup from this big moment and try and get some sleep tonight to come back again tomorrow against the greatest player of all time maybe?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, I have just got to stick to my routine and grab a late dinner tonight.   It's really exciting to win today, and I'll definitely have some adrenaline for the rest of the night.   
But tomorrow is even a better experience and probably will be one of the highlights of my career thus far.   I'm really looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   I have heard you have practiced with Roger a fair bit.   
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, we've practiced quite a bit when he's come for this tournament.   Almost every year we have had a practice in.   
He's a great guy, a great role model.   Just looking forward to a good battle tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What can you take from those practice experiences that you might want to try to put into play tomorrow?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Yeah, when you practice with the top guys, you see little things they do differently, take the ball a bit earlier and open up the court a bit more.   
You do learn a little bit from them.   But obviously he's the best in the world, so you have just got to take what you can.  
   
 Q.   There was a point here where you had match point and he challenged the serve, and it looked like you thought you'd won.   What was that moment like and then realizing you still had to keep playing?  
PETER POLANSKY:   Well, it was pretty tough.   I was serving for the first set at 5‑3, and I got broken there.   Then that game I was actually down Love‑30, and I came back and I thought I won.   So there was a little bit of nerves trying to pull it through and hold for the match.   
But, you know, just a bit unlucky with that call and that challenge, but that's the way it is.   I just tried to regroup.   I played an excellent point at the deuce point to set up another match point, and when he hit that forehand wide I was pretty excited.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT