MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Tedd Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How clutch were those two putts on the par‑3s on the front side?   Everyone looks at Bubba how he plays the par‑5s, but to answer those. 
TED SCOTT:   Yeah, we were talking about it earlier, it's one of those things where if everybody in your group makes a birdie before you and you hit it the closest, the putt becomes that much more difficult. 
So the one on 4 was very tough.   Then he hit it up there on 6, which is the hardest pin on that hole and you're like, sweet, we have a birdie putt that's legit, not up over a mound. 
Then he hits it in there a foot and you're going, come on, guy, what's up with this?   So it was pretty ‑‑ both of those putts were absolutely clutch.   He was nervous, but you're nervous on every shot out here today. 

Q.   How much did the trees on 15 affect you?
TED SCOTT:   It's Bubba golf. 

Q.   What did he hit?
TED SCOTT:   A punch 6‑iron.

Q.   How far away?
TED SCOTT:   Like 196 or something. 

Q.   How much opening?
TED SCOTT:   The opening was big, we were trying to get it into the bunker.   He cut it a little bit.   He was trying to hit a low one and punch it into the bunker. 
For him it's not that big a deal.   For me it would have been a big deal, I'm like, that's not a big gap.   But for him he sees huge gaps.

Q.   Did he even try to talk him out of that?
TED SCOTT:   Not on that one.   In 2012 there was a couple shots that, yes.   But this year, it seemed like he hit it in the fairway for most of the time, didn't really have to do too many of those shots.   Then on that one it was the one, it's a big canopy to shoot through for a golf ball with him.

Q.   Why is he playing Bubba golf now when he wasn't playing Bubba golf after victory here in 2012?   What's the difference?
TED SCOTT:   Judah Smith, who is his best friend on the PGA TOUR, best friend in the world, pretty much, he's a pastor out of Seattle.   Before this season, he got together with Bubba and they just decided to focus on a scripture in the bible, it's Philippians 4:11 I believe.   And it talks about rejoicing in your circumstances. 
As a kid, he said, you dreamed about playing golf on the PGA TOUR, you dreamed about playing in the Masters.   You've won the Masters, you've won PGA TOUR events.   What can go wrong for you?   So why don't you just go ahead and rejoice. 
I can tell you, last year was a rough year with the pressure of trying to prove yourself, but this year his attitude's been great.   It's been a lot of fun to work for him this year.   I really enjoyed the good and bad.

Q.   What did he say on 18?
TED SCOTT:   I don't remember.   Just crying.

Q.   Was it different for him emotionally with his son?
TED SCOTT:   Oh, you got to.   I can't speak for Bubba, I mean, obviously, I get emotional when I see his son and it's not even my kid.   So it's got to be.

Q.   How does this feel different from two years ago?
TED SCOTT:   It doesn't.   It's a high that you can't explain.   This is the greatest stage in golf.   You're walking up 18, you look around, you see the history here, you see the people, the crowd, it's a beautiful day outside, the sun's setting, the shadows are there, everything about it is amazing.   And then you're winning the Masters again.   I mean, I don't know how to describe that, other than what I just said.

Q.   It looked like you were kind of applauding Jordan's holed bunker shot and Bubba came up to you and said something. 
TED SCOTT:   Help me read this putt is what he said.   But I was applauding the bunker shot.   That was such a hard shot.   And he said, I'm just trying to get it on that shelf and it goes in.   That was an awesome shot.   You have to applaud good golf, whether it's for your guy or not, in my opinion.

Q.   Were Bubba's emotions different this time around?
TED SCOTT:   No, this year he's been really fantastic with keeping control of his mind.   Yesterday when things weren't going well, I was in his ear saying, come on, man.   And he said, I got it, man, I'm fine. 
So I didn't have to cheer him up, I didn't have to pump him up, I didn't have to encourage him.   He was flat pretty much as far as his attitude, taking the good with the bad.   That's what you have to do to win a Major Championship.   As soon as you get thinking the wrong way, you're done.   Because the course is so hard, it's so difficult.   Obviously, you can look at the scores where there was six or seven people under par.   It's a Major Championship golf course.   If you get to thinking sour for one minute, you're going to back up quick. 

Q.   How would you describe Bubba golf?   What is Bubba golf?
TED SCOTT:   Freak show.   I mean, I can't describe it any other way.   I played golf with him probably 40, 50 times.   And we have been together that long and every single day that I play golf with him or watch him play golf I just go, how do you do that?   And I asked him on 18, after he hit the tee shot, I said, are you from Mars or something, because I don't believe that you can hit these shots that you hit.

Q.   What's the most amazing shot you ever seen?
TED SCOTT:   Okay, we were in Memphis, I don't know the course that well, we only played it one time.   We were missing the cut.   We were on the front nine and he needed some motivation.   So he likes tennis shoes. 
So I said, all right, I'll bet you a pair of tennis shoes you can't shoot 3‑under on this side, just to make it interesting.   And we had a tree in the way and he's got 286 to the hole and it's all carry over water.   So he had to slice it around the tree and carry it 286 yards to the flag.   And as soon as he hit it he goes, oh, yeah, that's what I'm talking about.   And I'm like, what are you talking about, I'm getting a pair of shoes. 
It came down about six feet from the hole, the greens were soft, he made it, went 2‑under on the first hole that we started our bet, and then birdied a couple more and I lost a pair of shoes.   That was the greatest shot I probably ever seen him hit.   It was crazy.   I'm not a gambler, but it was just something to just try to motivate him that day.   Just having some fun. 

Q.   What today was a shot that he hit that impressed you?
TED SCOTT:   Probably the shot on 4.   Coming off the bogey on 3, that was a big shot for momentum.   This is a game of momentum, as you guys know, and when you hit a shot like that, a bounce back, so to speak, that's huge in this game.   It gets the feeling like okay, we're back.   Whereas, when you make a bogey and it takes you awhile to get another birdie, you feel that the feelings aren't as good.   That was a big shot. 

Q.   Did the shot on 13 go through the trees?
TED SCOTT:   I'm standing back there by the tee box, I have no idea where it went. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
TED SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely. 

Q.   The yardage and that?
TED SCOTT:   We don't do yardage on that hole.   If it's into the wind, he slices it.   If it's not, he hammers it.   It's Bubba golf.   He doesn't need me on that hole.   I just spectate like you.   Carry the bag like you and just stand there, yes, sir, and move on.

Q.   You say that, but Kip Henley tweeted last night that you might have been put by God on earth to caddie for Bubba.   That it's not a job everyone is equipped to do.   What's your reaction?
TED SCOTT:   I don't know.   I'm very thankful that I have a job with Bubba.   He's a great guy.   I think a lot of people misunderstand Bubba.   And the more you get to know him, the more you're going to care about him. 
I've had a lot of people come up to me and say, man, he's actually such a great guy.   He's got a great heart. 
He's just different.   A lot of times people maybe take that the wrong way, but I love that about Bubba.   That he's such a caring person.   He just does a lot of neat things for people that you guys don't know about.   That's why I like working for him.   So I do feel blessed.

Q.   Don't you guys knock heads sometimes?
TED SCOTT:   If have you a brother, you're going to knock heads with him, so, of course.   The more time you spend with anybody‑‑ we're all human beings, we're all individuals, of course you're going to knock heads.   Is there anybody that you know that you spend a lot of time with that you don't knock heads with?   Of course not.

Q.   Bubba did a Twitter quiz with his followers this morning and is that, do you think he was just trying to keep his mind off things?
TED SCOTT:   Kill time, I guess, I don't know.   I don't follow him on Twitter.

Q.   What's your handicap?
TED SCOTT:   Me?   Duck hook, mostly. 

Q.   You were down two strokes today, any worry about getting into his head when the kid was up two strokes?
TED SCOTT:   No, this is his ninth year on TOUR, he's a Major winner, you know that the golf tournament doesn't start until the back nine on Sunday at the Masters.   So you kind of hang in there, plug away, and try to stay close to the lead and see what happens. 

Q.   Was there any thought about laying up on 15?
TED SCOTT:   No.   He asked me, he said what's the smart shot?   And the thing is, is like, okay, the smart shot is to hit it through that huge gap into the bunker, because that's what he's so good at.   He can pull those shots off.   I was personally not even worried about it.   I think I would be more stressed on a down slope in the Masters to a 90 yard shot to a back pin than I would be him hitting a 6‑iron punch shot through the trees with that big of an opening.

Q.   Did that represent progress that he even asked you what the smart shot was instead of just hitting it?
TED SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's one thing that's so neat about him that, every year, at the end of the season, he stops, he evaluates, and then he tries, how can I get better.   Every year Bubba gets better mentally. 
Last year was a big adjustment.   You win a Major, it changes everything.   It changes the way the press sees you, the media, the fans, everything.   It just changes your whole world.   So that's a big adjustment for anybody.   So that's one of his greatest assets is that Bubba does evaluate things and see how he can improve himself.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT