UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2008
Brandon Harrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What was your experience today talking to kids? What were you doing before you came up here?
 BRANDON HARRISON: I was down at the high school talking to kids, talked about grades, what they want to do after high school as far as college and everything.

 Q. As part of class?
 BRANDON HARRISON: As part of class, and I enjoyed doing it.

 Q. Did you talk to a group of kids or one class?
 BRANDON HARRISON: I was talking to a group of kids, one-on-one session. 

 Q. Did you spend time with the linebackers, practicing with the linebackers last week?
 BRANDON HARRISON: Actually the whole week. I was practicing with the linebackers.

 Q. What did you learn?
 BRANDON HARRISON: It went well. I learned a lot, different reads, reads off the line, and different runs and stuff like that, blocking schemes, stuff like that, where they fit. I learned a lot. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah, since I know they run a similar offense at Minnesota, I would assume they would be doing the same thing.

 Q. How did you feel it translated?
 BRANDON HARRISON: It was fun. I got to play in the box a little bit. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRANDON HARRISON: Linebacker, probably Joey Porter. I like him. Plus I was a Pittsburgh fan and he was with them. He's not with them anymore.

 Q. Did you like that role a little better than your typical safety role? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: No, they were all fun. You know, they're two different positions, but when you're down in that box, it just happens a whole lot faster. 

 Q. The time is winding down here. 
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah, I was thinking about that earlier today. It's our last home game. I was talking to Mike Massey yesterday at practice. He pulled me off to the side, and he couldn't believe this is our last home game coming up, last two games of the season, stuff like that. 

 Q. Best memory here? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: Best memory? Probably the Capital One Bowl, Coach Carr's last game, went out with a win, went out beating a team everybody said we shouldn't be able to beat. That's probably my most memorable moment. 

 Q. Have you been able to kind of reconcile this season and how difficult it's been with the rest of your career, which has been pretty good winning-wise? Is it kind of tough to fit that in there?
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah, you know, I've never really had a season like this, but you know, it'll make my season worthwhile to come out and win these last two games, especially come out and win our last home game and then come out and beat O-State.

 Q. I know this is your last home game. With Ohio State coming up in the schedule, is it tough to block that game out and just focus on this one?
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah. I mean, we're not looking ahead at all. We're just taking it one game at a time. We're all focusing on Northwestern.

 Q. What allowed the secondary to be more successful against Minnesota than you had been pretty much all season? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: You know, the coaches pulled us all together and just told us, you've got to go out there and play for each other. You've got to have fun. That's basically what the whole thing was, just go out there and have fun. We went out there, had fun, made big plays and put everything together.

 Q. Were you able to be more physical maybe or what was it that worked differently? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah, I mean, Coach was telling us, if you see a play, just go get it, don't think about it. If you make a mistake, make a physical mistake. There were mistakes out there, but some of those mistakes led to big plays and stuff like that. 

 Q. Confidence-wise how did that help you perhaps with this game?
 BRANDON HARRISON: It helps us a lot. It gives us a great boost of confidence coming into these last two games, just go to go out there and play physical, play fast and have fun.

 Q. The secondary had taken some heat for maybe giving up more yards than it would have liked, but to hold Minnesota's passing offense, which was highly ranked going into the game, to just over 100 yards, how much pride did you guys take in that this week?
 BRANDON HARRISON: We take a lot of pride. We worked on that the whole week in practice. We've been hassled a lot during the season and stuff like that, so we came together and said we're not going to allow that, and we're going to bring that same mindset into Northwestern. 

 Q. Did you have to think like a linebacker this week, or did you just think like you normally do and you just happened to be a few feet closer to the line? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: I had to think like a linebacker. It's different. No, like certain runs you've got to fit in a certain gap. Instead of like a safety you'll come down and you'll just fit off the back or something like that. There's just different reads and stuff like that. 

 Q. How did having you at linebacker help the team? 
 BRANDON HARRISON: Well, I think it gives us another skill position, like a faster player or something like that down in the box. I can go out, cover the receiver or come back in the core. I think the coaches really did a good job with that, with this defensive package. 

 Q. Do you think you're more comfortable having played so much in the past in your career?
 BRANDON HARRISON: Yeah, I played nickel for my sophomore and junior year mainly. That's probably the most comfortable spot. 

 Q. Talk about the haircut. 
 BRANDON HARRISON: I had to change it, had to cut it. It was too much. It was too long. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRANDON HARRISON: We win the O-State game I'll go bald, shave it off.

 Q. When did you cut it?
 BRANDON HARRISON: Last Monday.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT