WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 8, 2009
Jon Deeble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Game 1 is just a couple hours away. How do you feel?
 JON DEEBLE: I feel good. I feel great. I'm looking forward to the challenge. I think it's going to be noisy out here tonight, and I trust our players in that regard, but everyone is excited and looking forward to the game.

 Q. What would you like to do to kind of take out the home crowd advantage?
 JON DEEBLE: Get out early, simple as that. If we can get ahead early -- this is a tough ballpark and there's going to be a lot of balls go out tonight. It's going to be a high scoring game. As long as we're ahead at the end. 
 Our guys are in tune to this. We played against Taiwan last year with 40,000 fans and you couldn't hear, so it's nothing new. 

 Q. Now, you have a couple of pitchers with Major League experience in Moss and Blackley. Why did you decide to go with Craig Anderson in Game 1?
 JON DEEBLE: We think Game 2 is very important, we think Game 3 is even more important. We think this game is important, also. We thought Anderson matched up well against these guys, off speed type guy against a free swinging club. That's the game plan. But he needs to keep the ball down and keep these hitters out of stride.

 Q. He's a guy that generally keeps the ball down. With the altitude here, was that a factor to the decision?
 JON DEEBLE: Absolutely, yeah.

 Q. Your hitting was great in the exhibition games. What do you expect them to do here? Looks like the ball is flying out even in batting practice. 
 JON DEEBLE: Yeah, the ball is jumping out pretty quick. Our guys have got to stay in their swing. We're not going to go out there and hit home runs. Our game plan is to square the ball up, and that's been our whole game plan every time we play, square the ball up and try and hit line drives.

 Q. What do you think is Team Mexico's strength and how do you plan to combat that?
 JON DEEBLE: They're a good ballclub. You know, they've got good bats, there's no doubt about that. And they've got good pitching. You know, we just need to play perfectly. As long as we play perfectly, don't get more than 27 outs, we'll be in good shape.

 Q. What do you think is the big advantage for Team Australia?
 JON DEEBLE: I think our power, I think our defense. This ground is really quick. But you know, I think we're an all-around good team. We're a good team and have got good chemistry. Hopefully we go out there and show it tonight. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT