THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 20, 2020
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Just some general thoughts.  Happy?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, you know, I thought that the back nine played pretty tough today, and that stretch of holes 11 through 15 were pretty challenging, and I kind of got through those, and then the front nine is gettable, and I made some birdies on the front nine, and it was a pretty good round.
Q. What's your approach during this stretch of the season?
DANIEL BERGER:   Well, I think I'm pretty well rested, and obviously the Playoffs are weighted so heavily, you really have to play well.  I was looking up at the projected standings, and Harris was projected to go to second, so obviously they're very important weeks, so you've got to play well.
Q. What's the best you've ever started in the post season, do you know?
DANIEL BERGER:   No, I'm not sure.  I know my rookie year I finished second at the last playoff event.  I was like 60th -- I went from like 50th or 60th to like sixth or seventh.  This is best I've ever been positioned going into the Playoffs for sure.
Q. So it still comes down ultimately to 72 holes --
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, it does.  Yeah, I mean, you really have to play well.  There's nothing more to say other than these two weeks are really important.  To put yourself in position -- it's the first time I've ever been in position going into the FedExCup, so it's exciting.
Q. Not to be Mr. Negativity, but do you know that you could win the FedExCup this year, win the U.S. Open and still have to wait until April to play the Masters?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, I'm not sure what else I have to do at this point to get into Augusta.  I think I'm ranked 18 in the world and I'm seventh in the FedExCup, so I'm a little baffled that I haven't had more opportunity to at least hear from some of the guys over there or have a chance, obviously.  The field was set, but I don't know, I feel like at this point -- I don't know if I could say I deserve a spot, but I feel like I'm playing well enough to earn a spot into the Masters.
Q. Have you asked anybody?
DANIEL BERGER:   I know my team has had conversations with them, but I'm trying not to focus too much on it.  But it's definitely in the back of my head.  I'm thinking about it.  I want to play in the Masters.  I feel like I've done enough to earn a spot, so we'll see what happens.  I guess it's up to them.
Q. Your stats since the restart have been off the charts.  What's the challenge of trying to peak during this season that's been so unusual?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, I think obviously any time you take three months off from competitive golf it's going to be a challenge, but I really have a good plan and I have a good process what I need to do leading up to the weeks.  I think the biggest thing for me after playing, this is my sixth year on TOUR, recovery instead of going out and hitting balls for three hours.  I pay a lot more attention to how my body feels and when to work and when not to work and I think that's been the biggest difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT