PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park in San Francisco.  Pleased to be joined by Daniel Berger.  Daniel posted a second round 67 today.  He is 6-under for the championship, currently tied for third.
 Daniel, excellent play through two days, 11 birdies.  Quite a large number, and that's kind of put you in a pretty good position going into the weekend.
 DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, I mean, I think as I've played more and more major championships, I realize you don't win the tournament on Thursday and Friday but you can lose it.  I've maintained kind of a level head and played some really solid golf, and I'm in a great position, and you know, with two more good days, I think I'll have a chance on Sunday.
 JOHN DEVER:   What part of your game is kind of on point right now that's kind of put you in this really solid position?
 DANIEL BERGER:   Oh, I'm driving it great, and my short game is working, so you know, when you miss a green, nothing is really easy out here.  You've got to work for it.  Throughout this year I've worked a lot on my short game and it's starting to pay off.
 JOHN DEVER:   What are you seeing on the golf course from Thursday to Friday?
 DANIEL BERGER:   Well, Thursday I went out in the morning and it was completely different than it was this afternoon.  You could land an 8-iron two feet from the flag and it was kind of just plugging there, and today we were landing it 12 to 15 yards short of flagsticks and they are bouncing up.  I think as the weekend goes on, I think you're going to see more firmness to the greens, and it's going to just present a more challenging test.
 JOHN DEVER:   How has your flat stick been this week?
 DANIEL BERGER:   It's been great.  I'm not sure statistically what my numbers are, but I've hit a lot of great putts, and I think today in the middle of the round, kind of in that 10- through 15-hole stretch where I made a nice couple putts to save par and kind of keep everything together, and that's what it takes to contend in a major.
 JOHN DEVER:   So let's grab a crystal ball:  You win on Sunday evening and you hoist the Wanamaker Trophy.  What did you do on Saturday and Sunday?  What part of your game really rose or took it up an extra notch to put you over the top?
 DANIEL BERGER:   I think it's going to be around the greens, short game and putting.  No matter how great you hit the ball, you're going to miss fairways and you're going to have to get up-and-down if you do that.  That's going to be the biggest difference-maker, the guys that chip-and-putt it the best on the weekend.
 JOHN DEVER:   Thanks for stopping by.  Best of luck this weekend.  We'll see you soon.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT