CHARLES SCHWAB CHALLENGE
June 14, 2020
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've been fighting back from injury; how does it feel to get another victory?
DANIEL BERGER: I mean, you just never really know if you're going to be in the same position again, so to be able to come out here and beat so many of the best players in the world, you look at the field that was out here this week, and I don't have a stellar playoff record, so to show up here and obviously I didn't want to win it like that, but sometimes that's just the way golf works.
Q. Hottest golfer on the PGA TOUR, 28 consecutive rounds under par. That's kind of off the radar. What a streak you're putting together.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I'm glad no one talks about it, because it's definitely harder to go out there and win when you're worried about it. There was so many times today where I could have given it up or let the pressure get to me, but I hung in there and I played practically some of the best golf I've played the last six years the last five holes today.
Q. Can you put into words what it means to win your first tournament back after a three-month hiatus? This field was the best the Charles Schwab Challenge has ever had. You knocked down a big field. This is history.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it is. I'm just so proud of the way that I battled today and proud of how much work I've put in over the last couple weeks and even in the last year. It's finally paying off, so I'm just really excited.
Q. What did you bring to the golf course from a mental standpoint?
DANIEL BERGER: I just tried to stay as level as possible. I knew that I played three really good days of golf, and if I could do it one more time then I'd have a great chance, and before the round started I thought that 15 would be a good number to be at, and the last five holes, they're not easy, and I played those holes probably the best I've played any of the holes this week. Just really excited to be in this position. Again, it's been a while.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT