THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 29, 2020
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under 69 today, 2-under. Really not a bad spot to be in.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, the golf course is playing extremely tough, and the greens are firm and fast. Anything under par is pretty good. As you can tell by the scores, no one is really going anywhere, and I don't really see anything different happening tomorrow.
Q. Greens a little bit more tough today?
DANIEL BERGER: I mean, they're just getting a little crusty, and balls are rolling out a little bit more than they have in the last couple days, so you've got to be really on point with your speed. But it's fair, and if you hit good shots, you can make birdies.
Q. What's been going well the last three starts or so?
DANIEL BERGER: I don't think I've done anything different per se. I just think I've gotten into a little bit of a rhythm, and it was kind of tough in the last year really with my schedule and figuring out what I was going to play in. I just think that nothing more than just being in a rhythm.
Q. Do you feel like you're back to where you were a couple years ago?
DANIEL BERGER: It's funny because I never thought I went anywhere other than just being a little bit injured. But no, I feel good about my golf game, and I feel good about heading into tomorrow, and another good round and I'll have a chance to win.
Q. A couple months ago you talked about never really feeling completely comfortable because of the injury last year or never really feeling over it, and you just mentioned that. Is it now that that's just in the past and maybe there's confidence because of that?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I feel much better now. Like I said, I think just being in a rhythm, being able to practice when I want to, being able to set my schedule and play what tournaments I want to play, where I didn't feel like I could so much last year just because of being hurt. It just allows you to get into a rhythm, and I took two weeks after after two good weeks and was able to practice and maintain my game, and I expected to play well this week.
Q. When it comes to Sunday, do you feel like you need to dig just a little bit deeper tomorrow, or do you just go out there and play the course with the same mindset the same way you have the past three days?
DANIEL BERGER: I think I'm going to play it the same I have. I'm not sure what the forecast is for the wind tomorrow, but if it's like this, it's going to be really challenging. The golf course is really hard, even without as much rough as we've seen in the past. I don't know many other TOUR events where 4-under is close to the lead after three days. It feels like a major championship toughness-wise.
Q. Going back to 2015 I think is when that playoff was. Even though it was so long ago and you were so young, does that experience help you down the stretch tomorrow when it's the same tournament and the same obstacles are there?
DANIEL BERGER: I think without looking too far ahead, it's going to be a challenge no matter what. But obviously having been in that position, it's going to be easier than if I hadn't been in that position. Overall, just got to keep doing what I'm doing because I'm playing good golf.
Q. Having as good a round, as good a tournament as you're having, do you go here thinking about what happened on 18, or are you able to just put it out of your mind?
DANIEL BERGER: I actually thought I played 18 pretty well, other than the bunker shot, which was not an easy bunker shot. There was a lot of sand. I was on a downhill, sidehill slope with a pin that was tucked. It would have been better if I went over the bunker and I could have just chipped it up the slope. Nothing negative to say. I mean, a 6 is a 6.
Q. There's talk about a lot of the local guys who aren't here. Why do you come back here year after year?
DANIEL BERGER: Well, I mean, I'm a local, and any tournament that's 15 minutes from my house, I'll play in every year. I'm excited to be here.
Q. It struck me as rather rowdy out there today just from following you. I was thinking to myself, how does he block this out and stuff like that. Do you hear that, especially being the hometown guy, people yelling more stuff at you and having to deal with more fans and stuff like that?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, a lot of the guys out there that are yelling at me are my friends, so it's not too uncomfortable. I love to play in front of big crowds, so it's more fun than anything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT