THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2020
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under par through 36 holes. If we can just get some comments on your play so far this week.
DANIEL BERGER: So far it's been fantastic. I hung in there well. Today was a tough day, early start, 7:15 tee time, cold, windy, so overall very pleased with my performance.
Q. First two days when it's cold, it's blowing, it's blowing in ways that you guys didn't probably expect, is it just about finding ways to survive?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, you've really got to hang in there. Really having played -- this is my sixth time playing this event, I know the scores don't really get out of control low. Anything under par the first couple days, and then on the weekend things can change and maybe make a few more birdies. But really just hang in there as much as possible.
Q. You guys have played in colder than this, but here this is pretty darned cold. How tough is the mental part of that?
DANIEL BERGER: I don't think I've put a sweater on this year so far in Jupiter, so that was a little bit of a change. But I mean, it's just part of the game, and you just deal with it and adapt. Like I said, I'm happy with the way I played today.
Q. Was there a mental turning point out there that you could think of where things maybe might have gone one way but they ended up going another thanks to your experience on this course and just knowing how to handle it?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, I played not that bad on the front, and I shot 2-over, and then hit a nice approach shot into 10 and made birdie and made a nice par save on 11 and birdied 12, and just hit a terrible drive on 13, but I got up-and-down to make bogey there, so I kind of felt like that was a little bit of a momentum change, having made a couple birdies early and then to save that bogey instead of making a double really turned it around for me on the back nine.
Q. You were telling me yesterday how much you miss the game when you're gone. How much does it mean to you to make the weekend for this particular tournament where I know you've missed the cut a couple times; is it something special to be in the mix here on the weekend?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, especially being here in my hometown and having all my friends, it's fantastic to be able to play Saturday and Sunday, but the goal is to win the golf tournament. I'm a long way from doing that, but in a good position.
Q. How does the routine change when you tee off that early?
DANIEL BERGER: You don't get as much sleep. But overall, it's nice to just be able to wake up, roll out of my bed and drive on over. So that's the most comforting thing, and I'll just probably take a nap this afternoon to get ready for tomorrow.
Q. I know you're not a big spectator of sports, you've told me that before, but what's your earliest Honda memory as a kid?
DANIEL BERGER: Well, growing up -- because I grew up in Jupiter but I also grew up in Miami, but my first memory of golf in general was going to the Ford 500 or I'm not sure the name of -- it was the WGC at Doral, but I don't think I ever came to watch the Honda Classic. Like I said, not a big sports watcher, or golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT