JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I would say if you did 5-under both days this weekend you'd be pretty happy.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, you know, I started off kind of slow today, but I kind of hung in there and made some birdies on the back nine and a nice par save on the 18th to kind of keep the momentum going.
Q. "Hang in there" seems to be a phrase we're hearing more this week, which we normally don't hear year in and year out at this golf tournament.  It's going to get firm and get hot this weekend, and it's going to be a little bit of a challenge.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, you know, the few times I've played here before, it has been kind of soft, but you could definitely tell later in the afternoon the greens definitely had a little bit more bite to them, and balls were rolling out.  If the conditions are what they're supposed to be, it's definitely going to be a challenge on the weekend.
Q. It's not an 18-hole course that you can attack everywhere.  How do you choose your spots out there, especially when you have fairways that run out the way they do?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, you've got to play the scoring holes well.  You've got to play the par-5s well.  Overall it's just about giving yourself opportunities and making a few here and there.
Q. Hot, steamy, firm this weekend; it sounds a lot like Memphis.  I know you'd like the sound of that.
DANIEL BERGER: It sounds like Memphis and it sounds like Florida.  I'm pretty comfortable in these conditions, and it's nice to get off to a good start.
Q. How do you feel about your position going into Saturday now?
DANIEL BERGER: Well, I'm in third place, so I'm in a pretty good position.  But overall, just got to continue to do the same thing.
Q. How would you assess where your game is now compared to when you won the back-to-back in Memphis?  I assume that was your high point?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I definitely struggled early on in the year coming back from injury.  You think it's going to be all easy when you come back, but it's a challenge.  It's tough when you take time off.  I know it's late in the season, but I feel like my game is in a really good position.  I think if I play well, it's tough for anyone out here to beat me.
Q. What was the most challenging aspect of your game when you did come back?  What did you lose?
DANIEL BERGER: I mean, honestly just a little bit of everything.  You lose your touch around the greens, your ball-striking.  But mostly it's just the competitive atmosphere, like being in a tournament is so much different than playing at home for money or playing with your friends.  You really just are trying to get into a groove of your routines and what you're going to do before the round.  It sounds really basic because you've done it for so long, but sometimes things change and you've kind of got to get comfortable again.
Q. You've got Memphis in two weeks, right?
DANIEL BERGER: I'm not in Memphis.  It's a WGC right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT