PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the key today?  
DANIEL BERGER: I hit a lot of fairways and chipped and putted well.  I feel like that's what you have to do out here.  You don't hit the fairway, you kind of have to take your medicine.  There was two shots I hit out of the rough today that were two of the worst lies I've ever had in my life.  Hit it 40 or 50 yards down the fairway.  Had to keep the momentum going.  That was on 2.  I hit one left and had to chip out, and then on the par 5, on the back nine, 13 or 14, one of those holes, 14, 13.   
 Q.  You've had a wrist injury, is it your left or right wrist?  Are you fully healed?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I'm not sure, things like of this nature can take up to a year, and obviously doing nothing would be all well and fine but I'm out here competing every week and you know, but it's finally healthy, so I feel like I can do the things that I need to do that I wasn't able to do toward the end of last year playing through it where now I can put in the reps I wasn't able to do before.   
 Q.  What was it like trying to keep yourself occupied?  
DANIEL BERGER: The first month was out some.  I had not taken a month off from competitive golf in ten years, and then after that, I got pretty bored, so I was pretty ready to go after about the first month.   
 Q.  Do you feel like flying under the radar suits you well?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, listen, it's a major championship and you have to perform and you have to play 72 great holes of golf.  You know, halfway through, I've done that.  So the challenge is going to be the next 36 holes.  It's not going to get any easier, so just got to stay patient and do the things that I did the last couple days.   
 Q.  You were in the last group at Shinnecock, very different courses, but anything about Long Island courses you like?  
DANIEL BERGER: I don't know, I think I just peak at the right time.  That event and this event, and my name has been trending.  I haven't had quite the results that I wanted, but I felt like incrementally I've gotten better over the last three or four weeks and made some changes.  That's been the biggest difference.   
It feels much more like a U.S. Open than it does a PGA, but we're playing for a major championship.  It's just nice to play well the first two days, and you've got to continue to do the things that I've done the last two days.   
I made a change with my swing coach and started working with Cameron McCormick with a month and a half ago.  I feel like I've just gotten a little bit better and that was really the difference.  I feel like my knowledge around the greens, my chipping, my bunker game, figured out some things that I need to get better at.  I've gotten better at those things, and you put it all together and you can shoot some good scores.  The change was nothing significant at all, tiny little set-up things.  Around the greens, it's been learning some different shots and variety of shots.  I never knew that I had some of the ability that I had around the greens, and I feel like I was able to carry that over the last few weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT