TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2017
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know the emotions are still raw right now?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, I played great today.  I played the playoff hole great.  He hit an unbelievable bunker shot, and Jordan does Jordan things.  So there's not really much you can say.  I'm obviously disappointed, but happy to be in the position I was in today.   
 Q.  Yeah, three weeks ago you were three shots back.  You pulled off a win.  You were so close to doing it here this week.  What kind of thoughts are creeping through your mind coming down the stretch?  
DANIEL BERGER: I knew I could do it.  I knew I needed to hit a bunch of good shots and I did.  But you can't do anything about that.  It's incredible.   
 Q.  When did you realize how tight things were getting on the back nine?  
DANIEL BERGER: Probably right around 16.  I mean, I made a nice birdie on 15 and made a nice par save on 16 and rolled one in on 17.  I thought if I could par 18 I'd have a chance and I did.   
 Q.  Here with Daniel Berger.  The reaction when you saw Jordan's hole out?  
DANIEL BERGER: I mean, it's just Jordan doing Jordan things, you know?  I played great today, so I'm not going to be too upset.  Obviously I wanted to win, just kind of speechless right now.   
 Q.  You moved to 8th in the FedExCup and overall yearly standings.  How does this change how you finish the year?  
DANIEL BERGER: I think it gives me a legitimate shot to win the TOUR Championship, which in the years past I haven't had that chance.  But if I just keep doing the things I'm doing, I could see myself winning a couple more times before the end of the year.   
 Q.  Schedule-wise what's that look like before the end of the year?  
DANIEL BERGER: I'm going to take a couple weeks off and then get over to play in John Deere and the British and kind of take it from there.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations on fighting your way in there in that final.  Just talk about that to get yourself in position for the playoff?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I think I showed a lot about my character today.  Didn't play great at all on the front and gave myself a chance to win.  That's all I can ask for.  I played great today.   
 Q.  Yeah, the patience that you needed, there were a lot of pars there that were frustrating, weren't there?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I made a ton of pars early on.  It was looking like I was completely out of the golf tournament with nine holes to go.  I just put my head down and continued to hit good shots and gave myself a chance.   
 Q.  Now in the playoff, do you expect him to make that out of the bunker?  
DANIEL BERGER: No, but it looked really good coming down from five feet from the hole.  It went in, and I thought it was just a Jordan thing to do.   
 Q.  Made your putt easy though right, because you had one thing to do?  
DANIEL BERGER: I gave myself every chance to make that putt, it almost went in.  That's just the way it is.   
 Q.  You played so brilliantly throughout.  To watch Jordan's chip go in the way it did, talk about your thought as that happened?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, obviously disappointment.  But at the same time, I still had a putt to go another hole and almost made it.  That's all I could ask for.   
 Q.  Do you find solace in that?  It took an extra hole and one of the great shots in tournament history to beat you.  You have a lot to be proud of.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I played great.  I mean, I'm here to win tournaments.  I'm not here to finish second place, so it's disappointing.  But hat's off to Jordan, he played really well today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT