WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You won the first hole and extended the lead from there.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, there's no one in this field that you want to play.  So you've really got to show up and play hard, and I did that today.
Q. You showed up here injured, with an injured shoulder.  It doesn't look injured today.
DANIEL BERGER: Every once in awhile it flares up.  I've got a great team around me, and they have taken care of me and I feel great.
Q. Did you have a sense when you came out here that you had a match like this in you today?
DANIEL BERGER: I prepared properly and done everything right this week.  That was all I can ask for.  The rest is just going out there and having fun.  Like I was saying earlier, there is no one in this field that you want to play.  You have got to really go out there and play well and I did that today.
Q. Solid win out there today for you.  What worked so well for you?
DANIEL BERGER: I switched irons this week and went to a blade.  I was having trouble keeping the ball down in the wind.  Obviously, it was windy today and I didn't have trouble.  It was a really good adjustment.  And the Callaway guys got me really dialed in, so that was a big difference for me.
Q. What was the difference other than the blade?
DANIEL BERGER: I don't know the technical reasons why.  All I know is every time I hit it, it went up in the air and didn't go as far as I wanted it to go.  These ones go up in the air and go as far as I want them to go.  So my distance control was good and that was a big key for me today.
Q. Match tomorrow with Phil.  Nice rematch from last year?
DANIEL BERGER: Last year, I think I wasn't coming in that well in terms of my play.  And this year I didn't play that great coming up to this tournament, but I've done everything in preparation.  I feel good.  I love competing against the best guys in the world and this is another opportunity for me.
Q. I know you don't play it a lot, but do you enjoy match play?
DANIEL BERGER: I wish we played more match play.  There's nothing like it.  I look forward to this tournament every year and it's one of my favorites.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT