WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about your day, because you come out on top in some tricky conditions.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, I started the day without a jacket on, and by the second hole, I had a jacket on.  It was freezing out there.
But at least it didn't rain, so it was a fun day.
Q. It's kind of raining now but the winds have been a tricky thing, haven't they?
DANIEL BERGER: The scores are still pretty low considering the conditions, so I guess it's just the best players in the world.  Just excited to get off to a good start and play well on the weekend.
Q. You are one of the best players in the world, and you're right up there amongst them.  So you see that on the leaderboard and think, yeah, that's good for the weekend?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it's a great start but it's going to take a lot more for the next couple days.  I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm putting it well and that's really been a big key for me.
Q. Do you see a low score out there, though?
DANIEL BERGER: If you get the putter rolling, you can.  I think the conditions were just tough to get it close to the hole today.
Q. Conditions will be changeable by the day, though, in this part of the world right at the moment.  Presumably you're good at adapting.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it is what it is.  You can't do anything about it.  But hopefully it's nice and sunny the next two days.  Not sure if that's ever happened but hopefully it does.
Q. You said you love China; what do you love about it?
DANIEL BERGER: I love everything about China.  I love the food.  I love the people.  It's just a great place.
Q. On the subject of food, tell me if I'm wrong, but I read that you always carry the turkey jerky in your bag; what do you do when you're in China?
DANIEL BERGER: I eat a lot of ramen noodles.
Q. You can't carry them in your bag, though.
DANIEL BERGER: No, but I'll have them after the round.
Q. Anything in the bag?  They have their own jerky here.
DANIEL BERGER: I have my own turkey jerky in the bag, so it's been keeping me going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT