AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2021
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. T-10 in 2015, T-5 last year, are you kicking yourself that you haven't played here more?
 DANIEL BERGER:   That's a great question.  I feel like the guys have always told me, the guys on my team have always told me this would be a good course for me and it just kind of felt weird in the schedule, sometimes I haven't played, but every time I've come here I've really enjoyed it so I think I'll be coming back next year for sure.
 Q. Can you describe the eagle on 6?
 DANIEL BERGER:   I hit a great drive.  It was a good wind for me, in and off the right, so someone who cuts it, it feels nice to just go out there and rip it, and then I hit a good 4-iron and just got a little unlucky and hit a perfect chip.  So it was a nice -- I mean, I feel like I did all the right things there, so it wasn't surprising.
 Q. If I did my math right, 5, 6, and 7 totaled seven strokes.  Can you take us through that little stretch?
 DANIEL BERGER:   5 I hit a good 9-iron in there just short of the flag and made a nice putt.
 6, like I was saying, I hit a good drive and a nice 4-iron and I got a little unlucky to not be on the green, but hit a nice chip.
 And then on 7, it was playing pretty tough today, back right pin, down off the right, and hit a kind of conservative wedge shot in there and just made a nice putt.  So it was a nice little stretch there.
 Q. Have you, is this as healthy as you've felt in a long, long time or as healthy as you've ever felt?
 DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, my body feels amazing and I just think, it's a nice place to be when you don't have to worry about if you're hurt every week when you show up.
 Q. Back in the short sleeve shirt after 66 today.  How would you describe your efforts on what was a very windy Friday here at Pebble?
 DANIEL BERGER:   I think patience would probably best describe it.  I didn't make a bunch of birdies in the middle of the round and then hung in there and toward the end rattled off a couple and got myself in a good position going into Saturday.
 Q. You were tied for 10th here in 2015.  You were tied for 5th a year ago.  10 straight rounds under par in this tournament.  What is it about this environment and the multiple courses that have caught your attention?
 DANIEL BERGER:   Well, I think it's hard to have a bad day at Pebble.  It's one of those courses when you walk you just kind of enjoy it.  And I just think I'm in a good rhythm now and my body feels good, so I'm just trying to enjoy it and try to play the best golf I can.
 Q. How much of that rhythm goes back to the first event back in June.  You win at Colonial and seemingly you've been sort of on the fast path ever since?
 DANIEL BERGER:   I just think that the work that my coach Cameron and I have been doing has really helped me prepare week-in and week-out.  I feel like I know what I need to do and if I take care of those things I can kind of just free myself up and play golf and it usually turns out to have some good results.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT