WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on 6-under to start?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it was a great round.  I love China.  I played well here last year and just excited to be back.  Obviously the conditions aren't great but got some putts in the hole and that's really the difference today.
Q. It looked like you were fast out of those blocks, as well, birdie after birdie early on.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I got off to a great start.  I think that was kind of the key.  Took some pressure off me and played the hard holes well today and why I make a bogey out here, which is good.  If you're hitting in the rough, you're not hitting much more than an 8-iron out.
Q. When you are making those birdies early on, are you then frustrated that they are not dropping on the way home?
DANIEL BERGER: Not as much.  I just think the conditions are just so tough today; that pars are good scores out here.  So nice to get off to a good start but got to play three more good ones.
Q. As somebody who has played the course before, please elaborate on the conditions, how it's affected Sheshan, how much harder is it?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it's a completely different golf course than last year.  I mean, last year they overseeded so the rough was a little bit more playable, and this year, it's not the same.  I think they have had a really hot summer, but they have done a great job.  The greens are great and just got to get the ball in the hole.
Q. I take it you're a better player, playing it this year, as well, with the results that you've had?
DANIEL BERGER: I got off to a good start last year here and I think it kind of got my season going.  So just kind of looking to do the same thing.  Got some time off after this, just one more big push, and then take a break.
Q. It is at the back end of the year, but it's the start of a season for you, isn't it, so it's a different kind of balance.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it just seems like this season is rolling into last season.  So it's nice to have a little momentum.  I played well the last part of the last PGA TOUR season.  It's fun to get off to a good start and just got to keep playing good golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT