BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Gutsy round of golf, gutsy tee shot on 17, considering the situation with East Lake.  It looks like you're going.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I think that was probably one of the best rounds of golf I ever played and I feel like I really hung in there, especially when it wasn't going my way, and made some birdies.  And, obviously, the one on 17 was just really important and to make a birdie there and then 2-putt on 18, I was really happy with that.
Q. How much were you thinking Top-30 today, were you looking at a number, and when you pull off a tee shot under the circumstances on 17, like you suggested, give you a ton of confidence in two weeks?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I was looking at the FedExCup the entire week.  And when you have all your buddies going and you just want to be right there and you want to have another chance to, obviously, win, and maybe get closer to the Ryder Cup.  With a win there, you never know what would happen.
But the first step is obviously getting there and I feel like I've taken a good direction in getting there.  I mean, I don't know if I'm mathematically safe yet, but can't do anything about it now, I played really good.
Q. You're projected at 27 and it looks really solid for you to get there.  In terms of the next two weeks, you got a week off, so a bit of a layoff before you get to East Lake.  What will you work on in anticipation of the TOUR Championship?
DANIEL BERGER: I think I'm going to rest, first off.  I put a lot of effort into these last three weeks and especially today and it took a lot out of me mentally.  I just kind of need to recharge the batteries and get going.
I obviously know East Lake pretty well, playing it last year.  So do the same things I've been doing and I'll have a good shot.
Q. What did you hit on 17?
DANIEL BERGER: 6-iron.
Q. Did you feel like were you flag hunting and needed another birdie?
DANIEL BERGER: My caddie said go 20 feet right and I went right at it.  I was kind of thinking, if you're going to go in the water, you might as well give it a good shot.
Q. You twice have gone to BMW and played your way in.  What's that week like trying to work your way into the TOUR Championship and why have you been able to do it twice now?
DANIEL BERGER: It sucks.  You either want to miss it by a lot or be in by a lot.  But I feel like I just really stepped up my game in the last year and a half and I'm better today than I was last year at this time.  If I was in this position at this time last year, there's no way I would have played the round that I played today.  So I'm just really happy with the progress I made.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT