BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Last year this event was obviously the one for you to go all the way through to the TOUR Championship.  But you have to win again at the moment, so something you're obviously trying to do here.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, obviously that's the end goal, but just play my best and see what happens, and that's kind of what I did last year and if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen, and if it does, then great.   
 Q.  Obviously, making Atlanta opens up doors for you, scheduling your season or whatever, is that important to you to be able to sort of keep that sort of focus and schedule?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, regardless of that I'll still be in the top-50, so I'll still get into the same tournaments.  But it's nice to have it locked in.  But, yeah, I would still want to play another week for 8 million dollars with 30 guys.  But if it doesn't happen, it's, it is what it is.   
 Q.  Are you watching the projections and things like that during the week?  Do you wait until Sunday, do you watch it at all?  I mean just like leaderboards.  
DANIEL BERGER: I mean, it changes so much it's just really hard to watch.  Brooks and Jhonny Vegas were outside by like four shots and they made an eagle and a birdie and they're suddenly in.  So it doesn't, you can't really pay attention to it.   
 Q.  You just got to focus on your own job and get it done.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.   
 Q.  How much is the Ryder Cup on your mind?  
DANIEL BERGER: Not much at all.  Basically zero.  I think I would have to win here to get picked, so.  Maybe a solid weekend, but zero.   
 Q.  It's not out of the question though.  Guys have obviously come home strong and they remedied the situation with Billy Horschel, so that they could pick someone like that.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, definitely could be an option, but you look at the guys ahead of me, you got Rickie, Bubba, Kuchar, you got J.B. Holmes.  I just rattled off four names in three seconds that would probably get picked before me.  So it is what it is.  I need to play better golf and you don't have to worry about getting picked.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT