TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Daniel, you just authored a 4-under par round of 66.  Your thoughts?  
DANIEL BERGER: I played pretty good today.  It's my sixth round of golf in the last six weeks, so pretty happy with that.   
Just nice to be back at a tournament and playing.   
 Q.  What sets up well for you here?  Is it sightlines of the golf course?  
DANIEL BERGER: I think the conditions right now.  Being soft it kind of favors the longer drivers of the golf ball.  I've been driving it relatively good.  I made some nice putts on the front nine, which was my back nine, to kind of get the round finished nicely.   
 Q.  So the conditions of the golf course for your round to start the day were solid?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, they were really good.  The greens were rolling nice.  Got a little bumpy toward the end, but that's to be expected.  Just go do the same things I've been doing today and I'll be all good for tomorrow and the next couple days.   
 Q.  Obviously trying to bust some of the rust iff to get back into things.  How are you feeling?  
DANIEL BERGER: I'm feeling great.  Thankfully I'm over the treatments and the phone calls with the doctors and all that stuff.  It's just nice to be playing golf.  I look forward to the next couple days and obviously some good golf in the weeks ahead.   
 Q.  So no pain right now?  
DANIEL BERGER: No pain right now, which is nice.  It's been a lot of work to get to this point.   
 Q.  Does it give you comfort when you're back inside the ropes again, back in your office?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, because before this all I was doing is chipping putting, and really the only action I got was Thursday at the PGA Championship, which was quite a test to come back to without playing golf.   
I feel a lot better this week, and I'm sure I'll feel better the next week and so forth, the next couple weeks ahead.   
 Q.  Great playing today.  You started off with two birdies and later on had a stretch of three in a row.  What were you doing well in particular with the three-birdie-in-a-row stretch coming home?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, I hit a great shot into the par-3.  I want to say it was the 4th or 5th hole; made a nice putt there.   
Then hit a great driver, 3-wood into the par-5 next.  You know, made good about 40-footer on the next, so it was just a stretch of holes.  I wish every hole was like that.   
 Q.  You had battled injury and you mentioned you have not played a lot of golf recently.  How good does it feel to come out battling rust and play this well right away?  
DANIEL BERGER: It feels great.  I mean, you know, I've done a lot of work with my short game the last couple weeks and that's really paid off.  You can't get yourself in this position until you're honestly out here.   
That's kind of what I've been looking forward to, and I'm excited to be back.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this could have been an even better round?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, absolutely.  I missed a couple shorties.  Like you said, knocking the rust off, and I'll be better tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was the injury you had?  
DANIEL BERGER: Shoulder.   
 Q.  So to be able to go out there and six birdies, two bogeys, and a nice save at nine, that had to feel good to close the round that way.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it was really nice to finish the round like that.  I kind of battled back from a mediocre middle round, but it was just nice to finish with a good par.   
 Q.  Seems like a lot of guys are scoring well on the back nine today.  Is it just the way the course is set up and how soft it is?  
DANIEL BERGER: I think it's just the back nine is just a little shorter.  There are a few more easier holes.  Obviously you got a drivable par-4; reachable par-5.   
I think the back nine is a little tighter.  Can be a tough to deal with, but you just hit your spots and take it from there.   
 Q.  Was fog a factor at all this morning for you?  
DANIEL BERGER: Not really.  It was nice to go to a TOUR event that wasn't 95 agrees in the morning.   
It was quite nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT