SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2021
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Birdie on the last make dinner taste a little better and you're right in the mix here again.
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, middle of that round, I didn't make any birdies and kind of hung around and birdied 16, 17 and 18.  I think it's going to probably be a shootout tomorrow.  Hopefully the weather holds off and we don't get too much rain.
Q. Do you like when it's a shootout like this and you have to go low?
DANIEL BERGER:   I think my game probably doesn't necessarily suit this style of play.  I think I'm more in that ten to 14-under range.  That's kind of the courses that I really competed on and played well at.  You look at Memphis, Colonial, another tough course.  But I've gotten better the last year or two and being able it take those rounds, instead of shooting 2- or 3-under, I can get 5- or 6-under out of it.  That's where you get the 22-, 23-, 24-under par rounds for four days going.
Q. What's been the difference in getting those two or three extra shots a round?
DANIEL BERGER:   Make more putts.  I'm a better putter last year and this year, and that's really been the been for me.
Q. What has your work with Cameron McCormick done for your game over the last year or so you've been working with him?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, he's been incredible for my short game, my putting.  I think he's really given me a new perspective on how to hit shots around the greens.  I was kind of one-dimensional in the past.  We talked about a lot of the greatest short game players in history.  You look at a guy like Phil, Mickelson and he can hit 50 different kind of chip shots, and I was just hitting one standard kind of chip shot.  Just adding more shots to my repertoire and being able to judge lies better and the whole nine yards, I've just gotten better with everything.
Q. Is there a stretch of holes that you just have to get through with pars?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, 1 through 6 is the key.  If you can play those holes a couple under par, even par, then you're good to go on the next 12 holes.  That's where you've got to make your birdies.  It's really important to get off to a good start and if you don't get off to a good start, you kind of know that those are the hardest holes and kind of be a little bit more patient.  That's where I think the tournament will be won or last tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT