FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Grind it out 69 for you today.  13 of 18 greens, 29 putts.  Was your impression on the round?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.  I feel like I did  play pretty solidly.  I made maybe one or two putts early in the round that kind of kept my round going.  The one I think of is 7, the par 4, made a nice 15-footer for par there and, you know, overall I played well and just hung in there.   
 Q.  You did have some putts inside of ten feet for birdie but just didn't drop for you.  You were close, though.  
DANIEL BERGER: One of those days that I felt like I was hitting my line and hitting it with good speed and just didn't go in but who knows, maybe tomorrow I'll make every single one of them.  I don't know if it's possible.  It's nice if it was.   
 Q.  Two more holes to talk about.  14, mistake there or just needed one more yard?  
DANIEL BERGER: Little bit of both.  My caddy is telling me to aim 25 feet left of that and for some reason I'm looking at the flag and probably just a little bit of a mental error.  It's hot out here.  It can happen.  I'm happy with the way I rebounded on 16 and 17.   
 Q.  17, the rebound, chip in.  Great way to get a birdie there.  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.  It was a tough spot to be in but I hit my spot on the green and great result to finish the round.   
 Q.  Thank you, Daniel.  Solid finish.  Can you walk us through the chip-in on 17?  
DANIEL BERGER: It wasn't in the best spot but, you know, I just picked my spot on the green and hit it and it went in and it was a nice way to kind of rebound off of that double on the par 3 but I just am excited to grind it out and play a solid round today.   
 Q.  First 54 hole lead on the PGA TOUR.  What can you take from your getting into the playoff at the Honda Classic last year and being in contention there?  
DANIEL BERGER: I just have to be myself.  I feel like when you're kind of in this position you can kind of try to do things that normally you wouldn't do and just got to have fun out there and be myself and see what happens.   
 Q.  Tomorrow as far as the game plan goes, ball-striking was a little bit off today.  Will you go to the range, will you change anything going into tomorrow?  
DANIEL BERGER: I thought my ball-striking was good today.  But I needed to work on my putting a little bit.  Do a little putting work and hopefully that will take care of the rest of it.   
 Q.  Appreciate it.  Good luck tomorrow.  
DANIEL BERGER: Thank you.   
 Q.  Just talk about again your come-back and how satisfied are you with the way you ended?  
DANIEL BERGER: I'm very satisfied.  I thought I played really well today.  I drove it really well.  They seemed to trick out some of the pins today, four from the front, four from the left.   
I just felt like I kind of picked my way around the golf course really well and hung in there even after a late double bogey that could kind of turn a good round into a really bad round.  Made some nice birdies down the stretch and I had fun out there.   
 Q.  What was your mindset after the double?  
DANIEL BERGER: "Let's go make a birdie on the next."  It is what it is.  It's a tough pin and I didn't hit the greatest of shots but I'm just happy to have a finish strong.   
 Q.  Did you notice that Mickelson had kind of caught you for that moment with your -- with that double and how did you react at that point?  
DANIEL BERGER: I didn't really pay attention to the scoreboard too much because there's so much golf left, even tomorrow.  With 9 holes left, there's so much golf left.  Kind of did my thing.  Whatever happens, happens.  This isn't going to be the last time I'm in this position.  I'm enjoying the moment.   
 Q.  Stricker and D.A. and Phil for sure have won before.  You look at those names behind you going into tomorrow.  What is your focus as you try to close out this tournament?  
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.  I mean if it was Tiger Woods behind me I would have the same mentality.  It doesn't matter.  It's golf.  The golf course doesn't know who is playing it so I'm just going to go out there and be aggressive and have some fun and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  Is Phil a guy that you looked up to growing up, now you're kind of facing off with him this weekend?  
DANIEL BERGER: A little bit.  I'd say Tiger Woods would be the guy but I like to call Philip Philip and he says -- I like to call Phil Philip.  He says only his wife calls him that, I can't call him that until I win on the PGA TOUR.  But I still call him that anyway.  I don't care.  It is what it is.   
 Q.  Was that when you played with him on Match Play you had that conversation with him?  
DANIEL BERGER: No.  That's his name, Philip.  Everyone calls hill Phil.  I like to call him Philip.  He doesn't like it.  I just do it anyway.   
 Q.  Do you prefer Dan or Daniel?  
DANIEL BERGER: I go by Daniel.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT