VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2016
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 36 holes at the Copperhead course, just two dropped shots.  How pleasing is that for you?
A
Yeah, I played really well so far.  There's a lot of golf left, 36 more holes.  Got to hang in there and try to do the same thing the next two days.
Q. Your game out there obviously you look at the start and here at 9 you got it going on the front-9.
DANIEL BERGER: I hit a great drive down there and nice little pitch shot to 10, 15 feet and capitalized on the putt and I think I need to do that the next couple days if I want to have a chance.
Q. Conditions this morning, the breeze was up for you.  What do you need to do well around this course?
DANIEL BERGER: You got to hit your long irons well because you're going to have a few of them coming into in par-4s and par-5s.  I'm used to South Florida, born and raised.  It gets windy out there.  Just do the same thing I'm doing.
Q. 22 years of age.  Great start to your PGA TOUR career.  Rookie, 2014-2015 season.  Very close at the Honda Classic.
How much are you enjoying the life of a PGA TOUR player?
DANIEL BERGER: It's fun.  It's hard work.  Nothing else I would rather be doing for a living.
Q. Do you feel like you've made your place?
DANIEL BERGER: Regardless of what happens, I just keep doing what I'm doing and trying to get better.
Q. It was tough out there, the wind kind of shifted late in the round, didn't it?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.  I mean you got to play well to shoot good numbers out there.  That's why 5-under is leading right now.  I expect it to be just like this the next two days.
Q. You had it going.  Did the par 5, 3-putt take a little momentum out of you?  It looked like everything was firing on all cylinders there.
DANIEL BERGER: I hit some great shots even on the back-9 even though I didn't make a birdie.  Just got to do the same thing I did the past two days and hopefully I'll have a chance on Sunday.
Q. Shot on 18, got no idea the wind was back in your face?
DANIEL BERGER: I walked up 20 yards to check out the wind.  Looked like down and off the left.  As soon as I hit it I knew it was short.  If you hit in the bunkers and it comes in high it's going to plug.  Didn't really have much there.
Q. Obviously not what you wanted to do on 18 but we haven't seen a lot of low numbers out there.  68 is a good score.  What's your take away from today?
DANIEL BERGER: I grinded.  68 could have been 75 if I didn't grind hard.  So, just got to stay patient.  The golf course is hard and it's tough to make putts out there especially late in the afternoon so, you know, obviously we'll be playing late tomorrow and got to hang in there.
Q. What's been working for you through 36?  You haven't quite gotten off to the start so far in 2016 you wanted.
DANIEL BERGER: I would say this week my putting.  I was sitting on my couch watching Adam Scott at the Honda and kind of took something from his putting stroke and just -- it's working this week.
Q. Obviously you wanted to make birdie and be in the lead.  Was that the goal today when you started, just to get into contention?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah.  I mean the goal every week is to get into contention.  Sometimes it doesn't work but, you know, I'm just having fun out there and enjoying it and it's my home State of Florida so not to far down the road from where I live.  A nice tournament.
Q. Is this a familiar course for you?
DANIEL BERGER: I played some AJJs when I was younger.  I'm used to it.
Q. Obviously makes you feel relaxed.
DANIEL BERGER: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT