BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2015
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Daniel, great week.  You pulled yourself from outside the top 30, not only well played but a second place finish, your second of the year.  How are you feeling right now?
DANIEL BERGER: Man, it's pretty awesome to be headed to the TOUR Championship in my rookie year.  I'm just so proud of the way I battled the last four days, and the last day especially.  It's just a great feeling.
Q. What was your mindset coming into today?
DANIEL BERGER: Just try to have some fun.  Regardless of what happens, I was going to be okay.  I didn't expect to finish second, but I'm happy to be here.
Q. Every rookie that's made it to Atlanta has won Rookie of the Year.
DANIEL BERGER: I don't know, I mean, there's a couple other good rookies, so whatever happens happens, but I'm excited to be going to the TOUR Championship.
Q. Just talk about your play today.  You really got it back after that slow start.
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I started off slow, a little bit tight with -- obviously playing with Rory, No. 1 in the world, but I hung in there all day, and I'm just proud of the way that I battled.
Q. What does it mean to be able to move on to the TOUR Championship and make such a nice jump, possibly inside the top 10?
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, if you told me I'd be in the TOUR Championship at the beginning of the year, I probably wouldn't have believed you, but to finally make it here is awesome.  I get to play in four majors next year, and that's been one of my goals.
Q. How was the crowd and how was the reception?
DANIEL BERGER: It was unbelievable.  I mean, thousands and thousands of people.  I got two marquee groups with Jason Day yesterday and Rory today.  It's just a lot of fun when you have a lot of people watching.
Q. Did you pick up the fans, how they're kind of yearning and knowing they're going to miss --
DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, it seems like they're going to miss it, but I'm really appreciative how awesome they've been.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT