ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2015
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     So have you ever had a 2 on a par 5?
DANIEL BERGER:   I have.   That's what you're trying to do, make it from the fairway.

Q.   What's was the other circumstance?
DANIEL BERGER:   I was 15 years old and AJGA event in North Carolina.   I shot even par.   So this was a little better.

Q.   So you had a 2, 3, 4 and 5 on the par-5s.   We're saying you hit for the cycle?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah.   All I was missing was a 1.   I mean probably wasn't going to happen on a par 5.   I hit a really good shot which it looked like it actually had a chance but I mean just overall pretty happy with the way I played today.

Q.   Did you know when you hit the shot that it was going to be really good and were you still surprised that it went in?
DANIEL BERGER:   It was kind of right on that borderline between going for it and not going for it.   Little bit on the downhill lie.   You know, my caddy gave me the confidence to go for it. 
I hit a big iron.   After I hit it, I flushed it.   Get up.   It landed perfect and I didn't see it go in but the way the crowd reacted I figured it was either in or close.   When I got up there it was pretty cool to pick the ball up out of hole.

Q.   How big of an adrenaline rush was it when you got up there oh, it's really in hole?
DANIEL BERGER:   The joke between me and my caddy, how many double eagles are going to be on that hole today.   It was special, especially over here, Mr. Palmer's event.   It was just a lot of fun today.

Q.   Do you know how many double eagles have been on that hole?
DANIEL BERGER:   I have absolutely -- am I the first?   I'm in history now.   Part of history.

Q.   What was your distance?
DANIEL BERGER:   240.

Q.   Talk about the eagle, what happened there?
DANIEL BERGER:   I hit a pretty poor drive in the rough.   I was just looking to hit it anywhere around the green, maybe little right.   I kind of pulled it a little bit.   Big swinger left to right.   Got it to the top of the crest and funnel right down to the hole and good speed and went right in.

Q.   What was the club on that?
DANIEL BERGER:   7-iron coming in.

Q.   Daniel, on the par-5s, do you take away from this about you're playing well or do you wish that the other holes you could have --
             DANIEL BERGER:   I think the whole course is not playing that easy but, you know, anytime you play the par-5s that many under par you're going for a pretty good day. 
But it's just keep getting better and I put myself in good position for tomorrow and just shoot another low one and be right in there.

Q.   So some of us have not seen you since the playoff.   Has anything changed, do you feel in anyway different, do people treat you differently?
DANIEL BERGER:   No.   Everyone treats me the same.   Obviously I just got to keep doing what I've been working for and just try to keep getting better.

Q.   Do you feel different?
DANIEL BERGER:   I'm a little bit more confident in my game.   But, overall, I'm the same person and, you know, it's just my job.   Got to keep getting better.

Q.   So does that confidence manifest itself when you're deciding to go for it, do I not go for it?   Is that where it comes into play?
DANIEL BERGER:   More of a percentage thing.   In that scenario that was the right call and, you know, I hit a great shot and got rewarded for it.   An eagle would have been nice but a double eagle is even nicer.

Q.   Do you remember what your caddy said to you to give you extra boost of confidence, 4-iron, let's do it?
DANIEL BERGER:   I just trust him a lot.   He's been out here for a long time.   He says go for it, I feel pretty comfortable going for it.

Q.   How difficult then after an albatross like that to get the adrenaline to calm down a little bit knowing you have so many holes left to play?
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah.   It's tough but, you know, you got to stay patient.   Obviously there's birdie opportunities out here if you stay patient and, you know, I thought I handled myself pretty well for the rest of the day.

Q.   What did you do with the ball?
DANIEL BERGER:   I threw it to a little kid in the crowd.   Maybe it made his day.   He may not know who I am but I'm fine. 

Q.   How many holes in one have you had?
DANIEL BERGER:   I've had one hole in one.   Two double eagles.

Q.   Hole in one in competition?
DANIEL BERGER:   No, two double eagles in competition.   I don't know what I did.   Keep playing par-5s.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT