THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Considering the wind out there out there, how good is that?
DANIEL BERGER:   Felt like a 59.   I played really well.   I made a lot of good par saves and kind of just hung in there. 

Q.   Considering that this is your home area, safe to say you came into this event with a lot of confidence? 
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, you know, I played really well on the West Coast, and I got to take a week off last week and kind of recharge my batteries.   I feel really good this week. 

Q.   The feelings that you had out there playing this golf course, which you've played many times before, how was it playing in a PGA TOUR event?
DANIEL BERGER:   It was amazing to have my friends and family watching me and cheering me on.   It's unlike any other week I get to experience on the PGA TOUR.   It's awesome.

Q.   What was more impressive, that you're close to the top of the leaderboard or that you didn't make a bogey? 
DANIEL BERGER:   Honestly I think the no bogeys today was more impressive.   I made some great par saves.   The one that comes to mind would be 10.   I hit a terrible second shot and still had like 60 yards left and got up‑and‑down.   Just kind of hung in there all day.

Q.   You've played this course a number of times, being a local guy, did that come into play?   Did your local knowledge help you out today?
DANIEL BERGER:   Not really.   I think just the conditions are so tough, some of the holes that I had seen before were not playing quite the same as they had just because of the 20‑mile‑an‑hour wind.   But I'm really proud of the way I battled out there.

Q.   Was the wind a common wind or from a different direction? 
DANIEL BERGER:   The amount of wind is pretty common, but I haven't played out here so much that I know exactly what direction every hole it's coming in.   I'm just really excited to get off to a good start. 

Q.   Talk about the round overall.   How do you feel, this is your first time around?
DANIEL BERGER:   Really happy with the way I performed today.   It was really tough conditions, and hit some really good shots and made some really good par saves.

Q.   How many times have you played this course?
DANIEL BERGER:   I would say in my life probably 25 times.   Not recently since they have done some changes to the course but overall, you can kind of get the feel of what it's been like. 

Q.   I saw the 35‑footer at 16. 
DANIEL BERGER:   That was pretty cool.   Probably the biggest crowd of the day on 16.   I teed off on 7, so not that many people out there that early, other than my family and stuff.   It was a good putt and right in the center.

Q.   How much family did you have out there today?
DANIEL BERGER:   I had pretty much all my immediate family, parents, sister, grandparents and some friends.   It was pretty cool. 

Q.   Sometimes there can be a little pressure‑‑
DANIEL BERGER:   I was nervous to start off.   It's one of the only tournaments they all get to come to.   I've had a lot of confidence coming in, so just do what I've been doing and I'll be okay.

Q.   Have they ever seen you play a PGA TOUR event before?
DANIEL BERGER:   My dad came out to the U.S. Open last year.   That was his only event he's ever been to and if you can imagine, the only one before that was the Web.com Tour.   You come out on Sunday and there's 50,000 people out there.   It was pretty cool.

Q.   Thoughts on the day, even par through 13? 
DANIEL BERGER:   Considering the conditions, I was ecstatic to be even through ten, and I knew if I hung in there ‑‑ and to play the Bear Trap, I think I played it 1‑under par.   If I can do that for the rest of the week, I'll be pretty happy.   You've got to hit really quality shots coming in there.   I would have liked to get a birdie on 18.   I hit a big drive down there and only had 8‑iron in.   I guess it's just kind of the way it works. 

Q.   You said the other day you were hoping it blew today.   Were you happy about the wind? 
DANIEL BERGER:   Yeah, I think my game, living in South Florida, I play in the wind all the time.   It's just comfortable for me out here.   I feel right at home.

Q.   Hitting into the wind, like how many clubs is the wind?
DANIEL BERGER:   Sometimes it was two clubs, sometimes it was one.   An example would be 18.   I had 200 yards to the hole and hit 8‑iron.   You don't get to hit 8‑iron into 18 very often. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT