WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2015
Daniel Berger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Welcome Daniel Berger to the Waste Management Phoenix Open media center.  Daniel, 8-under through 36 holes.  How would you assess how you've played and how pleased you are with your position through two rounds so far?DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, I mean, any time you're leading after two rounds in a field like this, you're pretty happy.  But, you know, it was my first experience here.  I was lucky enough to get a sponsor exemption in here.  Just thankful for the opportunity.Q. You talked yesterday about your experience on 16 and how you got through that.  What was it like today?DANIEL BERGER: Today was pretty nerve-wracking, the same, but it was a lot longer of a shot today.  It was a 7-iron.  Yesterday was a pitching wedge.  I just stepped up there, took a couple deep breaths, and hit a nice shot in there.Q. So it worked again?DANIEL BERGER: Worked again, yeah.  I'm probably going to do the same thing the next two days.Q. What did you do in the fall?DANIEL BERGER: In the fall I played -- I played in all the fall series events.  I missed the first two cuts, and then I think I finished 20th at McGladrey and then I had a nice first round in Mayakoba and was leading after the first round.  Didn't quite finish it off on the weekend.  It was definitely a good learning experience.Q. How much did the rain slow the greens down?DANIEL BERGER: You know, the greens were pretty fast all day.  You know, the superintendent has done a great job.  I'm expecting them to be just as fast the next couple of days.Q. How many tournaments had you played before this year?DANIEL BERGER: On the PGA TOUR?  Zero.  I played in the USOpen last year, so, I mean, I guess that's a USGA event.  Fall series was my first...Q. Your first PGA TOUR event with Tiger Woods in the field, did you think you'd be 21 clear after Friday?DANIEL BERGER: I haven't looked at the leaderboard yet, but obviously he's the greatest player of all time.  It's pretty cool to be just in the same field as him.Q. When you were in college -- Justin Thomas is up on that leaderboard, too.  Did you ever have any battles with him?DANIEL BERGER: I wish I could say I did, but I think Justin got the better of me most of college.  He was pretty unstoppable in college.  Hopefully we get to play together tomorrow.Q. And you knew him and Jordan Spieth, and you're part of that same high school class?DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, we were in the same high school class.  Played a couple of times with Jordan.  But, you know, Justin, now he lives in Jupiter, I live in Jupiter.  We get to play a lot of golf together.  We're good buddies.  We hang out all the time.Q. What's your history with Brooks?  He's another guy born in Palm Beach.DANIEL BERGER: Yeah, Brooks is from Palm Beach.  I spent the year on Florida State's golf team with him.  He was a senior my freshman year, so I had a good experience with Brooks. I don't get to play that much golf with Brooks, but, you know, maybe I will in the future.Q. Why not?DANIEL BERGER: I don't know.  I kind of got my group of guys I play with and he kind of has his group of guys he plays with.Q. Who are your guys?DANIEL BERGER: I play a lot with Steve Marino, Mark Chunessa (phonetic).  Those are the guys I like to play with.  They are good guys, good fun.Q. Dye?DANIEL BERGER: Dye Preserve, yes, sir.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT