ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2012
Abdi Abdirahman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the travel?   Where did you fly?   Did you have to change planes?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Yeah, yeah, my original flight I was supposed to come in on Tuesday.

Q.   From?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   From Tucson to Houston, Houston to New York, and then they changed it to Tuesday so they changed to Wednesday but I wasn't able, so I got here on Thursday morning.   This is not that bad.   I had a nice time at the airport, I relaxed, watched movies, put my legs up.

Q.   This morning did you try and go out for a run?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Not really.   I slept in this morning. 

Q.   And how about before the race?   Will you try and get in a little run?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Before the race I'll probably go run this afternoon.

Q.   Where will you go?   I hear the park is still closed?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   As runners we always find a place to run, so for us it's just like‑‑ runners, we always find‑‑ you can go like the lake front or‑‑

Q.   Near the Hudson?   It's a bike path along the Hudson. 
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Yeah, we can go along the Hudson.

Q.   So you'll be stubborn, you'll find a place?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Yeah, I'll find it.   I'll run in the middle of town, run with all the people. 

Q.   I want to ask you about the Olympics real quick.   You pulled out with an injury.   When did that injury happen going into London? 
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   You know, the injury to be honest, I was healthy as I could be going to London, everything.   A week before leading to my race, that's when I start having the little knee problems, and I didn't think it was something that bad because I was able to do my workout, everything, so it was perfect.   I just had a little‑‑ I thought I was just having like little minor soreness in my knee.   I didn't think it was going to affect me at all until I get to about the seven‑mile mark, that's when it started affecting me through the turns and loops.   It just started getting worse and worse.   About nine miles I couldn't take it anymore, and I tried to tough it out to almost 11 miles, and I couldn't take it anymore. 
    If it was like a 10‑mile or half marathon or something to go through, but 26 miles, I don't think I was going to be able to make it.   Also the team doctor told me, he said if I would have run a couple more steps, I would have probably tore this thing up because it was barely hanging on. 

Q.   When you're going through that in that race and you've been waiting four years to get there, what's going through your mind when you were deciding should I stop or should I keep going?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   To be honest, I just found myself‑‑ to be honest, stop.   I couldn't take the pain, and then just thinking about it, it's just‑‑ it was unreal.   It was unreal.   I just found myself on the side of the course, and I didn't know what to say.   It was just the pain was so like‑‑ I couldn't express, it was just a hard feeling.   I didn't want to be on the camera, took my shirt off and pulled it over my head.   As a runner you're always grateful at that moment for four years, especially when you have like the best chance of like doing well at the Olympics.   You train for that moment for almost a year, and then things don't go the way you wanted because of injury, not because of a lack of injury, it's a hard thing to deal with.   But at the same time you've got to be tough, you've got to think about the next race. 

Q.   Obviously Ryan had a similar issue, he pulled out of the race.   Did you guys talk at all after the marathon? 
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   Actually I never got to talk to Ryan after the marathon, but yeah, I didn't talk‑‑ we never talked about it, but I know what he was feeling, because like getting ready for the race, probably he's worse‑‑ something he had before, but mine was something new, just it was unexpected. 

Q.   You said it took about three and a half weeks you took off from running before you started training again, but what about mentally, did that weigh on you for a while?   Were you able to shake it quickly?
    ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:   You know, I never take anything for granted in life.   Just I live life to the fullest.   I knew that the Olympics didn't go the way I wanted, but at the same time I know from the past there's nothing you can do about it.   I cannot make the people rerun the race.   I got over that one.   I was going to focus on what's ahead of me, what the future holds for me, and I think the New York City Marathon is ahead of me, so it was my main goal just to worry about the New York City Marathon.   I'm going to get ready for it instead of thinking about the Olympics and what happened. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT