TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 8, 2003
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, he played a good game.  He played four winners in the last game.  
 
Q.  The court was so heavy, wet.  Did it bother you at all? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, yeah, no.  I mean, today was a great day for me.  The conditions aren't easy.  The court's a little slippery, too.  It's heavy.  But two players have to play, you know.  So it's always who it bothers more, who it affects more.  And today was good from the start.  I not just played well, but I played well and then I won all the big points in the beginning.  So if you get one chance and you take it, then it's very quickly you're up.  So it was a good day  - not always like this.  
 
Q.  When you arrived in Indian Wells, you had been through a pretty tough schedule.  You were beaten by Kratochvil in two tiebreaks in the first round.  Were you aware of reminding him that you're still around maybe? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, every day is a new day.  And if we play again tomorrow, it's possible that it's much different.  So I certainly was disappointed to lose first round in defense of that title, but a lot of things went his way and he played well that day.  So I just wanted to play a good match today, make him work hard to earn it.  And, again, days like this, doesn't happen too often.  
 
Q.  The fact that you have such a big match in France in September, Davis Cup at Roland Garros, do you think you will play?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I've addressed this before.  
 
Q.  It is a new stage.
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it's an incredible stage and one that I truly am going to miss, because I can't even imagine what it would feel like.  But for me to all of a sudden decide that I'm going to take that spot away from somebody who's played well, and all year, you know...  I've played 12 years.  I've given a lot, and it's taken a lot.  So it's given to me.  And I think this part is over now.  If it's easy for me to play it and convenient, or if the team needs  
 me  -- 
 
Q.  I think they will.
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  It's not something that I feel the liberty to just change my mind.  
 
Q.  Thirteen years ago you had a matchpoint in the final here. 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Hmm...  Two matches now, so please take me very slowly.  
 
Q.  Your next match is against Clement or Calleri.  Who do you prefer to play?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  It's a surface  -- I understand.  It's hard for me to say how -- I played Calleri one time.  We played on a hardcourt.  So how he plays on clay, I'm not so sure.  Which one's more difficult, it's not easy for me to say.  So the good news is I have to play the best one.  It's always this way.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT