US OPEN
August 26, 2006
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
   
  Q.  You had a chance to practice out on Ashe a few times this week.  How are you feeling physically?  How are you looking forward to the week?  
  ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I'm looking really forward to the week.  For me, physically, it's unfortunately this year part of my decisions for -- part of my reasons for the decision for this to be my last tournament, it is a bit unpredictable for me.  
  But I feel good.  I feel great.  It's not always dependable.  But to be here, the inspiration of it, I'm hoping to get out there and feel awesome.  
   
  Q.  As of right now you feel good?  
  ANDRE AGASSI:  As of right now, I feel good, you know.  I have my good days and my not-so-good days.  So real similar to all of us (smiling).  
   
  Q.  So many great emotions here.  I just wonder, what are you looking forward most to about walking through the tunnel, getting out in front of the crowd?  
  ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think it's fair for me to say after playing this event, you know, 20 consecutive times, this being my 21st, my 21st time is really going to end up being like my first time because I've never been here as my last.  
  So it will be emotional.  I have yet to prepare myself properly for the emotions throughout this whole sort of summer and most of the year.  But, you know, in this case I'm sure I'm underestimating everything I'm going to feel and experience.  
   
  Q.  Is there one thing that you can come into this week looking forward to, you know, starting this run?  What does this New York crowd really mean to you in terms of that?  
  ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, this has been the stage to sort of prove myself over the years, you know.  It started with lack of acceptance and has grown to a wonderful embracement, and on both parts.  I think I started off a little unsure about playing here, and I grew into loving this more than any place in the world.  
  So to be for the people, that's what makes any stadium, is who the people are, and this stadium has its electricity and its feel because of every fan that's sitting out there.  So I look forward to sharing one more go-around.  
  
  End of FastScripts...  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT