WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 8, 2002
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Andre, please. 


Q.  How did you feel out there?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I felt pretty good.  I thought it was a high standard match, and I felt like I was getting a better feel for things as it went on.  So those are all good signs. 

Q.  Could you talk about playing Lleyton and some of your history with him.

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, looking forward to it.  I think it's certainly the biggest challenge out there right now  - is to play the guy that's been playing the best.  Really looking forward to it.  I think it will be an exciting match.  I think it will be a high standard and good for all those that come here to watch it. 

Q.  He calls your match in San Jose the best match probably this year.  Obviously, you weren't on the right side of it.  Do you feel that way as well or...? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I thought it was a real high standard match, no question.  But I think I've played some  - randomly - some better matches.  But that's as good as you can hope for, let me put it that way.  It was quite a thriller on top of playing well, it really came down to the wire and was kind of nip-and-tuck the whole way. 

Q.  What do you take from past matches against him out there tomorrow?  What kind of things do you have to do against him?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think anybody that plays Lleyton realizes that you have to go out there and get it done start to finish.  I mean, he's a phenomenal player and a great competitor.  If anything, I just go out there with the knowledge that I'm going to have to bring my best stuff and look forward to that challenge. 

Q.  Can you talk about his speed on the court a little bit. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I think it's his greatest weapon, is his speed.  He uses it offensively and defensively.  Speed in any sport is a huge asset, and Lleyton definitely has that.

Q.  He's got somewhat of a similar game.  They always say we're getting to a point where only the big servers are going to be at the top.  Is it amusing that another person similar to yourself, an aggressive baseliner, is there? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think it just shows you how much more to the game there is than just the serve.  I've never been one to say that the serve's getting too big.  I mean, the serve is important because you could  -- if you have a big serve, you're going to be in any match.  But as far as being the best in the world at tennis, it does take more than that.  If you have a big serve, it helps a lot.  But you need more, and Lleyton has proved that; so have a few other guys that are on top right now. 

Q.  Your serve seemed to come in handy, though, down the stretch today.  Seemed like it got better and better.

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, that's right.  Thomas takes a lot of chances, he leans and tries to pick it up early.  You know, that's when I tend to sneak more aces, is later on in a match.  I tend to work my serve pretty well in the start.  Then, as the player kind of starts leaning or starts getting a little tired or what have you, I can sneak some aces in there.  Came up with some big serves at the right time. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT