WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 7, 2002
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Nice and quick like you like it?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, you can't  -- it always doesn't go like that but tonight was a function of me playing well and on top of it the early opportunities going my way.  Saved a few breakpoints and so in the big points I played well, on top of hitting my shots, so everything was pretty smooth.

Q.  Compared to last year the heat here is completely almost reversed.  That must make you feel a little rejuvenated too?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, it's the same elements for both players, so really when you go out there it's just a question of finding a way to deal with it better than your opponent.  I think when it's cooler, certainly allows for a higher standard of tennis because physically you can push yourself even more, so it's good.

Q.  Problems that you were having last week a little aches and pains, have they all gone now? 

ANDRE AGASSI: I am staying on top of it.  Again when you don't have the time to put something away behind you you have to just get on top of it and stay there.  So no, things are still there, but I am at least in the position where I am not making things worse. 

Q.  You said yesterday - I think it was yesterday - that you just don't have as many tournaments in you as you did when you were obviously younger.  Do you think there should be a different rule for some of you guys who have been on the Tour for as long as you are, maybe not let's say having or supposedly having to play all nine Masters Series?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, listen, I think, again spotting a problem is the easiest part.  Fixing it is more difficult.  So I wouldn't know exactly what the solution would be, but it is in my interest and hope that somewhere along the line the years of service would allow me the luxury of not having to play as -- the full schedule because I just don't think it's possible.  It is possible if I am not winning but if I am having a good year, it makes it really difficult. 

Q.  Kind of another bummer day I guess out there for Pete.  In the course of your career you experienced that rollercoaster some too.  Is it harder to play when you are expected to win or is it harder to play when you are just trying to win matches and gets some momentum going?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, it's hard to speak for Pete.  You are talking about a guy who finished No. 1 in the world six times in a row. 

Q.  What about for you?

ANDRE AGASSI: For me, it's always been a function of my body.  If I feel like I am in shape and I am moving well, and feel energetic as far as my eagerness, things could come together quickly.  Sometimes playing and winning on a consistent level actually eventually puts me in a position where I find myself a little behind the 8-ball in some respects, whether it be physically or mentally.  I always enjoy coming out fresh and coming out with that sort of challenge and obstacle in front of me, can I really do it or can't I.  That's always been a good place for me to be in when I am out there just playing for the sake of trying to figure things out.

Q.  Back a few years ago when you were trying to reestablish your own momentum what were the things that you did that were most successful for you?

ANDRE AGASSI: My fitness.  Really boils down to that.

Q.  More than mental?

ANDRE AGASSI: A guy like Pete, his game isn't just going to go away.  His talent is his talent but you need to physically be at your best and you need to be moving as well and need to be sharp and then you have to be eager, so a lot of components have to come together talking about beating the best players in the world, that's  -- and fighting to be that.  So it's not an easy task.

Q.  As far as longevity then into this tournament having such a quick match  and be able to just relax and recover, look forward to tomorrow, probably helps tremendously?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, when you play five days in a row again it's a function of making sure you save your best stuff for when you need it the most.  As the week goes on, it gets tougher and tougher so it does feel good to go into tomorrow without digging too deeply tonight. 

Q.  The rivalry with you and Pete as we knew it at least for the time being kind of settled down a little bit, I guess.  When you play each other, I am sure it's still there.  If you could establish a new rivalry now with one of the younger guys for the betterment of the game, who would that be?

ANDRE AGASSI: I don't have any objectivity on it.  As far as what would be best for the game my feeling is that a rivalry is not something you create.  It's a result of many things coming together.  It's quite a special thing to have that in your career, so I couldn't even imagine the opportunity of having something quite like that again.  Took a while and it was just starting to be built with Rafter and me.  Me and Patrick were having some phenomenal matches and some pretty big situations.  That's what it requires, playing a lot in the bigger situations and also having the elements that allow for that sort of interest to be created.  Pete and I have always been two different people.  If either of us woke up as the other one we would probably go back to sleep praying it was a dream. (Laughter) .

Q.  How come?

ANDRE AGASSI: I don't know.  I know why.

Q.  Expand on that.

ANDRE AGASSI: Just two different people. 

Q.  Kind of disappointing at this point that that rivalry, I am sure it is, that it doesn't exist, you just kind of commented on that, but, you know, do you think that there's -- that it will ever be like it was?

ANDRE AGASSI: With somebody else or with Pete?  

Q.  Either way.

ANDRE AGASSI: I suppose I am from Vegas, a betting man, I am going on percentages and saying no because it takes that much to make it special.  But it doesn't mean it can't happen. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT