TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 6, 2002
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andre, please. 


Q.  Welcome to Rome.  Much better today than last year against Calatrava? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, thanks for noticing.  Yeah.  Today I was more comfortable, I think.  I came here feeling pretty good about the way I was playing on the clay.  And first one's always difficult.  Nicolas helped me today with some unforced errors.  That always helps you settle in to a match a little easier in the beginning. 

Q.  The courts? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  It was  -- it's playing pretty slippery.  So it's not that it's fast, but it's a little harder on the footing.  So you can hit behind somebody pretty well.  And it feels like it's playing quicker. 

Q.  How is your tennis at this moment? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I feel pretty good.  I feel pretty confident.  I've been playing well this year.  And the first match here is a very important one.  To judge it on today, everything was feeling pretty good. 

Q.  How is your wrist? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it's good.  It's all right.  Just trying to stay on top of it, make sure I take precautionary measures and ice it afterwards and keep it under control. 

Q.  Is it a big goal of yours to win this tournament, being one of the few major ones that you haven't won? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Ahhh, it would be great to win here.  Yeah, that's  -- would be nice.  I don't know what to say (smiling).  It's a tournament I came very close to winning one time.  So to win here many years later would be a pretty good accomplishment. 

Q.  I remember you remembering many times the exact points that you played in certain occasions.  When you had matchpoint versus (Alberto) Mancini, you remember that one or not? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah... I do (laughter). 

Q.  How was it? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Not good.  Not good.  It was just a very basic rally where I was just being very patient, and I ended up just hitting a forehand rally shot just straight into the net.  I went out wide to hit a kick serve.  Used to stand far to the side.  And I was thinking to go up the middle to go for the ace on championship point.  And then I said, "No, don't be stupid.  Just good first serve.  Good shot."  I was stupid (laughter).  But that was 13 years ago, so I'm trying to forget. 

Q.  Pete was in here yesterday talking about where he saw his career at the moment.  He said he was in the twilight of his career, but it could be a five-year twilight.  Where do you think you are at the moment in your career? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I suppose if you've been out here 16 years, you would have to play at least another 10 for it to not be your twilight.  So I know I don't have that in me.  So to say it's a twilight, I think, is a fair statement.  How long that lasts is, I think, directly related to physical health and certainly eagerness.  I could speak to both at this point, and I feel very good physically and focused.  I suppose every year is a new year, and certainly every year gets tougher.  Five years from here would be a pretty amazing accomplishment for either of us. 

Q.  Are you going to be alone this week, or some of your family is coming to join you?  Are we going to see your son in Italy? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  That I don't know.  It depends how long.  If I can stay here till the end, I think a visit will happen.  But definitely next week, which I look very forward to. 

Q.  You are going to remain in Italy even next week? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, no, no... Yeah, Hamburg.  Hamburg, so... I'll bring him one time to the press conference (smiling)  - only if I win (laughing). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT