TMS - STUTTGART
October 17, 2001
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: Questions for Andre. 

Q. As usual, he played some extremely good tennis against you. 

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, he sure did. He came up with some real good shots at the right time. First set, two set points, he hit two real incredible passing shots: one backhand, one forehand. You know, he just executed his shots better than me when the games got close. Had a couple chances, but not as many as he did.

Q. How do you assess your game at the moment? 

ANDRE AGASSI: Ordinary. I felt certainly I could have moved better. I suppose a lot has to do with just so many weeks not reacting to the ball. Experience tells me to hang in there. But it's a little frustrating.

Q. Is it difficult, as well, when your year is more or less finished, you know you're going to Sydney, but you now really just need to pick yourself up only for the Sydney tournament? Is there an element of that?

ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, you're certainly not confused as to which are the biggest tournaments. With that being said, there's still a competitive drive when you play against the best players of the world - and they're here. 

Q. But is it more difficult to really get going at a stage like this when you've really done most of the hard work, it's just the final push to come in Sydney?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. But with that being said, it would also be nice to do well here. You can't expect to do great all the time, I guess. If you could just dial it in the way you wanted, you would do it, you know, a few times a year. It's important to get these matches in order to step it up in Sydney. It is important to be here and playing well. But I remain hopeful that I do have a lot to look forward to still in the World Championships, Masters Cup.

Q. How much do you want No. 1 again?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, it would be a great accomplishment. Unfortunately, you've got to win to be No. 1. I wish you could just lose and be No. 1 (laughter). But, you know, you've got to go out there and earn it. You know, there's still a lot of tennis left. But I think, more important to me, it's to be ready to come back for another year. 

Q. Is there any doubt in your mind that you're going to be as eager next year?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, I suppose eagerness gets tougher every year. But I do feel equipped, you know, ready for the challenge. But, you know, while I might have doubt, I believe doubt's always been my greatest fueler, you know. It's always given me the most amount of purpose because, you know, I don't like questioning myself, if it's something I'm choosing to do. So, yeah, there's always doubt. 

Q. Do you think that guys like Mirnyi, Arazi can really win this tournament? Is it just a question of advancing, but not finally making that big step?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, the good news about sports is my opinion doesn't matter a whole lot. You have to go out there and do it. He was good enough to beat me today. I'm not sure what that says necessarily about him. But I thought he was playing some great tennis. He has a game to give everybody difficulty. To win these tournaments, you have to have a little something extra, and that comes inside your heart. Certainly the week will unfold accordingly. 

Q. Did you see anything of Pete's match today?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah.

Q. We haven't seen him get that upset for a long, long time - maybe never. He was getting upset with the calls, hitting a ball high. I suppose in a way it shows, again, his commitment. He's back now, got his mind back now on the game after all that has happened. How do you assess that? It wasn't like Pete today. I suppose if you look at it in one respect, it shows how anxious and keen he is to get his game on track. 

ANDRE AGASSI: The older you get, the more you want the calls, I assure you (smiling). The more you feel like you deserve them, too. Yeah, he was certainly questioning a lot of calls. Who's to say what's going through his mind or if he's agitated or competitive. For me it's about the game. Whether you're upset or whether you're focused, whether you're distracted, it's still about how you execute what you're doing. Pete has always had a way of knowing when to do that. Suppose it can't go on forever. I understand you being anxious, being sensitive towards when he's kind of not the same anymore. But with that being said, you have to assess that from the game standpoint - not so much the disposition. 

Q. Pete spoke very eloquently about the difficulties for Americans coming to Europe at the moment. I know you went to Shanghai very early after what happened. Did you have any qualms at all about crossing the Atlantic at all?

ANDRE AGASSI: Sure. I don't think it's easy for many people now, especially Americans. But I also believe there's not just a responsibility but an obligation to continue with your life. You know, I suppose every citizen is now officially a soldier. We all have to be prepared for whatever's in store. It's a terrible world we live in. 

Q. A lot of people in Germany are very curious about you and Steffi. How does it feel to become a father?

ANDRE AGASSI: Really, you guys are interested? Yeah, we're very excited about it. I certainly am probably more excited about that than I think anything I've ever been on the verge of experiencing. Yeah, it's quite nice for both of us. 

Q. Did your life change? Did what you think about life change?

ANDRE AGASSI: Not yet. I think nine months is too long. Seems like nine months used to go faster. But I suppose a lot will change. How, I'm not sure. But as of right now, it's just hoping everything stays healthy and on course. 

Q. How is she feeling right now?

ANDRE AGASSI: She's doing great. She's, you know, a little bit doing every day not as much, or I guess every week not doing as much, but feeling good - considering. 

Q. Are you going to change your life with the kid there?

ANDRE AGASSI: Rumor has it I'm going to have to (laughter). I suppose I will. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT