WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2001
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Why did it get away from you, in your opinion? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, really there wasn't much more I could do.  I thought I was playing really well.  You know, I had so many opportunities.  You know, he just kept coming up with the goods at the right time.  I mean, I had breakpoints to go up double break a number of times.  Felt like I played some good points.  He guessed right on a forehand when I kind of had the easy put-away.  I executed it well, felt good about it, but he just kind of reflexed it back.  I mean, that's just too good.  The 5-4 game, serving for the match, missed a couple first serves.  But, you know, he put the pressure on.  He hit a couple good returns deep, on the line and, you know, he stepped up his game.  At the end of the day, he played better at the most important moments.  
 
Q.  In the final game of the fourth set, you had a first serve.  Did that ball just get away from you and almost hit the screen or were you aiming at somebody?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I was trying to hit the line, and it just got a little bit away from me.  
 
Q.  Would it be right to say you weren't happy with the line judges on a couple of occasions?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, listen, you know, while we can always say there's bad calls, it's hard to play a match where one player doesn't feel that way.  I mean, there was just a ball at 30-All in the fourth set that floated and sat clearly wide, in my opinion.  You know, that gave him the break and ultimately the fourth set.  You know, you can't let that get the best of you.  I felt like I turned it around in the fifth, started playing some good tennis again.  You know, just not quite good enough.  
 
Q.  You received a warning for an audible obscenity.  It wasn't very audible.  Did you feel it was a little unfair?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, big time.  Big time.  I blame her husband for that.  
 
Q.  Did you aim at her at the end with the ball? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, no, I meant to hit that in the net.  
 
Q.  Are you tipping Pat now, Andre?  Do you think he deserves it?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Deserves it?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, Sunday will determine who deserves it.  You know, he deserves to be in the finals, that's for sure.  And it's going to be a good match.  We've got another good match out there now.  Who's to say who can win it.  I think Pat, certainly seems to me like, if he physically feels good, I would favour him.  But, you know, a lot can happen out there in a very short period of time, so... 
 
Q.  People raved about the level of tennis when you played Patrick here last year.  What did you think about it today overall?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I thought it sucked - really did.  
 
Q.  It was give and take throughout.  Was this a classic example of what you were talking about the other day when you said there were no secrets between you two?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, we both were out there to execute our game.  I mean, I have no ability to assess the quality of the match, especially when I come on the losing end.  It's going to take me weeks to assess the quality of that match.  I was certainly highly competitive.  That's a given before you go out there.  But, you know, I'm just disappointed and I let an opportunity go by.  That frustration won't allow me to size up the quality of it.  I mean, that's for everybody else to judge.  I thought it was pretty disappointing.  
 
Q.  Do you recall another match where you had so many opportunities and you didn't win like today?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I'm sure it wasn't my first time.  Nothing comes to mind right now, except kicking myself.  
 
Q.  Is it worse this year than it was a year ago? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, the closer you get to winning, feeling like the harder it is to accept not.  So in that respect, I mean, he won the fifth set decisively last year, and this year I had a lot of chances.  You know, it's more disappointing.  
 
Q.  At 6-6 in the final set, you got about five consecutive pretty good returns.  He won the last one.  Seemed like you got a really good groove there.  Did you think, "This is the game where I break, this is my chance"?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I had breakpoint, you know.  He had the sixth return.  You know, I was anticipating him taking something off the first serve and just getting in tight behind it, making me play a good return.  I got the return down.  You know, he hit a good drop volley.  I mean, that's just another example of how he came up with the right shot at the right time.  
 
Q.  You put a lot of work in this year.  Must be awfully disappointing to really playing well in Paris, playing really well here, and win neither tournament?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  That's very observant.  
 
Q.  Are you enjoying the tournament, Wimbledon, this year?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  You know, you always enjoy it.  But right now it's hard to enjoy anything.  I mean, you've got to, you know, just shake it off, try to move forward.  You know, what else can you do?  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT