TMS - HAMBURG
May 14, 2001
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ATP: Questions, please. 


Q.  How did you feel on the court today?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I felt good.  It was a lot more comfortable out there certainly this week than last week.  It's been a lot of practice so I was anxious to play the match and I felt good.  It wasn't very -- it was pretty straightforward from start to finish and felt pretty comfortable the whole time. 

Q.  What was the difference between last week and this week?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, you can't just expect to show up on red clay for the first time in a year few days before the first event and go out there and be perfect. I mean, I think I was -- in hindsight now thinking back on my match in Rome, I think I found myself forcing a little too much, maybe not being quite as patient.  When you play so many matches on the hard court, your instinct is to take control of every shot and so I was trying to do that and then you worry that if I don't, then they are going to take control.  But it is a whole different rhythm to clay and it takes you some time.  There is still more work to do so it is going to be hopefully a great week for me, but it starts now and the next match is going to be an opportunity for me to gain even more confidence.

Q.  How important is it for you that Steffi is here with you?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Always important.

Q.  What makes the difference not being alone?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, I mean, there is a lot of variables, but it is always nice to be around the people you like being around. 

Q.  Back to the sports.

ANDRE AGASSI:  Thank you.

Q.  Do you think the preparation now for the French is perfect   - Rome, Hamburg, Dusseldorf, I think next week?

ANDRE AGASSI:  I do.  I am not playing Dusseldorf but I do, I actually think you want to get a lot of matches, as many as possible, but, you know, I feel like Rome with Hamburg and then the week out before Paris will give me a chance.  Going into the French Open, you need to work yourself into the tournament anyhow and if I can get through a few matches in Paris and then things start to really feel even a lot more differently.  So I think it has been a great schedule and, you know, it is all guesswork until it is hindsight.  Going into the French now I feel like this week I can make some real good steps forward and then prepare next week and then roll the dice and hope that everything is where it needs to be.

Q.  Pete Sampras stepped out today.  He also lost first round last week.  He had problems at the Australian Open.  What is the difference between yourself and him?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I don't know what he is feeling or what he is not feeling.  This has never been a surface that was very comfortable to Pete and so it is always a big adjustment and this surface can really highlight any aches or pains that you may feel.  I don't know how his body is feeling.  I don't know any of that, so it is not comfortable to try to make the adjustments necessary and he still has another two weeks to prepare.  I am sure it is only going to get better for him.

Q.  How do you feel about the French Open?   It is a special tournament for you?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it's really what you play for.  It's the biggest one now coming up.  For me I want to play my best tennis there.  I would like to play my best tennis here and there, but that is what it boils down to is playing the best matches there and I am looking forward to that opportunity, that challenge.  It is never easy, never has been, and, you know, I am anxious about it.

Q.  Paris is much more than the tournament or only a tournament?

ANDRE AGASSI:  It's the French Open, so...

Q.  A Grand Slam....

ANDRE AGASSI: It is one of the four.  And it means a lot to me.  I have had some pretty incredible ups and downs there, some incredible highs and some incredible disappointments.  So it's  -- it is a place I am very attached to.

Q.  Obviously been a great year for you so far.  Could you point out some reasons for it, your preparation now  --

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well you have to be at your best; then you have to get a little luck.  I think it's been a combination.  I have been very prepared for the tournaments I have played and, you know, and I had some luck on my side.  You can't really win without it   - not all the big ones, and to win the first three big tournaments of the year was just kind of -- showed where I am with my game and with my mind and, you know, but now it is different.  That is over a month ago and a lot can change in a month and you have to always reestablish yourself out there; everybody is anxious to beat you, and different environment, different surface, different challenge.  So I'd like to do something special in the clay season, it would mean a lot to me to do that.

Q.  (Inaudible) mentioned that you focus on the Grand Slam this year and you still hope to win it.  Is that your main goal this year to win the Grand Slam?

ANDRE AGASSI:  In all honesty, I mean, and as respectfully as possible, I will say this, but anybody that really talks about one person winning all four Grand Slams after only one of them doesn't have a real understanding of how difficult it is to win those tournaments.  So it is an absurd thought to even discuss.  We are going into the French Open and there is a lot of guys playing well and of course I want to win and that makes me one of 127 other guys.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT