TMS - ROME
May 8, 2001
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andre. 


Q.  Bad day, bad shape or what?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean obviously it wasn't a good day, but I mean, I felt pretty comfortable out there; I really did.  I didn't feel like it was bad by any means.  I felt like there was just a couple dozen times where I had the lead in the point, then I just missed that last shot.  It was like I worked the point, worked the point, I was missing a little bit.  It was playing faster today.  A couple balls were just flying on me.  And, you know, I thought he played well.  I mean, he got to a lot of balls for a stretch there and made me hit four or five good shots, and I just felt like I was hitting, you know, three or four good shots and I was never hitting that last one that I felt like I should have made. You know, that's just a question of playing and, you know, another week of practice and another tournament, it's  -- I felt comfortable out there. 


Q.  How much have you been able to practice since Miami and Atlanta?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I've been hitting the ball, but, you know, it's always different getting on the red brick.  You know, there's nowhere to prepare for that except being over here. So, you know, not  -- I've been hitting the ball, but not playing on the red clay. 


Q.  Andre, how did the decision to play doubles with Lleyton Hewitt come about?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I just got a message saying that he was just asking if I'd be interested in playing.  And, you know, for me it's a great decision.  It always works well for me when I go to any  -- when I go through any stretch of time where I'm not playing a lot of matches, that first tournament, to play singles and doubles really helps my game come around.  And it was  -- I certainly look forward to playing with Lleyton, but it was a good decision for me to play doubles this week.


Q.  Is he a player that you practice a lot with generally on Tour?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I have practiced a number of times with him, and, you know, it's  -- he's a great practice because he hits the ball so well and makes you hit a lot of balls.  We've had a number of good practices. 


Q.  Pete said that for him on clay the biggest problem is to get patient.  For you, what is  --?

ANDRE AGASSI: To get what?


Q.  Patience, to be able to wait.  So for you, what is the main problem? Is it the movement?  Is it the footwork?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, normally it's the movement because it's easy to hit the ball and then slide out of position, as opposed to like on a hardcourt, you hit the ball and you can stop and go. But today I felt like I moved okay.  I felt like I was making him hit some good shots, you know.  I mean, the problem today was I think just a little bit of more match play and practice.  I was hitting it a little cleaner, I wasn't making that last shot.  Also, I think maybe shot selection.  I think, one, when I was missing the forehand up the line today, I missed that maybe 15 times.  It looked like it was there, I felt like I should make it, and I kept hitting it and I could have maybe just hit a loop up the line and wait and have another exchange. So today it was a little bit of not being 100 percent sharp with my shots, and also I think shot selection. 


Q.  What preparation are you going to make for Paris?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think my schedule's been great.  I'm here, I'm practicing and playing some doubles. I'm going to play next week in Hamburg.  And, you know, I think one extra week will make a huge difference, and one more week after that will even make more of a difference. It's, as I look towards Paris, I feel like everything is right where it should be, although it would have been nice to do well here.  But I'll stay here for most of the week, then Hamburg then Paris. 


Q.  What's been the reaction back home to Roddick's two triumphs in a week, Andre?

ANDRE AGASSI: Back home as in my home specifically?


Q.  In the States. 

ANDRE AGASSI: You know, I wouldn't have a good feel  -- I don't have a good feel for that.  I know that obviously CNN has covered it.  I've seen actually a little bit more of him here than I have back there. But, I mean, I think generally speaking there's just a lot of hope that he's earning to be put on his shoulders.  Two tournaments back-to-back is one heck of an accomplishment. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT