TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 14, 2001
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How do you rate your performance tonight?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I thought it was a real good match, highly competitive, excluding just maybe slight indecision on a couple crucial points for me to consolidate the break to go 4-3, 5-3.  But outside of that, I felt like it was high quality, highly competitive.  I feel real good with the way my game got better as the match went on. 
 
Q.  What is your thought process in getting yourself from 4-1 in the tiebreak?  What do you say to yourself?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, at that point you're just trying to continue executing and make him play a good breaker to beat you.  I mean, for me at that stage, I was a bit frustrated because I felt like I had a couple opportunities to close that set out.  But once I was down in the breaker, I just kind of  -- I didn't want to just leave it in his hands; I wanted to execute my shots and at least feel good with the fact that if I go into the second set a set down, I'm starting to let my game fly a little bit more.  
 
Q.  Are you happy with where you are right now?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  I mean, I want to be better.  I mean, I feel like I can be, and I think every day is an opportunity for that.  As long as I'm still in the event, very, very happy. 
 
Q.  What do you think about the next match against another German player?  Is he better?  Is it a stronger game?  What is the difference to Haas? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, it's kind of hard to say.  I mean, I think sports are so much about match-ups.  To say who's better is a difficult thing.  I think that each have strengths that the other one doesn't.  I mean, I think Nicolas moves better than Tommy.  I think Tommy has more firepower off the backhand than Kiefer does.  You know, competitively speaking, day in and day out, it's hard to say.  Against me, I feel like they're always going to be challenged and out there competing hard.  Like today, Tommy had opportunities to go away, and he just refused to.  He kept working hard out there, which is great to see.  Tomorrow will be a whole nother match, same program.  Both of us will be trying to do what we do best and keep the other one from controlling.  
 
Q.  Do you like this facility?  You were kind of quickly gone last year. 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I like everything except where the player's box is located.  It's like lower than the court and it's in the corner, on the same side as the umpire's chair.  You can't see 60% of the court.  The people that matter the most to your game.  I think that's the only criticism of this whole facility.  The rest is outstanding. 
 
Q.  Speaking of people that matter to your game, you've spoken about the role Brad has played in your game.  Getting into the Hall of Fame, what are the chances you'll show up and be on hand when he goes in? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I got a hunch I'll pay my respects (smiling).  How and when, all that, might be up in the air.  I don't like anybody that I care about that's been important to me to not feel respect from me. 
 
Q.  Why wasn't Steffi not today on the court?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know.  You're going to have to ask her, if you can get an interview.  
 
Q.  The young guys coming up like Mardy Fish, Taylor Dent, a few words to this?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  A few words?  
 
Q.  What do you think of the young guys?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I haven't seen Mardy's game too much.  Obviously, he had a great win here against Philippoussis, up 4-2 today, then kind of lost the match against Kiefer.  I don't know his game too well, only what I hear.  I'm never comfortable really speaking to that.  I think Taylor has a real powerful game.  He has a couple struggling points, but I think he has a big enough game to work around it and certainly can do a lot better than he's done, has a lot to look forward to.  
 
Q.  You talked about the market the other day.  NASDAQ has come on as a sponsor of the women's tour.  Could you give a comment about that?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  It's good for the game, I guess.  I don't know.  Hopefully it's good for the NASDAQ, too.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT