TMS - LISBON
December 1, 2000
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Andre.  
 

Q.  Pete said that you guys are still the two best players in the world.  What do you say to that? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, there's just so much to be said for playing your best.  If we're playing our best, I mean, we're certainly very difficult to beat.  I mean, we both won our groups, and certainly this week we're stepping it up.  You know, for me every week is having to prove it.  It's the only way I get the most out of my game is if I try to convince everybody and myself that every week.  Sounds like Pete's feeling good about his game, too.  
 

Q.  You're happy with this result, no games lost so far.  Tomorrow you'll be facing Marat.  What are your expectations about that match? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it's going to be a great match.  I mean, I like the fact that I'm playing like I am.  It feels good to be in the thick of things as far as just game.  You know, I'm going to have to do everything well tomorrow.   I mean, the winner of this tournament is going to be playing the best and get a little lucky.  That's the difference sometimes with this standard of a tournament.  At the end of the week, it becomes  -- everybody's here to win and everybody knows how to. 
 

Q.  Till now do you feel you conquered this crowd, the Portuguese crowd?  What do you think about it?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I'm not trying to conquer them.  I'm trying to work with them a little bit (laughter).  
 

Q.  What do you think of the Portuguese crowd?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I've gotten some great support here.  Certainly has been very appreciated on my part.  It feels good.  It feels good in many ways out there right now.  Just try to count your blessings and keep moving.  
 

Q.  Are you surprised with how well you've got back to good form this week or not? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, I wouldn't say "surprised," no.  I have been practicing really well.  You've got to remember, you know, all of us, we live with the subtleties of our game every day.  You always know where you are and where you're not and what's keeping you from being there.  Everything has been in position, excluding my confidence and my ability to really focus and squeeze down a match.  A lot of times those things come quickly; it's the last part of it.  I'm not surprised because I've been hitting the ball well, I've been playing well, I feel fit, I'm moving well.  All those things are the foundation.  
 

Q.  Back to the audience.  You were very emotional with the audience.  You even found some time to play some balls with some children.  That clearly conquered everybody's preference and heart.  How do you feel about that?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Real good.  I mean, these are times you remember your whole life.  Every crowd, every place has its own atmosphere, its own mystery, its own pleasures.  It's a very unique playing environment.  The crowd is very enthusiastic and incredibly supportive of quality tennis.  I certainly won't ever forget it.  
 

Q.  Given that however many years you've got left, you're in the twilight of your career, do you appreciate moments like this more than you would have done four or five years ago?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I do.  I do.  I mean, at the moment, you know, as we speak, I'm appreciating just being really in tune to my game.  That ultimately is what feels the best to me right now, is really having everything so dialed that you can actually think about your opponent.  It's a nice luxury, to feel confident on all your swings, to be moving well enough to give yourself options.  Then you can really start thinking about, "What am I trying to do to my opponent here?"  That's when I excel.  That's when my standard is high, and that's when my low end is not very low.  It's a constant pressure that I put on my opponents that makes me look forward to coming to work.  That part right now I think is what I feel the best about.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT