TMS - STUTTGART
November 2, 2000
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Andre. 

Q. What do you think happened today? Just a case of lack of matches? 

ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, hard to say, I guess, why I lost my serve in the early part of
each set. I mean, there was really not that much rhythm to the match. He served incredible
today. Up a break in each set early, I just never had the opportunity to get into it. You
know, I wasn't reacting to the ball well, you know. That's probably lack of matches. He
has some offensive power. I felt a little bit on my heels. I second-guessed myself a
little bit. But ultimately, you know, you can't get in the match if you lose your serve
and don't ever come close on his serve. That's what happened. I lost my serve early. I
never even had a chance on his serve. I didn't even give myself -- if I had just stayed in
the set long enough, maybe he would have missed a few first serves, I could have gotten a
little more comfortable in a few more rallies. But there was not a whole lot of rhythm to
it. 

Q. Having played so little lately, hardly at all, what do you expect from this year?

ANDRE AGASSI: Hard to say. I know I can improve quickly. For sure, I know I've got a
lot more game than that. You know, you can start playing a lot better. Obviously, at this
point I have to kind of be, you know, somewhat humble about my tennis game and accept
where I am. It's frustrating. I mean, I hope I can improve consistently in the next couple
weeks. That's what I'm looking to do. I know it's going to take a while before I'm
certainly feeling great. But I expect more than that. 

Q. Are you still planning to play in the Masters cup?

ANDRE AGASSI: I just take one week at a time. I think the more matches I play, the
better.

Q. What are your plans for the next days? 

ANDRE AGASSI: I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I'm sure we'll head out somewhere
surely. Doesn't do much good to practice in altitude, does it? 

Q. Won't you say that he's also one of the most underrated players on the tour?

ANDRE AGASSI: Not by me. I mean, you know, I think he's an incredibly talented player
who has a real big up side when he plays well. He doesn't seem to be the kind of player
that's going out there week-in and week-out and produce great results, but you certainly
have the feeling every time you play him that he's capable of it. That just comes with
more discipline in his game. He certainly plays well here. Third year in a row I've played
him here. He likes it here, plays well here. Had to have played well last night, and for
sure played well today. 

Q. In the context of coming back after two months out, are you nevertheless reasonably
content with getting two matches and moving on?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, you know, it was necessary. It's necessary to go through this part
of it. But "content" is probably too strong of a word. You know, you hope that
if you lose, you get into the thick of the match, you know, get nervous at the end of it
or let an opportunity slide and understand where you are. But today there wasn't much
rhythm to it, so I guess it's part of it. But it feels like I had like a match and a half,
more than two. 

Q. Is it more difficult to come back on such a surface with such a fast game than on
hard court?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think, you know, my best results I guess have come consistently
on the hard courts. But, you know, I think it's a little hard on your body to come back on
indoor with the sticky surface. It's hard to come back, period. Guys are playing well.
They hit the ball big, and it takes you a while before you're on to the ball. I think
today was a perfect example of that. I lost my serve the first time in each set. If you're
not comfortable with your game and you're immediately down a break, you just feel out of
sorts. I never had Love-15, 15-30 to get my teeth into the match. That was more -- Pavel
was more of a problem today than indoors. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT