PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2006
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Very quick turnaround there.  You had set points.  What happened do you think?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, I didn't convert that game.  You know, I think he picked up certainly a level.  You know, I think I dropped a half a level.  It's a big swing.  Just couldn't get my teeth back into the match.   
  Q.  Still just sort of looking for it while you're out there?  It comes for a few games, it comes, it drops.   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it's pretty patchy right now.  It's harder than it looks to put together a good match.   
  Q.  Talk again about the first set because you did have good match patches.  If you win that first set, it's a different game?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Possibly, though, but never underestimate my ability to drop my standard.  I mean, I've gotten pretty good at it lately.   
 But first set was key.  You know, I started second-guessing my shots.  I never found the pace I was looking for.  I played too big some points and some points I would try to control a little bit more.  Then I'd give him too good of a look.  I never found just that rhythm again.   
  Q.  You seem pretty frustrated, and you've only had seven matches since The Open.  Is it because you've been playing so well in practice and it's not coming into the matches?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, I guess that's frustrating.  I mean, yeah, I suppose.  You know, I've been through it before.  But each time it gets tougher, yeah.   
  Q.  On the charitable frontier, are you going to try in 2006 the Grand Slam for children?  What's the plan for that?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, well, every year we sort of surprise ourselves.  Hope to do that again.   
  Q.  What are you taking to Miami now?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I'm not sure exactly.  It's a little quick for me to assess everything in that context.  You know, I don't know.  Maybe I can just play well a little bit longer next time.  I mean, somehow get through the first set, try to get across the finish line.   
 Yeah, I feel a long ways from it right now.   
  Q.  You seem very perturbed by this.   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it's frustrating.  You know, it's been a long time since I've felt good on the court.  It's just getting tiring, that's all.   
  Q.  You've been through this a good amount where you've had injuries, you've come back.  Does this feel substantially different than any other time you've done it?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Each one feels different.  Each one has a whole new set of reasons and answers.  I mean, it's a delicate juggling act to try to balance everything in your life on and off the court, negotiate your health, everything that goes into being your best at every stage.  It's different.  It absolutely feels substantially different.   
  Q.  Do you feel that fire in your belly?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it's never easy losing.  It never feels good when you're losing often.  You know, to have a few good wins and have a good tournament would help me, remind me right now, why I'm doing this.  But, you know, as of right now, it's hard to feel that thrilled about it.   
  Q.  Is part of that the choice of schedule?  You've never gone into a year where you said I'm bagging clay courts, and now you're pretty much looking at one more tournament, then potentially Davis Cup.  That's putting a lot of pressure on performing well right now.   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  There's been a lot of factors.  When I really look at where I am, tearing the ligaments in my ankle was a bigger setback than I even anticipated it could be.  Making the decision to try to play in Shanghai was also a bad decision.  Left me unready to start the year, training my legs, moving, going down to Australia, a place where I'm comfortable when I'm playing well.  All of a sudden now I'm not only behind on the physical front because I haven't worked my fitness like I wanted to, but I'm also behind on the tennis court because I haven't been playing.   
 It's not quite the same starting off in Delray Beach than it is in Melbourne.  I never felt myself get kick-started there.  Now I'm just sort of suffering the consequences of a few of those factors coming together.  Missing the clay this year, like I still contend, is the best alternative.  Doesn't change the reality of where my play's at right now.  But it is more pressure, for sure.   
  Q.  Do you think Tommy Haas is a dangerous player for Federer in the future?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  I mean, I think Tommy has a lot more that he should achieve.  I don't think he's come close to what his game's capable of.  He does a lot of things well out there.  If he puts it together at the right time, some pretty special things could happen for him.   
  Q.  The shirt, was it comfortable or not?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, that probably won't happen again.   
  Q.  Does this make you more anxious to get to Miami and try to get back into the game?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it would be better to ask me that tomorrow.  You know, I mean, I think right now it's easy to give you a reaction and not a response.   
  Q.  So many dropshots in this recent phase of your career, could you talk about that?  They seem pretty successful as a whole.   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, well, my dropshot's effective when I establish a punishing backhand.  When I go to hit a backhand, guys have a tendency to back up because I can hit it pretty flat and hard and low and deep, or hit it short and wide.  They have to be ready for defense.  A lot of time that shot's open for me.  But I first have to establish it, or else it's pretty much a bail-out shot.   
 Today I had a little bit of both.  You're fortunate.  Like in basketball, you got to work the ball until you get your open shot, and then not think about it, let it go.  Sometimes you force a shot, other times you hesitate when the shot's open.  I'm a bit all over the map right now.   
  Q.  For the amount of matches you played, do you think you're too harsh on yourself right now?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I wouldn't be the good judge of that.  I mean, I've had a few tournaments to see improvement.  I definitely expect more.   
  Q.  Is it more disappointment or frustration?   
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Sure is a healthy balance.  I don't know.  Kind of hard to make that distinction.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT