TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 10, 2000
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andre, you seem to be playing pretty well the guy who was in the semifinal in Monte
Carlo, that means that you are already finding your rhythm on clay. Are you surprised
about that or is normal? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think it's -- I think it's quickly to play this well, you know, I
played well today in the second match. To play like this was certainly more than I was
expecting, and I think playing a guy like Gaudio, who moves well and hits with a lot of
spin, you know, I felt like I needed to be aggressive, really pick my shots, work hard
physically. But, you know, I've been playing well. I've been hitting the ball pretty clean
now for a while, and it's nice that you can come around in a match. 
 
Q. What about the next match now against Hrbaty?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's certainly going to be difficult. I think Dominik has been playing
now real well for a few weeks. He's found the form that he had last year in Paris again on
the clay, and I think the most difficult surface to play against him on is clay. It will
be a very physical match, you know, like every -- the two times we've played there was a
lot of hard shots, and we both try to control the points and, you know, it should be
another great step. 
 
Q. Gaudio seemed to have his best shot in his backhand. Why did you play so much to his
backhand?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, I felt like as long as I was in control of the point, it
didn't matter which side. I thought he moved very well to his forehand, so if I'd go to
the forehand, I felt like he could exploit a little bit the court and the angles with his
quickness. Early in the match I hit one good shot to his forehand and I was really
surprised, he got there in plenty of time and he went sharp cross-court. I felt like as
long as I could hit the ball offensively, it was just a matter of time before I got the
one ball I wanted. Sometimes it takes two matches against the same player to know exactly
how to play him. But for the first time, I felt very comfortable there. 
 
Q. Andre, there is such good young talent around at the moment. How kind of pleasing is
it to still be up ahead, leading the Champions Race at this stage of the year?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: You know, it's always a challenge every time you're on the court. Really,
it doesn't occur to me where I'm positioned in the race. I feel there's a constant need to
always get better especially with younger players starting to play so well. Every time I
win, I feel, you know, like it was an accomplishment. It always is. I mean, it would just
take being a little bit off today and I think it would have been an incredibly difficult
match. But in the big picture, I feel good that I step on the court knowing that if I play
my game, I can win. That's important to me at this stage. 
 
Q. There are many players which are very good players but are not very much loved from
the public. You are strong and you are loved, and do you know why, in your opinion?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Not really. (Laughter.) I mean, for me, I make it very important that you
understand how much I appreciate the public. It's very important for our sport. And so
what I can say is that I, you know, I love to play in front of people, too. So it's
enjoyable for me. I mean, I'm sure you could go ask somebody else; don't ask me. 
 
Q. A player of your same age just decided to quit tennis and is Jim Courier, a friend
of yours I think. Your first reaction? What keeps you moving on, and I mean he says that
sometimes he really couldn't care less if he was losing or fighting and winning or
whatever. What is the motivation for you to keep going? Just the fun of it or something
else?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: For me, it's truly a question of understanding if I still have my best
tennis ahead of me. You know, I think there are areas that I feel like I can still get
better; I feel like I still have the opportunity to get better. And I think that that
helps with the desire. You know, plus my career has been different than Jim's, you know,
Jim has worked hard every single day, every single year of his whole career, you know. For
me, 1997, I played twelve times. It wasn't much. You can argue I didn't even play those
twelve. So I've tried to live a large part of my life during my career, and I think Jim
said it best when I heard his quote, what he talked about, now it's time for his life
because it's always been tennis first. And I can understand that. But for me, it hasn't
always been tennis first, so I think I'm a little fresher. 
 
Q. Just a follow-up question. When you say there is space to improve or to do better,
what terms? I mean technically or making records, winning tournaments or --
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, I mean my game. I mean specifically my game, to be stronger, to hit
the ball bigger, more consistently. I think I still have another level. 
 
Q. Tennis is a sport where people don't talk very much about doping. There was only one
case. What is your opinion? Should people talk about it, or there is no problem about it?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, I think the reason why there's not much talk is because
it's -- we're very actively tested. You know, I think it's a sport where certain enhancers
would help tremendously because it's a very physical sport. But it seems to me impossible
to abuse any drugs at all and to get away with it. There's no off-season, you don't know
when you're going to be tested. Last year I was tested, like, I think eleven, twelve
times. So there's no talk because I don't think there's really anything to talk about. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT