TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 8, 2000
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you know that the T-shirt you're wearing is the color of our national soccer
team?

ANDRE AGASSI: This one?

Q. Yeah.

ANDRE AGASSI: I didn't know that.

Q. Yeah. I felt it was complimentary. How can you explain the difference in the first
set and second set? You won the first set very easily, and what was different in the
second set?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think, first of all, it's been, you know, three months since Todd
has played a match, and I think his rhythm was a little bit off early in the first set and
I got to a quick lead. In the second set, he was holding serve strongly, and he played one
game to break me with four good returns. So I just had to get back into the set and was
pretty fortunate to finish it 7-6. But I thought he was getting better.

Q. Having missed Monte Carlo and having done so well last year at Roland Garros, are
you glad to get your feet back on European clay again, Andre?

ANDRE AGASSI: No question. I mean, I think that the best preparation is certainly to
get a number of matches. How many is the question that's tough to answer. Last year I
didn't have much at all excluding here, so I think for me it's best to be fresh, it's best
to be in shape, and then to go in to Paris working hard, and that's the best I can be
prepared.

Q. Are you satisfied with your tennis today?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yes. You know, the first one is always difficult, and I think against a
player like Todd, he plays very aggressively, and it's tough to get a lot of rhythm. So I
felt like I played solid, solid enough. But I think the test will start coming more and
more.

Q. One year ago, things were very different, both personally and in your professional
life. How do you feel getting back here in Rome, which was kind of your tournament where
you began your comeback, you can say?

ANDRE AGASSI: I felt like here last year was a very good week for me. I started to feel
confident and, you know, it was the start of the most incredible year of my life, and I
wish everybody could have a year like I've had. It's been amazing. So, you know, it feels
almost like my end of the year. January 1st is everybody else's New Year. For me, you
know, coming out here and feeling good in Rome was the start.

Q. Having said that, Andre, we remember you sitting in here with a bad torso, you
looking as if you were in pain, wondering how you would go on at Roland Garros. We were
wondering that, not you. But it went amazingly well after that, didn't it?

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, it was a difficult time. I didn't even know if I was going to play
in Paris, and, yeah. I mean, I was wondering how I was going to get along, too. That was
my first tournament in a while playing here, and it was responding well here. But the
conditions were very fast, and the balls weren't getting heavy. I was really worried about
that in Paris. Then I injured it even more in Dusseldorf because it was very heavy there,
so it was quite a miraculous turnaround. Things had to go perfectly, and they did.

Q. Aside from the physical deal from last year, mentally about this time there were
some questions that you couldn't get past Quarters and Semis. You were responding that
that was something you needed to deal with. Then you went on and did it. This year you're
kind of going into the French and other big events and you've achieved so much. A year
ago, it was more of a drive. Now you've reached a point. How do you feel now mentally
going into next month? Is there still that eagerness to do it again, or is it more
difficult?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think it gets more difficult every year, regardless of how well
or not well you're doing. The players get better. It's another year of the toll being
taken on you physically and mentally. So, I mean, I think it always kind of gets more
difficult. You come to expect that. But I have to say in some respects, you can always
count on a few things getting easier, and those vary. But in this case, you know, being
the defending champion in Paris is nothing short of an honor, and it's almost like
stepping out there will be another opportunity to kind of take in such a wonderful
accomplishment and experience. And so I think that will be certainly motivating in itself.

Q. What is your opinion on the crowd, the balls and conditions here?

ANDRE AGASSI: I think it's playing a little bit heavier than last year, the balls. The
court seems very much the same to me, but the balls seem like they're a little bit
heavier, not quite as fast.

Q. And the crowd?

ANDRE AGASSI: The ones that were there were outstanding. It's very nice, very
supportive.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT