TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2000
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Andre. 
 
Q. A lapse of the concentration at the start of the second set?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, I don't think it was concentration. It's tough conditions out there.
The wind was moving so much. While I won the first set, I don't think either of us felt
like it was necessarily a high quality of tennis. I kind of started the second with the
same mentality, just try to keep the ball in the court, squeak this out somehow in two
sets. I didn't execute a couple shots, and he got the break. I just had to get back to
work after that.  
 
Q. After the last couple of upset tournaments, do you feel as though you're getting
into the groove a little bit now?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think so. I think it can only get better with each match. It was a long
layoff for me after Zimbabwe. I didn't even get a chance to hit a ball for close to a
month. That's too difficult these days to expect to step out there. To a large degree, I
was expecting a few tournaments. You know, I hope can I stay alive here long enough that I
can really feel like I'm playing really well here. 
 
Q. Did that actual adventure take a lot more out of you than even you considered at the
time, going from Australia, Zimbabwe, all the emotions?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, yeah, it certainly is that way in hindsight. I think it was more
physical than it was really draining for me. I was hurt coming back. I couldn't play for a
while. That's a problem. I couldn't do everything I wanted to do to keep my advantage with
my game, with the way I was striking the ball. Kind of like I had to go back to square one
on the court and start feeling the ball again, because the last time I remembered hitting
the ball was a month earlier at 5500 feet altitude. It's taken me a few weeks. With the
windy conditions, it will take me longer too. 
 
Q. You don't have any regrets of going to Zimbabwe after Australia?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, no. Australian Open was what I was really preparing for, and Davis
Cup. While there was a cost to be paid, I feel like it was worth it.  
 
Q. What's it going to mean to you to go out on the court at the Forum as part of an
All-Star team with John on the bench in Los Angeles?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It will be great. The last time we were on the same team together was
'92. We played and won it in Fort Worth. It's going to be exciting. I'm looking forward to
playing with Pete. I think it's going to be great excitement for America and their
interest in the Davis Cup. I'm excited to see how they respond to it here. 
 
Q. What do you think will be a greater distraction, the drums they played in Harare or
the cell phones in the forum?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I didn't hear any drums in Zimbabwe. I was busy concentrating. Hopefully
I won't hear any cell phones either.  
 
Q. Are you glad that Pat is showing signs of getting over his injury now? Last night
his movement was fabulous. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: That's good. It's good to hear. I didn't see it last night. It is nice to
know he's feeling better. His standard of tennis raises everybody's. I think he's been
great for the game. He has a lot more tennis in him. For him to get healthy, I think it
would be great for him, great for the game. I hope he's playing well. 
 
Q. He's also saying that ten years has taken its toll on him. He feels his body is
saying it might be close to the time when he has to slow down, maybe even finish. Can you
understand why he might be feeling that way after a long haul, he's injured now, that's
hard for him to come to terms with?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It gets easier in the 14th year, tell him. 14th year it gets a lot
easier. It takes a toll on you, there's no question about it. While everybody has great
expectations and interest in how the new schedule will impact the game of tennis, there is
a very significant cost that's involved. A lot of the players have played a lot. There's
the same amount of tournaments in a much shorter period of time. When you add Davis Cup
and the Olympics, it's a brutal, brutal, brutal year. Pat is a very physical player. You
know, he doesn't ever go out there and take it lightly on his body. His body's always
paying the price. That speaks volumes for him as a competitor. If he just stays healthy, I
think he's plenty athlete enough to get through it. 
 
Q. Do you have to make any concessions to age at this point or are you still feeling
really fresh? Pete is talking about his back. Pat is talking about maybe giving up. I'm
wondering if you feel anything at all?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, thank God I don't feel anything physically. I'm healthy, I feel
pretty strong. But I think experience is teaching me what to really focus on and how to go
about peaking for what it is you want to accomplish. It's not easy to go week after week
of complete intensity. You know, like the NASDAQ, you're going to have a couple down days.
Overall, you can't be a doubter. 
 
Q. Speaking of the NASDAQ, the USTA was $10 million in debt this year, largely because
of huge losses supposedly on the stock market. How can you imagine losing $3 or $6 million
in the stock market?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: How can imagine that?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Do something stupid. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not a high-risk kind
of guy. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you've actually figured it out and you really sort of know exactly
when to peak and have it all figured out, or you're still in the process?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's a real moving target. It's never about figuring it out. It's about
keeping things in perspective, not being hard on yourself if by chance you aren't feeling
so great. I wouldn't say I have anything figured out. I will say, though, that I've gotten
better at knowing how to prioritize certain things, knowing what to be concerned about,
what not to be. It's a high wire act. It's a balancing act. You don't want to play too
much; you don't want to play too well, too early. By the same token, if you fall short of
kind of where you want to be, you can really go into some of the bigger tournaments
without the same confidence that you might be looking for. It's not an easy balancing act. 
 
Q. As time goes by, you change. The field is changing. Certain players go up-and-down.
It is a moving target.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's a moving target. You know, again, it's difficult to just commit to
playing hard for a few weeks, recovering, resting, preparing, playing hard for a few
weeks. It doesn't work that way. A lot of new guys coming up, a lot of young guys.
Everybody's pushing each other out there.  
 
Q. Are the ones to look forward to still the matches against people like Rafter on
center court here, big occasions. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, it is.  
 
Q. You get yourself up for those ones more than for today's match, or that is not the
case?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I can't say actually you get up for it more. I think the level of respect
for somebody's potential and capabilities maybe create those extra bit of nerves that
might tend to make you focus and play a little bit better a little bit earlier. But
there's a lot of great matches in the Round of 16. The Round of 16, you're talking about
in a lot of cases the top 16 players in the world, great match-ups. Not just me and
Rafter. Look in the draw, you'll see a lot of great match-ups. That's what's making it so
interesting these days. That's why it feels so good to win a tournament like this. You're
talking about the best players in the world. 
 
Q. Later this summer, Martina Navratilova is going to be inducted into the Tennis Hall
of Fame. Couple days ago, a European woman with an absolutely awesome forehand was
abducted into the Ericsson Hall of Fame. We're asking people who they think the best
player of all time on the women's side is. Who do you think between those two?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, I would hesitate to answer this if I wasn't asked long
before I even met Steffi. The bottom line is, maybe excluding going back to Margaret
Court, she's dominated on all surfaces. Her Slams speak for themselves. It's not easy to
dominate. While Martina can win on all surfaces, I feel there was a definite dominance by
Steff in each tournament, which is a phenomenal accomplishment. Again, with that quote, I
hope you make mention that I've said it for five years.  
 
Q. Do you think Steffi's record of at least four wins at the four Slams is one of the
most incredible records in tennis?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: A helluva lot better than mine. It's incredible. It's incredible.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT