EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1999
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Would you say the level of your game is as high as it was last summer?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Last summer? 


Q. Do you consider now it's as high as last summer?

ANDRE AGASSI:  This past summer? 


Q. Yes. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, yeah, definitely, definitely.  I mean, I played really well this summer, but the indoors, there's no variables, so it allows you to really execute your shots.  So I think the tennis is a lot cleaner and better. 


Q. And you obviously needed some rest after the US Open, then played Munich and Basel.  What did you do between Basel and Stuttgart?  Did you practice a lot, very hard, or did you rest a little more?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Just a few days really rest and then started to work hard the latter part of the first week for, you know, nine or ten days before I came here. 


Q. Is there anything in particular that's inspiring you to play tennis at this level at the moment?  Anything you can put your finger on that actually lifts you to this level?

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, outside of the fact that I'm just enjoying the game and, you know, I mean, this year has been inspiring to me in many ways.  To accomplish what I did this year has meant the world to me, and it's hard not to allow that momentum and that inspiration to manifest itself every time you're on the court.


Q. It looked like pure pleasure today. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it's work, you know.  It's always work.  You know, you do enjoy it at moments out there, but most of the time you're working and focused and trying hard to stay in tune to what it is you're trying to accomplish, how you need to go about it.  Everybody presents different obstacles.  Today was definitely a good day.  I know how things turn out there. 


Q. Whoever you play in the next round, it will be an increase in class of opponent.  Anything to say about playing Rios or Enqvist?

ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, both are incredibly good players; different styles of game.  Enqvist is a lot more straightforward.  He's really solid off both sides, can hit the ball big off both sides.  He can serve big.  But he kind of tends to go through you.  Rios is quicker, is a little bit dicier of a player, has a variety of shots.  You know, he has the ability to play all parts of the game.  They both would require me to not be off an inch, centimeter. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT