EUROCARD OPEN
October 28, 1999
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Do you feel this is the best you're playing since The Open?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  I mean, two matches to base it on here.  It feels very good.  Indoors, it's always kind of the true test of who's hitting the cleanest ball because there's no variables, good balance, you can take a good cut at it.  It does feel like I'm hitting it pretty clean. 


Q. You're focused more because this tournament is a little bit above the others you've played so far and everybody is playing here basically?

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I mean, I was focused before.  Just it's not easy to switch from outdoors to indoors, come in and be a hundred percent.  It's not easy to do.  The more time you have to prepare for the indoors, the better it is.  After The Open, I was pretty tired, took some rest, you know, have been working hard since, trying to get myself feeling good again.


Q. Since your win here last night, we heard that Pete is going to play in Paris. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Good.


Q. And wants to play in Hannover, assuming he qualifies for that.  Are you looking forward to seeing him back on an even more extended basis next year?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, yeah, of course.  It's never right for anybody to not be playing because they're injured, I mean, especially somebody as great as Pete.  The guy deserves a shot at it.  I think it's important for him to play this fall, that he's ready for Australia.  I would like to see him healthy and going good. 


Q. But do you think it could be good for you, as well, the fact that he's around, stimulates your game as well on a consistent basis?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  In theory, it's good.  Seems like 14 out of 24 times, he interferes with my plans (laughter). 


Q. Have you had much dialogue with Johnny Mack about Davis Cup at all?

ANDRE AGASSI:  I talked to him briefly after the draw came out.  Not a whole lot of assessment going into it at the moment.  I think certain things need to unfold, to pick the rest of the team.  We've got to wait to see how Pete is doing, go with the best doubles guys.


Q. But as far as your concerns, all systems go?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  When they hired George Fareed back, it changed a lot of things.


Q. Have you had your injections?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Did I have injections?  What are you talking about? 


Q. John McEnroe, when he was told about the draw, he said, "How many inoculations do you need for Zimbabwe ?" 

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have no idea.  Whatever it takes. 


Q. What do you think about Andrei Pavel?

ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, really talented player.  Played him a couple times last year.  He can snap the ball off both wings, he moves well, has good hands at the net.  He's a guy who makes you play well.  I played well against him last time, felt like I needed to. 


Q. Are you a bit surprised that Schalken hasn't had a more consistent result over the years?  Every so often he comes up with terrific wins, plays some great tennis at times, but doesn't seem to be able to quite sustain it. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  You know, I haven't followed him that closely as far as what his losses have been.  But, I mean, he's certainly a difficult player to play against; certainly an easy player to underestimate because he doesn't look like he gets a lot of stick on the ball.  But the bottom line is, he's a big guy who's taking long swings at the ball, and the ball has a lot of length, it's actually pretty heavy.  He doesn't miss a whole lot.  I suspect his serve can go off occasionally, but he moves pretty well for somebody 6'5".  I consider him a really good player. 


Q. Are you about to learn some German?

ANDRE AGASSI:  About to learn some German?  You know, it's not coming easily. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT