ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GRAEME AGARS: Andre, it's been a sensational year for you. You've stormed back up the
rankings, had some great results and sort of tripped at the last hurdle coming into World
Championships. Can you tell us the problem you've had with your back.

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, it just kind of happened today out in practice. I went to hit a
shot, and managed to kind of get a little stuck on the court, and fell down. And when I
stopped, it jolted my back in a way where it went into spasms, and it's creating all sorts
of havoc from there. We're just trying to get the muscles to relax a little bit so we can
work on it. I still remain hopeful, but if I don't take care of it right away now, it's
going to get worse, so I need to treat it.

ANDRE AGASSI: No. I just fell down out of nowhere today (laughter). If anything, I can
learn it's not to fall down anymore.

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, no question about it. This is obviously a big opportunity for many
players, for many reasons. I know for Pete and Rios to be No. 1. For me it's just a good
opportunity to end the year with a lot of confidence, beating some top players, position
myself even higher in the rankings. That's certainly something I was looking forward to.

Q. Speaking of Marcelo Rios, I see he's in your part of the draw, with Alex Corretja
and Tim Henman. Your thoughts on that group?

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, the top eight in the world are pretty tough. Anytime I'm
away from Pete, I don't mind it, so it should be a good go. Every match will have many
interests, and the matchups are always interesting with each player. So, you know, none of
it's easy.

ANDRE AGASSI: You know, a few percent. You know, maybe. But again, it requires me to
rest a little bit here and just get it to settle down. Once it settles down, one it
starts, it should settle down pretty quickly. I don't want to jeopardize or hurt myself
more by playing if I'm not a hundred percent sure. By the same token, you know, there's
hopes that I'll be all right.

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I'm pretty fortunate for that. I'll certainly do everything I can
to play here. Again, everybody seems to be pretty positive that it can turn around rather
quickly. So hopefully it will leave as quickly as it came.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT