US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What do you feel like after going four sets in the US Open, your first Slam of the
year? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: (Feeling himself) same thing I felt like before the match. 
 
Q. Which is?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Want to come feel? 
 
Q. How does it feel to be back at a Grand Slam after not playing the first three this
year?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It feels great. It feels great. It's nice. The US Open always has a great
feel to it. It's nice not to miss this one. 
 
Q. Andre, the match tonight was two quick sets, then some trouble. How did you see it?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, you can't really expect to just run over anybody. You know,
I mean, bottom line was I was working him to death because he was playing to win. And then
after the two sets, I think he kind of realized he wasn't going to and just stepped it up
and started actually making shots. He got himself in a position to where the third got
close, got a little tight, I made a couple errors at the wrong time. Next thing you know,
he's up that break, looking to win the third. I'm not quite sure if he ever believed he
could continue it. But it was certainly he obviously wanted to stay out there longer. So
that was nice to get the court time. 
 
Q. Where do you feel your game is right now?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Real good. Real good. I'm very pleased with it. You know, I'm back to my
seven- to ten-ball rallies, moving guys around, I'm moving well, serving like shit. 
 
Q. Could you clear up why you missed the ceremony last night? There's been a lot of
speculation.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. Just in between, I first went to the dinner for a few hours.
Between there and making it over to the stadium, a situation arised that I needed to make
a call. Quite honestly, it was a very disappointing for me not to be there. But sometimes
priorities call, and I was -- I missed out. I was more disappointed than anybody else. 
 
Q. Could you be more specific on that?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No. 
 
Q. Do you think the crowd took it out on you at all tonight, because you weren't around
last night?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I don't -- you know, I don't know. I can certainly understand if there
was any part of that, I can certainly understand why. I mean, I wasn't there. So, it would
be hard not to blame them. I was just trying to play, though. 
 
Q. You had a lot of success with the backhand up the line. Then in the third set, you
didn't hit it that often. Any reason why?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: You actually sound more informed than most of these media people. You
play yourself? 
 
Q. No, Andre.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, it's good insight. I felt like he stepped up the pace of his
shots. You know, I mean, he started going for more because he realized he was just getting
control from the baseline. He realized if I don't take my chances, nothing is going to
happen. He started taking his chances. I think when he did that, my backhand up the line
isn't a pace shot; it's a position shot. You know, I work guys off the court, I take it
early and hurt them. He was hitting bigger, the rallies went from seven balls down to four
balls; I wasn't quite in position to pull the trigger. I mean, I wanted to pull it, but it
wasn't there for me. The last thing I'm going to do is start spraying errors and make him
think he's getting me off my game. 
 
Q. Is it a sign that your game is on when you're kind of leaning into balls more as
you're having baseline rallies?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. 
 
Q. Is that always the case?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: For all those who can't make the distinction between when I'm playing and
when I'm not, I'm playing. 
 
Q. Did you feel the crowd in the stadium as much as you could in the old stadium?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. I mean, the acoustics are well for that size. I mean, there's
certainly the crowd noise, it's one thing that you wonder, "Are you going to feel the
electricity?" That, there's no question. You can, it radiates in there pretty good. I
guess I'm not so surprised actually at that, as much as I'm surprised that as many people
are actually into the match. I was kind of worried about eight thousand people having bad
seats. Those are the eight thousand that are the truest tennis fans that would ask
questions like this gentleman did over here. The fact that they're so far away, I worried
about them not being into the match, as a result, losing the energy in there. Maybe it was
my pink shirt.  
 
Q. Of all your matches during your comeback, how would you rate how you played tonight,
how you felt tonight, versus what you've experienced the last couple of months?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Excellent. The fundamentals of everything that I need to improve on are
there now. Now it's about just striking the ball a little bigger when it comes into the
point. It becomes fine tuning certain things that happen automatically. That's the
struggle, to get your game to a place where every part of your game is there. I mean, I'm
stretching out for wide returns, and I'm fighting off the next ball cross-court. I'm
getting back into the point, turning the point around and hitting the backhand up the line
which you liked so much. That's a good sign. It means everything's in place, and now it's
a question of just picking it up as you go. It's nice to be there. It's been a long time. 
 
Q. Andre, is it almost like a blessing in disguise that he challenged you in the third
set, maybe made you adjust, mentally and physically, as opposed to going 1, 1, 1, perhaps?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. I mean, certainly fitness isn't a question of it, especially this
early in the tournament. It wasn't like you worry about playing extra sets. I won't play
again even till Friday, so it's actually nice to be out there feeling the intensity of
certain moments in a match. I was down breakpoint there in the fourth. That's a nice
feeling to get through, and then it will help. It all helped, absolutely. 
 
Q. Did you feel at any point in the third set like you were losing it mentally, trying
to fight back to get into the match?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: If I looked that way at all, I was misrepresenting my feelings certainly. 
 
Q. Did you think back at all to the last time you played here as an unseeded player?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I've not about that probably every day since then. 
 
Q. Reportedly at the dinner, Harry forgot to introduce you. Were you upset by that?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, Harry -- mistakes happen. You don't take that personally. If he did
mean it personally, he wouldn't certainly have had the nerve to do it. 
 
Q. Andre, did you get a chance to practice as much in the stadium? I saw you out a lot
in the old grandstand.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, it's hard to get the court time in there when you're not seeded.
That's all right. Hope physically I'll be there the rest of the two weeks. 
 
Q. Can a tennis site have importance? In other words, you've done well here. Can that
add a comfort level and help you come back, as well?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I got to say when I got out there, I remembered the dance definitely. 
 
Q. Did it come to your mind, I started well, now I'm starting to lose it again?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No. I was up two sets to love, he looked much worse than me, had a longer
way to go. Still a lot of tennis to be played. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT