COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 4, 1996
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andre, obviously the crowd were hoping to see rather more of your better tennis. No
doubt you were hoping to produce it. In the circumstances, the run you've been having
lately, struggling to perform, do you think you were right in coming here or would it have
been better to take the break earlier?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I like to see my commitments through. I mean, it's one thing to adjust a
schedule in preparation. It's another thing to change the schedule because you're not
feeling right. You know, I wouldn't feel right about doing that. Plus, I really like this
tournament. I think it's a great tournament. You never know when it turns around. You
never know when you get through a match and start hitting the ball a little bit better. I
believe it was a good decision to come here. 
 
Q. Andre, yesterday Jim Courier said it is very tough for the Americans to come to
Europe maybe five, six times a year. That's one of the reasons why he didn't come at the
end of last year for the Grand Slam Cup, because he was tired, or you don't like that much
to play Davis Cup, again because you're tired and you have to play most of the times in
Europe. Do you agree with him on all these things and what impact, what consequences has
this on your schedule normally?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think that it's definitely more of a European Tour. There's more
tournaments that are accessible. It's a little tougher being in the states. It's part of
what we have to do now. I think it is difficult. It is tiring. It makes it much more
difficult to play Davis Cup. Quite honestly, I was disappointed to see the Masters leave
New York. I mean, Hannover is, what, the eighth biggest city in Germany or something. It
doesn't make sense. If you can't fly there direct, why are we playing in that city? I
think we should play in Paris or play in New York, a big city. I was disappointed to see
the Masters leave New York. I think it is tiring to have to go back and forth a lot, but
now we know how the Australians feel. 
 
Q. Andre, for that reason, your tennis seems to have lost its passion in the last three
months. Is that why you're choosing to take the two months off that you're planning?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. In my mind I'm planning on six weeks to just get myself into form,
get ready for the new year. I think all the Grand Slams are over with this year. It's
tough at the end of the year to get, you know, motivated for more smaller tournaments. I
think this tournament is one that's worth getting up for, but I just didn't play enough to
be anywhere near to be able to do that. Being in Hannover, not being able to play there,
getting sick, I was pretty bummed about that. The next week and a half, it just hasn't
been well since. I certainly am taking the time off in the hopes and desire and plan of
getting strong, getting fit, getting my game back to where it can be. You know, I seem to
thrive in kind of digging myself in a bit of a hole, getting excited to come out of it
again. It's nothing that concerns me, but something that I certainly need to address. 
 
Q. Andre, when you made that decision, how long had you been thinking about taking this
break? Where exactly can we expect to see you make the comeback?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's possible in Davis Cup. I might start the year playing Davis Cup. I
haven't -- I'm not for sure on that yet. San Jose, Scottsdale, Palm Springs, Key Biscayne.
You know, none of it's worth it if you just keep running yourself into the ground, if you
keep having to play events and keep chasing your tail. It's much more enjoyable for me and
everybody that watches me play, maybe not to see me ranked as high, but maybe step on the
court and be ready to play. 
 
Q. Was it a spur of the moment decision, being ill at Hannover, something you've been
thinking about since the US Open?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I'd been thinking about it somewhere between the Open and Hannover, just
trying to deal with the other responsibilities that I have in my life, between the
Foundation events, all the work I'm doing off the court, that's important to me as well.
It's not quite as important to get ready for the smaller tournaments outside the Grand
Slams as it used to be. By the same token, you know, you've got to use these events to
keep yourself in form, but not wear yourself out. I just feel like it's been a struggle
most of the year. I thank God that I won the gold medal. That is something I'll never
forget about this year. But, outside that, it's been a struggle. To me, I just want to,
you know, put it behind me and get ready to move on. 
 
Q. Andre, for any other player to win in the same year Key Biscayne, the gold medal and
Cincinnati would be a great success. For you, apparently, it is not. I mean, where do you
see your best moments really of the year and your worst moments?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think the best moment was certainly the gold medal - there's no
question in my mind. I think the worst moment has been a combination. Probably I'd have to
say Wimbledon. If you had to point to one event. It's been a combination of never --
always being on the verge of getting your game back, after the injury the last year, then
struggling to find your game. You find it in Key Biscayne; move to clay; struggle on the
clay. Then you struggle on the grass. Then you get it together for the hardcourts. Then
it's over. Now, it's to the indoors, and I just didn't have quite the same intensity
addressing this fall as a couple years ago. But, you know, I'm going to put it behind me.
I have no doubts in my mind. 
 
Q. Is what we're really talking about here, in sort of short language, a motivation
crisis? Is that what it is, all things considered?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's tough to say because, to me, motivation comes from the pinnacle of
our sport, which are the Grand Slam tournaments. I didn't have a problem trying to get
ready for those. I mean, certainly the Olympics is also a strong motivation. But, there is
definitely a lack of motivation on the goal of trying to win a couple tournaments this
fall because, to me, if I don't play my best tennis, it's not worth it. It's just not. I
want to get -- to give myself the platform to succeed to a level I haven't done before.
That means time to train; get ready. I haven't quite given myself that since the Open, or,
at least, I haven't taken advantage of it. Now I plan on doing that. 
 
Q. Andre, in matches like today, you were saying earlier you never know when it's going
to turn around and it could come good for you. When, in a game like this, you see it's
presumably not going to, do you know straightaway it's not going to? You must be
additionally frustrated within you when you see that happening?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Today I was just thinking about trying to make contact, honestly. Broke
back in the second. It's possible to maybe win the second, find yourself in a position
where your confidence comes around. More than anything, it's a fast surface, and I was
worried about just making good, clean contact, which would have been quite an
accomplishment for me today. 
 
Q. Andre, when you get back to work, I assume it will be after Christmas. Will it be
with the normal team of Brad and Gil, bringing anybody else new in to push you on?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, no. Brad with my tennis and Gil with my training. That will be
plenty. I don't need any miracle cures. I just need to get back to good old fundamentals. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT