U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pretty easy night for you? Pretty good start?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I could think of worse things that could have happened tonight. Felt
pretty good. Got off to a good start. I stayed on top of him and managed to break away in
the end. All around, I'm very pleased. 
 
Q. That was an easy game?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No. It's never easy. I mean, a few points here and there changes a lot.
He's a streaky kind of crafty player. You're never quite sure exactly if you have the
momentum or not. You just try to stay on top of him and put him away. I did that. 
 
Q. You said before that over two weeks of a Slam that conserving energy in the first
week is important to pace yourself throughout the fortnight. Did you do that and how do
you feel overall as far as energy?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: In reference to pacing yourself, most of the time it's more mentally than
it is physically. If you're squeaking by some tough four or five setters early, you're
just dodging bullets and it's a question of what you're going to get hit. It's tough to
shake off some long matches and turn around and pick up your game and have easier ones.
It's a lot more practical to have your easy matches and then peak at the right time and
tough out the right guys. I feel like tonight I went out there and took care of business
from start to finish. Based on that, I couldn't be more pleased about the position that it
puts me in going into the second match. 
 
Q. Andre, because you won this tournament as an unseeded player, is it hard for you to
get up in this whole furor about the little adjustments in the rankings and seedings that
so many players are upset about?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah. I mean, I just try not to get caught up in it at all really. You
have to beat seven guys, you know. I wouldn't -- I don't worry about really where I'm
seeded. I got the better end of the deal, so to say much more than that might lead one to
believe that I just like the fact that it worked out for me. From 9 to 6, ranking versus
seeding. By the same token, I was a little disappointed with the ATP choosing this as
their platform and choosing this as their fight to fight. I mean, Grand Slams have been
doing this for years. The ATP has used the US Open for a platform to announce many things,
including start of their Tour. Then for them -- for the USTA to make an admitted mistake
and for them to prey upon it, try to somehow take advantage of the situation here in their
backyard is disappointing. I can't be a part of that. 
 
Q. Do you think there's anything wrong with sort of the big picture of this, to sort of
see you and Sampras, the kind of things that Wimbledon does, stuff the public might want
to see? Is there anything really wrong with that kind of thinking?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: You know, you could always argue that it's something that they're doing
for the sake of the public, for the sake of the tournament, what have you. Hopefully, I'll
try to give the benefit of the doubt, the seedings are based on where they think I should
be seeded, you know. I think the ATP Tour ranking is your best 14, so if you pile up one
half of the year with great results, might not be reflective of how you're playing this
year. Really there's arguments on both sides, and the Grand Slams have been around a lot
longer than the ATP. I tend to just go out there and play my tennis. 
 
Q. Do you have some sympathy for Kafelnikov in a situation he felt he was in?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, in one sense I feel bad for Yevgeny. I think he's -- I personally
feel like he's a better player than 7 in the world, no question, and should be seeded
higher than maybe 7, where I think he was going to be seeded. Hopefully his pull out is
because he's injured. I was certainly would not want to think would hurt himself like this
to make some kind of point. I know he's young and all, but I think he's a talented enough
player to come in here and possibly do real well. I don't understand really, when you talk
about only having a few years in this game, to miss out on an opportunity to play in the
Open. It's not something that I would really choose for myself. 
 
Q. Do you feel it's unfair for players to bring out your name in the issue rather than
discuss what was done by the USTA, the seedings and the draw? Seems like your name has
come up with a lot of players.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's tough. It happened a lot with me and Muster, for example. If I
highlight Muster as an example, it's easy for one to perceive as if my issue was Muster,
when it might not be. The same way if my name comes up in the issue, it might lend one to
believe that the issue is about me, when it probably has nothing to do with that. You
know, if the issue is about the ranking system and the relevancy of the ATP's ranking
system in the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP is just simply asking for respect. They're
asking for something that they're not giving because they're using their backyard to prey
upon a mistake that at least the USTA had really the ability to reconsider and admit. 
 
Q. Over 50 players attended that press conference yesterday. Do you feel out of step
then with the majority of the players?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: At some stage -- six years ago when I went to bat for the ATP, I've been
down that road. They used me to stand up and support and make the Tour happen. My weight
was more than just one player. Then somehow when it comes to any changes that I disagree
with, my weight is only one vote. I've gone to bat for the ATP, and it's kicked me in the
ass in more than a few ways. I'm just thinking about my tennis, to be quite honest. 
 
Q. Do some players get preferential treatment depending on where the country is from
and where the tournament is? Michael Stich pretty much said that earlier today, as far as
seedings and rankings go.
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Again, I would hope that the seedings are based on where they think they
should be. I mean, it's hard for me to speak from any really significant platform because,
you know, like I've heard mentioned, maybe my situation has been the specific example
used. I don't want to come across as if I'm somehow defending what they chose to do with
me specifically. I mean, do I feel like I can come into this tournament and win it? Yeah,
I do. I also feel like my summer has shown that I am somewhat of a factor. But the issue
isn't about really me and what they chose to do with me, it's about the bigger picture
here. Quite honestly, I would hope that countries give more support to the players that
are from that country in the sense of wildcards. You know, you see England do it, you see
Paris do it, you see Australia do it, you see the USTA do it. I don't think that anyone
should go beyond favoritism to the point where it's unfair. If they do that or not, it's
tough for me to think that they do. I feel like the Grand Slams have seeded the way
they've wanted to for a long time. I just am still dumbfounded at why all of a sudden the
ATP is choosing this fight. 
 
Q. Andre, to change the topic a little bit. Stefan Edberg is third on tomorrow morning.
This is his last Grand Slam. This time last year we were talking about Cal Ripken's streak
about to be broken, compared to that context. Just as he prepares to say good-bye, not
necessarily tomorrow, but at this Open, can you reflect on both his longevity and as an
individual what he's brought to the game?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think Stefan Edberg is a professional that every young person, every
athlete strive to emulate. I think he reflects discipline, commitment, ability, talent. He
gives back to the game. He only adds to the game. Really his image and his person is
impeccable. 
 
Q. Andre, the Olympics, what was it like for you to compete, win in Atlanta? Has it
recharged your season?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It certainly turned around a very difficult year for me, to win a gold
medal. It's one of the few accomplishments that you walk home and say, "Nothing
changes the fact that I have a gold medal." There's only one way to go do it: go get
one. To me, the gold is not just made the year, it's elevated my career. It's been
certainly on a smaller scale a good platform for me to turn some things around. In the
next week, I played pretty well and certainly was continuing to play well. I think tonight
shows that I'm still playing well. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT