GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. He was really hitting ball in the first set?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I thought he played extremely well. 
 
Q. You turned it around in the second?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think that, you know, it is always tough to put somebody away to
play that well for the whole match and I played a really good game to break him and then
this time when I got the break I stayed very intense about it. I didn't take it for
granted; maybe got a little bit careless end of the first. 
 
Q. How much did the whole day with the rain delay and that kind of thing affect you
today?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think it affects everybody. It is not easy to gauge your eating or your
resting. I mean, your mind is always on the match. You feel like you may play any minute.
But it turns out you are thinking that for hours. 
 
Q. Did it affect you once you got out there?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think no more than anybody else. I think once you get out there it is
nice to get your blood moving and start doing what you have waited so long to do all day. 
 
Q. You were angry at the end of the first set. Did that help you afterwards to cool
down and then get --
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think so. I think I got a little careless at the end of the first and I
needed to, you know, establish myself again out there and I got a little angry and then I
managed to use that in a good way, which is good. 
 
Q. Can you remember the last time that you broke a racket like that?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Last week. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER) 
 
Q. Is that good for you that you are sort of getting that emotional?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think in my getting angry out there is not really in and of itself --
it doesn't really have a bearing. It could be a good thing. It could be a bad thing, but
today was a good thing. I mean, I felt I wanted to win the match. I was trying to get
angry to get myself back into it again. 
 
Q. I just mean, in general, does that tell you something about your state of mind as
far as --
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, because I have had -- my state of mind has been both extremes. I have
had those kind of reactions, see what I am saying? 
 
Q. No. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I have gotten pissed off and I didn't give a shit too. Like, just
me getting pissed off doesn't mean it is good. It doesn't mean it is bad either because I
have also gotten mad when I have been really playing well and fighting hard. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Not just based on getting mad, but today was a good one. It was a good
mad. I got mad in a good kind of way (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). 
 
Q. Has it happened happen in a while breaking a racket like that; you get mad and you
start playing real well?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, it happens pretty often with me, it does. I mean, I wouldn't really
care to really admit that in one sense, but in another sense it is hard to deny it. It
does happen a lot. 
 
Q. Usually you channel it the right way (inaudible)?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I am pretty good about it. Really, if I set my sights on winning
the match, you know, I might stay focused. I might get pissed off, who knows? But that is
what it boils down, if you really have that intensity when you get out there, sometimes
that reflects in a little bit of a temper or sometimes it reflects in real focus, you
know, it is tough to know what the variables are going to be that day. 
 
Q. Did you feel unfocused in the first set and all of a sudden when you lost the
tiebreaker you said wow --
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I felt a little unfocused at the end of the first set only. I felt real
strong until I hit the doublefaults at 5-4 and got kind of stubborn there because I went
for a good second serve Love-15 and missed a second serve; went for it again and went for
it again, so I was kind of just disappointed, I lost my range on my serve. Maybe got a
little bit careless just at that stage of that, though. 
 
Q. Your overall game, how do you assess it?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I feel pretty strong, actually. I feel like I am hitting the ball really
clean. I feel like I am moving well. I am just excited now to get into the big matches.
That is what I want to do. Quarters, semifinals, you start -- get a few those under my
belt and I will be right where I want to be going into the Open. 
 
Q. You lost to him three times.
 
Q. What is the toughest?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Clay. Clay is very tough. He is a good clay court player. He is also very
talented. 
 
Q. We are here to preview Indianapolis next week. Obviously you want to stay focused
here but, can you--
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I am excited to play Indianapolis. I haven't played in a few years. I
think to get back would be a nice little memory for me, and, you know, there is always
such a strong field, certainly that is very needed at this stage to prepare for the Open. 
 
Q. Was it a little harder to make your schedule this year with the Olympics thrown in?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, that definitely really clogged up the schedule hard. It is a
strange time of year, you know, to play French, Wimbledon, Olympics and U.S. Open all
within the span of a few months. That is a lot of tennis. But you have to kind of pick
which ones are most important and you got to know that if you do well in one, you might
not do well in another just based on the fact that they are so close together and so much
tennis and this year I didn't have that problem. I had a lot of time, you know, off losing
in Paris and Wimbledon, but now, you know, if I go all the way here, go all the way next
week, now you are talking about the same idea, you know, Olympics, Cincy and Indy, now
going into the Open, that is a lot of tennis too. So anyway you look at it, to add
anything into the schedule, period, is a lot of tennis; not to mention adding it to the
summertime. 
 
Q. Was it burnout-- (inaudible)?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: You got to remember too that I wasn't just coming off of just the summer.
I was -- I mean, from the Open before is when it didn't stop for me. On top of all the
winning, it was a lot of things I was doing with my Foundation; a lot of things I was
doing for appearances and responsibilities that I had and the little time that I did have
off then I went through the Open and -- Australian Open, and Palm Springs, Key Biscayne;
then we flew over to Palermo. I mean, it just never slowed down and after Wimbledon I just
got away for a week, which helped me a lot, and went through the summer, but I think it
was a combination of it all. So I wouldn't be as concerned seeing how my year has been
this year to play that much tennis. It might actually be good for me. By the same token, I
don't think it is necessary to -- I don't think it is a horrible thing to not have that --
all that tennis in there. I mean, it would be a nice to have a bit less stressful of a
summer schedule; especially with the respect that you want to give the Open. 
 
Q. Would you say that with the Olympics you really started fresh this year -- that you
are starting the year fresh?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: There certainly has been no toll on me; just the frustrations and the
grind of trying to get myself to where I am now, yeah, but I would -- somebody told me if
I win this one and the next one how would I feel about it going into the Open. I said I
would feel pretty good. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT