NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1996
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Andre, did you have a little trouble closing that match
out?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It didn't feel too bad, to be quite honest.  I
think that the long day kind of attributed to a little inconsistency
on my part, certainly, and, you know, giving my opponent a chance
to kind of regroup and not feel so overwhelmed, I think I came
out firing and had taken control of the points and it is difficult
once you get on top -- once somebody gets on top of you to come
back from that, but the long rain delay helps you to, at least,
go out there with a more positive attitude -- take more chances
and hope for the best and, you know, it was a slow start not getting
the chance to hit any balls before; four hours later we are out
there playing.  I'd lost early services break; then he held for
the rest of the set.  I managed to get up in the third and, you
know, you get up, and I think he took some chances made some shots,
and, you know, he played a couple of good games to break back,
you know, but I was always up enough to close him out.

 Q.  Can you tell us something about your Mountain Dew  commercial?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  What about it?

 Q.  Well --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Mountain Dew tastes good.

 Q.  How much did you do?  Did you actually go jump out of
the helicopter?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I did.  Why are you laughing at me?

 Q.  Did you really do it?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Sure.  I do my own stunts. I take that stuff very
seriously, more seriously than you are taking it right now.  All
right?  Yeah, that was the easy part.  The plane thing got me
a little unsettled, but the bungy wasn't much of a problem after
the first dozen times and, you know, just it is hard work.  It
is not easy.

 Q.  Andre, your racket grip, is there some kind of new racket
grip you are using?  Is there some other concoction you are using
for your grip these days?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I am using under sweaty conditions a product
called "fusion."  It would be similar, but way different
than a saw dust, in the sense that maybe every game changeover,
if not a couple of game changeovers, it tends to last a long time
versus every point, so -- but no, it is the same. 

 Q.  What did you do during the rain delay?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  What did I do?

 Q.  Yes.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Just relaxed, really; got my mind a little bit
away from it, and had a bite to eat and just basically stayed
off your feet and try to not get too far from the match, but not
think too much about it.

 Q.  Andre, you have been outspoken in your feelings that you
don't think that Muster is deserving of the No. 1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I never said that one time.

 Q.  Okay.  What are your feelings about him being ranked No.
1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Like I have always said, he has worked hard to
get and he deserves to be there.  Based on the ranking system,
it is an incredible accomplishment - what he has managed to do.
 All I have stated about it was that long before Muster was No.
1, I have complained about the ranking system. I think it is ridiculous
that you can step on the court and have it potentially not count
because just because you can go play another event.  If you play
25 events your best 14 is not doing -- it is like somebody who
claims to be a 10 handicap in golf, I mean, they take 10 of your
best 20 scores; you go out play them for 100 bucks; they are not
shooting 10 over par, they are shooting closer to 20 over par.
 So that is why I don't think it counts.  Every time you play,
it should count.  And I have always bitched about the ranking
system, and Muster hasn't change that one bit.  I feel like what
he has managed to do is worthy of a tremendous amount of respect.


 Q.  Any prospect ever of changing this system, do you think?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I am getting kind of cynical on changes between
the ATP and USTA.  Any changes I don't really -- I don't really
truly believe it can happen.  I mean, there is a lot of legitimate
concerns.  I mean, it is not like golf where your can just race
to the end and start off fresh every year. Because you have to
have seeds; you have to play each other, you know.  I just think
that every time you play, it should count and I think that there
should be a certain amount of designations for each surface that
everybody has to play.  But it is easy to call out what the problems
are.  It is not so easy to fix it.

 Q.  Every player I have ever heard has said exactly what you
have just said.  Why don't you change it?  If players think it
is wrong, Andre, why isn't it changed?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, not all players do think it is wrong.  I
mean, I think that, you know, it is like the presidential elections.
 You are going to say what most voters are going to vote for.
There is a lot of guys out there who appreciate the fact that
the ranking system is going to help there cause.  You know, I
mean, if you got 100 guys in the top  100 and you only got 15
guys in the top or maximum who are playing, you know, let us make
it count every time, not everybody thinks that way.  A lot of
guys are playing 25, 30 events a year and if you count every time
they play, you know, just playing that much on its own is going
to mean a lot of bad results and it is going to mean a worse ranking
and it is going to mean less money.

 Q.  The next Major, of course, at the French you are going
to go up against guys who have spent -- are going to spend a large
amount of time on clay; whereas you are going to go through the
hard court season, et cetera.  The ranking system feeds into that
a little bit.  How do you think you could stop the juggernaut
that Thomas and Sergi dominating that French Open, do you think
that you are at a little bit of an advantage if you are playing
all the Grand Slams and all the events leading up to it as opposed
to the guys that are just playing on clay all year?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think the bottom line is that me as an American,
as most Americans, we are not raised on clay and no matter how
much we play on it, it is not second nature to us.  It is not,
you know, we don't do things naturally.  And when I say that,
I am speaking specifically about the movement.  The movement is
key.  It is everything on clay.  I mean, you can hit a shot on
clay and be close to the doubles alley and when you finish your
swing, be outside the doubles  alley.  That is -- you got to learn
how to play and you got to learn how to move and without movement,
doesn't matter how well you hit the ball.  So it is never going
to be a situation where I feel like it is equal terms.  I mean,
a guy like Muster or Sergi has a definite advantage just based
on the years of playing on it and just like I think, you know,
the Americans would have on hard courts over the Europeans.  It
-- but that is a great thing about our game.  You get to play
on all surfaces and at the end of the year, assuming you play
on all surfaces, you get to size up how you rate overall; that
is what I think it is about.

 Q.  Do you think there has been any change since two years
you were dominant at the French Open and got to the finals the
last few years where it has been a lot more of a struggle or you
-- have the players changed; have the opponents gotten tougher?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, I hit the ball strong off the ground
and I think back then, the guys weren't quite as big; quite as
strong and I can dictate play pretty much at will back then, even
on clay.  And if I am dictating play, I don't have to move real
well.  The problem is now, is if I am playing well, I am only
dictating play 70% of the time and so, you know, guys are bigger
and stronger and they are making you -- they have elevated the
game to the level where you got to play good defense as well as
good offense and that is something that  has made winning at Roland
Garros a lot tougher for the Americans.

 Q.  Being that the case and like the Americans dominate hard
courts, Europeans at French, any idea why British can't win on
grass? .

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Without getting too political about it, I will
say that one of the difficulties about being from England growing
up in the game it is not really -- you don't get the court time
that you might get, say, growing up in Southern California.  In
Southern California, every park has tennis courts.  All you need
to do is have your equipment and somebody else to play with. Over
there, it is raining three-quarters of the time and indoor courts
are very hard to come by and I think just think that the players
don't get the same quality of the opportunities that we may get
in other parts of the world.  I guess it will be similar to living
in Seattle with only one indoor center.  It is not an easy obstacle
to overcome.  You have got to get out there and you got to get
on the court.  I don't care where you are from - if you don't
get out on the tennis court and play, you are going to fall behind.


 Q.  Andre, you would be glad to know that the England Lawn
and Tennis Association is looking for a knew chief executive officer
and with that answer, I think you might qualify.  More seriously,
 when you had lost a couple of weeks ago, people  were beginning
to say is he is going to be able to maintain the intensity that
you had last year.  When you have had a great year; when you have
had reached the very top, No. 1, is it tough to repeat; to continue
at that very high level?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  There is no question, you know, it is tougher
to stay there than it is to get there.  By the same token, I will
say, though, that I made a commitment to myself after last summer,
26 and 0 going into the U.S. Open final and I would have given
up all 26 of those matches to have my legs for the finals of that
one match, and I won every tournament over the summer and got
to the finals of every hard court tournament and my conclusion
is, it doesn't mean anything if you don't win the Grand Slams.
 So to be quite honest, I won't do that to myself again, make
it so important for me to beat everybody every time.  I am a going
to work on my game at times.  I am going to use matches to improve
certain things and not to -- not just to win, because I think
there is a huge cost not having an off-season.  I think it is
way too much tennis.  It is just way too hard to win a lot of
tournaments and expect to be prepared and I got news for you,
this year is going to be a lot rougher with the Olympics.  French
Open, two weeks off; Wimbledon, two weeks off; Olympics, two more
weeks and then the U.S. Open.  It is hard to really think much
about Memphis when you got something like that ahead of you. 


 Q.  Follow-up to that - Muster going to the top over you -
85% of his points were on clay and 85% of your points were on
hard court.  Don't you think it is a little unfair to the fact
that you played, well, perhaps better than anyone else on the
circuit at all four Grand Slams and participated at all four surfaces
--

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, my -- I don't have an issue with Thomas
Muster.  I just think that everybody should play every surface.
 I don't care if you get your ass kicked and you get to No. 1
in the world on one surface, you got to play.  I went a year from
the U.S. Open to the U.S. Open losing three times in the quarterfinals;
never doing any worse than that.  And two of those were on clay.
 Clay is not a strong surface for me. Certainly not my strongest.
 But I am going to play.  I don't think it is right that Thomas
didn't play Wimbledon.  I think there is -- everybody needs to
play all the surfaces.  That is all I ever said about it.  I didn't
say it is unfair that he can kick most peoples' butts on clay.
 I think it is incredible effort to be able to do what he did
on clay.  I just think that the Tour should have certain regulations
that players should play on all surfaces.  This isn't based on
Thomas Muster.  This is based on what I have always said for the
past, you know, six years, five and a half years since the ATP
started.

 Q.  Andre, if there had been a rule in place a few years ago
when you were skipping Wimbledon, how would you have felt  about
the rule then?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I would have bitched about it.  I would have,
you know, -- I know what it is like to skip tournaments and I
did it.  I did it when I was young and I look back with a lot
of regret over it, real simple.  I don't think I should have been
able to get away with it without stiffer penalties.

 Q.  Andre, last year there was all the talk about the rivalry
between yourself and Pete.  With Muster now in the equation, does
that change your thinking at all about the extra challenge there?
 Is it a three-way rivalry or is Pete still your priority as far
as rival goes?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  As far as finishing the year No. 1 in the world,
Thomas is unquestionably somebody to be dealt with and reckoned
with because he is ranked No. 1 today.  But when you ask me who
I feel is going to interfere with me winning three of the four
Grand Slams, it is going to be Pete; not Thomas.

 Q.  What do you have to do to beat Muster on clay?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I didn't see anybody really pull it off.  I think
you have to definitely serve big and hit big off both sides and
not make too many errors and hit a lot of winners and get in on
his backhand, you know, get to net.  He is -- I think Thomas is
more capable of losing to a Rafter or an Eltingh on clay than
he is to a Chang, you know, just  because of the styles of play.
 But he has beaten everybody on clay and, you know, it is going
to be a tough act to repeat, but I am sure he is up for the challenge
and it is going to be an interesting year all the way around.


 Q.  With the Olympics every four years, can you lump those
in with the Olympics in with Wimbledon, the French, or U.S. Open
coming up?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I can honestly say that in my particular situation
seeing that the French Open is the only Grand Slam I haven't won
that that would probably take the lead in importance to me.  If
I could have one title, it would be that, just based on the fact
that in my sport it is the ultimate accomplishment to win all
the Grand Slams.  But the Olympics is right there, I think, ahead
of all of other ones for me.

 Q.  Quickly, Andre, your thoughts on how this tournament is
working with the men and women together; what do you think of
the combination?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I really haven't even noticed the difference.
 I think it is nice.  I mean, I mean, obviously the weather is
presenting a lot of problems, extra matches might ends up creating
a little stress, but it is nice.  I am sure it is nice for the
public, a little change of pace.

 Q.  Davis Cup, will you be available after this next Tie?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Based on convenience only, really, I  mean, it
is going to be a long year, and it is not a top priority this
year.

 End of FastScripts........     


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT