U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andre, did his running give you a lot of trouble early in the match?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I think one of strengths to his game, if not his biggest strength,
is the fact that he is going to run down a lot of balls and make you hit a couple of extra
every points if your timing is a little off; instead of hitting two good shots, you have
to hit four or five. It creates problems. I knew early on in the match that I was in for a
long evening. It was one of those that I had to get through just by sheer determination. 
 
Q. As many big points as there were, how big was it to break back in the fourth game of
the last set?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, it was big, he was struggling physically, though, there is no
question about it. I knew that I could break him down. I wouldn't have been too
discouraged had I not broken back in the fifth. But I have to say it is nice to get a lead
on somebody when they are starting to get a bit fatigued versus them having that daylight
at the end of the tunnel, so I broke back, that was important, but I would have preferred
not losing my serving in the first place. 
 
Q. How big was the crowd tonight, Andre, fourth and fifth set?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, this is the U.S. Open, man, every seat was packed. By the fifth
set everybody had at least two or three beers in them. It was rockin. 
 
Q. Andre, can you describe please that shot the shot of the night?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, he hit a volley over my head and I started running back for it, and
I didn't have too many options; got to get creative. I felt like it was high enough. I
could generate some pace and would probably shock him a little bit because he was -- a lot
of people anticipate that kind of trick between the legs or maybe throw up a high lob or
something, but I had a little pace and I happened to make it. 
 
Q. Are you cognizant being up 5-Love when you are going for a shot like that, do you do
it differently?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, that shot, I had no other option. That could have been matchpoint. I
was taking the same shot. 
 
Q. Jimbo has a sky hook. People call Sabatini's shot the Sabatweenie (phonetic). Can
you give us a name for that shot you hit tonight?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I never really thought about it, you know, I just -- I just try to, you
know, wing it and come up with shots as I go. Hopefully, you will see some more of them.
You should name it. I think it would be more appropriate if you named it. 
 
Q. Have you ever come up with that type of shot in a match before?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I have hit that shot a couple of times. I mean, you don't have too many
option options. It is not like you have a lot of opportunities with that shot. You know,
the ball has to be at a perfect trajectory, I mean, sometimes you are better off going
between the legs. For example, against Chang, matchpoint, you know, I mean, the ball was
too low to get there, and you just get creative; you really don't think much about
anything except just kind of reacting. 
 
Q. The third set at 5-5, you are serving down Love-30 and hit three straight forehand
winners; you hit them pretty hard. But you didn't win that game. Even though it looked
like you had finally got on top of him what happened right there?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It slipped away from me. Whenever you are fighting up hill the whole
match and you get that one opportunity, I mean, I had never really been up the entire
match. He was -- served first in the first set all the way until he broke me for the set.
It was like, you know, I won the second; lost my serve first game of the third. It was
like it was finally the opportunity with one point to get on top, and that is when you
feel like you can beat the guy 5-7, 6-3, 7-5, 6-1, and all of a sudden, you know, get a
little over anxious. You hit three big shots; you miss one; you end up losing your serve.
I mean, I didn't feel great about a lot of that stuff out there tonight. 
 
Q. We saw you throw that water bottle down. We couldn't figure what that was about.
Were you angry?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I was pissed. Just pissed off. I mean, 11 o'clock at night I shouldn't be
out there. 
 
Q. Did you ever think you might lose?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, geez, when things aren't going your way, you are down two sets to
Love,; you know you are a lot closer to it than you were three hours ago. But you don't
really deal with that because all I am thinking is, you know, I want to make this guy play
the set of his life to beat me here, and you are not worried about losing; you are worried
about winning. 
 
Q. If you were a little nervous and concerned do you play differently now than you did
before like, say, when you weren't winning the championships, I mean, are you more
confident when the chips are down?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It is not just so much that. I think in the past I have always had a
tendency to believe if I am playing this way that means that if Corretja doesn't beat;
certainly Edberg will or certainly the next guy will. It is like, you know, I think now I
am in my game to the place where I know I can come out here and not feel great and
turnaround and play some of my best tennis. I have done it before; a lot now, so that
makes the whole difference. 
 
Q. It is a bad draw to get Edberg in the third round?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I think, sure, you are -- sure, you know, the guy is ranked 20. He is not
seeded. That is where I was last year. It is difficult to play a guy who, in a sense,
believes that he can win every match if he is playing his best tennis. It is going to be
tough, but the bottom line is you got to beat the best players in the world to win this
tournament. If I plan on winning this tournament, bring him on, I mean, what the hell am I
here for? 
 
Q. Brad said this win will help you later on. Do you think it will help you with your
confidence?
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I know I am still in the event; that means I still have a shot at winning
it. Thanks a lot. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT