THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  Questions for Andre.

 Q.  Andre, do you think your game is peaking as the week goes
along?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I have to say that tonight was a great sign for
me.  I really -- Wayne came out, I think, firing on all cylinders;
serving big; hitting big off the ground; playing well and then
being able to control the match like that, just kind of shows
you what level I was playing at.  I really felt I was hitting
the ball strong and moving well, and serving real well.

 Q.  Three aces in one game in the first set; pretty happy
about that.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  That about maybe happens once in my career, huh?


 Q.  I think you can get one more.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I will get another one sometime.

 Q.  Is that, I mean, for someone like you, is that a particularly
good feeling, really pumps you up even more?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it is a big part of my game.  I mean, in
the sense that if I can utilize my serve to get free points off
of, I think that takes my game to another level because now my
opponents have a lot more to be concerned about, really.  I mean,
my strength is, obviously, my ground game, and I think if they
feel like they are going to get every time, every point that I
am serving, they are going to get into a rally, you know, that
allows him at least the opportunity to become carefree, but if
they feel like they are only going to have a few opportunities
to rally with me, then it maintains -- it helps me maintain that
much control of the match.  So it is a big thing Brad and I have
been really working on and it is going to come around.  I really
want to have a big serve one day and I really think I can.

 Q.  Have you ever served when you won the world Championships
in Frankfurt in '90 or '91?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  '90.

 Q.  That seemed to be the biggest you have ever served in
your career there, I mean, --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.

 Q.  Question of getting back to that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I served pretty big.  No, I mean, I am not really
just kind of swinging,  I mean, you know, I think in '90 I kind
of was going for a lot more power and I had a good week of serving.
 I am not -- I don't go for power really on my serve and, you
know, it is pretty rare that I am hitting them over 113, you know,
and if you are hitting a serve 110, 111, 112, that is very controllable
and very strategic. Actually, that is just kind of where the serve
power has gone.  I wish everybody I played served 110 or 111,
112.  So I feel like I am moving my serve around and being strategic
with it.  I don't feel like I am just serving big.

 Q.  You play Magnus Larsson now.  What does that mean to you
now?  You lost to him in Munich.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I did, and, you know, win or lose, the time
before doesn't have much bearing on it outside of how you felt,
you know, with the match.  I mean, it not being an ATP Tour tournament,
I mean, makes it a little bit different.  I think that end of
the year money tournament, it is a little tougher to gear up for,
and so I didn't feel like I was competing as well as I could have.
 But needless to say, I am aware of his capabilities because I
did get out there and play against him, and he is a very strong
player.  I look for him to make, you know-- between him and Enqvist
to make the biggest moves this year.  I think, you know, Magnus
has gotten his game together. He has gotten his mind together.
 He has always had the ability and we are really starting to see
it happen for him.  It is nice to see because he does everything
really strong.  I mean, he is a big hitter off the ground and
serves big, and he covers the court not with speed, but just because
he is a big guy.  So it is a tough match up for -- really for
anybody to play against him.  I believe he is a really good player
and I am looking forward to it.

 Q.  Andre, you obviously looked very confident; you have looked
confident the six months now on the court.  You have talked in
the past about having a fear of success.  Has that gone away completely
and, if so, can you explain what that really meant?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think in the past when I would win smaller
tournaments relatively speaking to the Grand Slams, if anything,
that just put the pressure on me more to have to come through
when I got out there in the Grand Slam, and, you know, that was
always difficult for me and I think that reflected in my first
three Grand Slams finals, I just-- I was favored in all of them
and just didn't convert and so it was always difficult for me,
then after that point, to do well because I just kept reminding
people that I can't seem to win the big one, you know, I can't
seem to really do it.  But if I lost, you know, then they wouldn't
necessarily feel like maybe he can't do it because he can't do
it.  Which was okay to me. I'd rather be the underdog at that
stage of my career and I think now I have gotten over a lot of
those doubts and I have gotten over a lot of those fears about
going out there and just laying it on the line and accepting what
happens, and with three Grand Slams now, under my belt, I feel
like I kind of have that whole stage behind me and thank God it
is at a relatively early stage of my career.

 Q.  Does that make the challenge of the French then this year
a lot more acceptable, easy to deal with, than it would have in
the past?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  A lot more exciting and a lot more enjoyable,
you know, I think that is the difference.  I mean, I always went
out there and in Grand Slams I had a lot of great performances
in Grand Slams and rose to the occasion, but I don't think I ever
quite enjoyed what it was that was happening when I was doing
it.  In the Australian Open I really got a chance to enjoy it
as I went along and I'd win the matches and I'd be at dinner feeling
good versus worrying about the next match and taking one step
at a time now and it is enjoyable for me, and, you know, and it
is nice challenging somebody to come beat you, and getting out
there and trying to defend your ranking to defend the respect
that you have earned.  It is all an exciting part of how I am
looking at it.  I think the biggest difference now is I can go
out there; enjoy it and the result from that is just I think playing
better.

 Q.  Being Roland Garros the only Grand Slam event you haven't
won yet, wasn't it wiser to play more clay before instead of going,
let us say, to Tokyo or those places, I mean, you don't regret
that choice?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, unfortunately you make your schedule
before the U.S. Open and I hadn't won the U.S. Open or the Australian
Open or the French Open.  Kind of screwed, now that I think about
it.  But on a much more serious note, I don't feel like I need
that much time on the clay.  I want to get certainly a few tournaments
and I want to get some practice, but it is not something that
I feel like I need that much.  I am not that disappointed with
my schedule.  I feel good about it.  It is always, you know, a
tough trip making it over there to Asia when you have got the
European Tour next.  But that is the part of the sacrifice and
I like playing all parts of the world.  I think I will have plenty
of rest and plenty of preparation.

 Q.  Presumably having reached the French final twice without
having had too much break beforehand on clay and coupled with
it, the new feeling you've got, sort of would take care of that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, and plus with Brad too. I make really quick
gains with Brad.  Adjustments happen really fast; doesn't take
much time, and I have always seemed to respond pretty quick. 
I mean, the year that I won Wimbledon I didn't really play after
the French.  I got to the semis of French in '92; then I just
kind of took the time off because it was very exhausting for me
at that stage.  I was fighting a lot of things, and showed up
there and I did it.  And I have done that with the French a few
times.  That is no standard that I care to set or to care to subscribe
to, but which is why I am feeling good.  I will be over in Paris
a week ahead of time; not to mention playing Hamburg and I feel
pretty good about that.

 Q.  Does the fact that you and Pete-- obviously, we have talked
about the rivalry that you and Pete have, but you are both gunning
for your first French make; is it more exciting?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think certainly from a fan's perspective it
is an exciting -- it's an added element, you know, there is two
people now that have to lose before the tournament says, darn,
I mean, because that is the story, you know, for either one of
us to win it is going to be a big story, you know, Jim has won
it twice, and so for me, Pete, for one of us to do it, it is going
to be nice.  If it wasn't the case then there would only be one
person to kind of, in a sense, pull for it.  I think most people
would pull for Pete if he was the only one that hadn't won it;
likewise if I was the only one.

 Q.  You mentioned making such quick progress with Brad.  Is
there anything that you have gained from getting to know him as
a person as well or all been in relation to strategy and the things
he has taught you on the court?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Professionally, it has been over the top what
he has managed to help me with, and on a personal level, he is
an addition in my life.  He is somebody that I have grown close
to and somebody that I mean, the guy has a really great heart.
 I really enjoy being around him, and it is just -- I couldn't
be happier with a relationship on all levels.

 Q.  What do you like most about him away from the professional
side?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I like really his simplicity. Very kind of simple
kind of guy.  I mean, if you give him a TV with a sports channel
and remote control and somebody who will just sit there and listen,
he is in paradise, there is something nice about that.  There
is something very endearing about him.

 Q.  Right now, you seem to have -- you and Pete the edge on
hard court and the others-- do you feel you have the same edge
against, Sergi Bruguera and Courier on clay?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, certainly every surface poses there difficult
players. You know, me growing up in Vegas and Pete growing up
in Southern California, hard court is, I think, our -- naturally
our best surface, or not that our game is most effective on it,
but that we are most comfortable on it, and the Europeans, like
Sergi or Berasategui, these guys who play, grow up on clay, you
know, they definitely pose a difficulty, and they are definitely
more comfortable on the clay.  I think that if there is a surface
where Pete and I are -- more so Pete, than me, I think, because
my game is a little bit more adaptable to the game, if there was
a surface that we could be vulnerable to somebody coming from
the outside and then upsetting us, it would be on clay court,
but when you are confident and you are striking the ball well,
and you are hitting the ball hard and consistently you could play
on cow dunk and it is not going to make a difference, so it is
all a question of just making the adjustments necessary and believing
in yourself that you can do it.

 Q.  Is Brad traveling with you?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Haven't completely discussed that yet.  We have
kind of been a little back and forth on it.  I don't know yet.


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT