THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Andre, the first point, I guess it was the 8th game of
the second set, the crosscourt forehand, that stunning shot, can
you remark on it a little bit?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  When I was serving 3-4 in the second?

 Q.  Yes.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, he hit a nice slice approach shot
up the line and I had one option and I had to execute it perfectly,
really.  I mean, I had no option but to hit the thing perfect,
and I did. It just -- I didn't believe I hit it even after I kind
of -- until it bounced, I wasn't convinced I was going to make
that shot.  I just kind of swung at it and hit it pretty hard
in order to get it by him and I made it.

 Q.  How far did it clear the net by?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I am going to say maybe an inch.

 Q.  Close?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, very close.

 Q.  Even though, Andre, obviously you have hit shots like
that before, is that still sort of one of the bigger rushes? 
You looked pretty pleased afterwards when you made a shot like
that.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Especially the timing of the match, because I
felt like -- I looked up at Brad early in the second I said, geez,
my intensity is gone, I just-- it just dropped after I had him
15-40.  The first game of second, I didn't break, and it was very
uncharacteristic for me to kind of lose, in a sense, a little
intensity there, and I did, and he ended up getting the break
on me.  When I fought back, I played a real good game to break
him back, and now, the match really swings, you know, now at 3-4,
I am serving if I can, you know, consolidate that.  Break back
by holding, the match swings to my favor, but it still -- you
are still in that place where it is possible that the momentum
could go back and forth, and so the timing of that shot made it
just feel that much better.  But it is what you show up to work
for, really.  It is the epitome of it.  It is a great feeling.


 Q.  You talked about losing the intensity for a minute being
a little worried about that.  Wasn't that something that plagued
you a bit in year's past, you seemed to overcome it, so is it
a little bit alarming if it creeps back in there once in awhile?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I mean, I used to struggle with it on a much
bigger scope.  I mean, it was much more consuming kind of feeling.
 I mean, it was the doubts.  It was the frustrations.  Today was
just, you know, the sun was moving down, all of a sudden it went
from hot to kind of a nice breeze and the shade is moving half
way across the court, and, you know, the game that I lost my serve,
I made two errors right off the bat; both of them really came
close to the baseline and just missed.  It was kind of a strange
kind of break, so I am not too concerned about it at all.  It
was just important to turn that around and it is possible to lose
sets to these guys.  Mal is a great athlete who plays real well.
 The question is how would I have responded in the third and,
you know, I was there to play.

 Q.  There is a particular shot that you can judge if you are
in a good day you can judge your condition for the day; a particular
shot of yours.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know what?  It is not so much "the shot"
with me.  I don't really struggle with my shots.  I would say
above anything, it will be my footwork.  When I am not sharp on
my feet, I am not really taking the ball early, or I am not moving
back for the deep ones, quick enough, or if I am not moving my
feet; then a lot of things go down hill.  If I am moving my feet,
even in my shots are off a little, I will zero in on it without
too much of a problem.

 Q.  When you do sense that you lose the intensity, apart from
looking at Brad, what do you do now to get yourself back into
it that maybe you didn't do in year's past.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It is not a question of just losing intensity
in year's past.  I mean, in year's past, you know, I would have
felt, you know, even up a set down 4-1 like, oh, you know, here
it is; I am letting the match slip away.  Today, it didn't cross
my mind to let the match slip away.  I just felt like for a moment
I lost my serve.  That is what it boils down to.  I lost my serve.
 That is going to happen a lot, You know, so it is how I respond
to it.  I didn't feel like my reason for being down was so consuming,
you know, it just wasn't.  In year's past, I would be down 4-1
and it would carry-over and I would just -- rather than lose a
set 6-1 and get onto the third, you know, and that is -- that
is behind me - thank God.

 Q.  Andre, there is a lot of work being done in trying to
get younger people -- for tennis to appeal to a broader spectrum
of people out here.  Do you get a feeling that the people here
empathize would you even more than they do other places or sort
of they like you more here?  There was a child here a couple of
years ago - I don't know whether you remember it - about four,
five year old child when you were losing a match started crying
up in the stands.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.

 Q.  Because you were losing.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think she saw me crying first.

 Q.  Do you get the feeling that this younger crowd likes you
more than they do even other places?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think, you know, I sense certainly a strong
sense of support and seems -- the audience seems to be a bit younger
here.  As far as the children, there seems to be a lot of young
kids and they always seem to have a pretty strong response to
me when I am out there on the court.  In a sense, I do feel the
strong support.  But I mean, not overwhelmingly.  I felt like
today they were very fair about their support and cheering for
a good match and cheering for good shots.

 Q.  One year ago there was some friction here between you
and Nick.  How would you describe your relationship with Nick
now a year later?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I am not sure if I will ever really truly get
over it to the degree where I can say, you know, there is no problem.
 I mean, it is a definite respect thing, you know, it is like
I still haven't shaken the fact that I felt like, you know, violated
in a lot of ways, but I think the difference is now is I really
don't find myself thinking about it as much and -- which is kind
of nice, but I guess it is some kind of -- like asking how your
relationship is with your ex-wife, you know, you just do your
best not to think about her.

 Q.  Are you paying alimony?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, but if he had it his way, I would be paying
alimony - let me tell you.

 Q.  Do you regard it now as one of those things that happened
in life, but in the long-term it can be to your benefit just one
of those things?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, yeah, I believe any experience in life, if
you strive for truth and you strive for growth, you come to grow
and to feel stronger and to feel more prepared to deal with whatever
else maybe down the road, but that doesn't change the fact that
it was a very negative experience that I wish I had never had
to go through and that I don't wish on anybody.

 Q.  Conversely, you thought that playing now even though you'd
win Wimbledon before, if that happened you are a far better competitor
now and who knows if you haven't had the change and got together
with Brad and changed attitudes .....

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I really think I am really glad that it
happened in a professional sense, you know, it is kind of twofold.
 There is the person and the professional.  Professionally, I
mean-- I wish it would have happened earlier, you know, just because
we had been together so long and I think we had kind of -- I had
kind of mixed out what his knowledge of the game was, and it would
have been nice to kind of move on to a higher level of strategy
and playing that I believe even at the time existed somewhere,
you know, but it turned out to be good professionally, but it
is still -- it is still a tough thing to say was positive. I mean,
it turned out to have some positive points to it.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anymore questions?

 Q.  Player reaction to the lockerroom of the commercial between
you and Pete?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I haven't -- I don't know.  I don't know.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anything else?  Thanks.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I got a question, how was the wine last night;
was it good?

 End of FastScripts...... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT