THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  This is kind of natural where you can try new things or
to work on your game? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I don't think so.  I think the score is a
little disceiving out there. Tommy hits the ball very -- off both
sides; he serves well; can come in; moves; does a lot of things
real well, and, you know, I just had to really stay on top of
my game and dictate the play and really, I did that and stuck
to it.  I didn't bother to try new things because I didn't feel
like I could.  I mean, at 4-0, maybe in the first set when you
are up a couple of breaks, but no, not at this stage of the tournament,
you know, too much respect for the other players to do that. 
You just got to get through it.

 Q.  Does a match like that help you or hurt you if and when
you get to the semifinals, finals in the tournament?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it can go either way.  I didn't lose a set
in Australia, and then people asked the same question.  But I'd
rather, for sure, get to the semis or the finals, and then worry
about it than have the tough ones that some of them you don't
get through.

 Q.  Is there a tendency to look past some of the matches to
a Pete Sampras or do you take each match at --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't look past anybody, no. I mean, it is a
cliché to say, "one at a time", but I mean, if
I am looking past somebody there is good chance I won't be there.
 The spectators and the media, they can talk about the day after
tomorrow and Saturday or Sunday, but although all the players
know the only thing that matters is today, so one at a time for
me.

 Q.  What did you tell the match you lost to Pete last Sunday,
did you work at something special now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I didn't -- I didn't feel like I really
played the level of tennis that I am capable of by any means.
 So, I didn't really stress it too much.  I mean, you are bound
to have those matches where you are just a little flat.  I felt
a little flat out there and he took advantage of it.  You can't
afford to be that way, so, I just kind of try to put that behind
me and just elevate my game again and try it again.

 Q.  When you lost to Enqvist in Philadelphia you said afterwards
that you were really obsessed in that match; you had "Enqvist
on the brain"; you and Brad honed in on what went wrong with
that match.  Will you dissect the match like last week?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I played Pete so many times that we have beaten
each other so many times that it is not like quite -- it is not
quite that consuming unless there is something that really stands
out where I felt no matter what I tried, he had me beat.  If that
is the case then I got to start rethinking my game plan, but I
wasn't -- it is not like that, no.  This one, you know, the loss
to Pete is different.  It is just one that you got to accept and
move on from.

 Q.  Both of you and ATP and Nike and us are building the story
of your rivalry between Pete and you.  Do you feel it is a bit
too much what we all write about, you and Pete?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, before I go out and play these matches,
I think you guys make too big of a deal out of it.  Then when
I am done playing 6-0 6-2, then I had think, geez, maybe you don't.
 But, I go into each match with an incredible intensity.  That
is important in order to get through. But I mean, I believe if
I am playing my best tennis, I am confident and controlling the
match against anybody and Pete is one of the guys that does have
a say so in it.  There is no question.  And you got to stay on
top of that.  You can't take it for granted that you are just
better than somebody because it is slips too easy.  One at a time
and keep trying to improve is just how I look at it.  But I can
honestly say that there is a different feeling when I step on
the court with Pete than with anybody else.

 Q.  Who wins in the advertising the new one, you or Pete?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I won that one, yeah.  I won that one, make
no mistake.

 Q.  I just come from Italy.  I have some questions about Davis
Cup which probably you don't mind very much.  Last year you had
so many good souvenirs, but you had the best souvenir in Rome
when you play Pescosolido.  What do you remember of that match,
can you believe that you can lose to an Italian player like that
or it is just --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I had a lot worse losses than Pescosolido, let
me tell you.  I had a lot of worse losses.  Back then I felt like
an underdog every time I stepped on the court, I was struggling
a lot on the clay and I just remember not knowing my ass from
my elbow when I was out there.

 Q.  Do you think between Gaudenzi, Furlan, and Pescosolido,
it would be worse for you to play again against Pescosolido or
it doesn't really matter?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It doesn't matter because it is Davis Cup.  I
mean, Davis Cup, it all depends on how you react to the environment
and does it elevate your game or does it make you play tight,
and, you know, to me, it is not who I am playing, it is what I
am playing.

 Q.  If you get to the final, will it affect you the fact that
you get so far in the tournament, I mean, you or Pete, if you
arrive there the last minute and play on clay; on different climate

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, trust me, anything can happen. 
It's what you get.  There is a shot you guys can win.  There just
is, you know, and getting there last minute is not ideal.  But
we just have to adjust to it the best we can and go out there
and compete hard and hope that we live up to our rankings that
day.

 Q.  Thanks... 


  End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT