THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What did you think about your playing today? How well
did it go?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think that -- I think that a lot of times,
matches depend on how well you play, and a lot of times it depends
on how you compete; how you focus; how you move your feet, and
I felt like today was one of those days where, you know, the wind
moving as much as it was, it was just important to move your feet
and not make careless errors and get the early lead in the set;
I did that.  I got a little bit careless when it was 4-0 in the
second, but I still managed to stay in control of the match.

 Q.  Two questions:  First, how is your father doing?  And
second, this is the anniversary of your first year working with
Brad Gilbert; how would you assess your relationship after your
year now?  First, tell us about your father.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think he is doing good.  I tried phoning him
today, but he was out of the room for some X-rays, and I will
speak to him in a few minutes. He is hoping to get out of the
hospital today, which would be nice.  And the past year with Brad
has been incredible.  I mean, if this next year goes as well,
they are going to have to come up with a new ranking system because
I will move another 30 spots.

 Q.  Andre, you played Pete twice this year, potential third
round here.  Men's Tennis is heightened because of this.  Has
the 1-2 rivalry changed, or affected your outlook and your attitude
right now on the Tour?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, when I show up here to the office
and I notice that he got off the court and played pretty well,
I definitely am a little bit more inspired to go out and play
well.  It is, I think -- you know, there is a few guys that are
capable of pushing each other to higher levels, and Pete and I
think do that for each other and I think the game benefits as
a result of that.

 Q.  How important is it for you to be No. 1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It is important for me to be the best that I can
and I believe that is No. 1, so I really want to achieve it. 
But I mean, just to squeak to No. 1 is not what I am hoping for.
 I am hoping to be the best player in the world for the next few
years; that is the mindset you have to have, and so you -- even
if I were to take over No. 1 soon, it wouldn't have the impact
that it is going to have a few years from now when I look back
and know that I have maintained it because winning the big tournaments
is the most important thing and usually if you are doing that,
the rest is taking care of itself.

 Q.  Will it make any difference to you if you reached No.
1 in a match where it is not against Pete?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, ideally, I'd like to be playing him in
the finals of French to become number one.  That would be my hope,
but just because I mean, just incredible the amount of -- I mean,
you don't experience anything better than that in this game is
to have a situation like that, and -- but, you know, that is why
I think No. 1 isn't really the issue; at least, at this stage.
 To end the year No. 1 is a bit more of accomplishment then to
get to No. 1, but to win these tournaments is what it is all about.
 To win the French -- I think, Pete would give up his No. 1 ranking
if somebody guaranteed him a win at the French because he wants
to win it, and so do I and so it is having your priorities.  So
being No. 1 doesn't have that kind of priority as it does winning
the Grand Slams and I think the reason why is because, you know,
if Pete loses and then I had just -- maybe I will be playing a
third round match to be No. 1, maybe not this week; maybe the
next; maybe not that week, maybe the next so I mean, that is not
really, I think, where either of our attention is.

 Q.  Andre, your comments on Davis Cup and the team and can
you comment on why you decided to play?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, we got together.  We were talking about
it for a while; all had gone through our mixed emotions with it.
 I have certainly gone through that for the past few years.  I
think just in discussing it over and over again, how we have me,
Pete, Jim, Chang, Todd Martin, I mean, we got so many good guys
that it is kind of a disappointing thought to not go over there
with a very strong team, you know, and it has been awhile since
I have played Davis Cup and I feel with Les Snyder, that changes
are going to happen and I am starting to believe in it.  And I
think the more we just communicate on it, the more we realize
the importance of it.  It is definitely your fondest memories.
 I know that to be the case from McEnroe and most other players.


 Q.  I know this is a ways off, but are you looking forward
to playing the Olympics?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  Absolutely.

 Q.  You didn't play in the past?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I did not.

 Q.  Any reason why you think it is something you want to do
now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you are stressing my memory.  I think Courier
played. 

 Q.  Pete Sampras, and Chang.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think, if I remember correctly, at that stage
they were picked ahead of me. But it's definitely -- I think as
you get older, you realize the importance of it and something
that I am definitely looking forward to.

 Q.  Andre, are you surprised how well you and Brad got on,
considering it was rather kind of an arrangement made not through
by accident, rather than design?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I am not going to say I am surprised.  I am certainly
glad that it worked out that way and I am well aware of the fact
that there is more to just coaching than just what you know. 
It is having the ability to be able to -- it is not how much you
know.  It is how much your student learns.  And sometimes there
is a big difference between those two things and Brad has communicated
his ideas very clearly and just our personalities really work
well together and I can't say it is a surprise because I didn't
assume that it would be different, but I just kind of tried to
stay objective about it and it is nice to see, you know, it was
-- I knew it early on that it was going to be a good relationship
and it hasn't let me down on any level.

 Q.  Will you be introducing some new clothing here or coming
up with anything else?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Will I be?

 Q.  Yeah.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Did you watch the match?

 Q.  Yeah.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I did that.

 Q.  Did you wear -- you haven't worn that before?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.

 Q.  I saw it in the picture.  They used in the weekly --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  In the Nike ad?  It is was probably a black and
white.  It is the same outfit; different color.  So if it was
a black and white picture, it looks the same.

 Q.  Andre, what is your schedule going up to the French?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I go Davis Cup; a week off; Tokyo; Hong Kong;
a week off; Atlanta; Hamburg; two weeks off; French Open.

 Q.  When did you decide to accept to play Davis Cup?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Last week.  Is that it?  Thanks.

 End of FastScripts 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT