NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How good was he, Andre? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it was kind of like what I said, you know,
a little bit earlier in the ceremonies - if he is playing 100%
and I am playing 96%, it really looks like you are only playing
60%.  I mean, it is the same way.  It is like if I am not really
on top of the ball, there is problems, you know, you will see
it exploited in his serve; all of a sudden I am just not quite
picking it up.  When it works the other way, you see his game
result in some errors, like in Australia, when I played him, he
was a little bit, you know, maybe 96, 97%; I was really on my
game.  All of a sudden, you get lots of errors - just a rough
day at the office - there is not really too many other ways to
size that one up.

 Q.  The fact that it was a night game, so to speak, could
that make a difference to you?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, I felt like it was difficult.
 Talking to Pete afterwards, we both were struggling with the
lighting, I mean, the shade is moving halfway across the court.
 I got up a break; played a good game to break him and then I
made a couple of loose errors that I don't normally make off the
backhand; just a rally shot that I missed; got  down Love-30;
got down -- cracked it down for a winner; missed the line; then
he had two forehand winners on the run; breaking a string; he
had a couple of net cords.  It was like I just couldn't quite
convert and it is like he got an opportunity and then did -- 
I mean, I lost my serve in the first - in the third set after
being up 40-Love.  In those games is when the string broke and
he got to 40-15 and 40-30 and so it was -- it was just one of
-- kind of strange how it worked out today.

 Q.  Can you point to one difference between this and the Australian
final?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, I mean, Australia, I think the balls
were a little bit heavier.  Here, the ball was really taking off;
that is why I think you saw more errors, you know, even throughout
the week, really, but especially today, two guys like me and Pete
who hit the ball so hard, the ball is -- just takes off, so it
was a little bit more difficult to control than Australia; a little
heavier ball and, you know, that is definitely going to help me
out against a style like Pete.  That would be a difference between
here and Australia.  But as far as the play goes, no, I just think
that I was really on my game in Australia and I wasn't 100% tonight
and I felt like, you know, in Australia he might have been not
100% and today, you know, he was -- he served huge and from start
to finish and, you know, I had him Love-30 and he held with serves;
then I had him 15-30 couple of times where he  ended the game
with three first serves.  That is rough.

 Q.  Andre, how do you feel about the way he moves on the court?
 It seems like he covers the court a lot better than people think.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, I wouldn't know what the perception
is from the public or the media, but from a player's perspective,
Pete covers the court as well as anybody in the game.  He is not
a defensive runner like Chang, for example, but he definitely
is a guy that if you get him stretched out, he still could come
up with the big shot.

 Q.  Pete, how do you feel at the moment?  Are you frustrated
with the fact that Pete really didn't let you play or get into
the match and is it also a case of major disappointment in not
being able to, you know, repeat -- win as you did in Australia?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, yeah, sure, it is disappointing and
sure, I am let down and, sure, I will be thinking about this for
a while, you know, but I mean, there is two sides to that coin.
 There is the side of the disappointment, but there is also the
reality side which is "it is going to happen."  You
are going to have days like this where things kind of rolled his
way and he is playing a percentage or two better; that makes the
huge difference.  So it's not going to get the best of me.  Every
time I step on the court I am out there to win  and I don't question
that and I don't doubt that and I am motivated for the entire
rest of the year, so it is not really about anything more than
just kind of what happened today.  It would have been a nice victory
for me, you know, to even get me that much closer, but the bottom
line is, I want to be No. 1 at the end of the year.  I don't want
to just slide into No. 1.  I want to play the best tennis over
the course of this year.  Pete and I are 1 and 1 this year in
big matches. You know, we are going to stay at it.  I have been
winning these matches up into the finals.  I didn't lose a set
until the finals against Chang in San Jose.  I didn't lose a set
until the finals against Pete in Australia.  I didn't lose a set
in Philadelphia until I lost the match.  I didn't lose a set here
until I got to Pete.  So, I mean, I am beating a lot of these
guys.  I am feeling great about my game, and this is one guy that
is pissing me off right now.

 Q.  Andre, there was a feeling that maybe Pete was vulnerable
on his second serve, obviously, today wasn't able to capitalize
on it.  Is that a normal --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  What happens with a big server is that if you
don't -- if you don't put pressure on their second serves, then
you are going to find that they are going to start serving even
bigger first serves, and with Pete today, it was  --- I had the
opportunity.  I mean, I got up the break.  And I absolutely didn't
convert.  I didn't consolidate that break and  I had kind of made
a couple of unforced errors.  I hit a good shot to hold that game
that I missed the line with, and it is a different match.  If
you consolidate that break and all of a sudden he kind of gets
a little discouraged or starts questioning a few things and he
starts missing a few more first serves, but instead, you know,
he served the best game of the match probably right after he broke
me back because he kind of felt a second life there, and then
he just got on top.  I mean, Pete is a lot like Lendl, if you
get on top -- if he gets on top of you, he just keeps playing
better and better; especially in the service department.  Most
top players are that way, I mean, Becker is that way.  Courier
is that way.  I am that way.  I mean, if I get on top and I get
the momentum and the confidence, my game just keeps elevating
and I just felt like today that is what happened.  He snick back
into the first set when he got it - his game elevated along with
his confidence.

 Q.  Would you have expected to see him at the net more often
than he was tonight?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I didn't, you know, I didn't quite feel
like I was dictating play like I normally do from the ground.
 I even started coming in a little bit more because I was a bit
frustrated with the fact that I wasn't as sharp as I usually am
- or I wasn't converting, you know, it wasn't that I felt like
I wasn't playing well.  I felt like I played well,  but then when
you get to that hump and you are just about to get over it, you
slide all the way down.  It is a bit discouraging, so I kind of
was trying to come in.  I was trying to, you know, just kind of
get myself into the match; get myself into kind of an ugly frame
of mind that maybe I can work myself back into it.  But it wasn't
to be.

 Q.  Are you going to go back to Brad; do you watch the tape
of this match; what is your method?  What are you going to do
after a match like that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  That is what I pay him for.  I let him figure
it out.

 Q.  Andre, was it thinking about your father that made you
less than 100% tonight?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, hey, listen anybody who, you know,
has a dad who is going into surgery for, you know, heart surgery,
that is difficult.  I mean, that was on my mind when I heard the
news in Philadelphia too.  It is a difficult thing to deal with,
but I am a professional who, you know, goes out on the court and
does my best to leave everything behind and if that was the case,
I certainly wouldn't admit it.

 End of FastScripts! 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT