NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  First final between the 1 and 2 players in the
history of this tournament.  Questions for Andre.

 Q.   Andre, you and Boris seem to play so many close matches
yet you keep seeming to come out on top, why?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It is tough to answer that.  I mean, honestly,
all I can say is really what happened there, I got a little bit
lucky to win the first set and got a little bit lucky winning
the second set and in between, I played real well.  And I think
that he played extremely well too.  He had one loose service game
after a rough call that I mean, I couldn't see clearly, but from
what I hear, definitely missed; then I got a break that game and
it was enough for the set.  And then he was serving in the 120s
probably in the mid 70s of service percentage.  I didn't like
my chances of breaking him in that second set.  I knew my only
shot would be in the tiebreaker and he missed a few balls that
I don't think he would normally miss.  The sun was dipping down
 over the bleachers there and it was tough to pick it up.  I mean,
he hit a couple of serves that were close to me that I just--
I whiffed, you know, so that it was starting to get tough to pick
up the ball so maybe that attributed to a few errors.

 Q.   Do you think it was that or maybe he was trying to be
so fine out of respect for your ability to run down balls and
pass him?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  That is what I'd like to believe.  I certainly
like to believe that he missed it because he thought I was going
to get there and pass him.  Unfortunately, if I had to call that
like I saw it, I think the whole court was open and, you know,
he got a little bit excited on it, maybe.  I think that he normally
would make that shot.  I think most players would, and you give
you a loose point in the tiebreaker, you know, that can swing
the whole thing.

 Q.   Andre,, comments about the match that we are going to
see tomorrow?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  A lot of fireworks tomorrow. You can count on
that.  I mean, geez, I have been hitting the ball real well and
Pete is back in his form again; nice to see him in the finals
and playing his best tennis and this is what it is all about.
 I mean, today, was what it is all about.  Semifinals, we had
 here, was just exciting tennis, I mean, a year ago, they are
asking "is tennis dying" and a year later this is incredible.
 I am having a blast being a part of it.  I imagine how the spectators
feel being able to sit out there for four hours with that kind
of tennis. You know, it is just like today with Boris, I stepped
on the court with a great amount of excitement and enthusiasm
and also respect for what he can do which brought out another
level in my game.  It is going to be the same thing tomorrow and
I think Pete and I, if we play 20 times, if I play real well,
most of the time I will win 11; if he plays real well, he will
win 11. It is a great contrast in games and I am looking forward
to it again.

 Q.   Andre, do you ever have moments recently where you are
feeling sorry for Boris?  This is eight in a row now.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Okay, last time I beat Boris was Key Biscayne
which was a year ago and I think both of us really weren't playing
as well as we are today and before then was Wimbledon of '92.
 Before then was middle of '91.  So the past few have been spread
out. It is like a different player, almost.  I am out there and
I had trouble reading his serve and normally I don't because I
am used to seeing it, but I haven't  seen it in a year, so it
makes it a bit difficult, but no, it would be disrespectful to
feel sorry for him because, my goodness, I mean, he could have
taken a lot of these last eight matches that I have gotten him
-- I could never say that because I am out there; always feel
like I have to play real well to win.

 Q.   When you dominate a player to this degree, a player of
Becker's ability, do you think it pays dividends, for example,
on those two forehands; do you think those kind of players really
struggle to get back against you?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think any time you create a situation where
any time there is a situation where there is more riding on it
whether it is, you know, you never won the tournament before;
whether you have never won any tournament before; whether you
have never beaten a certain player before, there is a certain
amount of adrenaline that makes you a bit more tentative on some
big points.  But Boris is a very big match kind of player and
I don't necessarily feel like he missed that because of me.  I
mean, geez, we were playing great tennis the whole way; you are
bound to make a few mistakes.  I made a few, but just not at the
crucial time.  But when there is that kind of weight on the match,
you will definitely see --- you will see it  either bring out
the best in somebody at a given moment, or all of a sudden bring
out the worst in him.

 Q.   You are getting closer to No. 1.  How much of your focus
goes to that position?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I want to win every time I am on the court.  I
mean, I hate losing now, you know, it is something that doesn't
sit well with me.  When I lost in Philadelphia last week it was
just on my brain and I am out here just, you know, just excited
to play and I am in the finals now and this is what I came here
for.  I came here for this match, you know, I mean, there is a
lot in between, but the bottom line is that if I win tomorrow,
I walk home feeling like it was a great week.  If I don't, it
was just okay, You know, so No. 1, I think is a byproduct of continuing
that kind of intensity and that kind of focus and concentration
and executing your game plan every time you step on the court.
 So just one match at a time for me and tomorrow is another one.


 Q.   You said you hate losing now.  You didn't in the past?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, because, you know, I felt like in the past
if I'd win, then expectations grew, but if I lost, you know, maybe
people would start leaving me alone to a degree, so there is always
that  element I was dealing with, and now it is just about tennis,
which is a nice feeling for me.

 Q.   Andre, do you feel unbeatable out there every time you
step out on the court?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  Quite the contrary.  I feel like I can be
beaten; that is why I rise to the occasion.  I have an amazing
amount of respect for why these guys are where they are.  Enqvist
did it to me last week in Philadelphia.  I played him here this
week; playing Ferreira, I was very focused because it is because
of the fact that you feel these guys are able to beat you.

 Q.   A question about Davis Cup.  Awhile back after the Bermuda
Tie you were really critical of the Davis Cup, ticket pricing,
USTA; now you have had this wonderful agreement with Pete and
the USTA.  You said that the USTA officials are looking out for
the players.  Do you see a difference?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I said Les Snyder.  That was plural, USTA officials
is plural.

 Q.   Gully I presume too?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, but I don't consider him part of the USTA.
 I consider him one of the fellows who understands what it takes
to win out there on the tennis court. 

 Q.   That is part of my question anyway, do you think that
what is the difference, is it Mr. Snyder particular or. . .

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think he is -- the players get a definite
feeling from him like he is going to really work on behalf of
our concerns.  But playing this Tie, I wouldn't say is 100% because
of Les by any means.  I mean, Pete and I got together to discuss
the possibility of us going down and playing, and we absolutely
grew in our passion for wanting to be a team as we talked it out
the; same with Jim.  The more you lay it on the table, the more
you realize how important it is, really, and there are certain
times when you are more capable and more willing to make the sacrifices
for what it is you still cherish which is winning that Davis Cup
and I have had my problems with the USTA.  I am sure I am going
to continue to have them.  Starting with not being able to sell
out these stadiums when we play to playing dead rubber matches
that risk us to injure just so they can make a little bit more
money which they don't even do that because they don't sell a
lot of them.  So there is a few things I want to see happen that
I am going to stick to my guns on.  It is not like all of a sudden
I don't have a problem, but the bottom line is, is we have some
 of the best players in the world and it is a shame if we don't
suck in it up and go play.

 Q.   You would like to see less expensive tickets and full
stadiums with enthusiastic fans?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, would you?

 Q.   I'd love it.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Good.

 Q.   Golf sometime people talk about the zone, when the player
is really rolling and winning.  Do you feel that this exists in
tennis; are you feeling that you are in a that zone now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I got a hot putter.  I feel like I am rolling
them in from all sides of the green.  Yeah, I feel good.  I feel
focused.  I feel prepared.  I feel, you know, motivated.  And
I feel like I make king all my shots now.  I am not making loose
errors.  I mean, just my whole game has come together and this
is what it is about, you know, when you look back and you say
these were my years, I really believe it is starting for me.

 Q.   Charlie Pasarell has said Monday night final, he thinks
would be a good for tennis to promote the game, sort of like a
Monday Night Football; your thoughts?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  That is a tough call.  I have  to think about
it a little bit more.  I can't be objective.  I just know when
you are watching a tennis match on Sunday, you are conditioned
to believing that that is the match; that is the final, so I would
be interested to see the ratings and then we can just base it
on that.  But I really wouldn't have an opinion offhand.  I'd
just be popping off if I said something.

   End of FastScripts!          

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT