NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  It is first time since '87 here that the top three
seeds are in the semifinals.  Questions for Andre.

 Q.   Andre, what are your thoughts now on coming up against
Becker tomorrow considering that you have beaten him the last
seven times you played him?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, you know, though I have strongly believe
now in a theory that the only thing that matters is really how
we execute our game plan tomorrow.  Whether I have been beaten
him or not, I think at this level, you just go out there and play
with the game plan that you have in mind and hope that you are
executing better than the other guy.  He is definitely playing,
you know, real good and I am playing real good, so it is going
to be a great match like it always is, and I have definitely gotten
the better end of him.  That is behind.  It doesn't matter. You
know, I know that as well as he does.

 Q.   He says he has never felt like an underdog to anybody
so you think he is justified in that statement even though he
has your way of thinking?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  He says he doesn't feel like  an underdog against
anybody?

 Q.   Yes.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It is hard to feel like an underdog when you play
as well as he does.  I mean, geez, he does everything real well.
 I mean, and he has a lot of fire power and he should go out there
confident because that is the only way he is going to be able
to beat everybody.  I mean, he did that against Larsson today.
 I thought he played really aggressive and confident.  I am sure
he is going to do that tomorrow.  I don't feel like an underdog
against anybody either and I think that is what separates the
few that are ranked the highest between everybody else.  Boris
is definitely one of those guys.

 Q.   Does he ever intimidate you, Andre, some people say when
they play him he is so gigantic; particularly up at the net, they
feel intimidated?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I always played against him and risen to the level.
 It is the first time I have played him here in Palm Springs in
the semifinals.  He beat me 7-5 in the third and I still remember
him breaking me with the backhand down on the line with my first
serve at 5-All.  Then he served it out.  I always risen to the
level because he is a very gifted tennis  player; inspired me
to play a higher level of tennis. He evening mentioned that every
time I play him I play real well.  It is hard not to play well
because you have to, you know, we had an incredible match in the
Davis Cup the last time that he beat me and it was 6-7, 6-7, 7-6,
6-3, 6-4.  It was an incredible five set match, that it was just
like -- I mean, I should have won it, to be quite honest.  I don't
want to think about it.  I should have.  I served for the match
at 6-5 in the third, 30-15, and I came in; he hit a chip across
court; I hit a drop volley that he barely got; lobbed it over
my head; I ran back and it landed on the line.  He ended up winning
the point.  Then I choked. And then he beat me in the fourth and
the fifth.  But we have always had great matches.  I mean, win
or lose, I mean, one time I beat him 6-4, 6-0 here; one time he
beat me  6-3 in Madison Square Garden, but every other time we
played it has been great matches, so I just get fired up to play
him and I think a lot of guys do, so I have never felt intimidated,
but I have always had, definitely, a high level of respect.

 Q.   You say you get fired up to play him.  Are there any
other players that you would even get more fired up to come up
against? 

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Probably "Pistol", you know, for sure
feel that when I step on the court against Pete, you know, you
got to rise to the level and I think it is the same with Courier,
you know, some -- those two specifically and then it kind of,
I think, drops a little bit.  I mean, Boris is one of those guys.
 It drops a little bit a level, and then you feel like Chang and
Bruguera are the guys and Stich, you know, kind of that group,
I think, for sure the top 3 I get fired up for Courier, Sampras
and Boris, just because what I believe they are capable of doing.


 Q.   Andre, do you think that maybe Wayne didn't have really
a tough, tough road playing you in the quarters?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  He had a tough road tonight.

 Q.   Oh, yeah.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I had a couple of easy matches too, scorewise,
but you got to come out here and rise to the level when you play
a guy -- he is a very dangerous player.  I feel like I have played
well tonight.  I feel like he played real well tonight.  But he
does everything extremely well.  I think if there is a weakness,
he has a tendency to make a lot of mental errors and, you know,
I just got on top of him early and that was important. 

 Q.   Andre, also anything you were not satisfied with your
game tonight in your game?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I felt like I could have returned a little better,
you know, but, you know, he sneaks his serve around a lot and
you wouldn't categorize him as a big server, but yet at the end
of the match you realize he served big.  He is that kind of player.
 He has kind of surprised me on a lot of first serves and I could
have returned a little bit better, but overall, I am pleased with
the way I am playing.

   End of FastScripts!   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT