NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 8, 1995
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   How do you feel half that? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Good start for me today.  I felt like I was hitting
the ball well.  Nice to be back on the hard courts again.

 Q.   Do you feel very confident now after the Australian Open?
 I mean, you have had a great run already this year.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I have never started off the year this strong,
and I just feel like -- just feel good hitting the ball well.
 I am looking forward to each match and so that is a good feeling.
 It is nice.

 Q.   Andre, are you well aware that if you win this tournament
and Pete bows out the next round or two that you would be No.
1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, so I hear, yeah.

 Q.   Any thoughts on that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I mean, not really. You know, I want to play
the best tennis in the world every time I am on the court, few
guys hope for that.  If it happens this week or next week, or
whatever, I mean, or never, it is like, you just you stick to
your game plan  and hope for the best, but it is always going
to happen if I keep executing what I have been doing.

 Q.   What is more important for you playing the best tennis
that you are capable of playing or being No. 1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I would have to say playing the best I can, simply
because I don't want to be No. 1 if I don't deserve it.

 Q.   Andre, they said you were ranked 31 this time last year.
 That is a pretty fantastic year you have had to date.  How do
you describe the way things have gone for you.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Really, it is not even fair to say that because
it is like the first 5-6 months I really didn't do much excluding
a finals performance in Key Biscayne, really, since Toronto which
was in the middle of the summer, you know, it has turned around
just before Toronto.  I was in the mid 20s, and or high 20s and
that was, you know, six or seven months ago. So it has been quite
incredible for me.

 Q.   Would you say a lot this relates to Brad or how ....

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Brad's direction has helped tremendously, but
you can't say that he has done it for  me, I mean, I have got
to be willing to go out there and work on my game and do things.
 I'd overcome a lot of personal, you know- how you want to call
it - struggles that I would have on the court, but I think Brad
has helped direct me in a very positive direction and it has worked
out great.  We are having a great time.

 Q.   Andre, players don't frequently feel sympathy or too
much empathy for players across the net, but when you play someone
like Mats who was so hot for so long, what are your sensations
or sentiments when you see him struggling a little bit?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, you try not to spend too much time thinking
about it is.  I mean, there is two sides to it.  He was a great
player and you are beating him handily, and there is that side
to it.  But the other side to it is he is a great player and he
knows how to win.  And so don't give him a chance.  And so also
there is the respect side to it too, so I mean, Mats is fine.
 He doesn't have to worry about being embarrassed out there. I
was hitting the ball really strong; he had chances to go 3-0 in
the second set and that could potentially make it a different
set.  A lot closer certainly, so I was just, you know, continuing
to try to work on my game and wasn't worried about  him.

 Q.   Andre, since you have got respect for the man, could
you talk about what it means to see Boris in the top three in
the world?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think for tennis's sake, it is a great thing,
I mean, it is like, Pete, myself and Boris, to be in the top 3
is, I think, really good for the game.  I think Boris is an exciting
player who has offered a lot to the game and he has gone through
a few years, I think where he has kind of resented being the kind
of person that everybody kind of looks towards at tournaments
-- I think now he doesn't have to worry about that.  There are
a few guys that are carrying that kind of weight.  I think that
has made him a lot more relaxed.  He seems to be playing his best
tennis yet.

 Q.   Do you guys approach this tournament any differently
because it's a Super 9 from maybe a San Jose or anything like
that; do you feel pressure with such big names -- you wouldn't,
perhaps there is an extra buzz?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I think the extra buzz is the fact that
there is 14 of the top 16 players in the world here. You know,
you can be playing in a public park somewhere with 14 of the 16
best players  and the intensity just rises, so I think that, that
is what it is attributed to.  The draws are difficult draws and
you are playing these guys early.

 Q.   Andre, with the hot weather, how does it feel better
having less hair?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Not quite sure, you know, I haven't quite figured
it out.  I still have not gotten out of the habit of pulling the
pony tail that doesn't exist.

 Q.   Do you feel the extra limelight and do you enjoy it with
sort of the way you have come through the last year; do you feel
the media may be chasing you around more or is it just the same?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it feels like the demands -- a lot more
demands on my time, but you just  -- I just try keep a balance.
 If I keep a balance, I don't experience too much difference.


 Q.   Any discussions at this point about the Davis Cup?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, we have had some discussions and we are
still discussing.

 Q.   How much longer can the discussions go on?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Hopefully, not as long as the baseball discussions.


 Q.   It is a matter of scheduling or, you know,  service change.
 That sort of thing?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it is a difficult thing as I am sure you
know, I mean, to go from Scottsdale, Palm Springs, Key Biscayne,
Davis Cup, four days off, get to Tokyo, that is difficult.  It
is difficult for me to go these next three weeks; Davis Cup --
ending it with Davis Cup with the intensity of having a few days
off and then go to fast outdoor in Tokyo.  It is a rough thing,
and we are just -- we are talking on lot of different levels.
 I don't really feel like at this point I should say much more
than that, but hopefully, by next week, we should have a good
idea of what is going to happen.

 Q.   Andre, you seem really fit.  Are you doing anything special
now for your conditioning?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Trying to stay away from that buffet table.  No,
I have been working hard, you know, my same program I have been
doing now for over a year, since I lost 18 pounds or so back in
'93 U.S. Open; and just maintained a high level of weight training
and cardiovascular training, so you got to maintain it else you
really fall behind.

 Q.   Do you think tennis should have an off-season? 

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes.  I do.  I feel like one of greatest things
about, you know, NBA or NHL or NFL, it is like there is a time
period where you don't have it.  So it is an exciting thing to
look forward to, and, you know, I think it will enhance the tennis.
 I think it will give the public a sense of excitement to look
forward to it.  But it is a difficult thing for the public to
understand.  It is all year-round and they don't know why the
rankings are the way they are, and I mean I can't tell you how
many times people just told me on the street that they thought
I was No. 1 because I beat Pete in the finals of Australia, so
it is a weird thing that people have a hard time understanding.
 I think that with an off-season, it would be a good step in the
right direction.

 Q.   Do you feel that you could beat anybody now when you
walk on-court?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes.

 Q.   Did you feel that way this time last year?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I mean, this time last year was an accomplishment
for me to go out there and just really play good tennis.  I mean,
I felt like I was trying to find my way out there on the court.
 I had a crazy match here last year with Santoro that it was ---
just it was strange, he was playing 30 --  literally 15 to 30
feet behind the baseline at times and I wasn't sure what to do,
so it just was a lot of time off last '93 and I feel like it took
me awhile to kind of get my game to where I felt like I wanted
it to be and then after doing well in the summer in US Open and
over the fall, I feel like down in Australia perfect example of
me playing with the belief that I can win every match.

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT