COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 9, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Could you tell us what happened in that  fourth game, Andre?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  He gave me a warning for an  obscenity that I mean -- obscenities are going on a  lot.  I mean, I think -- you need to be somewhat --  somewhat -- I mean, it's a judgment call.  But at some  stage, you got to really determine if, you know, if you  were the only one that heard it, and if you were the  one that was looking for it or if it was really clear  enough for it to be a bad mark on the sport.  And I  just think that a lot of times these guys don't make  the right call because they are looking straight at  your mouth, and they are, in a sense, waiting for you  to say something, and I don't -- and so he gave me the  warning.  I said it again, I got really upset and got a  point penalty.  Then I said it again, but he wouldn't  default me, you know.   
 

Q.  You were inviting a default; were you?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I was pissed off.  I mean,  I wasn't thinking straight.  I mean, I certainly -- I  don't want to be defaulted, but I think it is kind of  ironic that he will give me a point penalty but not  default me.   
 

Q.  So you were challenging him to do it?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I was very mad.  I wasn't  challenging anybody.  I was just reacting.  I was  upset.   
 

Q.  So the next point in the next game, that wild  shot went somewhere near him.  What happened?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  That was very unfortunate;  wasn't it?  Just Larsson served so big, I caught that  damn thing so late that it went straight towards him.  That was really unfortunate.   
 

Q.  Do you think possibly that there is too much  being made if you are muttering obscenities to yourself  that it is being picked up and punish --  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I do.  I think, first of  all, they shouldn't have that many microphones on the  court so that they are even inviting that to be a  problem.  I mean, if I am back with my towel, and I say  something into the towel, you know, 300 countries can  hear it -  But the umpire can't - so I don't get a  warning.  You know, I mean, I just absolutely think  that they need to remove the microphones from the court  or certainly the sensitivity of them and relax a little  bit.  If I am causing a scene out there, it is one  thing, but they just have nothing to do.  This is the only sport where the umpire is  not actually a part of the game.  Every other sport,  the umpire is making the calls; this guy just sits up  there.  He keeps score; twice a match he overrules and  he calls "not-ups" when the ball bounces twice and  occasionally a let.  I mean, it is tough to respect  somebody who is not part of the game.   
 

Q.  He is enough of the game to threaten your  continuing in the game, if you'd had been down one more  point?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Excuse me?   
 

Q.  He is enough a part of the game, really, to  be able to say "well, off you go"?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  He can send you off the court?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, you know, he can, but  fortunately he has to discuss it with the supervisor  and, you know, in most cases, the supervisor has more  sense, you know, but I'd either like to see the umpires  be a part of the game -- get them down on the lines  moving around, calling some balls themselves.   
 

Q.  Clearly you weren't happy about it.  How does  it rank with the "bum" decisions of your time?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, it cost me a  point penalty in the first set.  I felt like I didn't  pull myself together until the second set.  I mean, I  had -- didn't feel like -- I mean, I felt like Larsson  was playing well and, you know -- and so who knows if  it would have changed the outcome of the match, but it  cost me the first set and a lot of frustration, and --  but that is something I have to live with.  I mean,  that is the way it is out there, and I got to accept  that.   
 

Q.  Would you say much it cost you a place in the  semis?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Let me say this:  If it didn't happen, I'd have a much better  chance of being in the semis.  But that doesn't mean I  would sit here and say because he did this I lost.  That is not accepting responsibilities for yourself.  I  mean, I lost the match.  He played better than me; he  beat me - period.  That is it.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised how well he played from  the back of the court?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I mean, I have seen him --  I have seen him play before, and I know he can play  well.  I mean, I definitely don't feel like I was on  top of my game by any means.  I didn't feel like I was  moving well.  I think I felt a little weak from the  cold that I have been fighting off, and so I wasn't as  sharp as I could be.  When guys hit that big off the  ground, you got to run down a few balls and make him do  it a few times.  I felt like I could have done that  better, but it didn't surprise me at all.   
 

Q.  From what you are saying, Andre, do you think  in view of the fact that you admit that you used the  "F-word" three times, perhaps he was a bit scared to  default you?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, I could sit here and  guess as to what his reasons are.  I mean, I don't  know, but I definitely know that he was very quick to  give me a point penalty, but the same thing happened  again, and he wasn't so quick to default me, and --   
 

Q.  Do you see yourself as being in a sense wrong  what you did there, or do you think you should be  allowed to "let go?"  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  No, I don't think you  should be able to "let go."  I don't think you should  be held accountable to things you say at a certain  level.  I think, there is way too many microphones on  the court, and, you know, they don't want the people to  hear it on the TV, then get the microphones off the  court.  You know, it goes on.  I mean, like I said, I  could be back at my towel and say something and not get  a warning and none of you will be asking me these  questions, but a lot of countries across this planet  would be going, you know, "I didn't appreciate my kids  hearing that."  And I don't think I should swear.  My  first choice is to be in complete control of myself.  But there are times where -- when the frustration level   -- and it does happen -- and all I am saying is what  do we do about that?  I just don't think there should  be that many microphones on the court.   
 

Q.  That many microphones, like words should be a  common thing on the court -- with that many microphones  on court, "F-words" should be, let us say, some kind of  a common thing on the court?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't understand your  question.   
 

Q.  You said to remove that many microphones; in  that case, you guys could say as much "F-words" you  want.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  So do you have a problem with  me saying the "F-word" or do you have a problem with  people hearing me saying the "F-word"?   
 

Q.  Well, the problem is "F-words" shouldn't be  said.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  So, you wish you were my  parent then; is that what it is?  I think you need to think about it a little  bit more.  It is not -- the reality of it is that the  most important thing is that people don't hear it.  Okay.  And if you put the mic-- why don't we attach a  microphone under our shirt; why don't we do that?  Then  you can really catch us if we say it, huh?   
 

Q.  I still think that the problem is saying that  or not saying that and behaving some certain way.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, that is a beautiful  thing about Germany, you can have an opinion, huh?  I  mean, I don't agree.   
 

Q.  Doesn't have anything to do with Germany.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it is your opinion.  My  opinion is quite different.   
 

Q.  Right.  My question was?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Sorry.  Are your asking me a  question?   
 

Q.  Never mind.  It doesn't make any sense.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I was hoping you'd come to  that conclusion.   
 

Q.  Andre, are you suggesting that the umpire  only took action because he knew it was being broadcast  or do you think he heard it or did he lip read it or  what?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No -- I don't know why this is  such a big deal.  I have made it clear.  He heard me say it.  But the reality of it is  that a lot of times, umpire will look straight at you;  they are picking up on things that maybe the television  isn't and maybe other people aren't.  And then if the  television is picking up on it -- I mean, I think we  need to consider it not being so sensitive.  You can't  breathe out there without everybody hearing it.  I mean, the first choice is not to say it.  The second choice is -- the reality of it is,  it does happen.  I am sorry.  I wish I could control  myself better all the time.  And I wish I can control  everybody else better all the time.  But that is not  the reality.  The reality is it happens.  And because  it happens, I don't think there should be as many  microphones on the court.   
 

Q.  Inviting almost neck microphones, but this is  an invitation that comes about through money in tennis;  isn't it, through TV?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  What do you mean?   
 

Q.  There are too many microphones there because  of TV presence, don't you think, there are too many --  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I think so.   
 

Q.  It is because of the money?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  There is one at the umpire's  chair; one on the net cord; one in the back on both  corners, and you got them all over than the place.   
 

Q.  There was a guy called McEnroe who objected  to this at a time also.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, John--   
 

Q.  Nothing has changed; has it?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I mean, I think they  added more.  I think with the ATP Tour, I think more  microphones came on, I think, back in  1990 or  something.  I remember it got a lot more -- it became  much more of an issue and before every match the  umpires were telling you, now, listen, we got a  microphone here and microphone there.   
 

Q.  First obscenity was directed to yourself  then?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes, very much so.   
 

Q.  That is your complaint, really; isn't it?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it was under my breath.  It was just to myself.   
 

Q.  What are you going to do now, Andre?  Obviously, you are going to go home.  Are you going to put your feet up for a few  weeks?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I got to start preparing,  you know, I mean, I think I have had a little rest  between Frankfurt and here, but it is time to start  preparing now for Australia.  The unfortunate thing is  we don't have that off-season so you can't afford to  really sit down for a few weeks; you got to keep moving  and keep planning, and working to go further else you  fall behind, so I am starting my preparation for  Australia right away.   
 

Q.  When do you think you might actually end down  there?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Probably about the 7th of  January.   
 

Q.  What on earth happened in the final set with  turning things around?  You got your mind back  together; game sort of seemed fine; then all fell to  pieces?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  30-Love, serving at Love-1;  played a few loose points.  He hit a couple of big  shots, I mean, then -- I mean, I was completely  discouraged after he got up that second break.  I felt  like I didn't feel like I had as much energy as I  wanted.  I didn't feel like I was moving as well as I  could have, and, you know, and it took it's toll in the  third set.  I mean, but he hit some big shots on the  line and, you know, he picked up his game and I didn't  answer it.   
 

Q.  Such a big man.  Were you surprised at times  how well he moved and how sort of supple he was at  times?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know what, I think  he controlled most of the points, so you always look  like you are moving better when you are controlling the  points.  I mean, speed is definitely not his strength,  but he does move well for somebody his size. But I  think that if I could utilize my strengths against him;  then maybe we could see a little bit more in his  footwork, how good it is, but today he was controlling  the points and that was the key for him.   
 

Q.  Did you move well?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I didn't feel like I was  moving well today.   
 

Q.  Andre, you are saying you are going to go  back and start working for Australia now.  Any specific  aspect of your game or physical fitness or whatever  that you are going to have to work on?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think you are always  looking to improve.  I want to get a little quicker.  I  feel like when I am playing well, I am moving really  well and I can move well better all the time.  I can  move better every match -- I feel like, you know, I can  always move better.  I feel like that is one thing --  that is one thing that -- I am so used to controlling  most of the points that a lot of times I am a little  more lackadaisical in my movement than I care to be, so  I am going to focus on that and focus on a few other  strategic parts of my game that I don't really care to  mention but you will hopefully see it in Australia.   
 

Q.  Next year, looking forward, you have had a  good upbeat latter part of the year, considering the  start of the year you had.  What are you looking for  out of next year?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, to me, winning  the Grand Slams is the most important thing.  I'd like  to win Australia and I'd like to win the French.  I  have never done that.  So, you know, being No. 1 is  something that I think has to happen because of all the  things that you are accomplishing and all the things  that you are managing to improve on.  So being No. 1  isn't really a goal.  It is kind of, in my opinion,  like I have always said a by-product if how you are  improving on your game.  So we are going to start with  Australia and hopefully we can get that one under our  belt this year.  It is my first time playing there, so  I am excited to see how I respond to it.   
 

Q.  Will you be travelling with Brad?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes.   
 

Q.  Is he here, by the way?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, he is not here.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT