COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you enjoy that match as much as the crowd  obviously did and certainly we did as well?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Thank you.  I mean, from a  tennis standpoint, I sure did.  I mean, I have a bit of  a cold so that was kind of laboring on me a little  bit.  I didn't feel like I was 100%, but I definitely  felt like I maximized myself today, and I am just -- I  seem to enjoy it now.  Every time I am on the court,  there is always something that I am getting out of it.  


Q.  This is maybe the same thing.  But for me,  your game is seeming to go more for winners than you  ever did, but the next thing is you seem to enjoy the  game more than you ever did.  Maybe the one thing is  next to the other, I don't know.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I have to be doing more  than just going for winners because I have been  winning.  So I making them, and I am playing better.  I  mean, when you are playing better, you take more  chances, and you make more shots and your confidence  goes -- you try more shots, you make more.  It is  confidence.  It is practice.  It is hard work -- but I  do think they go hand in hand.  Because I feel like, to  me, the enjoyment of the game is so very important to  my -- to the way I play.  I have always been a very  emotional player, and when I have struggled  emotionally, whether it was in my personal life or -- I  never could separate it.  So it always had a strong  impact on my tennis.  Now, I am really starting to  learn how to utilize my emotions and keep things a  little separate at times when I am not feeling so good,  and it always works together.  


Q.  It looks that way too.  Your view of that point, replaying it at this  time, it obviously looked like it hit on the baseline  --  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, he hit a lob over my  head, and I ran back for it and it came down.  I mean,  it was literally coming straight down and it just  landed on the line, you know.  And I don't know if the  linesmen called that.  I heard -- somebody called out;  apparently the umpire called it out.  But you know, the  crowd was going nuts and I couldn't say anything, well  they were so loud; when they calmed down, I said "the  ball was on the line."  


Q.  Did you go back and see it on the replay or  not?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  No, I knew it was on the  line before it bounced.  


Q.  What did you do between the ATP Tour final in  Frankfurt and this tournament?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Back in Las Vegas for a little  bit and spent some time in New York and, you know,  practicing a little bit; took a few days off; practiced  for about a week or so; then took a few days off right  before I came over.  


Q.  Did you watch the new Grease on Broadway?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have seen that show like at  least a dozen times.  And every time is like the first.  


Q.  Andre, you were talking about bringing  emotions into your game. But for a lot of people, you  know, it takes like thirty, forty years to bring  emotions into their life.  And how come you do this at  this stage of your life?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think you are a little slow,  man.  


Q.  Well, maybe, but. . .  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I am just giving you a hard  time.  I don't know.  I am a very dramatic person.  I mean, everything I feel really deep; whether it is  very good feelings and sometimes very bad feelings.  Sometimes the pain in my life is very intense and so is  the excitement.  So I just tend to work that way, and  my priorities have always been, you know, my  relationship with God and my friends and loved ones in  my family, and those priorities haven't changed.  I am  just, you know, now balancing it all.  


Q.  Suppose you win this championship, would you  donate the biggest win of your career to a charity  organization?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, what?  I  believe in charity very strongly.  I have my own  foundation that I have started in Las Vegas, the Andre  Agassi Foundation, and it supports inner-city youths of  Las Vegas - is where we are starting.  We are keeping  kids off the streets; off drugs through recreation and  education.  It is something I believe in tremendously.  I dedicate not only my time, but a lot of my money to  this.  I have a staff of three people that work  specifically on this.  I pay their salaries.  I don't  pay their salaries through money that I generate.  This  tournament here is, to me, you know, I mean, there has  always been such criticism about "should there be this  much money in tennis."  The reality of it is that the  stadium is full up there, and they donate - I don't  know if anybody -- I don't see this written much - but  $3 million a year is given away, the profit, $3 million  a year over the last five years is $15 million.  2  million has gone to third world countries tennis  programs in developing tennis; another million goes  every year to a charity of Axel's choice.  And  sometimes that varies.  I mean, that is an incredible  thing.  And I know there is a lot of money in this  tournament for the players, but the bottom line is that  we come here and the stadium is full and it seems like  everybody feels good about it.  But as far as me  donating personal money, I mean, trust me, I am very  accountable to that.  It is something that I believe in  very strongly.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT