ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First sets you dropped this week, did it  worry you at all?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: No, I felt pretty comfortable.  I think Sergi picked up his level of play in the  second, put together some key points to break me and  then held two service games where he hit, I think, six  aces, combined, so the set just got away.  I wasn't too  concerned.  I knew that I could slow things down a  little bit and get it under control in the third.   
 

Q.  Andre, you hit the heck out of the ball as  did he; it was like a real war?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: It always is when I play  Sergi.  We both, you know, count on dictating play from  the backcourt and, you know, he hits a lot of top.  I  can drive the ball through the court and it is a great,  you know, interaction of a lot of different shots, and  it is -- that is pretty much expected, even if the  score is, you know, 4 and 4 like in Paris; it is always  great tennis.   
 

Q.  Thoughts about playing Pete tomorrow.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I am looking forward to  it.  That is what you come here for.   
 

Q.  But you talk about a rivalry as he;  developing a rivalry.  I mean, you beat him in Paris,  what about tomorrow, what will be different?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Hopefully, nothing.  Hopefully  I will beat him again. You know, I have been hitting  the ball strong and I am quite confident and, you know,  I just -- I couldn't think of a better time to play  again, right now, the World Championships.  I mean,  maybe ideally in the finals, but it is just as with, I  think, Boris, you know, has proven on the other side  that he is playing the best tennis and so, you know, I  played Pete first and I am looking forward to it. You  know, 1:00 tee time, I am ready to go.   
 

Q.  Andre, are you comfortable with this round  robin setup with regard to questions on whom you are  going to play next and whether you are, if you win  tonight you play somebody; you lose, you play somebody  else; should it be more clear cut, a knockout  situation?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: No.  You don't come all the way  down to the Final 8 just to have single elimination.  I  don't agree with that.  Maybe they should, you know,  just flip a coin for who plays who as opposed to one  plays two or two plays one - maybe they should flip a  coin.  If I played Boris or Pete, we don't know that  until all the matches are there; something along those  lines.  There are times when it works out quite well  and other times, when somebody can go out there and  lose a match just to feel like you get a better draw,  and that is -- then it boils down to the competitor.   
 

Q.  Did you see Pete's match this afternoon?  Did  you watch any of it?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: I saw some of it, yeah.   
 

Q.  Do you think that he was playing more to the  level that he was playing in the first half of the year  as opposed throughout the fall?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I think he is hitting the  ball real well.  Tough to say where his confidence is  because he did miss out on a lot of tournaments and I  am sure he was hoping for a better fall, but he looked  like he was hitting the ball very strongly today.   
 

Q.  Andre, what kind of rapport do you have with  Sergi?  You seemed to be joking a lot with him  imitating his shots and what not?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, he is an easy guy to  imitate, you know.  I mean, Sergi and -- I mean, we are  friends; we hang out every now and then.  He has made a  trip out to Vegas before.  He is a good guy.  He is  just -- there is something, you know, very endearing  about Sergi; there is a great spirit to him.  So I  enjoy playing against him because he fights hard and he  is fair and he is just a good guy.   
 

Q.  Do you think he can win the tournament?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Sergi?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: I think you would get some real  good odds if you were betting that in Vegas.  This is  indoors and I think that Boris -- the way Boris is  hitting the ball and it is going to be very difficult.  I think he fights hard enough where you never know what  can happen, but I think it is a little too difficult.   
 

Q.  After three baseliners you have now got at  least one; possibly, two big servers.  Restructuring of  your tactics or anything?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: There is always adjustments,  you know, you play everybody differently.  Quite  honestly, I play Chang differently than I play Sergi.  They are two different type of baseliners.  You are  always adjusting your game.  I am not too concerned  with that.  I think that at the Open I had a variety of  baseliners, great baseliners and great serve and  volleyers, I managed to adjust to it, so I feel pretty  comfortable with that.   
 

Q.  Do you see any difference in the game of  Sergi?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Let me guess.  You are from  Spain?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Do I see differences in Sergi  from when?   
 

Q.  From the last time you played him.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: In Paris?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I think this court is a  little more suitable for his style of play.  It is a  little heavier, the balls are a little heavier; little  slower court, so it is more time for his big swings.  He takes very big swings too.  The faster the court,  the more difficult it becomes.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT