ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CORRINE MILLIAND:  Andre Agassi is the first  player who has qualified for the semifinals on  Saturday.  


Q.  Andre, you have got two matches under your  belt.  You are in the semifinals.  How do you feel?  

ANDRE AGASSI: I feel great.  I mean, you come  here and you are playing against the greatest players  in the world, so you really get into the semis.  I  mean, you have a legitimate shot of winning it; it is  just the year's ending on a very high note for me. My  confidence is as high as it has ever been.  I couldn't  feel better.  


Q.  Shows in your play.  Seems like it took you  guys a little bit to get focused in the beginning, plus  there was some conversation with the umpire; what was  it?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Discussing his outfit.  We  didn't like it.  No, he is -- the cyclops missed Michael's  first serve in the first game, and then came game point  and I served next game on game point, missed another  one.  Michael complained about it.  I said, second one  they missed; all three of us saw those serves out, we  should shut it off, so we had to get it turned off.  


Q.  In a way are you almost too hyped up, Andre,  because first set you missed a couple of high volleys  -- not missed them, but they were spectacular ones?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I missed a few of them.  I am not playing so good, huh?  You know what it is like?  Michael competes  really hard, and every time I play him he is always  adjusting his game to try something to beat me, and  today he was really standing up on the plate and really  going for a lot more than -- I mean, he is never  usually making that many errors and never usually  hitting that many winners, so there is a certain amount  of adjusting you have to do when you feel somebody's  game, you know, adjust to yours.  


Q.  Andre, you have come on so hard since the  Gilbert thing, really, what is he doing exactly; some  people think he is just a figurehead.  

ANDRE AGASSI: Oh, really?  You know, he is  helping my game a lot.  


Q.  How so?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, I mean, it is kind of  getting old saying this over and over again, but, you  know, I think my weaknesses in the past have been his  strengths and there has been more in the mind and the  strategy towards the game.  


Q.  Today against Michael, what did you do -- how  did you beat him?  What did you do?  How do you  counteract him?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, you know what, when he  beat me at the U.S. Open, I felt really good about that  win, but then he mentioned afterwards that he pointed  out some of my weaknesses and so after he said that; I  was like, wow, that is interesting since he lost 6-1 in  the fifth, and I went to the videotape and I studied it  and I saw the weakness he was talking about, and I  worked on them.  So I owe a lot of thanks to him for  that.  


Q.  Well, I am not interested in your weakness.  I would like to know what you do for entertainment in  the evening when Brooke is in New York, probably?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Oh, are you making a pass at  me?  


Q.  This is something nice already.  

ANDRE AGASSI: You know, sit down, please,  just sit down, please.  


Q.  Don't worry, I am happily married, so... 

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, it's just business here  this week, you know, just business.  


Q.  So Brooke is busy and in New York?  

ANDRE AGASSI: She is actually not in New York  this second, but she will be there very shortly.  


Q.  A match against Bruguera you are playing for  position rather than survival.  Will the energy be any  different, dynamically different?  

ANDRE AGASSI: It doesn't matter what is on  the line.  You never want to lose to these guys because  it has such a direct impact on the next time you play,  and it has such a direct impact on your own confidence;  I don't care how unimportant a match is.  If you lose  it, it does hurt your confidence a little bit.  I think  that that is a fact, you know, so we are competitors  and competitors are going to go out there and fight to  win, because as far as we are concerned, there is a lot  on the line.  


Q.  Andre, you know now that in the semifinals  you will play a serve and volleyer.  Does that require  you to think anything differently about your approach  to the match?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Certainly.  I think that was  one of the strongest accomplishments for me this U.S.  Open because I felt like I played against the  baseliners and the best serve and volleyers and those  adjustments aren't easy.  I think I've really proven to  myself that I can make those adjustments by the day, so  I think I have always played a little better against  the serve and volleyers, but I have managed to really  now separate myself from a lot of the baseliners, so I  am looking forward to it.  I mean, it is part of the  game and there are so many different aspects to it.  It  is nice to get that variety.  


Q.  Are you confident in your own mind that you  can sustain the current appetite you found for the game  and all the work and everything that goes with it?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Heck, if I can play well in the  fall, the rest of the year is a cake-walk.  I mean, I  have never had a good fall. You know, I mean, it really  has been easy for me in the past to play well in Key  Biscayne and Palm Springs and then to play well in the  French Open and now I am going to go to the Australian  Open, I mean, these are -- I couldn't feel better about  where my game is and not only for today, but for the  rest of my career, I am only going forward from here  there is no doubt in my mind about that.  


Q.  You won this tournament in the fall before,  Andre?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, I did.  But I didn't have  a good few weeks leading into it, and every time I play  against top players, I do -- it does bring out the best  in my game, and so to me, it is saying much more that I  can go three weeks in Europe and have two wins and a  quarterfinals 7-6 in the third to Goran than it is  winning here, so it is all fitting together.  


Q.  Andre, why have you decided to finally play  in Australia?  

ANDRE AGASSI: Well, actually, last two years  I planned on going down there.  Year before last, I got  bronchitis.  I got really ill, and you can't go down  there physically not 100%.  Last year, needless to say,  I was in the cast during Australia recovering from  surgery, so it just hasn't worked out the past couple  of years.  Early only, I just think I wanted my offtime  I was really concerned about not having enough offtime  and not being fresh to start the year because I only  had three weeks off at the end of the year.  I think  that was my concern before.  Now tennis has taken a  much higher priority and something that I am enjoying  and it is actually therapeutic to me in a lot of ways  now.  


Q.  Andre, why are you okay with the fact that an  alternate can take the place of the player and get the  points, an injured player?  

ANDRE AGASSI: What the hell did you say?  


Q.  The thing about Stich, he could have replaced  Berasategui after the start of the --  

ANDRE AGASSI: Right.  


Q.  Get his points and everything.  Have you been  consulted about that and --  

ANDRE AGASSI: From what I heard, Berasategui  was too injured to play, but wanted to play because he  didn't want Stich to pass him?  


Q.  Stich is allowed with the new rule to get  into the group and play and get the points and  eventually qualify for -- you didn't --  

ANDRE AGASSI: Are you saying that Berasategui  was going to pull out, but --  


Q.  If he had pulled out.  

ANDRE AGASSI: Do I agree with that?  Well, I think he should have pulled out after  a match, for sure.  But he is -- apparently he hurt his thumb and  I think that in this case, I do agree with it because I  think Stich deserves to be here.  


Q.  You didn't vote for that?  

ANDRE AGASSI: I don't vote for a lot of  things, you know, I don't remember voting for it one  way or another, but I do feel that the 9th player does  deserve a shot if something happens to the top 8,  yeah.  


Q.  Who do you prefer, Boris or Stefan, in the  semi?  

ANDRE AGASSI: To me, I couldn't answer that.  I mean, probably, you know, Stefan, I mean I think it  will just be a little bit more exciting to play Boris  in the finals I mean, here in Germany and the people  love him.  It would be fun, you know, I'd take a shot  at us both winning and hopefully -- but Pete can still  get in there too, you shouldn't exclude him because,  you know, he had a little let-down today.  I don't  think he played great, but he will come back and play  strong tomorrow, but I mean, to me it would be exciting  to play the person who is playing the best tennis;  looks like Boris is on that side.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT