ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Andre, I think you couldn't wish a better  start?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, I am hitting the  ball very strong and I am playing very confidently.   
 

Q.  What do you think about your opponent,  strange for you to meet somebody who has played --  (Inaudible.)  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, I think that  Berasategui's best surface is clay, but I mean, he  still hits the ball well.  I still got to play well to  win, and I felt like today when I am hitting the ball  like that, you know, I feel very confident against  anybody.  But I think it was a little uncomfortable for  him.   
 

Q.  You must like your form?  You must feel good?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  It seems at times you were playing with your  opponent, is that an accurate statement?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Come on, man.  ATP ranking  system, he is the 7th best player in the world.   
 

Q.  That is the second point.  This is a case in  point, in your opinion, how the ratings are compiled?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I personally don't feel like  he should be able to play a bunch of small clay court  tournaments to get your ranking high enough to come  into an event.  I know a lot of guys that I'd rather  not play over Alberto on a surface like this, but I  mean, it is easy to bitch about the problems.  To come  up with the solution is something that I think the ATP  is responsible for, and hopefully they are making some  progress.   I think they are talking about a new way of  ranking, so it is not quite as easy just to play 35  tournaments.   
 

Q.  Do you have a suggestion for the way they  could change things?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, but it is kind of a  whole package of a bunch of things that --   
 

Q.  We can talk about it--  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  -- I don't care to discuss  right now.   
 

Q.  Andre, can you remember what you were doing  this exact week last year?  Was it just after the  operation?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, the operation was the 17th  of December.  I was just in a cast.  I wasn't doing  anything of the -- I was attempting my second cortizone  hoping it would work and get rid of the problem.   
 

Q.  You really feel he doesn't have a place here,  Andre, in a sense?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  He has a place here under the  system because he is here - period.  He does have a  place here.  He has a 7th place here.  But I am just  saying that, you know, you shouldn't be playing small  clay court tournaments right before you come here.  I  don't believe that that is the way the Tour should be  structured.  There is something not right about that.  Todd Martin I played twice in Stockholm and in Paris,  and, you know, a guy like that is out there, you know,  playing the big tournaments; playing all the surfaces  and doing as best, you know, to make it, and I mean, I  think it is great that Alberto is great on clay and I  know he is, but there should be some stipulation as to  the different surfaces that you have to play, and  certain penalties for, you know, you just can't play 35  tournaments and take your best 14.  I don't like that.   
 

Q.  They do have lower points in a lot of those  small clay tournaments; you are not going to win as  much as you are going to win if you play a hard court  tournament; more money?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I understand that, but  still, you know, everybody is going to have bad results  if you go play enough and to me, every time you step on  the court it should count.  I mean, has nothing to do  against Alberto.  I think he has done an incredible  job.  I think he has worked very hard to be here and  deserves it.  I don't think you should be able to take  your best 14 tournaments.   
 

Q.  Anymore questions?  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You guys are too easy, man.   
 

Q.  Fast match; fast interview.  
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I guess so.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT