ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Brad is not here?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  He is not here.  


Q.  Is he not coming?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, he is with me.  He is just  not here in this hall.  He is with me, yes.  


Q.  Andre, how does it feel to be back here in  Frankfurt after such a remarkable year you had?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it is unbelievable for  me.  I guess mostly because even as recent as the  middle of the summer I never would have guessed I was  coming.  So to turn the year around and to end being  here No. 2 only looking to move up is a great feeling.  


Q.  What changed, Andre?  Of course you had --  after your injury; it took some time; suddenly you  played such great tennis again.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know what?  I think  that, you know, the injury and then trying to come  back, I found myself starting off strong, but then, you  know, struggling and I just persevered and just kept on  with the game plan and kept on believing, and then  sometimes it doesn't happen right away and it didn't.  I struggled on clay and then it really just came around  for me, and it is different now.  I think Brad's  experienced -- he helped keep me focused and directed;  always looking to the next accomplishment.  So I don't  think you will see the inconsistency as much as you  used to.  


Q.  How much influence does he have, because  let's say -- funny in a way that he was writing a book,  "How To Win Ugly."  I don't think you win ugly.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I had a couple of matches this  fall where they were pretty ugly.  I was down 6-0, 4-2  double breakpoint to Kulti, and I came back and won.  But, you know, I think Brad's strengths had been my  weaknesses, and he has really helped make my game more  complete.  


Q.  If there's any one thing that he has done or  said to you which has uplifted you where you said yeah,  of course, that is right?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Just his absolute belief that  I should be nowhere but playing for the best in the  world, you know. I mean, and the confidence of which he  speaks is incredible.  I mean, he tells me I have  played these guys and I know what your game is compared  to them, and it's that kind of belief that I think  really enabled me to believe in myself.  


Q.  You didn't have this belief for yourself?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think sometimes you do, but  quite honestly, it is tough to be objective.  I have  always struggled about being objective with myself.  There were times when I questioned -- yeah, I  questioned if the game had even passed me by to some  degree.  


Q.  If you look back on struggling after your  injury, how desperate have you been about making a  comeback?  Was it difficult for you to make this  comeback if you believed you could make it?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  The comeback, to me, started  off on a very simple level.  I missed the game and I  wanted to come and play the game and enjoy the game and  entertain some people and add something.  And if I  enjoyed what I was doing, I would accept anything that  happened; whether I won or whether I have lost.  Then,  as I started playing, it all started changing because I  felt like I could do certain things and I felt like I  could win certain things.  And this summer was a big  turnaround for me, and in Toronto -- I felt like since  Toronto, absolutely, I have played the best tennis that  I have ever played.  


Q.  I have heard you found yourself back ranked  31?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I started at 32.  Well, I  mean, it is not a good feeling, but the thing that I  always -- like I had was the respect from the players.  If I was in the tournament and guys didn't want to  necessarily play me, and early in the tournament and I  felt like I could win the tournament if I put together  a week or two of good tennis, so that is important to  feel that way.  But you can't get around the fact that  you are No.32 in the world, and that there are 31 guys  that have played better this year than you have.  So  that is something that was a struggling point for me,  but I didn't focus on it because it was senseless to  focus on that.  


Q.  Is 1995 then perhaps probably going to be the  most important year you have ever had; to sort of prove  that you can carry on to what you have done the end of  this year?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it will be the most  important year, but I think the next three or four  years will be the greatest years of my career.  I am  not trying to prove anything.  As far as I am  concerned, I am doing it.  I mean, I am out here  winning match after match.  I am out here, you know,  playing some of the best tennis and I don't accept  anything less.  To me, it is not a question of proving  something as much as it is a question of being excited  to get out there playing for another year or two,  hopefully to win more titles and to be ranked No. 1.  


Q.  Do you feel you are tougher on yourself now  than you were before?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  In certain ways; in certain  ways not as tough.  I mean, there are times in the past  where I have beaten myself up over certain losses that  I never should have, and other times where I took it  easy at times where I should have been a little  harder.  I felt like I have really had a backwards  approach.  Now I think it has really changed a lot  because of Brad's perspective.  


Q.  Looking back to the U.S. Open, Andre, so many  people didn't expect that.  Suddenly you're totally  back in your own game, everything fits.  What happened  there if you look back?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I just worked hard.  I have  been working out the whole year.  Hard court is a  comfortable surface for me when I haven't played in a  year, basically.  And the clay was the difficult part  for me this year, but, you know, it is three out of  five, and my game has turned around in front totally.  I was beating these guys, and I have really felt like,  you know, I was the favorite when I stepped on the  court.  That is a great feeling to have.  I can't say  what turned around.  I just know that I put together  the best tennis that I have ever played.  And I mean,  there wasn't one point that I wasn't 100% focused on.  


Q.  How important is the mental part there?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  The mental part is everything  for me, because that has been -- I have always had the  game.  I think I have always struggled mentally.  


Q.  You also made a jump back into the top 10.  Did you really believe perhaps I could make top 10?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  After the U.S. Open I  certainly believed I could.  And then when I went to  the fall this year, I mean, Vienna was and Paris I  played incredible tennis; better than the U.S. Open.  If I had played myself at the U.S. Open, I would beat  them 4 and 2.  


Q.  You start to like Europe now?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, absolutely.  I think I  have liked it for a few years.  It is difficult  travelling and staying away from home, but there are  things that I appreciate about Europe that I never did  when I was younger.  Staying over for two or three  weeks at a time is very, very comfortable for me.  


Q.  You told us in Stockholm, you said you  criticized the system, that if you look back on  discussions changing the rules, do you think the Tour  is getting better; they listen more to top players?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I feel like the game is not  struggling as people want to make it seem to be, but  that doesn't mean we can't do things to improve it.  I  think the ranking system needs to improve.  I think  there needs to be fewer tournaments.  I think that we  need to be playing each other a lot more often.  I  think there needs to be an off-season for the game  itself; not for the players; not because I don't want  to play.  I just think it creates interest.  I mean,  when you don't have tennis for three months, it gives  the public something to look forward to.  You can turn  on your TV and watch tennis any week.  I think that  needs to change.  But I think we can do certain things to help  change the game, help make it better.  But I don't feel  like it is so bad.  I just feel like we've got to make  it better.  We always should make it better.  


Q.  Do anything about rackets and balls?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  What is that?  


Q.  Do anything about the rackets and balls?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  My personal feeling is you  shouldn't play with wide bodies.  I think that hurts  the game.  I also feel like there should be one Tour  ball, there should be one Tour indoor surface, one Tour  outdoor surface; clay, it should have four basic  surfaces, you know.  


Q.  You are challenging Pete now for the first  time for the No. 1 spot in these coming months because  you don't have any points to defend until March, I  think?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah. Well, I mean, I have a  good opportunity here, you know, but that doesn't mean  anything if I don't go out there and keep doing what I  am doing.  I mean, there is a good chance Pete is going  to be playing well too, so this is a year process.  I  just don't want to try to be No. 1 before I have to  defend points.  I want to try to be No. 1 every  tournament I play.  


Q.  Where do you get this motivation?  You had  the motivation for a couple of months and then you lost  it again.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  A couple of months was a long  time.  


Q.  Where do you get this motivation; is it  partly from Brad?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Sure.  Brad has a lot to do  with it; maturity.  I am getting older, 24 years old,  three, four years are going to be the best years of my  career; then that is it.  Then you get to fight to  maintain these years.  I can get better.  It is an  exciting thought to me.  


Q.  What happened, for instance, a couple of  years ago after one month of playing well?  What  happened then, you started losing concentration or you  didn't want to play anymore; what was happening?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know.  Sometimes you  don't want to stay in Europe three weeks.  I never  played Stockholm and Paris and did well. You know,  there is a lot of other places you'd rather be.  You  want to focus on a few tournaments that you enjoy being  at.  You want to practice when -- you know, when you  have already had your time with your friends.  And so  those are things that are changing.  To me, I want to  be on the court practicing all the time.  It is a great  feeling.  


Q.  What have you been doing since Paris?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Since Paris?  


Q.  Yeah.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I went back to see Brooke for  a few days and went back to Las Vegas and stayed there  a couple of days and then I came over yesterday.  


Q.  Did you work out?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I took off Monday through  Wednesday.  Then I practiced Thursday, Friday and  Saturday.  


Q.  On a similar surface to this or what?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Actually --  


Q.  Do you have one available?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Not similar.  Indoors, but not  the same surface.  Just worked on a few basic things,  serves.  


Q.  You still have someone regularly to practice  with?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I haven't had any problems.  I  use Brad.  It's great to have a coach that can actually  practice with you.  He plays a little better than Nick  does.  


Q.  Just a little better?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think so.  


Q.  Many people said there should be more stars  in tennis.  It is sometimes difficult for you to accept  that you are such a big star.  Does it give a lot of  pressure?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  I enjoy it and appreciate  it, but they don't like me because I do my best to be  something that they want.  They like me because it  turns out that they like who I am and how I conduct  myself.  These are things that I do, not because I am  forced to or because I think about it, it is what I  do.  And I don't think about it.  


Q.  Do you think the audience will be part of the  match?  In your matches the audience takes part in the  match.  I think too many tennis players just play the  game and focus on the ball.  There should be more  players on the court like you.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't go out on the court  and watch them play, so I don't know how they respond.  But I know that when I play, I feel like people enjoy  it and, you know, if they are complaining about other  matches, you know, well, I mean, I wouldn't know  because I don't go out there and watch.  My perspective  is when I am out there I feel like people enjoy it, so  I don't worry about what other people do.  


Q.  Do you consider tennis like a theater; that  you have to give a show?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think there is unbelievable  skill to it that people appreciate.  But as well as the  skill, I think there is a certain amount of energy and  passion you should have about the game that people can  be inspired from.  You know, that is what I feel.  


Q.  Just going back to your comments about the  balls and tennis -- (Inaudible.) -- a slower ball for  Wimbledon on the grass courts.  Do you think that that  makes a difference?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think it will make a little  difference, but the reality is that Stockholm is faster  than Wimbledon. I mean, you can say what you want, it  is a grass court and Stockholm is a faster surface this  year than Wimbledon.  


Q.  Was that a shock?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Very much a shock. I played  Todd Martin, we couldn't get the ball to the center of  the court, we were hitting it so hard.  Serious.  


Q.  You have changed a lot recently.  Topics:  Strategy, Brad, Nick Bollettieri, all these kind of  things.  But have you changed also the habit to have  only some follow around you like a clown, always five  people walking around Agassi, so difficult to have an  interview with you where all the other players have  always been a little easier?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It is a little easier, but I  see a few empty chairs over there too.  I mean, it is  one thing if I get the same requests somebody else  gets, then I can't meet the needs and then there is a  problem.  But I mean, I don't think it is fair to  judge, you know, what it is like to live in my shoes if  you have no idea.  I can't spend my life for you, you  know, I've got things to do and I've got people that I  want to be around, and I've got priorities.  And if  I've got 20 people and I can only do two, there is a  good chance for a couple of years you are not going to  get an interview.  


Q.  Going back to what you said about the court  in Stockholm.  Do you think it is a bad situation that  some indoor courts have been faster than Wimbledon and,  you know, every time they are changing the courts?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't think indoor should  vary so much.  They shouldn't go from so fast to so  slow.  


Q.  Some indoor courts are also very slow?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, like here.  


Q.  Much slower than Stockholm?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Much slower.  Actually, it is  slower than some clay court tournaments.  I think they  should all lets should be fault.  If you serve to the  net it is a fault.  


Q.  Andre, tremendous strokes, great legs, no  endurance, does this sound familiar?  Do you work on  your endurance?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  All I can do is -- I mean,  five sets against, you know, Chang at the U.S. Open, no  problem.  Muster got tired against him in the  quarterfinals; four sets against Martin, no problem;  four sets against Stich in Vienna, no problem; four  sets in the finals against Rosset, no problem.  


Q.  So you have improved this?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, I have just been  working hard.  I have been training hard --  


Q.  Always a racket and ball or also running?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I have a strong  cardiovascular and weight training program.  It is very  important.  


Q.  Is this a new training program?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It has been new since my  training center opened up in Las Vegas, right -- fall  of last year right before I had wrist surgery then, I  lost 20 pounds and --  


Q.  Did you lose these pounds from practices or  controlling diet?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  My eating habits have changed  as well.  


Q.  And you keep fit during the whole year or all  the time that you -- like for a month now --  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think diet needs to vary  according to how much energy you have and how much  energy you need.  It all depends.  I mean, sometimes it  is important to eat more if you are feeling a little  bit more tired. You know, so it does vary, but the  basic foundation of it stays the same.  


Q.  So does it mean you like to go back only one  serve instead of two?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I'd like two serves.  I mean,  it is good for me.  Hey, if they go to one serve, I  like my chances.  But I don't think that is good for  the game.  I think they should call let serves faults.  And, you know, what is another thing that I would  support is a no Ad scoring system, because if you  remember playing against a guy and a guy is serving  40-30, you have to win that next point and then win two  in a row if you lose it.  Now if you can win one of the  next two points there is a heck of a chance you are  going to break the guy.  If you are playing against  Sampras, now he is serving 15-40, there is a still a 60  percent chance he is going to hold serve.  No Ad  scoring system that drops considerably 23 percent  chance he is going to hold serve.  I think the public  can understand it better.  What is it, 15-30, I mean, I  don't know, 15-40?  I mean, a lot of people might not  understand that.  One, two, three, four people  understand.  


Q.  Because it is strange to see this scoring has  never changed in 100 years?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, but a lot of things  don't change about the game.  It is important that the  changes that are made have to do with the game; adding  music has nothing to do with the game; going from  playing sets out to going to tiebreakers, that has to  do with the game; putting radar speed gun on the court,  that has to do with the game; going from long pants to jeans shorts, that is what you wear on the court, it has  to do with the game.  But what doesn't have to do with  the game is music.  


Q.  Andre, if there is one change in 1995 of all  the things you have said in men's tennis that you'd  like to see implemented, what would it be?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Ranking system.  ATP Tour  ranking system.  


Q.  In what way, Andre?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, I feel like  every time you step on the court it should count.  Why  can you go lose a first round of a Grand Slam  tournament and just play a couple of extra events and  then have it off your record?  So, every time you step  on the court it should count.  


Q.  Also, rock and roll approach with the Jensen  brothers, you don't think that is good for tennis,  making a rock and roll tennis?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think the Jensen brothers  are all right.  They add their part to the game.  What  is not all right is playing music during a tennis  match.  If you are listening to the radio during the  tennis match or if the Jensen brothers are playing  during the tennis match, it doesn't matter.  


Q.  Did you read this?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  


Q.  Would you like to read it?  You hear it every  day; is that it?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I live with it.  


Q.  You are planning to read it?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  


Q.  Why not?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Because I already know  everything that is in there.  I am hearing it every  day.  


Q.  You have got a copy?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have got cliff notes.  


Q.  Andre, every year when you go to Wimbledon  you have a special English press always asking very  strange questions about your shaving your legs.  It is  something you like or something you hate or --  

ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, sometimes it is fun,  you know, I mean, and sometimes it is tiring.  It gets  very old after a while.  If it is not one thing, they  jump onto something else when it gets too old.  It is  okay.  I have never had a problem with it.  I keep  everything in a pretty good distance.  


Q.  You have the best record against the top 10  players of all the players here.  Do you play better  against better players?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I think that is a case  with everybody.  


Q.  Why do you have the best record?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I just play a little bit  better than everybody plays.  I mean, if everybody -- I  mean, to me, everybody plays better when you play  against better players.  The question is, you know, who  can raise their game to a higher level.  And I think  that, you know, it has been the case that I have.  I  mean, since Toronto I have been playing unbelievable.  My record is really good.  So, I mean, my biggest  weakness has been playing the other guys getting to the  semifinals of the tournament.  That has been my  toughest thing in the past.  Those guys have lost  really early.  If you look at what top 10 players lost  early the most, I probably lead that statistic too.  


Q.  Is this due their game or your motivation?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It has been to my motivation,  to my intensity, to my concentration.  It's a big  challenge to play these guys and then sometimes it is  easy to feel sort of -- I know that they can beat me.  I still don't feel up to it.  It makes you rise to the  level when you play against the top guys.  


Q.  I don't know if you have been asked already.  You were one of the people who backed Boris' stance, I  think, regarding the potential rule change at the  Australian Open.  You have vented it for the first  time.  Do you still have the strong views about the 25  to 20 second rule?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, my views are such that I  think indoor tennis should be down to 20 seconds.  That  is fine with me.  I think it needs to change.  You play  in 110 degree weather, three out of five sets, that is  not good to only have 20 seconds.  I think outdoors  versus indoors, hot versus cold, I think all these  things are variables.  


Q.  What do you think about the groups?  A lot of  curiosity to see you have the serve and volley guys in  one group and the baseliners in the other group; what  do you think about it?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I am going to serve and volley  this week.  I feel like, you know, it is an interesting  way it has turned out.  I mean, it is going to be very  strange once we get to the semifinals because then the  serve and volleyers are going to play the baseliners  and the baseliners are going to face the big serve.  It  will be interesting.  I don't know what else to say  about it, but I hope that I am one of the best  baseliners.  


Q.  You prefer this group or not?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, to me, you know, the  most dangerous players are Sampras and Ivanisevic, you  know, because if they are playing unbelievable that  day, it is hard to beat them.  So I -- those are the  guys that, you know, that it is tough to play against.  I have played Goran in Vienna and I beat him; then next  week he beats me 7-6 in the third, then I played Pete  and we have a very close match.  I mean, those matches  can go either way, so it is kind of nice that I  wouldn't have to worry about that for the first three  days.  


Q.  Some guys say Boris Becker got his unbeatable  face.  Do you think so?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think he is definitely  playing some of his best tennis.  Absolutely.  But to  say anybody is unbeatable against this field is  ignorant.  


Q.  Why did you decide to talk to Brad Gilbert?  Was this an idea already in your head?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I knew, you know, that I  needed to find somebody that knew a lot about the game,  and to me, I had a list of a few people and I spoke to  them all and Brad really stood out to me.  I thought  about Brad because, you know, I know he is at the end  of his career, and we have talked before briefly and --  you know, not about coaching me, but just about the  game, and I have heard him -- you know, I have  overheard him talk about certain things, and I just  felt like he really had a good perspective on what he  could help me with.  And just turns out that it worked  out real well.  


Q.  Does it have something to do with the game he  played against you; the way he adapted his game to your  game and then --  

ANDRE AGASSI:  The fact that he can  absolutely -- I mean, I felt like if I had Brad  Gilbert's game I would be ranked 150 in the world, you  know, and if he had my game he could be ranked the  best.  It is possible.  So I felt like that he is one  of those guys that, you know, he only does a couple of  things well, but somehow he has always been on the  verge of maybe winning the tennis match.  So I always  respected him for that.  


Q.  How long did it take you both to find the  same objective?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It took us about 45 minutes.  


Q.  This one dinner, one particular dinner?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  One dinner.  


Q.  Are you still talking with John McEnroe a lot  about tennis or don't you see him that much anymore?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I see John quite often.  We  talk about tennis, just because it is what we both do.  


Q.  Also an option to work with him because you  doubled with him two years ago?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  We were going to, but he was  going through rough things, you know, if you remember  with his wife, and he had to be in New York a lot  because of all the things he was going through, and the  commitment level was a bit unknown.  And so I  couldn't -- to me, I'd have to go 100% or not at all.  


Q.  Do you still think it is possible that he  will be Davis Cup coach one time?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No way.  They never will. I  would like him to be, but I just don't see it  happening.  


Q.  Why not, because of his image?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Because of the USTA, they are  more concerned about having somebody there that is  going to, you know, do well for the USTA than they are  for the players.  


Q.  Do you think there is a coach now who is  doing the same now?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I haven't worked with Tom.  I  am sure that he is doing a great job.  I have heard  great things, but I mean, I can't tell you firsthand  because I haven't worked with him.  


Q.  Would you like to be back in the Davis Cup  team next year?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I enjoyed playing Davis Cup,  but it is not a top priority to me right now.  


Q.  Not for next year?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Or next year, that is right.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know what John is  doing.  I think sometimes he does commentary.  


Q.  Would you say you are in a way the world No.  1 left at this point given your record over the last  three months or should we be looking at you as the best  player and favorite to win here?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  If I continue to play the way  I have the last three months, I feel like I like my  chances against anybody.  Certainly it doesn't mean I  am going to win, but that is the whole idea.  You know,  how long do you keep it up and can you continually get  better because I think that, you know, if I don't get  better this Christmas, you know, then I think in  January I could be a step behind. You've got to keep  improving too sometimes just to maintain.  It is this  mentality that keeps you going forward.  So I hope to  play better here than I have the past three months and  I do feel like I can win these matches, but, you know,  these guys feel the same way too, and sometimes you do  and sometimes you don't.  


Q.  The new season starts next week for you or do  you take a couple of weeks off?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, and I am playing Munich,  and then to Australia.  


Q.  Practicing in between Munich and Australia or  taking time off?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, just vacation.  I want to  pick -- I will pick up the tennis racket.  Have you  been listening to the press conference; the one here,  the one you are sitting in?  


Q.  Yes.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have been saying that it is  very important to -- I want to practice now and if I  don't practice then I am going to be in trouble, all  these things.  Yes, I am going to practice.  I have never really had a great fall, and it makes me  believe that I can play well at every time of the  year.  I think you need that in order to fight for the  best.  


Q.  Also you have to relieve stress right now.  It is a very hard life because you are travelling,  playing, travelling, playing.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it is.  


Q.  How important is it for you to be at home and  be surrounded by a good team of friends?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It is a core of what makes me  tick.  It is very important.  Without that, there is  nobody to celebrate with, nobody to be with. It is not  worth anything.  


Q.  This time last year you were sort of eating  pancakes and relaxing at home?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No, this time last year I  started my change really to turn things around.  


Q.  Were you in the gym at this time?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Actually, since maybe a week  after the U.S. Open last year I really made the  commitment.  


Q.  Do you consider perhaps the best thing you  did in your career making a comeback like this, perhaps  even better than staying at top, but coming back on  top?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it is very difficult.  Great accomplishment for me.  


Q.  In Australia you played an exhibition once?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  


Q.  Was it indoors then?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  


Q.  You have no idea how it will play with the  heat or anything like that?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Right.  


Q.  Obviously, you gleaned from your experience.  Is that kind of surface that suits your style?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  From what I have heard   -- Brad has played down there a few times, he tells me  it will be more suitable for my surface than any other.  


Q.  You have played Sidney a couple of times?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes.  


Q.  I know the Australian public will be very  pleased to see you playing in a major championship.  How did you sort of feel when you have gone to  Australia?  Do you get along well down there?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I felt like -- yeah, I enjoyed  playing down there.  I felt like I have gotten warm  receptions.  I am looking forward to the Grand Slam  there.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have gotten a couple of flu  shots just so I don't come down with any sickness, and,  you know, I am really going to -- I am really going to  be careful.  I am going to do everything in my power  because there is no other place that I want to be than  starting in Australia.  


Q.  Changing your mind about Australia?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  All part of wanting to win  Grand Slam titles.  


Q.  It is symbolic the fact that you are going to  Australia?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I am not down there yet, so --  but it is -- I mean, I am not down there yet, so, but  me going down there starting next year, assuming that  that happens -- I mean, I say that because every  January 7th I am always sick, but going down there will  definitely be symbolic because it shows -- it reflects  a change in a certain level of commitment.  It was  always difficult for me to leave home the day after New  Year's, so it kind of is a reflection of what I am  committed to.  


Q.  Also because you like to win this one as  well, like you won Wimbledon for the first time.  Would  you like to have that same feeling?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I want to win all the  Grand Slams.  


Q.  That is your main goal?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, French Open and  Australian.  


Q.  Be strange, wouldn't it, if the French Open  was the last one that you won?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, that would be because I  feel like I should have won it twice. It is hard not to  feel that way when you are the favorite going into both  matches, but I didn't, and you know --  


Q.  What do you think about Jim Courier; do you  think he can make a comeback as well?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, hey, nobody thought I  could, you know.  But I think it is very possible, Jim  can.  I mean, if he gets committed to what he is going  to do -- I mean, I don't see Jim being No. 1 in the  world again, but he is unquestionably a better player  than his ranking, you know.  I don't know what he is  doing or what -- but if he is motivated in his training  and practicing and committed to the game, he will be  back and he will be a guy to have to beat.  But if he  is not, he is not.  I mean, if I don't play for a few  weeks it is possible I could still go out and play  great.  I don't think Jim is the same kind of player.  


Q.  That is the difference in talent, of course,  because he has to work so hard for it?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know if it's talent.  Maybe it is partly that, but I think it is also  personality.  I mean, Jim is a lot like Lendl, got his  confidence from his training and from his practice and  more nervous the more he played.  And all of a sudden  Lendl gets the kids and doesn't practice as much, then  the confidence goes down, you know. So I have never  really made that -- I been without it, so I believe  that I can win without it, but now I am starting to  realize it is easier to win with it.  


Q.  Because sometimes he gave the impression of  being almost burnt out of doing too much, perhaps?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, that is possible too.  He doesn't talk to me about it.  


Q.  Do you think that a system should protect  these kind of players more; perhaps to play less, to  give more breaks?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, I don't think  we play too much.  I just think there is too much  tennis, You know. I mean, I think on behalf of the  sport there is too many tournaments, you know.  I think  that we are responsible for our schedule, and I don't  think 15 to 20 tournaments is too much.  


Q.  You are quite happy with the ranking system,  are you?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  No.  


Q.  You say that 20 tournaments isn't too much.  That is kind of what the top players generally are  playing?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, but it doesn't mean I am  happy with the ranking system.  I think every  tournament you play should count.  I don't think you  should be able to take a one pointer at a Grand Slam  tournament and just play an extra five and get a better  result, and all of a sudden it is not in your record.  I mean, that is why Dallas against San Francisco today  was -- or yesterday wasn't a big game because if one of  them loses it hurts them.  


Q.  Andre, you came here in 1990, first time ATP  final was in Frankfurt.  You won it.  What is the  difference with you comparing to 1990; what has changed  mostly?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, I don't know.  I am  just a much more experienced player.  


Q.  The serve perhaps?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Serve is better, for sure.  My  volleys are better, for sure.  I think I am a stronger  a player now than I was then.  I am a smarter player.  


Q.  What about the socks, superstitious?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah. Certain things make me  comfortable.  One black, one white.  


Q.  The ranking system every year, we come here,  everyone seems to be saying the same thing.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't think that.  I think  generally the top players don't like -- Berasategui is  going to feel differently, he has 31 tournaments, but  most other top guys don't.  And every year we talk  about it, talk about it and now in Paris, I -- we will  see what happens with the new ranking system.  It just  seems year after year not much changes, you know.  


Q.  Do you think it is all right that let's say a  player like Berasategui can be in the top 8 only  playing on clay?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have strong feelings about  how the Tour should be set up and stuff.  I mean, I  think it should be much better -- more organized and  the commitment should be a certain amount on each  surface.  I mean, there is no way that you should have  to play on every surface.  


Q.  You don't think so, that you should play on  every surface?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think you should have to.  


Q.  Now you have a strange situation:  That the  players here who play one match indoor in February and  people didn't see him on indoor court still can make so  many points and can be in top 10; is that fair to other  players?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I don't think -- I think  everybody should have to play, you know, certain  tournaments.  But I mean, the whole structure of the  Tour would have to change to manage that.  


Q.  Because he didn't meet the top players over  the last month?  Because he didn't play indoors?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think the ranking system  will help that a lot because I think that as Alberto  goes down and plays the small tournaments, it just adds  to his points; gets rid of whatever.  I think if they  did a system that every time you played it counted,  you've got to play the big tournaments and do well to  be top 8 in the world.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I feel like -- you know, I  feel like they have.  As far as they are concerned, you  know, they are an association of tennis professionals.  There is a lot of tennis professionals; hundreds of  them.  In the top 10 there are only 10 people, you  know.  


Q.  Those are the people that sell tickets.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I have strong feelings about  that, but it doesn't seem to mean a whole lot.  


Q.  You cannot think about the top 10 saying let  us take some action, let us say it is over?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  You've got 10 guys travelling  all over the world playing different continents most of  the time and when they are not playing they are at home  and they want to be at home, and there is no time to  organize it.  You tell me who can take out the time to  organize it.  


Q.  Two weeks ago in Paris you were altogether.  

ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, we were altogether, but  it doesn't get solved in one week.  


Q.  And Grand Slam tournaments?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  It doesn't get solved though.  Guys have a job to do.  We are not there to worry about  things, we are there to play.  It is just not as simple  as it sounds.  


Q.  Do you think something then will change?  

ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't suspect too much to  change, no.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT