U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Andre, did you ever think that you'd beat Thomas that bad? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You can never go out there, I mean, it's a cliche to say you can't underestimate anybody and think it's going to be easy, but I've been around long enough to know that you can get beaten by the players you think you should handle, and you can win the matches you never have a chance of winning, so one point at a time.  And in hindsight, no, I'm very surprised that I beat him that handily, but I'm hitting the ball real well right now.  
 

Q.  What finally got you grooved in the first set? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I think, I was missing a lot of first serves early, got the break on me early.  He was really -- I knew he was going to come out firing on all cylinders.  I don't think he's as confident as I am on the hardcourts, so I knew in order for him to really believe that he could win, he was going to have to come out and really jump all over me, and hope that somehow I got a little rattled by it, and he could take it from there.  So I weathered a storm in the first set, and I felt good from there on in.  
 

Q.  Todd Martin said earlier tonight that he thought you were on some sort of vendetta to the guys who beat you in the other Grand Slam if it's over, how do you feel about facing him now? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  What is Todd worried about?  When you get to the semis of a Slam, who is in your way doesn't really matter, because whether they beat you before or whether you have beaten them or whether you never played before, nothing matters except Saturday, and there's no feeling like being out there on Super Saturday, and I just can't wait to be there.  
 

Q.  Andre, to use the word "toying" probably isn't the right word; toward the end you almost seemed to be toying with him as far as making him run rather than hitting a ball behind him when you knew he was going the other way, were you doing that for any reason or did I misinterpret-- 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I wasn't purposely allowing him to get to shots.  I felt like I was, you know, waiting for the right shot and I was hitting it and executing as much as possible, but I definitely wanted to keep down the unforced errors and not make needless-- the guy is down two service breaks in the third set, if he comes back to beat me it's because he's going to have to raise his game three levels, not because I'm going to all of a sudden start going for things and missing, and so I felt like I stuck to my game plan the whole time.  
 

Q.  Look at Todd Martin's record in the Slams and he's been most consistent, two semis and one final, what does that say to you as beating another top player when you see that kind of record by a guy one year in a Slam? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  It tells me he's playing the best tennis in the world this year.  That's what it tells me and he's -- it speaks, says a lot for his ability, and says a lot for what I'm going to be facing on Saturday.  You know, I think that Todd is, in my opinion, is-- a guy like that should never be out of the top ten and should always be threatening the top five constantly, and when he has those years he can even move up a little bit more.  So, I mean, I think he's just been playing some of the best tennis on the tour this year, consistentwise and, you know, he deserves the results he's had.  
 

Q.  What is your reaction to people who say that you're saving this tournament, you're the last marquis name going? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I'm not even thinking about that.  I've got a job to do out there, and what I offer the game is only based on what my commitment is to the game, and my commitment is to be as prepared as possible, to be as determined and perform and I've been doing that better now than I ever have and nothing is going to take me away from that train of thought.  
 

Q.  Andre, what does it say about you that you come in here unseeded, you haven't had a great year and now you're in the semifinals? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, I'm unseeded, and I've said it a lot, and probably too much, to be quite honest, but I feel like I can win these matches.  And I feel like, you know, I'm good enough to do it, it's just that I haven't put it together and Brad has been helping me a tremendous amount, and sometimes results don't come right away.  You have to persevere and work hard and I've just been so confident this summer, and -- I mean, I'm very proud of my achievements so far, but I've been further, so nothing is making me feel settled or even thinking about, wow, how great is this.  I'm not seeded and I'm in the semis, and when I step on the court I feel like I want to win the match and I can't win the match and that's not going to change whatever number is next to my name.  
 

Q.  Andre, since you started working with Brad, is there one match or one tournament where you knew you turned it around and you were on your way back up? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I'd have to say it was Canada.  You know, I think in Key Biscayne, I definitely showed a lot and I believe -- but I went straight into the clay and clay was a nightmare for me.  I hadn't played in two years on the dirt and it was, it was a confidence blow to me to get out there on the claycourts and I had a tough five-set loss to Todd at Wimbledon, and disappointing.  And then I-- you know, I was trying to get used to the hardcourts and I lose in Washington and I get my game together and I win Canada.  And I think that's where I really feel like, gees, I can play some of the best tennis in the world.  Stop doubting that and get out there and do it.  And I think Brad has really helped me with that.  He -- I wish I believed it myself at times as much as Brad believes in me and he knows the game, and he's been very important part of where I am.  
 

Q.  Todd Martin's serve coming from about 8 feet up there, when he's on, is it a more difficult serve for you than serves from shorter players when they're on? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, his serve is definitely a part of his weapon.  My return is definitely part of mine.  So, how he serves and how I return is going to be a key factor, and everybody has their strengths and weaknesses and you have to adjust accordingly.  
 

Q.  Any idea what the crowd might be like Saturday night when you play? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  They're going to be absolutely packed.  
 

Q.  One side or the other? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, I don't know.  I feel like I've gotten support from them and I went out there against Chang and I knew Chang was going to have some support and tonight I felt like it was going to lean my way because Thomas is-- you know, not being from here, and Todd being an American, they're going to have guys pulling for Todd.  The reality of it is he wears white clothes.  So there's going to be a certain amount of them that pull for Todd.  
 

Q.  Are you perfectly healthy now; how's your wrist? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  One hundred percent.  
 

Q.  Is it a difficult adjustment, your last two matches have kind of been against baseline bangers and now you're going to be playing more of a serve and volleyer; is there an adjustment there? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  There's a definite adjustment.  I definitely want to practice and see some big serves coming at me in the next couple days. Because you just can't go out there and all of a sudden hit consistent 113, 117 and expect to pick it up early.  Eventually, during the match you will, but you've got to get out there and you've got to see it coming and -- I feel, you know, like the adjustment is a valid one, but one that happens quite quickly.  
 

Q.  What do you feel about him replaying that point? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  What do I feel about what?  
 

Q.  Him replaying that point. 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Oh, that's just -- I mean that's just a perfect example of really what kind of guy Thomas is.  We're good friends and just, what he did out there just shows what kind of pride he takes in what he does.  You don't see that much anymore, and that goes a long ways.  
 

Q.  Were you suggesting that with Martin wearing white clothes that some people still may think of you as-- you know, the villain or the bad guy or the outsider in this establishment? 
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I'm just saying some people like white clothes.  It's quite simple.  It's always been simple from my perspective.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT