U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you give us that 90 pound bullfrog quote again? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: After I lost my serve that last game of the third set that I felt like I
needed to go to the hospital and get that 90 pound bullfrog surgically removed from my
throat. I was just playing good tennis holding him out and all of a sudden I get to that
third and he played good tennis and I felt like for him to win the rest of the set he
played a level better than I did, but that game in particular I felt I should have held
and when I didn't-- to keep my composure was key for me. It said a lot for where my state
of mind is right now.  
 
Q. What do you think when something like that happens, Andre, it falls apart, one
game-- 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: That's the nature of sports. It's, you know, really you're only up one
service break, that's how you look at it. I mean, Guy is on the other side of the net
saying, I'm down two sets,, he's not thinking about that, he's thinking if I can break
here, I can get him thinking and you never know what can happen. And to explain that, you
know, casinos will lose lot of money, you can't really do that.  
 
Q. What were you doing with McEnroe, you can hear him, you can see him? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: No, me and John have this telepathy thing going. I ask him where I should
serve, nobody else can hear, and do what he says and then I win the point.  
 
Q. You could not hear what he said? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Not verbally, no, but I did know where he wanted me to serve.  
 
Q. You're serious? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Sure I'm serious.  
 
Q. Where did he want you to serve when you served for the match, the last time, the
match point you won, he wanted you to serve the outside? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, you know what he wanted me to serve the first serve outside, but
then I rebelled against him and went up the middle, missed it long and I said, all right,
John, I'll go out wide with this one.  
 
Q. Andre, after looking in the third set, how important was that backhand passing,
should that put you up 2-Love in the fourth? Did that really get you back into it? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: That was key for me. I lost -- three or four games being up 40-15. That's
not good, You know, and when I was down 15-40, to come back and win that game, I just felt
that gave me a lot of confidence, made me feel like, hey, don't stress it out here, play
your tennis, stay on this guy and make him beat you in five sets if that's what he wants
to do, but don't give it to him, that was the key for me because I could have easily been
down two or three-- so I just really felt good about the score at that point and tried to
just use the momentum in my favor.  
 
Q. You've been talking about the discipline and working on the mental side of the game.
Is this a match two or three years ago that might have gotten away from you? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: It's very possible. There's no question about it, because sometimes it's
worse to be beating somebody so handily and you get to a point where you have to close it
out because-- especially a player like Guy who can potentially come back and make it to
the quarterfinals and further. That's a scary position to be in and say if I give this guy
any room, he's experienced enough to jump all over me. And so, I -- you always feel like
you'd rather have the fourth set 5-6 serving for it and then you feel like, hey, we both
played our butts off out here and I'm serving for the match and can you stay focused and
intense, but I couldn't get convinced the match was over with and I probably should have
played that game a bit more conservative. I felt like I went for too big a shot, but to
just to turn around was most important, I think. I'd feel better about the win now had I
held serve at 5-4.  
 
Q. Did you have a particular strategy going into the match considering Forget only had
a couple of hardcourt matches since he came back? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Couple things that work here. I know he's been having problems with his
knee. Move him around, I wanted to make sure he's hitting a lot of balls. I know he's
dangerous off the forehand signed, especially the running forehand. I know he liked to hit
big bombs up the middle. Things you know about playing him time and time again or seeing
him play and today with the wind being a factor, I think that was the important thing,
making sure I was moving my feet and not making careless errors. That's where the match is
won and lost on a windy day, unforced errors and I was talking to Brad before-- high
percent of first serves, make sure I'm moving my feet and not making careless errors and
just pick my level of play up from there.  
 
Q. How would you assess the way you're playing after first round; you said you thought
you were playing some of your best tennis? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Yes, it's tough to tell when you beat somebody 3-2 and you never played
before. Coming here today was a key match because had I come here and struggled and Forget
may be getting the lead on me and me kind of not feeling good about the way I was playing,
you know, that would take its toll mentally on me, but Guy can play some big matches and
he's playing, quite honestly, some of the best tennis. Wimbledon, second round, upsetting
Jim Courier. Don't think that wasn't going through my mind when I saw the draw. He's the
kind of player that can do that. So to go out here and beat him proves to me how I've been
feeling for the past few weeks, especially in Toronto and the practice I've been having.  
 
Q. Do you like playing here at night? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I love playing here at night. The energy -- I really feed off of it and
it's also nice because not all the other guys are sitting in the locker room watching you
and making comments figuring out your game. Hopefully they're out having dinner.  
 
Q. Wayne Ferreira next; what do you expect from him? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I expect to have my hands full. This is a guy that can absolutely do
every part of the game well and some areas outstanding. Serves big, is not scared to come
in and has great lands in the net, solid backhand and solid forehand winners, both
backhand and forehand, moves well. On paper, this guy is basically unbeatable. But I
played him in Toronto and I like the way my game fits into him. It is a -- some -- a lot
of great tennis when we play, at least this year that was, and I'm excited for the
challenge. I feel like it's nice going out there knowing that they have things to worry
about too. It's going to be fun and it's going to be a good match for me to get through
for the rest of the tournament.  
 
Q. Andre, they kept showing you back and forth with Brooke; what was going on? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I wasn't having a conversation with Brooke, no.  
 
Q. She was demonstrating, saying things, I don't know. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: If you ever want her press conference, ask her about it. I don't know
anything about it.  
 
Q. Andre, in your free time are there other sports you enjoy just for fun? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: As far as watching or actually playing?  
 
Q. Just going out and playing and having low key fun? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Well, you know, really only sports that you can play without it being a
physical thing. I'm not -- so, you know, time off is meant to rest and recuperate, golf
and quite honestly two, three in the morning I'll bowl some as well. So anything that's
not too strenuous. I enjoy competing at pool, I enjoy shooting pool, you know, I like --
can't think of it, ping pong.  
 
Q. Did you say bowl? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Bowl, too.  
 
Q. Guy has been injured, he came back strong, but what kind of advice can you give him
for the following month? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Guy?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: When he plays me not to serve over 120.  
 What advise can I give him? Guy, I'd like to sit down and ask him to give me advice.
This guy has been around. He knows these guys. He knows what he has to do. He knows their
capabilities. There's nothing I need to say to him.  
 
Q. Did Brad help you out specifically tonight with some tactics? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, he helps me out all the time, quite honestly, you know, 60 -- I
would say about 80 percent of it is dealing with what I need to be focusing on and maybe
20 percent you consider what the other guy's game is. You know, and you spend every pre
match thought on getting your strengths under their weaknesses. That's no mystery.  
 
Q. Andre there's a story in today's edition of one of your favorite papers. The London
Sun quotes sources close to you are saying you and Brooke are engaged; any comment on
that? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Oh, really? Oh, no, we're not engaged, no.  
 
Q. What is your state of mind you talked about earlier? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: Marriage is something I --  
 
Q. No -- 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI: I mean, to lose the third the way I did and come back in the fourth, I
feel I'm really focussed on the right things when I'm out there, which is my strengths and
doing what I do well and making the guy have to beat that. And when I'm doing that, I like
my chances against anybody and I feel good about being out there.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT