VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 19, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A simple why, Andre, what happened?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  You are going to have to be more specific. 
 

Q.  Pardon?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Be more specific. 
 

Q.  You appeared so much in control; getting along well in the first set, Andre, then it started to swing away from you your forehand, seemed to breakdown a bit.  Did you feel that was going that way yourself?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I felt like, you know, I was controlling the match so handedly; then I got little bit impatient.  I felt like I should have kept on hitting these big shots, and I wasn't as patient as I needed to be as the match went on, and I am disappointed in the way I played because I felt like I was in control, the whole thing, but yet kind of gave it away. 
 

Q.  Probably much too early for you to assimilate it, but it must be a bit of a blow to your confidence, as well, when everything has gone so well; when you started coming back last couple of months or so?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, this was -- didn't have Brad here, which was a confidence problem for me.  I like having Brad around, and I just-- mentally, I don't think I was where I needed to be, and I'm going to do everything I can to not let this affect this week and the week after.  The balls were real heavy; everything was real heavy here today.  Rome and Paris are a little quicker.  This would have been an isolated week for me to do well here.  I had got to move on and get things going the right way again. 
 

Q.  Was Brad planning to come in later in the week or not?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  No, he has been three weeks in Asia and, you know -- no, we will meet up in Atlanta, and he will be with me Rome through France. 
 

Q.  How distracting also was the long wait through the day, because it was a very late start?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, that is just one of the things that goes along with the job, that are - definitely they are negatives; they are not easy to deal with.  I mean, it has been a real long day, but I got off to a good start so I can't really say much for that.  I just -- you know, I don't know, maybe when the lights started getting darker, I didn't really pick up the ball as well.  I don't know what happened.  I got to think about it a little bit more, but I am not happy with it. 
 

Q.  The third set you didn't look like a loser; was still very close; you didn't look like a loser until you had lost the service to 5-4.  But you looked very impatient at this point.
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, yeah, I felt like I was impatient for the second and the third set.  My confidence wasn't there.  When my confidence isn't there, you try to overcompensate; you try to hit big shots and get your confidence going.  It was just - it was all wrong.  I mean, I played like a dumb ass.  That is the bottom line. 
 

Q.  Andre, what makes you feel so confident when Brad is around; how does he help you?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think the strategy is a big thing.  I never played this guy and strategy is one; just going  out there, you know, with that kind of confidence knowing that you have a game plan that you can stick to it. 
 

Q.  What is the feeling of playing again on clay?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, clay is something it takes an adjustment more mentally than with your game, and, you know, I got a few weeks more on it which is good before the French, but, you know, I was hoping to do well.  I liked my draw; everything was perfect for me to get - win the match or two and get everything high, and my confidence up, but, you know, it didn't work for me this week, and, you know, now I got to wait until Rome. 
 

Q.  What are your plans now?  Are you leaving?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know. 
 

Q.  Going back home?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know.  I am playing in Atlanta next week; that is what I do know. 
 

Q.  Andre, you probably heard he was good.  He nearly beat Sampras in the Australian.  How good do you think Kafelnikov is?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Today it was all me.  Had nothing to do with him.  I think he plays well.  But clay is not his surface.  He is not comfortable on clay, and I just, you know, I am responsible for it.  That is the bottom line.  He had to play well enough to make me lose it, but I am just disappointed in the way I played. 
 

Q.  Do you think you can get something positive anywhere from this from the match of today before the French Open?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I know what I don't want to do when I go to Paris. 
 

Q.  Andre, is that it now for you until the Italian Open?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Atlanta, Rome. 
 

Q.  Is there anything from that that you will be working on particularly with a view to that?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know what to say, I mean, I am not -- very disappointed about my performance out there.  I mean, where do you start with that?  Don't ask me, you know.  That is why, you know, I would have felt a lot better to have Brad here; then you have the confidence; that even if things don't go well, you know what you are going to work on and you feel directed.  The way I feel right now is the way I felt all those years with Nick: I have no idea of what the hell happened out there, and that is very frustrating, but, you know, I got to do something and got to think about it and come up with a game plan.  I don't doubt my confidence long-term. I mean, I know I can play on clay.  I know I am playing well and I know I will be ready by the French, but it is just disappointing that it hasn't happened for me this week. 
 

Q.  You are obviously very disappointed.  It is clear for everyone to see.  Two years ago, would you have been less disappointed in thinking, well, I can go home now, whatever, and relax a bit there, I mean, is this sort of new attitude; does that make it even harder to deal with?
 
ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it does because now it is the first time of my career that I have had direction, you know, and two years ago, I'd lose and I wouldn't -- nobody was really there to help me understand why or what I needed to do next.  Now, it is different.  Now I feel like every time I step on the court I am hitting  another level, and it is frustrating to me because this is very, very under par for me.  It is not anywhere near where I have been playing, and it is a lot more frustrating now than it ever was.  Home is the last place I want to be right now.  I want to be playing here again tomorrow.  I felt like I could have come here and won this tournament.  Certainly not playing like that. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT