THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Andre, that must be a very satisfying result.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  To say the least, you know.  More sothan just
beating Stefan the entire week, from Boris, then to playing the
contrast in Pioline, then to come back to a guy like Stefan who
covers the net better than anybody in the game.  It's really given
me a lot of confidence.

 Q.  How about being able to win a tiebreaker like that?  How
important is that right now to your comeback?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think that was crucial, you know.  I think if
anything that reflects kind of my state of mind.  I'm not really
getting discouraged out there; I'm not getting down on myself.
 I'm really staying in it, mentally, and, you know, working for
every point.  If it's 40-Love or, you know, 30-All, I'm really
forcing myself to want that point and down 6-2 in the tiebreaker
and come back to win, it is really a big confidence booster for
me.

 Q.  I heard you mention the wind out there; was it a factor?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It's interesting; it was definitely a factor;
it was moving, and it's tough to keep the returns low, especially
off his heavy bouncing serve.  Anybody in the game knows if the
ball is even close to the top of the net level, Stefan is going
to win the point.  I was trying hard to -- when I threw a few
lobs, I swore I hit them perfect, then the wind factored in and
made it long.

 Q.  Is this new stadium prone to that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I think Florida is it prone to that.

 Q.  Is that the way a lot of your matches go with him, you
get on a roll sometimes, then he'll get on a roll, then go back
and forth like that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, he's the kind of player that he really,
he's tough to stop once he gets the lead, you know, it's so important
to keep it close with him and look for those few opportunities
you're going to get, and once you get on top of him, you have
to stay there; you can't get lackadaisical, you know, like the
second set his intensity dropped a little, had he held serve the
second game and there is a chance we could be in a third set battle
right now.

 Q.  How did you keep him away from the net in the second set?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I just tried to discourage him by doing my best
to pass him.  I mean really, I really was moving well; I was moving
toward the ball, hitting effectively.  Really everybody who plays
me is a little hesitant just to come running on everything.  I
think you have to be selective when you approach against me, and
he was doing his best to do that.  He does that as well as anybody
in the world, if not better.  So he -- he was just sticking to
his game plan, and I was doing my best to mine.  I was keeping
the ball deep.  You give him too many short balls, he can hurt
you.

 Q.  How far along the trail back do you think you are now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I mean, if I was playing my best tennis,
I would feel great about this tournament, so, you know, it's tough
for me to say.  I still feel like I need the match play, I don't
feel -- I feel like I missed some crucial first serves in the
tiebreaker.  I feel there are a couple of things I need to improve
on, a few easy volleys that I got a little anxious because it's
been so long since I've, you know, really have been in those match
situations where you just have to make that.  So there is a lot
of things I still need to improve, but it's definitely coming
along a lot quicker than I anticipated.

 Q.  Can you feel it coming almost match by match, because
that's what it appears to be from watching you, anyway?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes, there is no question about that. It seems
like I go into each match feeling really confident about my last
one, but then the match I played takes me to a new level of confidence.
It's just, to beat Boris and Stefan back to back like that has
been very important to me.

 Q.  Andre, just how much fitter are you, and what did you
do to put yourself in this position?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, I mean my fitness really speaks
for itself, just looking at me really more than anything.  But
it's been a combination of a lot of things.  A combination of
diet, a lot of cardiovascular training and weights.  It's been
an all-around training program that I've been very disciplined
about.  I've hit a standard physically now that I don't ever see
myself -- ever see myself slacking off on.  I don't think I could
accept any other standard for myself, physically, right now, and
it's exciting. It is not so much I just did it; it's really become
a way of life for me.

 Q.  Something like -- seriously, no donuts; are you off that
kind of stuff?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, I mean, we all have our moments.
 But I just, I try to monitor, you know, monitor my fat intake,
you know, and you could do that a number of ways.  You could do
that by not eating fat, then splurging every now and then, or
you could eat a little bit of fat every time, you know, but, you
know, sometimes it's this and sometimes that.  But I monitor it
with how I'm feeling, how I'm looking, and how fit I am.  I mean
it's not, it's not magic.  You just have to be willing to pay
the price.

 Q.  Diet-wise, have you had to sacrifice anything you actually
really love?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, my entire appetite.

 Q.   I mean any particular food or item?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  There are just too many; really everything.  It's
-- I mean, I go to restaurants now and it's -- my whole mind set
is totally different, you know.  It's just a step that I've made
because it is important to me.

 Q.  Do you drive by Taco Bell -- I'm not trying to goof on
you, really -- you don't pull into Taco Bell or --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Let me ask you something:   Could I still do that
and be this fit?

 Q.  Well --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Is that possible?  Do you think?

 Q.  Occasionally, I suppose, yeah.  I don't know.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, occasionally I may then, you know.  Reality,
the bottom line is, I'm fit.  We don't need to worry about the
rest.

 Q.  Andre, I came in on the tail-end of an ESPN interview
where it sounded like you said something, mentioned the phrase
going back to college.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Uh-huh.  What's your question?

 Q.  Are you going to college?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, no, they just asked me what would I do if
I wasn't playing tennis anymore.  Something that would probably
be important to me would get back to college and go to school.
 I would enjoy that.

 Q.  To do what, what would you work on?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know, I don't have -- I don't even --
I have no concept of what college is all about, to be quite honest.
 I left high school early; finished, but left school.  So I, you
know, I don't know, but I definitely would go.

 Q.  As far as your training is concerned, the basic difference
between you now and say 18 months ago that you're doing more varied
training, or is it you've changed the number of hours on the court,
is everything more intensive, or what?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, you know, my -- I have -- my gym in Las
Vegas that just opened really as my injury came to a peak at the
end of last year, about five months ago, and equipment that's
been designed with me and my trainer, Gil Reyes, and the equipment
is really state of the art and it's not something I would ever
really, really show or share with anybody.  But it's been a combination
of being very disciplined with my eating, being very disciplined
with my strength training, with the weights, being very disciplined
with my cardiovascular training, running and a few of the machines
that we have.  And also, on-the-court training. It's just been
a total commitment, really.  I mean people want to look for magic
answers on how to get in shape, and really just, you know, you've
got to pay the price, you know.

 Q.  Andre, is this the Andre of old, or are you better than
the Andre of old now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Tennis-wise?

 Q.  Yes.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I should be disappointed if I wasn't better, you
know, really the game has moved on, and to be out there competing
with these guys, you know, speaks for itself, so I have to say
I am definitely better.  I think we all are.

 Q.  Do you actually feel better in your general health because
of all these things, respective of the tennis?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah.  Most importantly, I like the way I feel;
a lot faster, and I feel a lot stronger. But that's only reflective
when I'm on the court. I don't necessarily walk around, you know,
and feel better; I just know I'm strong, and I know I'm capable
of going the distance.  And knowing that, its really offered me
a lot of confidence on the court.

 Q.  Do you enjoy the extra work that you're putting in, or
is it a bit tedious and boring and monotonous?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It's only as hard as it is important to you. 
It's very important to me, so it's not difficult at all.  Its
a just become a way of life, really.

 Q.  How many hours do you work, rough, a day?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It depends, really.  It depends where I am in
my schedule, you know.  How tired I am from playing.  After Palm
Springs I was very tired because it's just tough to get back and
play matches when you haven't for a while.  I took off four days,
five days, didn't do a thing and practiced two days before this
tournament.  But during my five months off, I was going six days
a week, hour and a half in the weight room, 45 minutes of cardiovascular
training, and at the time, I wasn't playing any tennis.  But then
my diet is something I do all the time.

 Q.  About your wrist, might you let up on the tennis until
the French Open or continue full  --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  We're really assessing it week by week.  I came
back committing to these tournaments because I felt like I'm going
to need the match play and I can't count on going out there and
winning, but now I've been doing that a little bit, I have to
decide on what my next step is and how it feels.  I have some
time to rest after this week, I have a week off and I'll play
Osaka then two weeks off.  By the time I get to Monte Carlo, this
will be long behind me.

 Q.  During those frustrating months and had the injury and
couldn't play, how close were you following what was going on
on the tour?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Not very closely, really, at all.  I was kind
of doing my best to stay away from it because it was too hard
being away and being very aware of the fact that I was away. 
I just tried to pretend, you know, like I was, like tennis wasn't
a part of my life, at least for a few months to get through.

 Q.  Are you a good tennis watcher, anyway?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Not really, I hate -- I've never been into spectating,
you know.  I like to -- if I watch, and especially if I can do
it, you know, which is why I watch all the other sports, because
I can't do any of them.

 Q.  Andre, this gym, this is not part of your home, this is
a private --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes, it's not part of my home.

 Q.  Is it just a public gym that you go to?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, it's mine.

 Q.  Oh, its yours but -- got it.  Okay.  A couple of years
ago when you started going into various fitness programs and you
seemed to have bulked up a lot, with this new program, the diet,
exercise, etc., how much have you slimmed down, and how much bulk
have you dropped, or what is the position?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, you know, bulk is really, I mean, there
is a lot of misconceptions about that.  You know, if you're building
muscle and you're not losing fat, you're going to look very bulky;
if you build muscle and lose the fast you're going to look very
defined.  My weight training has stayed very disciplined and very
hard.  I've just been able to cut out a lot of fat out of my diet
and be able to work out hard cardiovascularly to burn the fat.
 And then when you're done with that, you have somebody who looks
in shape.  You can't lift weights to get bulky and you can't lift
weights to get toned.  You lift weights for muscles and the tone
comes from losing the fat.  If you don't believe it look it up.


 Q.  Have you set any bench marks for measuring your progress
tournament-wise this year?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, really I'm assessing it week by week because
there has been so many variables involved that, you know, I don't
know, it would have been quite impossible to even guess how I
would respond.  I mean, it's kind of been assessing it as we go.
 And after this tournament, we're going to need to stop and figure
how much time I'm going to need off and how much time I'm going
to need to get ready and back peaking again for Monte Carlo.

 Q.  Presumably, the important thing is how you feel you play
rather than rankings or overall results?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, you know, I've always said that's a reflection,
really how you're playing, which is true, especially at this stage
of my career, you know, coming back it is very important for me
to be focused on really getting my game to where I feel it should
be and the ranking is going to take care of itself.  I don't even
-- from here on in I don't think I have any -- I don't think I
played a tournament from here on in last year, maybe Barcelona.
 Not maybe, I played Barcelona, and then not till the summer.
 So the rankings is going to take care of itself, I just need
to get out there and let the guys know I'm out there and ready
to compete.

 Q.  Andre, was there ever a time you said to yourself, maybe,
look, I'm not a kid anymore, I'm really going to be remembered
as one of the real greats of the game I'd rather --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, I haven't done that yet.

 Q.  I mean a moment of truth as far as --

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, that's what I've been talking about for
months now.  Really I've made, you know, it's not just this emotional,
I'm excited to be back.  Tennis has become a very important part
of life to me.  Not that it's bigger than life, not it's my entire
life just something I'm focusing 99.9 percent of my energies towards.
 It's taken a strong priority because it's -- it really presents
challenges that I haven't been able to overcome so far, and I
really want this for myself, not for anybody else.  You know,
I'm done with that.  I wanted it for my dad for a lot of years,
I wanted it for Nick for a lot of years.  I wanted it for, you
know, a lot of, you know, for approval just from the public, for
you guys, you know, really there has been a lot of reasons I felt
a need to work my butt off to do something.  And now it has nothing
to do with that, it's just for myself.

 Q.  Andre, getting back to the rankings, you said Tuesday
night that at this point you'd be willing to play number 30 for
money right now.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Right.

 Q.  Are you ready to boost that number to maybe 20, 10, or
maybe 1?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, we had a lot of money on the line today,
you know.  No, but, you know, I'm playing well, and yes, I know
I'm playing a lot better than where my ranking is.  I think that's
quite obvious, but I got to get out there and prove it week after
week.  I can't just come out here, have a few good matches and
have the people accept the fact I'm going to do it every week.
 I have to come out here and do it every week.  I don't spend
too much time thinking about that. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT