THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Andre, you have to be happy with that performance?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Very, very, very happy.

 Q.  Is it just feeling like everything is coming into place
-- falling into place now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, it seems like every match poses its
different obstacles for me, being away so long, getting through
it always feels like there is another piece added.  To say if
this was the biggest step for me than yesterday would be tough
to say, but I think -- I think it is, every bit is important.
 I have always been so comfortable against Boris and I think the
past couple of years of my career I have struggled, kind of, playing
with new players who are a little strange for me and especially
with the layoff and now coming back and just this was really a
mental match for me.  It was something - I went in there knowing
I am going to have to stay focused, stay determined, hopefully
break him down.  The fact that it turned out that way was quite
a confidence booster.

 Q.  Did you watch him play at the U.S. Open at all?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Just I mean, I was out of the tournament early,
so I was watching from the TV. It is not quite as easy to pick
up things, but I watched him play a little bit.

 Q.  What do you think of his game?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  He has a very dangerous game.  He hits everything
real well and can hit winners off both his forehand and backhand.
 His forehand is a little erratic, but I am sure when he is playing
well, like at the U.S. Open, he can beat some players.  So that
is why it was important more for me today to stay focused and
disciplined.

 Q.  When you say that it was an important match mentally for
you, was the fact that yesterday you played Boris, all the hype,
and you hadn't played like two named players consecutively like
that before made you really focus?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think that was part of it.  I think the game
style was a part of it.  When you are away from the game and you
play these guys who are consistent from the backcourt who move
well, it is a struggling point.  Like in Palm Springs against
Santoro, it was weird for me, I didn't feel comfortable with my
court position; I didn't feel comfortable with my shot selection.
 You are hitting five to ten balls every point.  With Becker,
it is a little different; more a shot making match.  I have a
lot more confidence in myself after five months off and hitting
shots than I do with working a point.  So I think that was what
I meant by mental, really to focus on making the right decisions.


 Q.  Do you feel you carry something from what Pancho Segura
told you last year in terms of staying patient?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, Pancho has left me a few things that I will
keep with my forever.  He knows the game real well, and I have
learned a lot from him.  To balance what he feels into my game
is important because if I go too extreme, I think it kind of changes
my instinct to the game.  It is important I don't take it too
extreme.  But definitely, I have learned from that.

 Q.  If you could place yourself on the computer rankings,
ignoring where you are actually ranked, where do you think you
are at right now?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  It's a great question.  I mean, I would be interested
for you to ask Pioline that.  I mean, it is hard for me to be
objective because I am judgmental on myself when things aren't
going well; then I have a match like today, I feel like I can
beat anybody in the world.  So it is tough for me to say.  But
I know that-- what is my ranking now?

 Q.  31.

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I know one thing for sure, I'll play number 30
player in the world right now for a lot of money if he wanted
to.

 Q.  How much is the fact that you feel physically stronger
in a match like that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Physically stronger and physically fitter.  I
am moving extremely well, and I feel like I can do it as long
as I have to, which is you know, different for me now than it
has been for a year and a half or so, and just a lot of things
has turned around in my life.  Especially my career, and it is
just really nice to see it all come together like this.

 Q.  Andre, who is the tougher opponent Cedric or Stephanie
the ball girl?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I don't know.  Playing those girls out there,
you get a bit nervous, you know, it is kind of like that Martina/Connors
thing.  I would have to pick Cedric on that one.

 Q.  The fact last year, when did you decide exactly that you
wanted to be back stronger or was it the same precise time?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't know if there was a precise time because
it was an accumulation of so many things.  I think that it started
with-- it started, I think, with Nick, you know, leaving me. 
It started me really thinking and reassessing a lot of things,
and then it led into me, you know, not feeling like I can play
tennis pain free was a big frustration and that and then all of
a sudden having to pull out of the fall and then when the wrist
surgery came up.  There was a number of things that just kind
of-- the longer I was away from the game, the more I had time
to think about what I wanted from the game and what was important
to me, so it was a lot of steps, and to say which step pushed
me over the edge would be tough to say, but I know that somewhere
over the past few months, there is-- a change has taken place.


 Q.  Did being away from the game for five months increase
your appreciation for the game?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  There is no question it did.  But I think it is
more than that.  I think that is more of a temporary frame of
mind, wow, it is exciting for me to be back; all of a sudden it
gets old again.  That is not what it is.  There is a core change.
 Tennis is a platform that I feel like I can use to really excel
and to make myself the most I can be.  Tennis has really presented
a lot of challenge for me that I haven't been able to overcome,
and I don't like that.  If you knew me on a personal level, you
would know that is something I don't accept.  Trying to turn into
a professional thing has been a big step for me.  I feel like
I am doing it.  I feel like it is something that is going to last
forever; not just, oh, I am thankful to be back.

 Q.  What about the next match against Stefan Edberg?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I have always played well against Stefan, and
really, he always played well against me too, it is a great contrast.
 It is an exciting match to watch because you kind of get to see
it all out there, real similar to when I play Boris. It is exciting
tennis.  You get to see all kinds of shots, and you know, he is
an incredible athlete.  Incredible tennis player and he is somebody
that you-- I have a tremendous amount of respect for as far as
his abilities.  I got to go out there and stay focused on my strengths,
and make sure I am returning well.  That is going to be very important
and you know, keep him pinned at the baseline because when he
gets the net, there is nobody can really-- nobody does it better
than him up there, and it is going to be a question of who can
keep the match in their strengths, if he can get to net, and hurt
me before I can hurt him from the baseline, or if he can serve
better than I can return or I can return better than he can serve,
so there is a few factors that are going to make the difference.


 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT