U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1992
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Andre, the general thoughts about the match, it seemed
to go very well for you? 
 
 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yeah, it was.  I felt like I was hitting the ball'
extremely well today.  I felt like he really played well into
my game.  At the start, he tried to come in a lot early on.  I
think I answered a lot of his -- all those attempts.  I think
it kind of threw -- I think it changed his game plan.  He started
staying back, and just trying to survive points.  Then I just
took advantage of it by dictating.  Then I felt like in the middle
of the second set he tried hitting with me a little bit more,
started taking more of a chance and it worked a little better
for him.  But, I just stayed on top of him.  I had to stay focused
to do that.

 Q.   Andre, I heard today that you signed in for the Grand
Slam cup in Munich?     

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Yes.

 Q.   Can you say anything or something -- you didn't show
any interest two times, now, you changed your mind, why?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I figured, you know, with the efforts that
the ATP has made and the efforts that I have made with them, I
felt like giving them a few years before I support something that
may be a threat to them.  It was enough time for them to get themselves
established.  I feel like now that if me playing the Grand Slam
Cup is going to hurt the ATP a whole bunch, well, they don't have
much to stand on anyhow.  They have had a couple of years.  I
feel good about that.

 Q.   All are going a little bit against ATP?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I am sorry?

 Q.   All are going a little bit against ATP?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  No, to do that, no.  I have heard a lot of great
things about the tournament.  I want to go play it. The reason
for not playing it in the past was I felt, like, you know, when
ATP was in the process of really, you know, developing themselves
and establishing, you know, who they are and what they are, I
felt like, me supporting that and not playing was appropriate
for what ATP wanted to accomplish.  They have had a couple of
years to do that now.  I think that if me playing is going to
break the ATP or hurt them, they don't have much to stand on anyhow.
 So, I mean, me playing or not is irrelevant, at this point.

 Q.   Did the other players tell you about the tournament in
Munich?  Did you hear from them?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I heard from a few that, you know, they enjoyed
it over there, and you know, that is about it, really.  I am looking
forward to go back.  I have always played well in Munich.  It
is going to be fun back to play competitively there again.

 Q.   After having some kind of a year that started off slow,
obviously, it has gone way up for you.  Do you look at other 
players who have had -- some kind of players who had similar ups
and downs, Becker for example, do you feel sympathetic?  Could
you feel he is on his way out because he is a bit older?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I definitely feel sympathetic towards him, however
I don't know if I could really identify to what Boris is going
through.  He is going through something you know, really, you
know, late in his career for as long as he has been out here.
 He doesn't talk like he is going to play until he is 30 years
old.  He has won all his Grand Slams and he has made a lot of
money and he has accomplished a lot of things.  And I don't know
if he is struggling with just, you know, having a slump or I don't
know if he is just losing interest in the game.  So, it would
be tough for me to say if I could identify with what he is feeling
because I am not sure what he is feeling.

 Q.   John McEnroe said a couple of weeks ago, I think he said
it a few times now, that there is a changing of the guards in
that he and Lendl and those kinds of players are clearly moving
out; even players in there mid 20s like Becker and Edberg are
kind of being pushed out by guys like you and Courier and Sampras,
Ivanisevic.  Do you think that is right?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think it is fair to say that that looks like
what is happening, but you know, I think to say that is going
to happen wouldn't be given enough credit to guys like Edberg
and Becker you know.  I think Lendl being a few years older and
having a family now, I think he is probably a little more distracted
than he used to be.  So I don't think he is much of a threat to
stay up top.  As far as Edberg and Becker goes, I think any time
they focused their minds they could play as good, if not better,
than any of us.  It is just a question of where their heads are
at.  I think we all are proving that we are one of the best tennis
players in the world and we all deserve to have that respect.
    

 Q.   A lot of the top players seem to go through different
gyrations on whether they should have an intense schedule right
before a Grand Slam, or they need the time off or whatever.  Have
you figured out a routine on that, what works for you?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Not strong enough to where I can feel like it
is going to work all the time.  I go so much on feel, that if
I feel like I am hitting the ball extremely well, I can take off
a few weeks before a Grand Slam and that would be perfect for
me I am -- if I am not feeling I am hitting the ball very well,
sometimes you know, you are in a catch 22.  You want to play more,
but you know playing more might hurt your chances at the Grand
Slam.  I have always played my best when I have had a few weeks
off before a Grand Slam tournament.

 Q.   On the changing of the guard question, just to follow
it up.  How much of the shift to the power game has that contributed?
 Has that played a big role, do you think or is that just a natural--

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Absolutely it has played a big role.  I think
that is, you know, that is what tennis is coming to. Unfortunately
it is coming to people who can you know, hold serve by just serving
only, and you know, I mean I rely on the power game myself, but
I think you know, me and Courier, probably are going to be the
last of the players that can really hit from the ground and depend
on their groundstrokes.  I don't think we are going to see another
player who is going to come up with the ranks.  It certainly surprises
me the way I see tennis heading.

 Q.   Is that bad?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think it is bad from the tennis standpoint,
yeah, because I think that it is, you know, it is not enjoyable--
as enjoyable, you know, time after time, to come out and watch
tennis events when all they are doing is one or two shot rallies.
 I think the public is going to be hurt by that, and tennis as
a result is going to pay the price.  So I wouldn't like to see
it get that far.  I would like to still know that people can come
out and watch a match and see all kinds of tennis in that one
match.  Now it seems like they come out and watch a tennis match
and it is very one dimensional.

 Q.   How could that be changed?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I mean, there is talk about adjusting you know,
making heavier balls for the serve or going to one serve or shortening
the box, or you know, or sticking you know, a maximum amount of
power on your first serve.  There is different talks that they
are doing.  You know, I don't know what is fair.  You know, we
only know tennis for what tennis is.  It is kind of tough when
you go ahead and make a change, whatever change is made, if any
needs to be well thought out.

 Q.   You know how to handle a good server; you have no problem?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Take the serve away, I will have less of a problem.


 Q.   Are you comfortable with this tournament and everything
around it?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I think so.  I think I can finally say I am extremely
comfortable with it.  I really have, you know, a good feeling
about being here.  You know, I think since winning Wimbledon there
is a new respect level, I feel, when I am out there playing, and
winning Wimbledon I think I have a new respect for this event.
 So it is a great give and take that I am feeling when I am playing
here, and there is a lot of energy you know, staying in the city,
and it is a great feel to be out here playing at the U.S. Open.
 I am extremely comfortable.

 Q.   Did things used to bother you and specifically was it
just the so-called distractions that you always talk about here?
 What were the kinds of things you have had come with grip with?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I never been a big city person most of my life.
 I have kind have always enjoyed more of laid back kind of atmosphere,
and you don't find that here in New York, really.  So I kind of
struggle with that in the past, but I think I found myself changing
a lot.  I find myself a lot more adaptable and started to appreciate
a lot more about a lot more different things.

 Q.   Might this be the future of tennis anyway that as there
is more attention and bigger stadiums that are built that will
never have certainly not at the Grand Slams, this kind of cozy
country club feeling that players, after you, had better adapt
to a lot of people, and all of this?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Absolutely.  There is no question.  I don't necessarily
mean when I am out on the court.  I just mean the city, you are
playing in, you know, it is you know, even in London as big as
London is, I get a house out there close to the courts, and it
is just-- you get a very, you know, sense of relaxation being
here there.  Here it is a different kind of relaxation, it is
more of an energy you have to thrive off of the energy.  It is
more a question of where you are playing than how many people
are watching, but definitely the more people, the tougher it is
to control.

 Q.   Where do you stay here, Andre?     

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I have an apartment, stay in an apartment in the
city.

 Q.   How would will you make the transition from hard courts
to red clay for Davis Cup and, two, what do you think of the choice
of red clay, the surface for Davis Cup?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, number one I think that the choice is great
for what -- for our team, you know, I mean, Jim and I are arguably
the best clay courters in the world.  It is perfect for what we
want, what would be best for our surface, so, the transition,
you know, it is not extremely easy, however, you know, everybody
has to make it so it is fair in that sense, and you get a lot
of great practice a week a Davis Cup.  After a few days you really
get adjusted quick.

 Q.   Andre, can you clear up the debate about your reaction,
right after you won the Wimbledon title, and some people have
suggested that Nick kind of orchestrated that, can you comment
on that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I don't think there is much to comment about.
 Honestly, if I need to clear that up, if people can believe that,
there is-- they can believe anything, you know, so, there is nothing
to clear up there.  If you aren't sure about it, just watch it
again.

 Q.   Andre, Jimmy Connors has he comes in here he is always
talking about how the younger players, they don't have the drive
that the old timers have and that they get settled and the money
sort of spoils them.  They don't really go after number one and
it is just different.  What do you think about that?

 ANDRE AGASSI:  I never find myself at liberty to talk about other
people, so I only speak for myself.  I find myself not feeling
that way at all.

 Q.   Thank you.       


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT