ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 22, 2004
Andre Agassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andre. 


Q.  Third game, second set, was that it?  Was that the one to win that turned it?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, that was certainly a long game.  And in hindsight, that was a big momentum changer.  You know, he had a number of breakpoints.  I don't know how many deuces did we play? 

Q.  Six. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Six deuces.  How many breakpoints did he have? 

Q.  Six. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Six breakpoints.  I mean, those are the games that keep you in it or, you know, they go his way, and that could have been a lot quicker of a match.  You know, I managed to break the next game, so I'm sure that took a little out of him.  I think I relaxed more, started hitting a little bit better.  I never quite loosened up on my shots in the first set.  You know, a lot of it had to do with the quality of the ball-striking that was coming off his racquet. 

Q.  Was it your intention to move him around as much as you did? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  My intention was to move him more (laughter).  You can never move somebody too much.  But, you know, he's one of those guys that, while he gets on defense, if you don't quite hit the quality shot, and he gets a look at a forehand, he can really sort of take the point over, hit his forehand both directions.  So there were a number of times where I had him stretched, and I left one ball hanging, and he made me pay for it.  So it was really important I stayed aggressive.  And I did that better as the match went on.

Q.  About a 10-year age gap between you, but you came out looking the fitter and the stronger in the end.  Does that make you feel pretty satisfied with your condition?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I think it's certainly a reflection of the hard work I've been putting in, which is always nice to see.  I think a little bit of an edge came off his game.  I think he might have got a little tired or something.  He just seemed to lose a little bit of a step there.  And I just took advantage of it.  You know, I felt pretty good.  You know, it was getting better as the match went on, so that part was reassuring to me. 

Q.  Your fitness has been commented on several times this week.  We hear a lot about what your Decembers are like, you work really hard in December.  Have you worked that hard since The Open?  Is it on par with that sort of work?

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, it's never sort of the same kind of training time that I get at the end of the year.  You know, I've been pretty busy, you know, with my charity event that you have to throw a party for 8500 people.  It takes a bit of energy (smiling).  But I still worked out every day.  But you always do have to balance sort of that energy level.  It wasn't as good of a time for me as it is at the end of the year when really all the tennis is behind and I just put my head down and come out ready.  So I look forward to that still.

Q.  Was it court work or gym work, track work?

ANDRE AGASSI:  It was both.  It was both.  I mean, always the gym.  I just believe in it strongly.  And I probably spent a little more time on the tennis court this time off than I had in the past, when I get a few weeks off, because I really wanted my game to be, you know, sharp.  I knew I would show up here and have to play right away against the best in the world.  You know, I don't have the luxury like I do in Australia, I get down there 10 days early, play Kooyong, then sort of find my game.  It's probably a bit more on the court, but certainly every day in the gym. 

Q.  You feel that under the current terms Robredo may be the toughest Spaniard to play with in Davis Cup? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, if the team isn't healthy with, you know, Moya, I don't know how Ferrero has been feeling, I'm sure he's been disappointed lately with the way he's -- with his results.  You know, it's hard to say.  I mean, you guys have the luxury of having a tough decision to make as to who's going to play.  It's a good problem to have.  It's like the problem of paying taxes:  you don't complain about it. 

Q.  Are you sure that Patrick McEnroe is not going to give you a call at the last moment, because you beat Robredo, Spadea beat Nadal?  The 30s, I don't know what.  I'm sure you won't come, but perhaps he tries at the end because they are two important results.  Nadal has been beat by Vince and you beat Robredo. 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, I've talked to Patrick already a few times.  If he calls again, we'll have the same discussion.  The reason why I stopped wasn't because we couldn't win, and the reason why I play is not going to be because we can win.  My reasons were well in between that, and still is.  You know, to be 34 years old and to be out there for two and a half hours, to be stronger than my opponent, it's not an easy thing to do.  It takes a lot from me, and I just haven't believed, and still don't believe, that I have that kind of energy to give. 

Q.  From that match, what would you like to still improve for the semis and further on?

ANDRE AGASSI:  You know, I suppose it depends who I'm playing.  You play a guy like Safin, who is very strong off both sides, I'm going to have to be very relaxed and hit my shots aggressively, with conviction.  And if it's Horna, you know, I'm going to have to make sure -- a bit more like today.  You know, his forehand is a much bigger weapon than his backhand.  So that match will be more similar than today's style.  I really want to do everything better.  I mean, I want to be more aggressive and consistent.  It's not easy to do. 

Q.  Going back to an old theme, but it seems you weren't very happy with the models today.  Is this a distraction for you?  Is it something that puts you off? 

ANDRE AGASSI:  Well, like I said, looking at them is as enjoyable for me as it is for everybody else, I'm sure.  What happens out there inside the lines is something that ultimately players will get used to.  I don't have an issue with it.  Certainly been a lot of coverage across the world because of them.  If they can help get the tennis racquet in more people's hands, then I think that's a great thing.  But I was just trying to get ahead of the curve in every situation out there, so that the situation didn't get too far behind as far as the ball goes.  If the ball hits the back stop and it flies off, then one from the back runs up and grabs it, runs back and then tries to track down somebody else to throw it to, just helping them out, "Stay there, she can pick that up," it goes quicker (smiling).  We're all sort of learning out there still. 

Q.  What is the overriding aim at the moment in this week?  Is it just to get out there and play your very, very best tennis, or is Houston the aim?

ANDRE AGASSI:  I think Houston is certainly an accomplishment, if I can somehow do that.  But it's a result of me playing my best tennis.  I mean, you can't win these matches unless you play your best.  Playing in the World Championships so many times, I've learned the only way to get there is to sort of keep your head down with each match.  While it would be great to accomplish that, it's more important to me right now the next match.  That's how I sort of view it.  Whether I couldn't play in Houston or not, depending on where I was sort of positioned, I would still find the same motivation out here. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT