MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: WEST VIRGINIA VS ARIZONA STATE
December 31, 2015
Mike Bercovici
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's your last game.  Just go out and do what you want?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: No.  It's going to be fun to kind of put it all out there.   
 Q.  (Question about sacks.)  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Explanation?  Yeah, no, I mean, taking a sack is something I take extremely personal.  I think I try to do a lot of things to avoid those types of situations.   
Offensive line, I wouldn't trade them for anybody in the entire country.  I have a relationship with each and every one of them.  It's a culmination of so much that goes into protection.   
That's one of the most under-talked about things.  There's quarterbacks involved, five linemen, runningbacks, tight ends sometimes.  It's a combined effort, something that we obviously failed to perform at an extremely high level from that standpoint.   
But, you know, moving forward to Saturday night, going to get the ball out fast, going to get the ball out quick, try to avoid those situations to keep the ball moving forward.   
 Q.  Across the nation, sacks are down.  Are they getting rid of the ball faster?  Why do you think that is?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, I mean, I think the way the offenses have evolved in college football, you're in a position where you get pass plays that become run plays, whether it's on the perimeter, spot routes.  Those are all things that go into it.   
Sacks are always going to be there.  It's part of the game.  You know, just got to avoid them and keep moving forward.   
 Q.  West Virginia's 3-3-5, Coach Graham knows a bit about it.  It's one of the things that people say they don't know what to do with it till you're right in front of it.  What have you done so far to get yourself ready for it?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, we're prepared.  I think we've prepared for quite a while now.  Coach has done a good job preparing us for it.  We're excited for the game.   
 Q.  Anything about the stack you've noticed?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: We're excited for the game, prepared.  It's just time to perform now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT