NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Marco Belinelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Are you excited to be in New York to defend your three-point title?  MARCO BELINELLI: Very excited.  I'm very happy to be here.  To have the change to win again, be in New York.  Nice city.  It's too cold but pretty cool.  I think it's going to be really interesting.  We have a really good players, they are going to try to win the three-point contest. So I think I'm going to try to do my best, try to win again.  I hope to be there again.   Q.  Talk about your shoes.  I saw some pictures of them.  On the inside it says "family first."  Did you have input on the shoes you wear this year?  MARCO BELINELLI: The shoes are going to be like red, white and green, like the Italian flag.  I'm going to try to represent Italy, all my fans in Italy. And "family first," I think my family for sure, my friends and it's a good thing.   Q.  How confident are you coming into the three-point contest going up against the Splash Brothers and of course Kyle Korver?  How do you  feel about defending your title?  Is it fun for you?  Or is there some pressure for you?  MARCO BELINELLI: I'm the man to beat.  I mean, I won last year.  I think this year is going to be, like I said before, pretty good.  I know everybody knows we've got a lot of good players.  But we will see tomorrow.   Q.  How does it feel to have the first female assistant coach?  MARCO BELINELLI: That's good.  She's really important for us.  She helps a lot young people to be a better player.  So that's good.  That's good.  We have the first girl assistant coach.  That's a good thing.  She's really good.  She's really helped us to be a better team.  So that's good.   Q.  The Spurs currently are in the seventh position of the Western Conference.  What kind of things are you reflecting on in the All-Star Break to come back in the second half of the season and really own it in the Western Conference?  MARCO BELINELLI: I think we've got a couple of problems in the beginning of the season because of the injuries.  I think I was out for a couple of games.  Kawhi was out for a couple of games and Tony Parker was out for a couple of games.  But at the same time I think  we know we're going to try to play better and try to be ready to arrive to Philadelphia 100%.  That's what we do.  And everybody knows that we can try to win a championship again. So we just have to be our best to do that.   Q.  Tim Duncan, 15 All-Star appearances.  What does that say about his longevity?  MARCO BELINELLI: Maybe the top all time, I think.  I mean, like it's an honor for me to play with him.  Everybody know that -- how good he is.  He's 38 or 39.  He's amazing.  He can do everything offensively.  He's a great teammate.  He's a good leader.  So just to have the opportunity to play with him is something I'm never going to forget.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT