NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2014
Marco Belinelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and take questions.   
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you were going to put the money ball rack at the end.   Is that because you like the pressure?   Do you thrive on the pressure?  
MARCO BELINELLI:   Maybe.   I don't know.   I think it was like more smart to put the last money ball in the corner so you can know how many points are going to be the guys in front of you or behind you.   
So unbelievable.   I don't know what to say, really.   
   
 Q.   You played here in the 2010‑2011 season.   What was it like coming back and playing in this arena?  
MARCO BELINELLI:   I feel good.   Like for sure, yeah, like I have a really good memory about this city, about playing for New Orleans.   
I remember my first year when I was playing with the super stars like Chris Paul, David West, a great team, great coach like Monty Williams, and I went for the first time to the playoff.   So I really remember like yesterday, so it's just a good feeling to be back in this great town.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel?   You are only the third non‑American player to have won the Three‑Point Contest after Dirk Nowitzki and Peja Stojakovic.   
MARCO BELINELLI:   I don't know that.   But for real it's like a dream come true.   I don't know what to say.   For real.   Like I said before, I remember when Larry Bird was in the Three‑Point Contest and he won again, and now I'm in the same place.   I won this trophy.   
So it's just something tough to describe.   I feel happy for me, I feel happy for my teammates, for the San Antonio Spurs organization, for all my fans.   I think it's just amazing.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like that the last two years you had coaches like Tom Thibodeau and Gregg Popovich, who kind of have a European mentality, did this help your game?   We see in the last two years you've improved overall.   
MARCO BELINELLI:   I think so.   I don't want to forget Monte Williams, because I think it was really important to my career and for sure like Thibodeau last year was incredible.   I think he helped me a lot on my defense, on my confidence, to understand the game better.   
And right now I think I'm part of the Spurs organization and I have a great coach, the best for me, a great person, so he has a lot of confidence in me.   And I just want to go on the court and just try to do my best.   
   
 Q.   Did you kind of think you had the championship won before Bradley made that last rack?  
MARCO BELINELLI:   Almost, almost, yes.   Because Stephen Curry was close to me and he's like, man, you won, you won.   And then he scored the last shot.   And so I was a little bit happy and then mad a little bit.  
   
 Q.   So what was your approach to the shoot‑off then?   Did anger drive you in it, or just that you like the pressure?  
MARCO BELINELLI:   I was a little bit nervous at the beginning, and I think that I shot like two air balls, so I was a little bit very nervous, I think.   
But in the end, I was focused, I really cared about this trophy.   I think it was important to me to win, to be part of this All‑Star Weekend, and I'm just happy to bring this one to San Antonio for me, for my family, my fans, and for sure all the Spurs and my teammates.   
   
 Q.   Among all the great shooters from the past, not only the Americans but also the European great shooters, you played against them, you played together with them.   Who was your idol as a child as a basketball starter?  
MARCO BELINELLI:   I think Reggie Miller was amazing.   I think Peja Stojakovic.   I played with him in New Orleans.   He's a great guy.   For me I think he's the best shooter.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT