NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Logan Stieber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Finalist Logan Stieber of Ohio State.   Logan, an opening statement, please. 
LOGAN STIEBER:   It was a tough match.   The kids really play tall and that causes a little bit of problems with some of the techniques I use.   But I just try to go out there and control the match and ride hard on top and score points when I can.   That's what I did.

Q.   You're 7 minutes or less from history.   Your thoughts right now? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   Just trying to enjoy it.   It's been a fun ride.   And if we could win a team title along the way, that would be cool.

Q.   Logan, Tomasello won his match, and that obviously is helping your team in your quest to be team champion.   Just your thoughts about what that meant?   He's a freshman, and he's made the finals. 
LOGAN STIEBER:   It's really amazing, but it doesn't surprise me.   I think it would have been more surprising if he didn't make the finals just from an insider point of view.   I see him every day.   He gets everybody.   So just to see him actually go out there and do it. 
I had a couple close matches where he made one mistake and lost his matches early in the year.   He wrestled really well the last couple weeks.   So him making it to the finals is as expected.   Tomorrow night should be fun.

Q.   Congratulations.   In your career you have 118 career wins.   Is there any one match looking back over your career that was a defining match for you that's helped you along the way? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   There's been a lot of‑‑ I don't know, a lot of big matches.   I don't know.   I'd probably say the three matches I've lost are probably the most‑‑ those are the ones I really remember.   Obviously, I wanted to win those, but I'm happy I lost because I learned so much more than winning.

Q.   I've known Tommy Ryan, your coach, since high school days.   How has this worked out for you?   Your being there and him being there for this nice ride, a night away from the NCAA team title? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   It's been great.   Coach Ryan is a great leader.   He puts us all in position to do well.   I couldn't be more thankful for him being in my life.

Q.   You wrestled Port a month ago.   What kind of match‑up does he present in a championship match tomorrow night? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   He's got a really good defense and he's really good on bottom.   He's got great attacks on his feet.   He's excellent in all positions. 
But some of the things that stick out, he's great on bottom, so I have to be careful when I'm on top.   His defense is really, really good.

Q.   A follow‑up to your match tonight.   You mentioned the guys‑‑ what kind of problems did that present to you in terms of what you were trying to do, wanted to do and how the match played out with that in mind? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   It was hard for me to get to my wrist and get to my control on top.   I think I ended up taking him down, that wasn't too big of a problem.   But I feel like it doubled the length out there.   It's hard for me to get to my control positions, but I got there when I needed to and got the bonus points.

Q.   We've talked so much about this opportunity for history, yet you seem to be approaching it as another match.   Is that just an a front you're putting on?   Is it inside you, or can you just not think about the things that everybody's asking you about? 
LOGAN STIEBER:   I can flush it in and out.   I see the cameras in my face every time I go to the bathroom or say hi to my mom, but it doesn't affect me.   I just do what I'm here to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT