NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2014
Logan Stieber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 141 POUNDS
  LOGAN STIEBER 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Logan Stieber, the Ohio State University.  
   
 Q.   National title, tough.   Second national title, tough.   Third national title, you've dominated.   How does it feel, partner?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Feels great.   I know Devin is a really, really tough individual.   I knew he had to be really tough to make it through that injury.   So felt good to get through my offense and ride hard.   And my defense was great, and I just kept getting after him.  
   
 Q.   We noticed a lot of guys, when the season is over, they take off and spend time and rest and recuperate.   You did no such thing last year.   The season was over.   You went right back in the competition.   You stayed on top of your grind.   You've actually been going nonstop.   You beat Opan Sat, the number one ranked guy in the world and stuff like that.   How much carry‑over did that have that went into tonight?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   A lot.   It's given me confidence.   I don't get nervous anymore, because I have to wrestle good guys.   Devin Carter, you know, Zane Rutherford.   I wrestled those guys on Friday night and then Saturday.   So I got 24 hours.  
When I went on the freestyle circuit, I also wrestled Jimmy Kennedy, Reece Humphrey, Simmons.   Who else did I have to wrestle?   The kid that I beat the first year, Hochstrasser.   All those guys in one hour, four guys, that are national champions, wrestled them in one hour.   
So I'm used to wrestling the big names, back to back to back, so I don't get nervous.   And when I don't get nervous, I'm at my best.  
   
 Q.   Talk about winning the first two, there was a question whether you had really won or not.   Did that ever weigh on you and that you needed this to put all that to an end?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   No, because I don't really think there was too much of a question.   They always show at the end with Oliver, when he had the around the waist, they changed the rule, but what they don't show was my first takedown.   They changed that rule, too.   So that would have been two points for me.   
Those were close calls, but I never once, I guess, thought that I didn't win or anything like that.   I always had confidence and I felt great out there tonight.   
   
 Q.   You say you take it one year at a time.   People keep asking you about numbers.   You just got No. 3.   And probably ten seconds after you won people are going to ask you about No. 4.   You seem real relaxed this year.   Are you prepared for that question now that you've achieved three in a row?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Yeah, now I'm ready to answer.   Yeah, I'm ready for No. 4.   But you know how I'll treat No. 4?   Training wise, like I trained No. 1, 2, and 3.   I'm always calm.   I always try to be relaxed.   So my coach will have me ready and I'll be ready to go once next season comes around.  
   
 Q.   Does an unbeaten season mean anything to you?   Do you wish you could go back to that meet in December and find a way to get through that and how did that happen?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Part of me does want to go back, but another part, you know, I definitely learned a lot.   Losing sucks, and I would never ever want to lose, but it helped me out a lot.   So an undefeated season.   A chance at The Hodge, that diminished, but who cares?   At the end of the day, I'm here now and I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Do you take a break or are you already thinking about Vegas?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I got three days off.   Sunday, Monday, Tuesday.   Wednesday I'll be back.  
   
 Q.   Your brother's not on the team this year.   
LOGAN STIEBER:   He's a redshirt.  
   
 Q.   I know.   But was he here tonight?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Oh, yeah.   He's here.   He warmed me up and moral support.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about next year, that when you go for four, you'll have your brother back.   In fact, Ohio State is supposed to apparently have its best team.   Can you talk about that?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I'm excited.   A lot of talk.   We had a bunch of teams last couple of years.   We said we have a lot of good recruits.   We do have a lot of good recruits.   I can't wait to start working with them.   Hung around the team, wrestled with me, and back to back next year, it's going to be great.   So I'm excited for it.   We feed off of each other.   Should be a fun year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT