NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 2012
Logan Stieber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  133-lb. Champion  
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   What's it like to win your first?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I've wrestled in so many events, a million events, but nothing compares to that.   Nothing compares.   It's the best thing I've ever had in my life.  
   
 Q.   Logan, at the end of the match he got in on you deep at the edge.   You were kind of playing the edge, making sure you had the boundary there, then when you get in the center.   When he was in deep on the double, were you worried?   How worried were you?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I was a little worried, but I knew I had him high and he wasn't that deep in me.   So I really thought there was‑‑ no, I wasn't really too worried, I just kept looking at the clock and waiting.   
And then I got scared when the officials needed each other.   You never know what's going to happen.   
But I thought it was right.  
   
 Q.   Your freshman season last year, your true freshman season was cut short.   You had the ability to get that year back.   What did you learn from maybe the beginning of the year that year and then coming back, wrestling freestyle and wrestling guys like Mike Zadick and like that at the senior level to prepare you for this moment?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I learned last year I did a terrible job.   My weight, my health was bad.   Everything was bad.   And then at the end of the day I realized that they don't care.   The opponents don't care.   And the fans watching don't see you practice.   They don't care.   They just see what happens out on the mat.   
So really I got tougher.   I got a lot better on my technique, and I was working on a lot of things.   And it was a blessing because it helped me out a lot.  
   
 Q.   Could you speak a little bit about the difference between this match and the time you faced Oliver earlier?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Well, I didn't give up a takedown; that was the big thing.   Like I said out there, the last time he rode me forever.   He rode me for like almost three minutes.   And I got away both times really fast.   Actually, he did score a takedown, yes.   Right away he scored a takedown.  
But I got out and both times real fast, and I just kept wrestling.   Last time it was 2‑2 going into the third period, and for some reason I thought it was worse.   I felt like I was getting beat bad because he rode me for about two and a half minutes.  
I felt great.   I knew I've been working, coached on defense so much, and my conditioning has been great.   So this is a great feeling.  
   
 Q.   Freestyle is something that's been pretty important to you.   Olympic trials in a few weeks.   Are you going to try to be part of that?   Is that something as part of this year's dream?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   Yes, the best main goal this year was to definitely to win the NCAA title.   Now it's time to try to make the Olympics.   I've got the best training partners.   The best coaches.   So hopefully it's one, two, three, Ohio RTC, I'm going to try to win it.  
   
 Q.   No time off?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   No, I'll take a little week off.   Go relax.   Go to Florida.   But I'll still run and workout.   Just take a week off.  
   
 Q.   Talk about you, your brother, and the other Monroeville‑‑ one of the Monroeville three on this team, how special is it that all three of you guys placed as freshmen?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   It's great.   It's crazy because coming into it, it looked from the outside standpoint looked like me and Hunter were probably going to place and Cam was going to fall close.   You didn't know for sure.   And Cam goes out, loses his first match, and Creighton comes storming back to win the six or seven straight.   And it shows how tough he is, and it shows we always want to outdo each other.   
So I won today.   Tomorrow it will be another stupid competition between us three.   So it's great, finally, the competition, and Hunter and Cam, lights out, they wrestled great.  
   
 Q.   Did anything that happened tonight surprise you, or was all your preparation ripe for this opportunity?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   You know, Jordan's an awesome wrestler, one of the best wrestlers in the weight class.   I knew it was going to be a handful to maintain the score because last time he whipped my butt.   
So I just knew‑‑ my coaches instilled the fact‑‑ they trained me to be the best.   I work out two or three times a day.   I always try to be the best.   So, no, it didn't surprise me.   But being someone of Jordan's caliber, it's really amazing.   I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Like you said last time, he kind of beat you somewhat comfortably, took you down, reversed you on bottom and rode you.   But this time none of these things‑‑ he did take you down, but you seemed to make a lot of adjustments.   Can you talk about your game plan and the adjustments?  
LOGAN STIEBER:   I knew I had to stop his double leg.   And I knew last time for some reason I think for a month, two months straight, I started rolling.   Like when other people got my leg, I tried to dive under and roll.   And I don't know why I did that.  
But it wasn't working, worked with my coaches Jay and Lou and Tom, and they're just all working on slide defense.   And my final match I had great leg defense and this Finals match had great leg defense.   Shows it works, it helps.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT