THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 23, 1994
JoAnne Carner
Michelle McGann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CAPTAIN CARNER:  Michelle, as first  alternate, has been a great part -- a great part of the  team victory and I did not want her to leave without  saying a few words of her time here.  

MICHELLE MCGANN:  Well, I was escaping  there.  It was great being the alternate, just in case  anything did happen which would have been terrible, but  I was ready.  I had a great time cheering these guys  on.  It makes me want to work all that much more to be  on the team in Wales and keep The Cup, but you know, I  told everybody before we started that I was here for  them, whatever they needed, you know, cheering them on;  try not to let them get down; gave them some food here  and there; whereever they needed it.  I am sure if they  were on the other side, they would have done the same  thing for me.  The beginning of the week we all sat  down and it was a team thing.  We were all here to work  together.  I think we did a great job.  I am very proud  to be a part of the LPGA, and be one of the top 11  players that was selected to this team and, hey, we got  it back, so that is great.  


Q.  Do you think it is a good idea to have a  reserve for a team, Michelle?  

MICHELLE MCGANN:  Well, Brandie hurt her knee  last night so just in case, you know, we did have  someone and I wasn't on the previous two teams, so -- I  don't think there was an alternate.  But, yeah, I think  I hope I helped JoAnne out a little bit.  I don't  know.  It is a lot of work for one person to be running  around trying to catch up on all the matches; keeping  everybody fired up, and you know, after the first day  we rode around together and it wasn't too bad, because  you know, you really were just one ball, but then  yesterday and today, having 10 matches, you know,  trying to run; keep everybody fired up, and keeping  score of everything, I think it really did help a lot.  


Q.  Would you wish your roll on anybody else?  

MICHELL MCGANN:  Sure, I think a lot of the  girls would have liked to have been part of this, and  there is a lot of great names that over the last couple  of years you know, didn't have enough points or just  came up short, so I think it was a great honor that  JoAnne did pick me as the alternate, and you know, you  are part of the team.  I was there.  I did my part, and  yeah, I wouldn't want anybody else to have it except  me.  


Q.  Wondered if you thought that you might have  led the team in autographs signing?  

MICHELLE MCGANN:  I did.  I did get a little  bit more being outside of the ropes and maybe I kind of  helped these girls so I got them all while they can get  to the tee and keep focused.  I think everybody was  pretty good about asking for autographs; they knew when  to and when not to.  I think everybody stayed really  focused and loose and I don't know that anybody didn't  have a good time on our team.  


Q.  Will your hat be the uniform of record in the  next Solheim?  

MICHELLE MCGANN:  Next week when we are going  to Japan Donna and I are partners; I got her a hat.  I  played Jane Geddes a couple of weeks ago in a Pro Am; I  got Jane to wear a hat.  So maybe over the two years we  can kind of talk these girls into maybe wearing a hat;  maybe even for the practice round.  That could be a  good start.  We will get them some cool hats.  Joanne  has got a pretty sharp hat.  We got at least the  captain looking pretty good.  I know how JoAnne felt  those first two days, hopeless, totally hopeless.  But  I actually watched some great golf which was fun.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT