THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 22, 1994
JoAnne Carner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JoANNE CARNER:  We tied it all up.  We had  some wonderful, wonderful matches and one was kind of a  walkaway, but they had played so well in practice  rounds that it really did not surprise me that they put  everything together.  And I think the matches are  evolving pretty much the way Laura and Mickey and I all  predicted; that they would be all very, very close.  Even going into the final day is about as close as you  can get.  


Q.  Maybe you could set a technical controversey  right off the bat.  The scoring on the Mallon/Daniel, I  think they have it 7 to 5.  The feeling is, it should  be 6 and 5 and that the match between Fairclough and  Reid against Green and Robbins should be 4 and 3  instead of 5 and 3.  

JoANNE CARNER:  I can't answer that because I  wasn't looking at the board itself.  All I was  listening was over the earphones, the final result.  


Q.  Those were on the board behind the 18th green  where those scores were posted like that.  So maybe the  score keeper made an error.  

JoANNE CARNER:  You might -- Beth says that  according to the referee's, the matches were conceded  on that hole, so that would add one more.  That might  be the answer.  I am not sure.  


Q.  But it would have added one more?  

JoANNE CARNER:  It would add one more if they  concede, yes.  


Q.  Talk a little bit about tomorrow's matches  and the matchups, maybe specifically the Burton match?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, I think I outguessed  Mickey this time.  And I wanted Brandie to play Laura  and that is exactly what I have got.  Should be a  wonderful, wonderful match.  They are both playing very  well and it is just -- it is the match I'd like to  see.  I'd like to follow that one all the way.  


Q.  Would you like to comment on one of your  players saying outloud "yes" when an opponent misses a  putt?  

JoANNE CARNER:  They just get so wrapped up  into it, that it just comes out.  

The one thing about -- part of the reason why  I love professional golf because in amateur golf when  you play match play, you always had to be so stoic, and  you couldn't show anything emotion or you got lectures  from the USGA if you did.  And once you are a  professional, you show -- you learn to show emotion, so  when you get two matches that we really don't play  until we play Solheim Cup, is you are apt to just slip  into something that you do all the time.  So...  


Q.  Are you concerned about any particular  players tomorrow, players who haven't quite performed  up to their ability coming in?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Kelly Robbins only one that  is not playing well.  She was playing very well coming  into it, and has just been trying too hard, so.  


Q.  She appears to be a little nervous; anything  that you can tell her to. . .  

JoANNE CARNER:  Kelly never hits the ball fat  and she has hit a lot of fat irons and just you know,  it just really bothers her, so -- and she did in the  foursomes, you know, really didn't play-- she is  normally a very solid ball striker.  She tends to hook  it a little more than what she'd like at times, but  other than that, it is solid.  It is never hit fat and  it is bothering her very much.  But if we can get her  to relax and get her to come out of the box good, that  should ease her out.  


Q.  How will you relax her then?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Go shake her or something.  


Q.  Outline on your thinking of the order of  singles play tomorrow?  

JoANNE CARNER:  The question was can you give  around outline of the order in which I selected the  players.  I kind of -- well, again, I am going to the  last two, Sherri and Donna, they are both playing  extremely well, but I need the course to be as dry as  possible to give them the most roll as possible, and I  put them there.  Tammie is playing well, if we are coming down  needing you know, points, she is playing extremely  well.  Brandie, of course, is just solid as can be.  Patty Sheehan just started to really come to  life today on those last few holes, just firing it in  there.  Meg Mallon has played great.  Kelly Robbins, I  didn't want to hold Kelly too long in going off.  I  didn't want her to go off first or second.  I wanted to  put some of my players playing really well right off  and see if we can get some of those first wins.  And I  didn't put Kelly in that position.  So she should be a  little bit more comfortable.  She is not waiting too  long to play, but she is not first or second off  either.  So I think she will be a little more  comfortable with that.  King, really started to putt everything  together.  She started to get it yesterday and played  extremely well today.  And of course, Mochrie and  Daniel, have just played superb.  


Q.  Did you have any thoughts of putting Daniel  in a position where she might catch Davies?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Not really.  Beth told me  she'd like to go early, so if she is comfortable with  that, I am comfortable.  I like -- in the coolness we  are playing earlier tomorrow, I like that length to be  in there.  I put Dottie in there even though it is  early morning just because she is playing so strong and  is so pretty in there.  I got to go with her.  


Q.  What will you tell them before tomorrow a lot  of these kids weren't in the team two years ago, they  don't know the rivalry there; wanting to reclaim The  Cup.  What will you tell them tomorrow?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I really don't say much to  them.  They are in their mode.  They are in the mood.  They are pepping themselves up.  They are playing  well.  


Q.  JoAnne, if the team came in nervous as some  admitted they did, do you think they are less nervous  now?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, they are getting more  comfortable and some of those that were really nervous  were just borderline playing well.  Like Patty Sheehan,  I mean, the more she plays, the stronger she gets and  she just started firing it right in just beautiful long  irons in finishing, so Patti is just getting stronger  as we go, you know.  If we play Monday, she might be  first off, you know, so...  


Q.  You feel like that about the team in general?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Yes.  Yes.  Got a wonderful  team.  Very strong team.  


Q.  What about the European team?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, they have played really  well.  I mean, one of the surprises was Trish Johnson  who we have known as always played well has played  terrible practice rounds, and rose to the occasion, you  know.  Just worked hard and got her game going and is  playing very well right now.  And of course, you always  know Helen Alfredsson, Laura, Alison, you know, Lotte,  I watched her not only hit the ball well, but has a  beautiful putting stroke.  You know, just and some of  the players I didn't know that well that I am learning  their games like Reid, you know.  


Q.  Read and Fairclough surprised you because you  didn't --  

JoANNE CARNER:  Reid by her record, and what  people have told me I knew she was a gutsy match play  player; will take on anybody, so I knew she would be  tough, just -- she is sort of like Mochrie.  


Q.  Well, slightly more laid back a bit?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Everybody is different,  appearancewise and everything.  


Q.  I think though it is interesting because they  are both very fierce competitors, but they both display  it in the completely different ways.  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, one is a European way  and one is an American way.  Let us just put it that  way.  The Americans are more flagrant; flashier.  


Q.  The American players seem to be talking more  about how nervous they are than the Europeans; do you  think there is a disadvantage of being a favorite in  this thing?  

JoANNE CARNER:  We should be the favorites.  They are defending, but we are in here and --  


Q.  Do you think your team thinks it has more to  lose in this?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, I haven't been talking  about losing at all in any of my discussions with the  team.  I don't allow that to go on in anywhere I am  around them.  


Q.  How did the family party go last night?  

JoANNE CARNER:  It was wonderful.  Wonderful.  62 people.  


Q.  And tonight?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Tonight we will be players,  team room.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT