THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 21, 1994
JoAnne Carner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JoANNE CARNER: All and all, I am very pleased  with how we stand.  As you all know, this is not our  favorite form of playing.  We don't ever play it and  alternate shot straight -- alternate shot is very, very  difficult for our team.  They have been playing  extremely well coming into this and I figured if they  kept playing this well we would probably reverse the  end result and we would be 3 and they'd be 2.  With us  finishing two, I am very happy with the fact that we  are one behind and that is all, because from here on  in, we are going to go into our forte which is  individual play; what we are used to; everybody can  play their own ball; everybody can get a little more  aggressive.  


Q.  Any disappointments out there individually,  people you thought might play well that didn't.  

JoANNE CARNER: Some of the teams were having  difficulty starting.  They were, I believe, too  nervous; couldn't get anything really gelling until  they got passed 9 and so on.  Then they started to  relax and started to free-wheel and started to play  very well coming in.  


Q.  Kelly and Tammie didn't play well last week.  Is there something maybe you hope would gel with them?  

JoANNE CARNER:  They were playing well here.  They just were both off.  


Q.  JoAnne, could you tell us where you got the  hat?  

JoANNE CARNER:  The hat is a gift from our  hair dresser on tour.  Beverly is her name.  She lives  in Carmel, California and comes out every two, three  weeks and is in the locker room. She is just a lot of  fun to be around.  She is here this week.  But she was  in Carmel and they have a family outing on the fourth  of July deal, and she got this hat.  So, she decided  that it would be a great hat for the U.S. captain.  So  Beverly gave it to me in Canada.  That would be July,  early July, something like that, second week of July,  whatever it was, and gave it to me for good luck.  So I  paraded around the locker room in front of Laura and  Lana (PHONETIC) and Trish and all of them up there in  Canada, and when I got on the charter I had it on  there.  They were trying to steal it there, and they  have been trying to steal it ever since.  It is my good  luck hat.  


Q.  Will you have a team meeting tonight, and if  so, what will be the main focus?  

JoANNE CARNER:  We are having a family get  together.  It has been -- it started with the team  getting together with all the family members that are  here for The Solheim Cup.  And as of now, we are 58,  and so we decided it would be great to get everybody  all dressed up.  Some are in another hotel and whatnot,  so it is part of The Greenbrier atmosphere too. We are  going to have a short cocktail party in our suite, and  then we will go right down into a private room that The  Greenbrier has set aside for us, and we will just have  a nice dress-up dinner.  


Q.  You all planning on talking strategy or  anything tonight?  

JoANNE CARNER:  There isn't any strategy.  They are fine.  We talked a little bit, you know, but  until we got the pairings, I will probably talk a  little bit with a couple of players.  That is it.  


Q.  Laura Davies won 6, 7 matches in The Solheim  Cup.  Hard to stop or just lucky or what can you say  about her at this point?  

JoANNE CARNER: Laura is just a great player.  I mean, you know, the way she is firing it in, they are  coming in.  It is beautiful to watch.  You'd wish she'd  be on your team.  But she still makes mistakes out  there too.  But coming down the wire, Laura loves it.  She thrives on it.  Just really rolls -- even match, it  was going up-and-down all the way and then she just  caught fire.  


Q.  Were you surprised by the --  

JoANNE CARNER: There is no way Laura is going  to play behind Reid and Fairclough.  They are just too  slow.  I mean, Laura likes to play in an hour and 30  minutes and they will play field hockey or something  for three hours.  But, you know. . .  


Q.  Yours is the same, will you change yours?  

JoANNE CARNER: No.  I mean, what am I going  to change?  Who am I going to try and outguess?  I have  the order and everything.  


Q.  How did you enjoy your first day as captain,  competitively?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I've got a headache and I am  ready for a Stoley.  It was so nerve-wracking because,  I mean, it was like I played every shot, I putted every  putt, I hit every chip.  You know, I mean it was just,  I mean, like the last shot, Sherri Steinhauer got this  bunker shot, I am saying "don't hit it down, don't hit  it down," I mean, because it goes over there and it  will just keep trickling and go down into the bunker on  the other side and all that.  But I mean, it was so  exciting and yet so nerve-wracking to be sitting on the  sideline watching and knowing why my husband has gray  hair.  


Q.  What are you going to be like on Sunday  night?  

JoANNE CARNER: Probably a disaster case.  Hopefully drinking champagne Sunday night.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT