THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 20, 1994
JoAnne Carner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JoANNE CARNER: We are ready to go finally.  Beth asked me to make a comment on were there any  surprises.  I have to say there is.  Laura Davies is in  match four.  I was guessing that they would put Laura  in two or three.  So I was off.  But that really does  not make any difference.  She is going against our one  and two at Solheim points list, Donna Andrews and Betsy  King.  Other than that, I think we have just got some  great matches going, really.  When I look at it, I am  thrilled for our side and thrilled for the European  side because the way they teamed them up and what not,  I think it is going to really be some fine, fine golf.  When I -- everything was so hectic today.  I  had to run around and tell the team, the first two that  I got to was Mochrie and Burton, I said you are going  first and they both jointly said "Yeah."  And that is  the spirit of my team.  I am ready, they are ready, and  that is about it.   
 

Q.  Apart from the position of Laura and Alison  Nicholas, have any of the particular European pairings  surprised you?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Not really.  You know, I know  they broke up a couple of teams, but I think she might  have to do that due to the golf course; the second  shots requiring elevation.  When it is playing long,  you know, some players may have to -- didn't team well  for some reason.  I really don't know.  I am not  familiar with a lot of the players.  I am familiar with  all the ones that play our tour, but I am not familiar  with -- Dale Reid, Lora Fairclough, Annika, I have seen  Catrin a little bit, you know, I am very much aware of  their record.  So I think -- when I look at them, I  think she has done a very good job on her side.   
 

Q.  What do you see as your role tomorrow?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Rooter.  I am going to get  some pom poms and just get out there.  I really think  both sides are fired up and ready to go.  I was talking  to Pam Wright's mother, of course we played Curtis Cup  matches against one another, so I was talking to her  just briefly and I showed her the pairings and she said  they guessed that is who they would play.  So it is  interesting, they were trying to figure it out.  Her  mother said, you know, this is a totally different  Solheim Cup, in fact, that it is not lop sided one way  or the another abilitywise.  It is really equal.  Everyone has so many strong players on each side that  it is really evolving into the real Solheim Cup  matches.   
 

Q.  Will you have a pre-kickoff talk tomorrow  morning or are you just going to turn them loose?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Turn them loose.  They know  what to do.  But I will kill them if they don't... No,  I am only kidding. We are having a team meeting tonight  and we will just go over some things; some things that  I will bring up from my past playing match play and,  you know, some of the stuff I have already talked about  to them, and then all they got to do is just try and  relax and free-wheel it tomorrow.   
 

Q.  Do you wish you were playing JoAnne?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Yes.  Absolutely.  Pam's  mother says it makes me want to play too. The golf  course is so pretty and what not; all the excitement.   
 

Q.  Have you tended to discuss what happened two  years ago or do you try to let that --  
 
JoANNE CARNER: I wasn't there two years ago.   
 

Q.  I know you weren't, but many of the players  were.  
 
JoANNE CARNER: No.  As far as I am concerned,  that is past.  This is a whole new team.   
 

Q.  You mentioned that you thought Laura Davies  would perhaps play two or three.  Is Laura Davies the  player that all the Americans want to play against?  Are they desperate to get --  
 
JoANNE CARNER: It is a love/hate  relationship.  It is "I'd love to play her, but I'd  hate to play her."  She is so dangerous that, you know,  the team, they know they are playing well and they can  take Laura on, but yet, you know, she still scares  them.   
 

Q.  How would you describe your style of  captaincy?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: I don't know.  I just -- I  have just started out, you know, the golf course; a lot  has to do with the golf course.  Secondly, I consider  the games and thirdly personalities.  They made it very  easy when all the members said I will play with  anybody, so personality was the last thing to think  about.   
 

Q.  What was your thinking in pairing Sheehan and  Steinhauer together?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: I just thought they would be a  good solid team.  They sort of compliment one another.  They are like the Beth Daniel and the Betsy King of  previous matches in that they both hit about the same  distance so they are just good solid-- I wanted to put  Sherri who tends to get a little nervous, I wanted to  put her with a good solid player like Patti who will  take on anything and able too up-and-down out of any  where, so will help Sherri relax; although Sherri is  playing great right now, so. . .   
 

Q.  Also the rumor this week was that Mochrie and  Burton might be playing the best of any of the American  teams; is that why you put them on first?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Yes, and I like their  attitude.  I mean, they are ready and they are -- they  are -- ones's aggressiveness is feeding the other out  there, so I would put them against anybody.   
 

Q.  Did Brandie ask to play with Dottie  specifically?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Yes.   
 

Q.  Did you have a number of requests that you  had to consider; I want to play with so and so?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: No, Brandie said, I will play  with absolutely anybody and I said, well, is there  anyone in particular and she said, not really, but I'd  really like to play with Dottie, so I then went and  asked Dottie-- this was in Seattle and asked her if I  should pair them because at that point it was --  everything was up in the air because she had just  finalized the captain's choice and solidified the 9th  position, so I asked Dottie and Dottie said she'd love  to play with her.  So with that in the back of my mind  I started theoretically putting teams together.  I had  many lists where they were not together, and the final  list kept putting them together.   
 

Q.  Mickey said that she didn't feel nervous now  but she probably would tomorrow.  Are you -- do you  have any nerves at all?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: After this week, no.  I mean,  I could use a little rest, but I think at the flag  raising ceremony then I will start to feel it.   
 

Q.  Have you had a chance yourself to go over the  course and look at different holes and make plans or  have there been an exchange of notes from the various  players and caddies as to yardage, best ways to play a  hole and what the pin placements would be; the way of  the greens?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: I started out in asking them  to look at individual greens and each person study a  green, but it is too involved and there wasn't that  much time and everybody was on a hectic schedule and so  I said just, you know, take your time and then we split  into two-somes so that they could spend more time and  start to just communicate with their partner right  now.  So that worked out great and then Michelle went  with various players to fill in and did a great job as  alternate in that I said you have to be -- you have to  think that you are going to be ready to step in at any  given minute; particularly if the weather turns cold  somebody might pull a muscle.  So you prepare just like  as if you are playing; that is what Michelle has done  and she has done a great job so as our first alternate  she is ready to step in.  Everyone else did a lot of  analyzing on their own, some of them would meet and  talk together, 4, 6 or 8 players and discuss certain  holes, but it comes down to certain holes are tricky in  what to look for as they played it; it hurt everybody  in not playing yesterday with all the rain.  That  really makes everybody a little more anxious on both  sides, so I am sure everybody is feeling like me; they  are glad it is finally here.  They are glad the  pairings are set and glad the batting order is in  place.   
 

Q.  What was your thinking in the rest of your  batting order after the first -- just toss them up and  throw them down there; how did you come --  
 
JoANNE CARNER: It was interesting, I was  talking to some of the players out there.  I said I  hadn't seen them play because I have been so busy and  yesterday I couldn't, you know, because I saw Beth and  Meg play two holes -- yeah, two holes, and that was  it.  I mean, I started down the first hole, wondering  everybody is coming in saying the greens are under  water.  I watched them all on the practice tee and then  I was out there and I had forgot about the meeting at  11:30 and I went out to really look at how everybody is  playing and I only had about an hour and a half to get  out there and -- so I rode a couple of holes with each  group and then right in from there up to the Solheim  Cup meeting at the hotel; I was putting together how I  would pair them and it ended up that is the way I  paired them.  I think when you get rushed, you pull out  of your subconscious what you have been thinking  about.   
 

Q.  Last time there was some controversy; there  was a little bit of animosity between the teams.  Doesn't seem to be here now or at least it is not  noticeable.  Do you think that is good or bad?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Well, if there is animosity, I  don't know why, five European members sat at my table  last night.  I mean, they are just -- we all know one  another and the players from Europe that I don't know I  have met and spent a little bit of time with them  and -- Mickey and I don't want -- I have known Mickey  when she played over here and I don't want that  atmosphere going on and nor does Mickey, really.  I had  a feeling they were trying to take that clip out and  get sent to fire up -- to fire up the European team and  I said, just bounce it off; if it fires them up, fine,  but we can't be, you know, involved in anything like  that.   
 

Q.  Which lip are you referring to?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Oh, it was where they took out  of context Betsy King's statement.  Betsy was talking about the depth -- if you  took 50 players from the European Tour and 50 players  from the U.S. Tour, the U.S. Had the better players,  depth-wise, that was all.  So they didn't put in the  clip "if you took 50 players from this side and 50  players from this side. " All they put in was the last  statement, so...   
 

Q.  Who is they?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: I believe it was Ben Wright's  (ph) interview.   
 

Q.  So that was recent?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Yeah, but --   
 

Q.  Who were the 5 Europeans that you sat with at  dinner?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Laura, Trish, Alison; Laura  Fairclough, I believe, there is one I am not sure which  one she.  She looks like Pam Wright to me.  Who is  that?   
 

Q.  Catrin?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Catrin.   
 

Q.  A replacement?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: Yeah, so yeah, we had a fun  time.   
 

Q.  Do you think Dottie will be more intimidating  playing this year now that she has red hair?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: It has changed her.  Dottie is  getting back to the old Dottie.  She was mellowing  there for awhile.   
 

Q.  Mellowing?  
 
JoANNE CARNER: For Dottie, Dottie was  mellowing.  Blonds may have had more fun, but red heads  are more fiery.  Okay, we all got to go change and get  ready for the ceremony.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT