U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
July 13, 2018
JoAnne Carner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOANNE CARNER: I'm very tired.  You know, I never really got the rhythm of the swing today.  I drove it not well today, and I've been driving it good.  So you're starting on the wrong foot.  And then hit a couple good irons, but basically the whole swing was a little off.
Q. Did you run out of gas do you think?
JOANNE CARNER: I don't want to admit that.  I think that's probably part of it, yeah.  Got a little stiff.
Q. What was your tip there to Hollis?
JOANNE CARNER: Oh, Hollis was watching my stroke because when I'm on, I make a lot of putts, and it's an aggressive stroke.  She liked it and wanted to know what I do.  The first thing that shocks them all is I have both thumbs off the putter.
Q. Wow, why is that a secret?
JOANNE CARNER: Because if I put particularly the right thumb, I'll hook it.  So to stop doing that, I just took the thumb off and then I took the other thumb off.
Q. How long have you been putting thumbless?
JOANNE CARNER: Several years really.  I've never had the yips.  I may make a slight change, but basically I switched putters so I had to stand taller is all.
Q. Are you disappointed that you didn't make the cut?
JOANNE CARNER: Yeah, but I just -- I mean, it wasn't there today.  Physically I wasn't sharp, you know.  We saw you on 13, the par-3, where you hit it right, and it looked like that was the one place you really did not want to hit it.
JOANNE CARNER: Absolutely.
Q. So that was maybe kind of a sign that you weren't going to have the ball-striking round you were hoping for?
JOANNE CARNER: Well, that was only my fourth hole.  Yeah, because I had worked so hard with that particular club the night before to try and get it zeroed in.
Q. 6- or 7-iron?
JOANNE CARNER: Yeah, that was a 7-iron, and I just wanted to hit it right up the center, and I hit it off to the right.
Q. How long did you spend on the range yesterday?
JOANNE CARNER: Oh, I don't know, probably an hour.  I hit, chitchat.
Q. Will you play next year?
JOANNE CARNER: Certainly.  Pine Needles, ooh, that can play long, too.
Q. What is it that keeps you coming back?
JOANNE CARNER: Well, it's always the fun of meeting everybody again, but competition.  You only get bad from lack of work.  I mean, we're not playing long, so you don't need to hit it nine miles, but you just need to hit it.  And as long as I don't have the yips, well, why not, you know?  I've got to be in better shape.
Q. You talked about the fun; how much have you and your fellow players enjoyed having the fans walk the fairways this week?
JOANNE CARNER: Yeah, that was great.  I mean, starting with my sister, who loved it, just right there.  But everybody else you could chitchat and -- I thought it might be a problem for the people behind waiting for them to clear, but they stayed right with the group, so it actually worked out perfectly.
Q. You know you had quite a rooting following, not just here but around the golf world, hoping to see you make the weekend.  That must have been really heartening to know that so many people were rooting for you.
JOANNE CARNER: I had some friends text me.  They said, a lot of them, good luck.  Happy with the first round, and stay in there.
Q. What's the secret to longevity in this game?  What's your secret?
JOANNE CARNER: Well, you have to get away from golf.  Golf and the public, if you're playing tournament golf, you're talking all the time and whatnot, so when you're off, you need to really get totally away from golf so that you get enthused again.  You know, the fun is the anticipation of getting my swing back.
Q. Is that the same for amateurs do you think?
JOANNE CARNER: Sure, sure.  You know, they need to fine tune the same as the pros, you know.  Just analyze your bad shots.  A lot of people just ignore.  I don't know how many people I've talked to over the time, including pros, that say, would you help me with my wedge.  How far do you hit your wedge?  Well, I hit it between 110 and 120.  I say, what?  I said, this wedge here, I hit 81.  This one here, I hit 96.  This one here, I hit 110, not --
Q. Not a range.
JOANNE CARNER: So I said, you need to go hit and find out your length of just a good, solid shot, and then you start working, using your brain a little.
Q. So we have actually less than a year, it's about 10 months to Pine Needles.  It'll be in May next year.
JOANNE CARNER: I'll be ready.
Q. What do you feel like you need to do between now and then, maybe a little walking?
JOANNE CARNER: Well, definitely walking, because the first walking was here Monday, and I was stiff just like today.
Q. So that's a big one.
JOANNE CARNER: Yeah.  You know, just get in better shape.
Q. Will you play in any competitions between now and then?
JOANNE CARNER: I might retire for 10 months.
Q. Come back fresh.
JOANNE CARNER: That's right, get enthused.
Q. Because you've got to get away, right, for a little while?
JOANNE CARNER: That's right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT