THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 23, 1994
JoAnne Carner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JoANNE CARNER: I talked a lot about match  play and the strategy in match play.  The hard thing is  to get to the first tee and you are nervous; you cannot  help but be nervous, so to get them out of that I  forced them to think of only winning the first hole, I  said, I don't want to hear anything else.  I want you  to stand on that first tee and I want you to win the  first hole for me.  And like Beth Daniels said, you  know she finally did it yesterday and just about threw  her arm out of joint, you know, because she was so  thrilled with the fact that she won the first hole, and  what it did, it makes a person focus.  They don't  concern themselves as much with their nervousness or  whether they miss the ball.  If you are thinking you  are going to win it, you are thinking much more  aggressive and you are thinking where you want to hit  the ball.  You are not thinking about the bunker over  there or the wind or the trees on the left and all  that.  So that was my main point everyday.  You got to  start out winning the first hole because it putS you in  the right frame of mind.  


Q.  JoAnne, do you find a group when you first  got them altogether this week that was extremely  nervous more so than normal, you know?  

JoANNE CARNER: When they first got here they  were worn out with the exception of Brandie.  And  Michelle.  They were just very tired.  So we took  Monday off and then we got in and they started talking  about nerves and this and that and I squelched it.  I  said I don't want to hear anymore on that, all this  negativeness; you are going to have nerves; if you need  to, I will get you some vaseline; you put it on your  teeth when you get to the first tee and your lips won't  stick, but when I kind of got them focused on winning  the first hole, no one ever asked me for some on their  teeth.  But they -- they couldn't help but being  nervous, you know.  


Q.  Did you feel like maybe a little haunted, the  ones that have been there at Dalmahoy maybe there was  something extra to prove?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, yeah, when I  questioned -- I called Beth Daniel about a week before   - I had to call her about something else and I said if  I paired you with Meg - they are very close friends and  they play a lot of matches against other LPGA players,  and they do it a lot, so I said if I pair you two  together, do you think you will be too high, too wound  up, trying too hard; I said, do you think you will try  too hard.  They that sort of makes -- I mean, Beth just  sort of -- I could hear her jumping back on the phone  saying, well, I don't know, you will have to call Meg  and ask Meg, you know, but it was kind of the answer I  wanted.  You know, like I am not concerned with that,  you know.  Without saying it, inferring it.  So that  was, you know, let me know that was the pairing I  wanted.  But we all sat and talked and everybody talked  about how nervous they were in previous matches, and  how how it turned out you know, good, and I allowed  just a little conversation Thursday night about some of  the veteran players talking about how bad it feels to  lose, but I hardly allowed any of that.  I wanted  everything to be you, nothing but up.  


Q.  Do you think intensity and aggression can  ever be termed poor sportsmanship?  

JoANNE CARNER:  It depends upon whether you  are on the winning end or losing end.   Ben Hogan was  probably one of the greatest players ever.  I hated to  watch him play.  He didn't suit my style of play.  He  was too stoic; showed no emotion.  Dottie shows  everything.  I like it.  Dottie is so totally into it  that I don't think Dottie knows what she expresss on  the golf course, you know, she is just -- she is just  wound, which is wonderful; makes you a wonderful match  play player.  


Q.  Would you like to have played her?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I would loved to have played  her, but you know, you better you better be playing  good.  


Q.  What happened to Brandie; she got hurt last  night?  Was there ever any doubt about her --  

JoANNE CARNER:  Her knee which she has had a  lot of surgery on, her knee went out during the  backside of yesterday's round, so we sent her right  down to the therapist, physical therapist and the  fitness trainer worked on her and then she iced it  mostly through the team meeting last night; dinner and  meeting and then I think Keith did some more work on  her this morning, so. . .  


Q.  Was there ever any doubt?  

JoANNE CARNER:  She said there is really  nothing she can do with it.  It is just -- she will  play in pain and stiffness but she did not want me to  say anything.  


Q.  Talk about the growth of The Solheim Cup and  what you see in the future.  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, the growth of the  Solheim Cup is nothing but phenomenal.  I mean, I don't  know any other word to express it.  Everything right on  here and this is as beautiful a place as this is -- it  is so out of the way, and when I look at all those  galleries out there, it is just thrilling to know that  people came from a long ways away.  I know a couple of  the caddies and players have driven 70 miles everyday,  LPGA players and caddies that are not involved in this,  but came to watch, drove 70 miles everyday, so...  


Q.  Can you talk about your emotion when the  thing was clinched; when Meg 2-putted; you sort of knew  what was going on?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, she surprised me.  I  kept thinking 6 points, 6 points, 6 points.  You know,  that is what I wanted.  That was the goal.  So I was  keeping track of everything and when she came through  and said over TV that I won, you know, I was gone  because I hadn't prepared for it.  I still thought we  had to win one match.  


Q.  When was the last time you cried on the golf  course, JoAnne?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I can't remember.  Oh yes, I  do.  Yes, I do.  The intercollegiate, I blew an overtime match  and I was crying going back to the club house and this  big burly guy came up and put his arm around me and he  said, that is all right, JoAnne, I know how you feel  and you know, gave me a hug and then he walked off and  I said to this friend of mine, who was there,  (indicating crying)said it was Mike Souchak and he had  blown The Masters the week previous.  So he knew how I  felt.  


Q.  Do you remember the year, 50 something?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I lost probably somewhere  around 60 -- 57.  I went to college 57 to 61, so...  


Q.  Was there a point in either today or  yesterday when there was a crucial point that if it had  gone the other way perhaps the momentum would have  shifted; can you identify any stage in the match where  you thought, yeah, that is -- we really needed that?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, I think with each  match, I couldn't follow all.  I had Michelle working  the early groups.  I stayed; watched everyone tee off;  then I went out.  I could not follow any and because of  the difficult of getting to the holes, unless you are  walking, I couldn't get to a lot of holes, so I would  have to stay in a set area and, you know, like what  worries you, I mean, you are thrilled when you get  Sherri Steinhauer 4 up and then you see her relax a bit  and start to faulter, you know, and the harder she is  trying, you know, and I said just relax, let everything  go, relax your hands and whatnot, let it go.  And she  ended up winning that hole.  And then I kept trying to  root her on, you know, but she wasn't -- I mean, she'd  hit it either on or just on the collar and she couldn't  take the pressure off herself, you know, she'd putt and  instead of being that close (indicating 6 inches) it  would be like that (indicating 6 feet).  She kept  putting pressure and pressure and pressure on herself.  And you know, she just hung in there, and that was sort  of the, you know, what happened; some players who are  behind, they just stayed in there and came from behind  and to move ahead.  


Q.  Did it really surprise you that Laura Davies  wasn't put out first; possibly second?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Yeah.  I think Laura inspires  the team.  You know, she has always done it, and I  think it becomes a team ritual, sort of.  So when you  move Laura around, it changes the team atmosphere  around.  


Q.  Were you surprised or are you surprised by  the 8-2 score in the singles matches?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Yes, I was really because we  were battling so close on the others, I knew Tammie and  Kelly had to come out of their slump.  Tammie, from  what I heard, was hitting the ball well, but they just  were not clicking as a team.  There she is right now.  And I knew that she is -- her game is there, so I put  her in the position that she was in because I figured  she'd come out of her slump -- not her slump, but her  two losses and with the West Virginia fans here if she  gets going, they are going to start screaming and  hollaring their head off and we heard them all the way  around that golf course today.  It was just wonderful.  If Tammie follows directions, this is a  Stoli.  It is.  Thank you, Tammie.  


Q.  Would you like to be captain again?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I have to recover for this  one.  I absolutely loved it.  I think you really have  to know your players.  I think one advantage I had -- I  picked long hitters and I think it was very critical on  this golf course.  


Q.  Could you comment a little on Donna Andrews  she was one of your first time Solheim Cup players,  this really has been a breakthrough year for her she  won three tournaments and one a major.  Comment a  little bit on her playing this event and overall as one  of the rising stars on the Tour?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, Donna has always been  good and solid, but never long enough.  And she worked  on her length and consequently she started getting just  a little longer, little longer and that that allows you  to hit a shorter club, get the ball closer to the  hole.  She has always been a very accurate driver.  She  has always hole high on her iron shots and just a very  good fast green putter.  And she has, due to back  trouble, disc trouble, has tried to change her swing  and it is miraculous that she has made the changes;  although, I noticed this week she sort of looking like  her swing earlier in the year, but to make any changes  at all normally takes a good year, year and a half.  So  whatever she is working on, she accomplished in the  very, very short time.  But she started getting  stronger and stronger and I put her in the position of  number 10, part hometown; second thing which was  strategy all week that if we play early, let the  shorter hitters play later in the day so the course has  time to dry and thirdly, in every match that she played  she got stronger and more accurate as the match neared  closing.  


Q.  JoAnne, Mickey says that the proposed changes  in the way the match will be played, will it be  advantageous to Americans, do you think history will  recall the victory at Dalmahoy as a bit of the freak?  

JoANNE CARNER:  No, they literally outplayed  us.  


Q.  What I mean by that is, I mean--?  

JoANNE CARNER:  No, it is not, I mean, like  listening to Beth earlier, we play against these girls  with the exception of 3, I think 3, maybe 4 players  that play our--and have beat us all in many, many  events, so there is a great deal of respect there for  their games.  I mean, they are wonderful players.  


Q.  Do you agree--?  

JoANNE CARNER:  And they are getting more and  more of them over there, so I do not see a shortage of  talent over there at all.  


Q.  Do you agree that the changes will help or  benefit America more than Europe?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I don't know.  I don't  know -- I mean, myself, I like this format, but I think  it makes it a harder job for a captain and as a player,  I wouldn't want to sit out, you know, sit out a day.  But what they are talking about is the possibility of a  player has to play on a day.  You wouldn't sit out two  matches.  


Q.  JoAnne, would you describe yourself as  intuitive person as opposed to an analytical person  where you make decisions from your instincts?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Yes.  


Q.  Did you do that this week?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Absolutely.  


Q.  Follow your gut?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Yes.  But there is a lot that  goes into it.  Watching players, you know, as you go.  It was very hard this week because I couldn't get out  and watch them, you know.  So if you go to the format  next time, I would have to change the whole setup for  press conferences because I have to watch the players  to see who I am going to play and who I am going to set  out.  


Q.  Where does this rank in your career?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, I can't say it is the  ultimate, but it is probably the highest honor I could  ever have that pertains to golf, but doesn't involve me  playing golf.  


Q.  How much out of your own game did it take out  of you this season on the Tour?  

JoANNE CARNER:  I'd like to say a lot, but I  think my game just wasn't there.  It didn't.  


Q.  JoAnne, the players have given you a lot of  credit for bringing them together as a team.  I was  wondering, your round table discussions, and the talks  you gave them, did anybody inspire you; did you draw  off of any coaches that you might have had in the past?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Well, Steve, I wish I could  have taped the Thursday night round table that we had  where I just had the rookies speak first.  I spoke.  And then I had the rookies speak about how it is to be  here, and where they can speak on anything.  And they  talked about many, many things and then when -- they  went into the veterans and certain players talked about  other players and how they had been inspired by them  and rode buses to watch them play, when they were 15  and so on, and you know, the other players looking at  them, you did that, you watched me, there were just a  lot of things that went on and wer revealed about how  inspiring other players are, but they have never had  the sort of closeness and freedom to talk as well and  as openly as we did.  They inspired me as well, I mean,  the team inspired themselves by just talking.  


Q.  Is that an experience that you had when you  were younger that a coach had you do that?  

JoANNE CARNER:  No.  


Q.  Where did you come up with that idea?  

JoANNE CARNER:  Spur of the moment -- what  did you call it, intuitive.  Yeah, I just wanted to  hear it from them.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT