NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 5, 2019
Nick Markakis
Max Fried
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Max Fried and Nick Markakis.   
 Q.  Max, Brian Snitker just said, was asked if he can see you closing a game in this series, and he said he didn't really see why not. Do you see, really see why not?  
MAX FRIED: I mean, at the end of the day it doesn't really matter to me whether you come in the first four innings or the last two innings. At the end of the day it's all about getting outs. So whenever Snit asks me to take the ball, I'm going to take the ball and throw it.   
 Q.  Max, when was the first time you met Mike Soroka and had a sense he was more mature than a lot of the guys in the minors at the same time? Nick, when you started talking to him or watching him pitch, at what point did you notice that he was different than most 21-, 22-year-olds?  
MAX FRIED: I met Mike when I was rehabbing in Orlando right after he got drafted. So as soon as he signed he showed up at the Disney complex, and I was going through Tommy John, and he just got drafted.   
You could always tell that there was something different. He was extremely confident and he knew what he needed to do to pitch -- or just his preparation was way beyond anything that I'd seen from a 17-year-old at the time.   
So you knew there was something special there. And obviously you see how much and how well he's been able to do that throughout his career so far. I knew from early on.   
NICK MARKAKIS: I guess you could say Mike was kind of quiet, like me, at first, which I kind of like. He kind of just went about his business early on in spring training.   
And the first time you talk to him, you know, when we're were at the field we talk baseball. And he just got it, just the way he talks, the way he approaches, the way he prepares for the game, everything was above and beyond any 21-year-old pitcher that I've been able to play with in my career.   
And then once you see him on the mound, he has an idea what he's doing up there. He pounds the zone with all his pitches. He throws strikes, and the biggest thing is he's a pitcher. He has an idea what he's doing up there. To see that in a 21-year-old, when he first came up, is pretty priceless, because you know he's only going to get better.   
And he was that good at that young. It's going to be exciting to see what he turns into later on.   
 Q.  Nick, you've been playing long enough to see this evolution when it comes to the postseason, where starters are no longer starters. What are your thoughts on all of this happening, like Scherzer last night and Max? You go back over the last five, six, seven years and you see this evolution. What do you think of it?  
NICK MARKAKIS: The postseason is different than the regular season. The regular season is a -- you've got to pace yourself throughout the season. It's 162 games.   
Once you switch over to the postseason it's all about winning. In the regular season you want to win as many games as you can. But in the postseason, a lot of guys are going to have to step up and do different roles that they're not used to doing. But that's the way the postseason ball is. Every inning, every pitch could be a game-changing pitch and same with the pitchers too.   
You just want to put yourself in the best position teammates in the best position to succeed in the postseason at the highest level.   
There's a lot of high-pressure situations, and you're going to have to ask your players to do certain things that they're not normally used to doing. But it's one of those all-in things; you have to do what you've got to do as teammates and a team to win as many ballgames as you can in the postseason.   
And if it takes guys doing things that they're not normally used to doing and doing it, that's the biggest thing is doing things that you're not used to do doing and being successful, especially in high-pressure situations.   
It all comes down to what type of guys you have, what type of players and teammates you have. And the good ones will succeed.   
 Q.  Max, is this more acceptable because you were probably watching Madison Bumgarner do this in the 2014 World Series?  
MAX FRIED: So far in my career, just coming up, it's kind of been -- I came up in the bullpen, would make some spot starts back and forth. So for me it's been kind of normal. At this point I want to win. And whatever role I'm asked of, I'm more than willing to do.   
If it's coming in and starting a game I'll be ready. And if it's asking them to come in later in the game or in the middle, at the end of the day we've got 25 guys in there that want to win, and they'll do whatever they're asked of.   
 Q.  Max, three days ago the loose plan was to have you maybe come in relief early in the series and then start Game 4. Given that Chris Martin's hurt and that you were the first guy out of the pen yesterday and maybe again tomorrow, that's probably gone away, according to your manager. Does that bother you at all, or are you fine doing just what you're doing now?  
MAX FRIED: No, kind of like I said, whatever it takes to win. If that's coming in late in the game I'll be sure I'm ready to take the ball.   
 Q.  Do you have a preference at this point?  
MAX FRIED: No, at this point it doesn't matter to me.   
 Q.  You mentioned last night trying to treat relief appearances kind of like a start mentally but what's the difference in adrenaline like and how are you able to use that to your advantage coming in in relief?  
MAX FRIED: It's being able to use it in a positive way and not using it and becoming reckless or out of control; trying to channel it in positive ways.   
I've had a lot of really good conversations with Nick about the person with the lowest heartbeat is going to come out on top. So just trying to stay calm in big situations and use it in the most positive way you can.   
 Q.  Max, what did you think the first time you saw that Flaherty kid show up at Westlake High School?  
MAX FRIED: Well, I came in my senior year. So Jack was already there. But my first impression of him was this is an extremely talented stud athlete. At the time he didn't want to pitch. He was shortstop and he wanted to hit, and his senior year he made huge strides as a pitcher.   
To be honest, he's one of the best high school pitchers I've ever seen, one of the best stats. That command that he has now he's had since he's been 14, 15. So it's been awesome to be able to see his progression throughout and see where he's come.   
 Q.  Could you get him out if he (indiscernible)?  
MAX FRIED: Me pitching, him hitting, yeah, of course. (Laughter).   
 Q.  Did you and Jack click immediately as friends, and what have some of these conversations this week been like?  
MAX FRIED: It's just a lot of positive, just saying how happy we are for each other, the success that we've had. And we wish each other the best of luck but we're trying to beat each other. We're both extremely competitive people. So obviously I want nothing more than for us to advance, and he feels the same.   
So it's definitely a little odd, but it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Because you are competitive, did you click as friends in high school immediately?  
MAX FRIED: Oh, yeah, immediately. From the beginning me, Jack and Lucas have had a pretty good bond, even after -- because me and Lucas are a couple years older than Jack. So when we were in pro ball we still kept in touch with him, being able to bounce ideas off. And once he got drafted as well we worked out for a number of years together. So we've always kind of kept in touch and been able to have a pretty close relationship.   
 Q.  Nick, I know it's only a handful of at-bats but they've been successful at-bats that you've had against Wainwright. They've also been spread out over several years. Wonder how you've seen him maybe change a little bit as a pitcher especially as you prepare to face him tomorrow?  
NICK MARKAKIS: Well, I was in the American League for years so I didn't -- I think they came a couple times when I was in Baltimore but I don't know if I even faced him. So I really didn't get to face him until I came over here to Atlanta. But you know what type of pitcher he is: He's a bulldog. He goes out there, grabs the ball every time, throws strikes, he's going to give your team a chance.   
And we've got to go up there with good approaches. He's a smart pitcher. He's been around a long time. We just gotta stay within ourselves and do whatever we've been doing all year. We know he's been good in the postseason. But like I said, we've just got to go up there, do our thing and not worry about all the extra stuff, just go out there, have good at-bats and just stay focused.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT