ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
In-Kyung Kimm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How were conditions?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think maybe through three was a little bit calm, and then the wind picked up from a different direction, actually, from southeast.  So the course played differently.  But I got used to certain shots and I hit many good hybrids into the green and I was able to make some not quite, you know, close putts, and I had some good opportunity coming in on the par 5 that it was reachable, so that helped the score.
Q. Which part of your game were you most pleased with today?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think putting was exciting today.  But I have to say I hit a lot of fairways, too, in this condition, so that was good, too.
Q. I asked the players if they enjoy links golf, and obviously I know you do.  Why is that, do you think?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I think every day's different, so I can't really expect a lot.  Sometimes it helps I guess.
Q. Do you have any target in your mind for what you expect from yourself in the next couple of weeks in Britain?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Having no expectation -- it really depends on the day.  But I've been working on decision-making around the green, because it's quite different here.  So I think I made a par on one of the par 3 on the back nine that I had like 50 yards with a putter in my hand, which I would never do it but I think those things I would like to get better at.
Q. How pleasing is it to play well on a course that's running fast?
IN-KYUNG KIM: I've gone into a bunker a couple times today.  I don't know how I avoided it a couple other holes.  It is different, definitely, with the dry condition, but I think everybody's having struggles on certain holes.  I passed 350-yard bunker that I would have never even thought.  That was good, something new, but I think it's quite exciting.
Q. Do you feel a little bit of pressure this year because people are watching you because you're British Open Champion coming back?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Not from other people.  I think I kind of had expectation of myself.  I was a little bit hard on myself certain times and I wanted to have -- just try a different strategy and having no expectation.
Q. Do you have one eye on next week, defending the title next week?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Oh, yeah, it's one of my favourite golf course in the world.
Q. Lytham?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Yes.  It's a tough course, but I think it suits my game.  But like I said, the course can be different every day but I'm just very honored to play the course.
Q. Three Koreans share the lead just now.
IN-KYUNG KIM: I saw that.
Q. Did you play any links golf when you were young or when you first came out on Tour or amateurs?
IN-KYUNG KIM: None.  I mean, we play in very windy condition and we play in rainy condition and everything, but this is very different.  I think we're just kind of looking at the view and like we've never seen it before, this kind of colour out there.  Both are my good friends, so I think it will be fun.  And Amy's having a birthday this Saturday.
Q. Which hole was playing the toughest did you think?
IN-KYUNG KIM: For me, 10 was hardest.  Very unexpected downwind.  Hit driver 360 and then pin was on the left side, and everybody is missing left, so it was impossible to get to.  I was hitting 35 yards chipping, but this is very hard.  Out of my imagination.
Q. So that was your longest drive?
IN-KYUNG KIM: Close to it, I think.  It didn't really help me score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT