U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Katie Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Three years ago, you were in the semifinals of this championship. You had a great run. This is your best run since then, right, would you say?  
KATIE MILLER: Yeah, I think just overall, the way I'm playing, and patience, and really just managing the golf course, I do think this is probably right up there with my performance for sure.   
 Q.  You and Mallory had quite a match this morning?  
KATIE MILLER: As soon as I saw that that was the match, I knew it was going to be a really good one. We played each other actually in Houston. I was the Medalist that year. We found each other in the second round again, and she beat me on like maybe the 16th or 17th hole. So I knew it was going to be another tight one. She's a great player, and yeah, it was a really, really tough one this morning, too.   
 Q.  It was very back and forth, right?  
KATIE MILLER: Well, no, she made a long putt on the first hole for birdie. And then I was 2-down at the turn, and just kind of started chipping away at it and I -- and I do sort of think -- that momentum on those last few holes here, I think it's kind of important, if not just a little mental toughness, too, to get you through it.   
But the wind was swirling like crazy, and 17, even though it's a short par 3, it's pretty demanding, especially with that wind. I knew that once I hit a good hot there and she was a little, you know, kind of pushing on 18, and you know, kind of faltered, and then coming into 1, once I had that momentum I think going into the playoff, it certainly helped.   
 Q.  These two-rounds days, how hard is it to putt that first one behind you?  
KATIE MILLER: Yeah, I just keep telling myself, every match in this entire week, it's just a marathon. I think from -- mentally, if you're kind of under -- understand that, and you have yourself prepared for it, because I mean, you can be up a couple. All it takes is, you know, a little blemish on the card, a bogey, and then whoever you're playing rolls in a birdie putt and before you know it, it's like, what just happened.   
You have to be as patient as possible throughout the whole day. The second 18 felt like it went quicker. I don't know if it actually did, but you know, it helps being in decent shape. It took me a day or two to actually get used to the elevation physically, not just like on the golf course. So I kind of struggled a little bit the first day or two, and just really needed to drink a ton of water and make sure that you're prepared.   
 Q.  Was that in stroke play --  
KATIE MILLER: Even in the practice rounds, even at the beginning -- it's funny, it's so different. It's a climate I'm certainly not used to, and I played at this type of elevation one other time. It was actually was at the last event in New Mexico and I felt terrible when I first got there. At least a new a little bit about how to prepare and take care of yourself, but it's different, it really is. A little bit of adversity here and there, but you know, I just think having been at this event a few times now, you sort of learn just, oh, my gosh, you have to bring all the patience in the world with you.   
 Q.  And of course, now I remember seeing you before the championship started, having the dinner, Meghan, Lauren like this group, you're playing Meghan tomorrow. You guys all know each other so well.  
KATIE MILLER: It's funny, I don't know exactly who the entire final eight is, but it's a cast that we're all very familiar with, that's for sure. So Lauren and I play in U.S. fourballs together and played with Meghan a good bit, and Ina and I, we are all playing international fourball in February, so we definitely cross paths a lot and hang out, too.   
So it's kind of cool. So we'll do some off-course adventures here and there since we're in such a cool part of the country, and yeah, we just -- I think we respect each other's games and have definitely become friends, too. So I think it will be kind of a cool final stretch here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT