HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Will Strickler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Will, thanks for coming in for a few minutes. 4-under, 66. It's been a tough go for you, during your rookie year, but great playing out there today. Do you have comments on your round?   
 WILL STRICKLER: Well, as you can see I got off to a bad start. Double bogeyed the first hole, 10th hole, first of the day. And it didn't bother me, because that's the way my year has been going and I just laughed at it, and luckily I birdied the next hole, which helped me forget about it, for good. And I, after that, hit the ball pretty well and made a lot of good putts.   
 I knew going into this week that I was hitting the ball pretty well, hit a lot of practice rounds so the double didn't bother me; I knew I could score out here.   
  
  Q. Talk about 15.   
 WILL STRICKLER: 15? Yeah, I made a 52-foot putt. I hit driver down the middle, 5-iron front of the green, big right-to-left breaking putt that hit the back of the hole and went in, I'll take it.   
  
  Q. So it wasn't on the putting surface?   
 WILL STRICKLER: No, it wasn't.   
  
  Q. It seemed to turn around.   
 WILL STRICKLER: It did. It was a nice, unexpected birdie, and then I was going into the 16, par 5, hit that in two and 2-putted for birdie, so getting that back was nice. Played 18 well, hit driver up the left side, hit a pitching wedge in there close for a birdie. That's when I felt comfortable, once I made the birdie on the 18th.   
  
  Q. Do you think the double bogey maybe helped you relax?   
 WILL STRICKLER: I had to do that because the first six tournaments I always get off to a bad start, start pressing, and after the first round in San Antonio when I shot 4-over, I got off the golf course and I was like "I am not having any fun," so one of my goals this week was to come out here and have fun. And it helps to be relaxed, and it kind of works both ways, when you have fun, you play well.   
  
  Q. Hit double bogeys, and you play well?   
 WILL STRICKLER: Exactly.   
  
  Q. Is that the first time in your career you had not had fun playing golf?   
 WILL STRICKLER: That was probably the low point. It's the PGA TOUR, you should be having fun, dream come true, but I just -- I   
would get mad, and I figured I would make the most of it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 WILL STRICKLER: I mean, I guess my first goal was to make the cut and I haven't done that so I got a little work ahead of me but I'm off to a good start.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the eagle?   
 WILL STRICKLER: I played that hole really well. Hit driver off the tee, 250 just to hit the hole, uphill shot, hit a 5-wood, and did a straight putt, nice.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 WILL STRICKLER: Not really. It's been a long time. Couple times I shot a 4 or 5-under, and that's about it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 WILL STRICKLER: Played   
(no microphone) -- last time I played it was Athens, Georgia. I've been playing on the Nationwide Tour. I just had to get it into my head that I'm playing the PGA TOUR now, and I need to play well.  
  
  Q. Thanks.   
 WILL STRICKLER: Yep.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT