MADE IN DENMARK
August 28, 2016
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another close call, how are your feelings right now?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Mixed.  Again, good chance to win, 67 is a decent score out there but at the end of the day, it wasn't overly difficult today.   Pins were a bit tricky in places but obviously the double-bogey on the second didn't really help my cause.  I came back well but ultimately just fell one short in the end.  Thomas did a tremendous job there.  He finished really well and obviously played great golf.
Q. Still, this season is really good for you, and this second place just adds to your rankings on The Race to Dubai?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, you know, you're always looking at that.  I'm in good position but I want to win some tournaments.  Nice to come in second but at the end of the day, want to be holding the trophy at the end of the day.  Come back next year and have another go.
I really enjoy it here.  I get on well with the guys and enjoy the golf course, crowds are great, so I'll always be back.
Q. It's probably no consolation at the moment but great to finish with a birdie and you've played your part in what's been a very entertaining Sunday.
BRADLEY DREDGE: It was exciting out there.  I was keeping a close eye on the leaderboard especially at six to go, things start to get a bit more serious then.  There was a good four or five holes, had a good chance to win.  Pretty exciting coming down the stretch.
Q. How did the rain delay affect concentration?  How did you manage to keep yourself busy?
BRADLEY DREDGE: I think you get used to it over the years.  The amount of times we've had sort of delays, you just get used to it and it's just part of playing on the Tour.  Not an issue.  Just get out there, hopefully get into a rhythm quickly and just get on with it.
Q. What's been the main positive you take forward from this week?
BRADLEY DREDGE: I knew I was playing pretty good.  I struggled a bit with the driver on the weekend which was a bit annoying.  Really got my eye in on the greens today which was nice.  There's loads of positives.  Just have to practice the wedge game and hopefully I'll be up there again.
Q. Crowds have been fantastic, over 25,000 yesterday and today; great to play in this kind of atmosphere?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, it would be great to play in this atmosphere every week.  I really enjoy coming here obviously and I do play well at the course but the crowds are a big part of it.  I really enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT