ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2015
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-over par for the first round, 9-under par under the second.  The ONLY person who can explain that is you, so I'm going to ask you to do so.  
BRADLEY DREDGE: I can't explain it.  Been playing golf a long time and haven't got a clue anymore.  Different course, bit of a tougher course yesterday, but yesterday nothing went in.  I got off to a bit of a slow start yesterday and then started playing nicely and just kept parring holes and not really doing anything.   
You come out today and 3-under after three, hit some good shots obviously.  Got off to a really good start and just kept going from there and when I did get in trouble, made some good par saves.   
 Q.  With the cut knowing it's going to be well under par, does it affect your mind-set going out?  Do you think, well, I've got to shoot low, so I need to be aggressive?  
BRADLEY DREDGE: These days you have to be aggressive from the first tee shot these days.  You want to win, and scoring is going to be low, so you always try to go at pins as much as possible.  These pins are relatively easy for a normal Tour event, so shoot at flags and hope you play well.   
 Q.  You came into this week 97 in The Race to Dubai and the top 110 retain their playing privileges.  Is it a question of saying to yourself:  One decent week and it's done and I can focus on moving forward.  
BRADLEY DREDGE: It is a bit.  I hate to focus on the card thing but this year was a bit of -- I knew it was going to be a tough year for me, a couple issues.  I knew it was going to be a tough year.  You're trying to focus on Race to Dubai but I thought it was going to be a good effort for me to keep my card.   
So been trying to focus on getting into Turkey coming up.  I think the top 80 roughly or Order of Merit.  Trying to think that way rather than think about the card.  I think it's a bit negative to think that way but as you say, it's always in the back of your mind.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT