UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRADLEY DREDGE:   I always enjoy coming here, great golf course, and last two days, it's played as it normally plays.   It's quite breezy around here, tough to pick the clubs, and the greens are a bit grainy and the rough is a bit tricky. 
So, you know what to expect.   But I also enjoy the challenge around here.   I would like to have shot about 130 for two days, but 13 shots worse than that unfortunately.

Q.   You're smiling and laughing, but you're back at 3 over and yet you haven't given up hope?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   It's got a chance, because I'd say it's a little bit more windy today, and you know, the cut was comfortably into one yesterday, so I think it's got a chance. 
I made a really good par save on 18, so I'm crossing everything and hopefully it's going to make it.   It's not easy around here so it will be interesting to see what happens.

Q.   Is this because you're a naturally positive guy or hoping against hope?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   No, things go to chance and it would be nice by the weekend, and also probably need to make the cut.   I probably need to make about 15,000 Euros would be my guess.   So it would be nice to play the weekend and have a chance to do it now. 

Q.   If the cut is plus two, and you've missed out, what are your thoughts on how the year has panned out and the fact that you've got to go back to Q‑School presumably? 
BRADLEY DREDGE:   Yeah, I haven't played very well at all.   I haven't played very well for the last four years, gradually my scoring has been getting worse. 
This year it's been more on the greens, which is unusual.   I struggled the last two days on the greens, so it's really holding my scoring back, not making any birdies, and it's tough to make par saves. 
In regards to Tour School, as everyone knows, the problem is you go to Q‑School and you would win Tour School and play 15 events, and it's where you're going to play these 15 events, as well.   Tour School isn't becoming a very attractive option. 

Q.   Is it an option?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   I think so.   I mean, do I just retire and pack the clubs to the side?   I don't know.   Like I said, the problem is, if I do goto Q‑School, I could be back of beyond for not much money.   Not sure if I want to do that.

Q.   There are some that have relied on invitations and of course, it's the sponsor's judgment whether they want to bring you to an event and others have gone Challenge Tour route. 
BRADLEY DREDGE:   Well, I don't know at the moment.   Like I said, the problem is, I think invites are more between management companies, which is fair enough.   It's been like that for years.   I don't think I'll get many invites next year, if it came to that. 
Challenge Tour, again, not very appealing.   So I don't know.   I'll go to Tour School, see how it goes there, and if I do get a card, then we're up for next year is what I'm going to do.

Q.   I take it you've been thinking about this and the possibilities, and we've become used to you since 2000, regularly keeping your card and knowing there will be opportunities?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   It has been a bit of a change.   At the end of the year, you know, it's been funny trying to battle away and keep my card.   I've done that for a good few years.   It's been different. 
But yeah, it's just been a bit of a shame really.   I don't think I'm that far away from playing well, but scores aren't adding up to the right figures at the end of it.   That's what you have to do.
I only go to tournaments I want to, and if it comes down to it at Tour School that I'm going to play in the back of beyond for not much money, it's not an attractive thing for me to be doing.   So, we'll wait and see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT