BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2011
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Yesterday afternoon in the rain, 2-under par, was that a solid score?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, it was, the ball was going virtually nowhere off the tee and it did make it very difficult.   
 So 2-under yesterday, I was quite pleased and I know Henrik obviously shot 8-under which is a great score, but I played with Richard Finch yesterday and we were both pleased.  
 Obviously weather conditions were favourable, so looked to go out there and shoot a good one. Feels like I got myself back in the tournament.  
  
  Q. The rounds to come, you must like this course, last year you had three very good round, except the last one.  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: You always take the positives, so obviously I like to come to this course. BMW always do a great job here, so it's always a pleasure to come here and play in Germany.   
  
  Q. You did have a real run at it last year, and that must have been one of the most frustrating days you had last season I would imagine.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I was pretty disappointed. I felt as though I wasn't hitting the ball great, especially on the last day, but I managed my game really well and the shot on 16, just fatted it. Quite disappointing to do, especially when I feel as though I'm trying to make birdie there.   
 But one of those things; you try and take the positives of everything and still had a chance to win.  
  
  Q. Now you've put yourself in a position to put a few wrongs right.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, as I said yesterday afternoon was quite a tough day. So I was pleased with 2-under, and I knew today I had to go out there and shoot a good one, so very pleased to get myself back in the tournament.  
  
  Q. Knowing the way this course plays, you know that you're going to have to shoot similar kind of rounds over the weekend.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, to win it, I think you've always got to be looking at sort of between 18- and 20-under winning total. So that's a figure you've got to be looking at whenever you tee it up here.  
  
  Q. How would you say your form has been coming into this week?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I would feel -- you know, results have not been great but my game's been there. I've been working on it on the weeks off, and it's always nice to come here and come to a course that I generally play well.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT