BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRADLEY DREDGE: The last few days have been extremely difficult, wasn't the best score yesterday but today obviously delighted with that.  
  
  Q. 69 in these conditions, the field is all coming back to you, you've roared up the leaderboard again, how golf a round was it?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Like I said, the pin positions were very tricky today, so you just had to be very patient, play the middle of the green when it was a real tough one and just try to take your opportunities when they did actually come.  
 A 69 in that weather, very pleased.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow, I guess you take the same again, wouldn't you?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Well, yeah, I don't think the pin positions are getting any easier. I haven't seen the weather forecast but I assume it will be similar. Four to five under certainly has a good chance to win the tournament.   
  
  Q. Did you ever think you would contend in this tournament?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: With the change in the greens, it does make a massive difference. I feel as though -- I was playing here nine or ten years, and I think I made the cut probably twice. I just couldn't see how you could putt on them.   
 That was the big for me, I would hit a putt, they would be falling 11 or 12 on the Stimp and you would think you had it and missed it three times by the time the ball run from your putt to the hole. And then when you try and chip onto them, it was really difficult. It was that bad.   
 I'm delighted that they decided to change it, because until they changed it, I wasn't going to play here again that, was me done, a week off, rest and I'll go play Wales.   
  
  Q. But you're right in there.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, like I said, the changes they made, I read some of the comments yesterday, and you know, I know Poulter sort of said they have made it extremely difficult and borderline ridiculous some of the pins, but they have to be a bit sensitive with the pin positions I think. Today was even harder than yesterday I thought, and the scoring is reflecting that.   
 But then I read what Luke said, that you know it's going to be difficult and you have to be patient and accept it. I think if you want to do well in this tournament, you have to do that.  
  
  Q. That's what Westwood said yesterday, it's like playing a Major, you have to grind and be patient and hang about.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, and you also need some luck. Around here applying in this sort of wind, you can hit some really good shots and be away from the pin sometimes. But if you keep hitting quality shots, hopefully it gets close now and then, and obviously your short game's got to be good.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT