BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2010
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you for joining us. Fantastic start to the BMW International Open, 64. Give us your assessment of that.  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, obviously delighted with shooting 64, first round. Played nicely today, hit some poor shots but managed to get away with them. You always need a bit of luck when you shoot a good score and happy to capitalise on those and actually very pleased.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: It's a golf course you have to get off to give good start because the scoring is low and everything else; must be satisfying to do that.  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, you know, I think you shoot level, or even a couple under par for the first round around here, you feel as though you can get going the next three rounds for sure, so nice to get off to a good start, and especially on this course like you said, where you know it's going to be a very low winning score.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And you've threatening good form the last few weeks.  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, run of three events, having some good scores. It's a matter of consistency, I know that, but yeah, it is a matter of just trying to make the poorer days better. When I play well, I play very well, but it is, like I said, grinding out a good score on the poor days.   
  
  Q. Your potential, to me, it's so high, you should be much higher ranked in the World Rankings.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think that, as well. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. I follow your golf, mostly on TV, of course and I also saw really good opening rounds of you, but my feeling is you couldn't finish it off somehow. Maybe your explanation and analysis?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: It's a tough one to explain, but I agree, with everything you said.   
 Yeah, you know, it's a matter, over the years, of have a good chance to win a lot more tournaments and over the last couple of years haven't been playing as well, but I do feel my game is getting back together at the moment.   
 It is a matter of consistency at the moment and when I play well, I play very well but on an off-day it's a mid-70 round which isn't going to do you any good. Working on my consistency and try to get myself back up the World Rankings and The Race to Dubai and back where I feel I want to be.  
  
  Q. How is it living for a professional like you, you're always in the shadow of superstars like Kaymer and Els, and they were here yesterday making the intro interviews, how is it living behind those guys?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: It's not too bad (laughing). Yeah, I know what you mean. I think you get the superstars on the world tour, on the European and the American tour, and you know, you get guys, there's probably another 40 guys behind those guys trying to get where they are.   
 So everybody works hard on the Tour trying to become one of those guys who contend for majors and wins majors. I think that's what most guys on Tour are actually trying to do.   
  
  Q. Is the course playing too easy?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: No, the golf course can never be too easy but I know what you're saying. The golf course this morning was probably the easiest I've ever played it, because there's no wind. Obviously with the rain you've had, it makes the golf course very soft and the conditions are still excellent. So this morning, I thought there was going to be more lower scores. I saw some guys on 5- and 6-under but I thought there would be more guys shooting 8- or 9-under par.   
  
  Q. Are you in any way involved in The Ryder Cup this year? Are you an ambassador or something like this?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: No, not -- I haven't been asked to do anything like that.   
  
  Q. Will you go?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: No, I won't go down. It's just -- the atmosphere is always great in The Ryder Cups, but you get to see more on the TV, and I do enjoy actually watching it.   
  
  Q. Okay. And maybe this is also a very naïve question but I don't know anything about you except the things that are on EuropeanTour.com, the Internet, can you just tell a few things about your personal background?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Background-wise, my parents aren't exactly wealthy and I sort of just gradually got better as a professional. I had a good amateur career but took me a few years to sort of get established on the Tour and I feel over the years, gradually got better and better.   
 Yeah, just gradual improvement. I didn't sort of come on the Tour and start winning tournaments straight off or even contend. I very much sort of had to learn how to get most from my game.   
  
  Q. With whom do you hang out on Tour?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Some of the Welsh guys, coming from Wales, there's a few of us out here, so I'm good friends with Phil Price and Stephen Dodd and a couple of the English guys, but not around the World Cup time. Around this time of the World Cup, the teasing gets too bad then.   
  
  Q. So England against Germany?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: That's going be to be a good one.   
  
  Q. Which would you prefer?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I really don't mind. I just hope that it's a good sort of -- good spectacle, good for everybody to view and being from Wales, I'm going to root for England a little bit.   
  
  Q. Do you feel a potential, you believe in yourself that you can win a real huge tournament one day maybe?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Of course, yeah. I mean, over the years I've been close a lot of times and I've been high up on The Race to Dubai, but I want to win tournaments. The last couple of years I've picked different things out of my game to push on from being sort of 15th, 20th on The Race to Dubai and push to Top-10, Top-5, and so it's gone the other way.   
 Sometimes you make decisions and they go against you. Sometimes you make ones and they work for you. Now I think I'm sort of getting more on track with it.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Bradley, thanks very much for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT