THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2010
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tougher day?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: It was a tougher day. Wind was a bit stronger and still quite variable, but the pins are slightly harder, so I didn't play quite as well. All in all, tougher day.   
  
  Q. A lot of people have been talking about the pin positions. How did you manage to counteract that?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Trying to hit the ball as close as possible to the pins. It's not easy around here because sometimes you're forced to play in the middle of the green, and so even then a good shot is 30, 40 feet away. So it's just tough around here.   
  
  Q. If we told you on sort of Wednesday that you would be in the position that you are in now, on Friday night, would you have been happy? Would you have taken that?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I suppose. Ninth isn't too bad.   
 I'm not a million miles away, but obviously I didn't -- I would like to have pushed on, even finished on sort of 5-under par at the end of the day would have been a decent score today. But two bogeys in the last four wasn't what I was looking for really.  
  
  Q. So is that what you take away in your mind then, is it difficult when you get to the end of the round and you've made a couple of mistakes towards the end?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I didn't play as well today. I started off, missed the first three greens in regulation and I was scrambling right off and just didn't play great.   
 So, you know, it's one of those days where you just have to knuckle down and things were not quite flowing as well as they were yesterday.  
  
  Q. Being a Welshman going into the weekend though, it's a good position to be in at this stage.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, not too far away. I know Marcel Siem is on 7 at the moment, but you know, the second, 5-under, I'm not a million miles away. At the halfway stage, a long way to go.   
  
  Q. Is this the hardest you've ever found it judging the wind on this course?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, it's just going -- I mean, yesterday it wasn't very strong. So it was only a very light wind, so it didn't affect the ball quite as much. Today it was a bit stronger, probably about a club wind around here and it just kept moving all day. So it does make it very tricky pulling a club and committing to the shot.  
  
  Q. Keeps you on your toes, I guess?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: The flags were definitely tougher today, so you had to be more precise with your iron shots, and it was very difficult to do that.  
  
  Q. Do you expect it to get tougher over the weekend if the wind picks up?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: A lot depends on how firm the greens get, and obviously pin positions. I haven't seen the wind forecast for the weekend. I don't think it's going to get really strong, I should imagine, but I think it will keep it tricky enough. I know if guys play well, as Marcel was doing, you can shoot 4- or 5-under around here, but you've got to play really well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT