THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 3, 2010
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Thanks for coming in and joining us Bradley, well done today. Give us your thoughts on the opening round. I know dropping the shot on last wasn't what you wanted, but overall you played very well.
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, played nicely today. All in all very pleased with the start. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Anything pleasing you in the game? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I drove it well but actually hit a lot of good iron shots close and putted quite well. You're always going to make some putts when you make a good score. Pleasing all around.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: On TV you said that your ball-striking had been holding you back this season; is that a fair comment? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I've been showing signs at the odd tournament, get off to a good start, like last week, had a good first round, but it's being able to come up there on the third or fourth day, and even a normal day or average day I would call it, getting it around at a couple under par, which I'm not quite able to do more. So it's a matter of trying to churn out three or four more of those really. 

 Q. Is it different for you this year with the bulk of the attention on Rhys Davies?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I suppose, because you know, whenever you play a home event, there's more things that you have to do, so it's always a busy week. I try to sort of keep away from the course as much as I can and I just come down when I have to. So it's always an intention for The Wales Open to try to be as low-key as I can. So this week's been a lot easier. 

 Q. Do you play the course often? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: No, I'm not really here for the winter, so I don't really come back into the U.K. till beginning of May. I popped down three weeks ago to get a practise round in. Apart from that or apart from playing the tournament, I hardly ever come down from because from now until the end of the year, the season is pretty full, so I don't really tend to pop down and play the course. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on the layout?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: It's a strong golf course. I think they have been trying to tweak it here and there. Some of the run-ups, or run-offs, on some of the greens have been added, and I think the golf course is very strong. It's just a matter then of I think they can make the course play as tough as they want. Today the greens were quite reasonable but I think they can make them very tough. 

 Q. Are you glad that Rhys is getting all the Ryder Cup questions this year instead of you? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Good point, never really thought of that, yeah. I don't really mind talking about it. It's definitely on my mind all the time. 
 So you know, I still think it's possible for me to do it, but I need to win some tournaments. I've had a good start this week so just see how it goes the next three days. 

 Q. Have you figured out what you need to do to make The Ryder Cup Team?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: You never know, do you. You look around, 1.5 million Euros from the start in September, so I think that sort of figure isn't far off. But then there's different permutations or so many permutations, World Ranking points, as well, and there's different ways. But that's an approximation I believe of what I had to make. 

 Q. Are you more nervous here because it is the Wales Open?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I actually prefer it when I go out and there's more friends and family in the crowd. I feel like if I hit it in the rough there'll be always someone there to kick it back out!!! Only joking. (Laughter). 

 Q. Have you changed your schedule with The Ryder Cup in mind?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, The Ryder Cup is massive for me. Last year I played more events and I'll do the same this year. And because I haven't been playing as well, and there's more tournaments on The European Tour now, as well. I used to play probably 22, 23, but I'm trying to play more to get more points. At the moment it's not quite working. Hopefully there's a way to go yet, a few months to go, so I'll keep practising and see what's what. 

 Q. Are you going to Sunningdale on Monday? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yes, I need to rack up some points. The Open is a pretty good place to rack up some points. I mean, I do -- obviously with the exempt and I've got the qualifier, because it does disrupt. I'm going to Portugal, so I'll go to Portugal Tuesday morning and do some practise and go and play and have Monday off. But I have to fly Tuesday night for the Pro-Am on the Wednesday. 

 Q. Is that the first time you've gone there?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I played last year, just because I'm trying to play more tournaments. I mean, this year, I'm looking at -- I need some points, so The Open with the prize fund or World Ranking points, you never know, you could qualify on the Monday and have a good Open. 

 Q. Was the US Open too disruptive to your scheduling? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: U.S. Open, you've got to fly over to Pebble and the problem is, ideally, if you're going to go to the U.S. Open, to have the week off after because you don't want to come back to the BMW and play Munich. I know guys do and they get the private jet, but it's not ideal. I would prefer to miss the U.S. Open, play the events on either side of it, have that week off and prepare for the others. I think I've got a better chance doing it that way. 

 Q. Do you think you've conquered your ball striking problem? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: You never conquer it. It's always simple but it's a matter of -- technique is a funny thing. Technically I'm probably swinging the club better but it's not working as well. I think it's more important to practise where the clubface is. 
 People often say that, players often say that, it's okay to know where it should be, but you need to know where it is in the swing because everybody swings it differently. So you have to find your own way of swinging it. 

 Q. Are you practicing specifically the ball striking? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Over the last two or three years, I've been hitting more balls and spending more time on the range, which is ideal really because you try to work on the weaknesses more. But I don't work as much on the short game as I would like over the last year or so. It's tough; you're always trying to balance it. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Thank you very much, Bradley. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT