COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 28, 2010
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us how good that is in these conditions today.  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: The forecast was for it to die down on the back nine, and it did that and we were fortunate. I played nicely today and 5-under is a nice result obviously.   
  
  Q. Nice run of birdies on the back nine?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, and on tough holes, as well. Any time you make birdie on 3 and then birdie on 5 and 6, I was very pleased with that little run.  
  
  Q. I take it you had to be patient with the way the wind was?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I started at the 10, two nice shots, chipped it over the back of the green and I was just playing a belly wedge shot and had to double it on the first hole. I thought, you know, get off to a nice day. But I knew I was playing well, and managed to stay patient and get on with it. I knew it was going to be a tough day so it was nice to capitalise on some good shots coming in.  
  
  Q. Last time you had a double here?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Never, ever had a double. Playing a little belly wedge shot and the ball just dropped straight up, and hit it to a foot, anyway. So at least it wasn't back off the green.  
  
  Q. We stand here practically in the dark. Were you worried about whether you would get finished?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I holed it from 20-foot at the last, but just saw the ball disappear. Was hoping it was in the hole but wasn't too sure.   
  
  Q. Weather like Wales? Only 13 degrees or something here isn't it?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Through the winter I'm in Spain, so ...  
  
  Q. I was going to ask what you were doing for winter.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Normally the weather is not that good in Wales in the winter, so you know, the last, I don't know, four or five years now, we have been spending most of the winter in Spain, hoping that it's going to help me get off to a quick start when I come to these tournaments. Like I said, I feel quite good, had a good practise this winter and just hopefully keep it going from now.   
  
  Q. The evidence does suggest that it's a good start, but is it beneficial? Do you find a whole wealth of things that you can practise in the sunshine that there's in a way of doing at home?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, definitely. I think if I'm at home, the driving range and greens aren't very good. I have got one of the Huxley greens in the back, but it's not the same as putting on proper greens. And the greens at the course I'm on in Spain have been excellent through the winner. It's sort of on average 18 degrees through the day. You can't really beat that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT