JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2008
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRADLEY DREDGE: At the moment I'm not looking at leaderboards, so try not to look. Just get on with it. I'll look on the last few holes and see where I am. I'll try not to get too distracted with the scores at the moment. 

 Q. Is it just getting it back on track?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, exactly, I was playing sort of hitting the ball great beginning of the year but just not scoring, missing a lot of cuts and not really something I do. Normally my short game is very good and I normally putt well and make a lot of cuts and give myself chances. 
 It was a bit of a shock to be where I am on the Order of Merit. Four weeks off, not getting into The Open or US PGA, so four weeks off there so had to re-evaluate what I'm doing and still with a good stretch of tournaments to come, so obviously I want to finish the year off as well as I possibly can. Ryder Cup's all out the window but it's great to watch all of the guys playing this week. 
 Yeah, I feel as though I'm definitely back on track and in the right direction and pretty happy with things. 

 Q. Is it nice for you to know that with all The Ryder Cup stuff going on this weekend you can sort of quietly -- now you're leading the tournament. 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, David shot 67, played great today and nobody is really too interested. 

 Q. But you yourself, you're fascinated by it?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, it's great to watch it from the outside. All of the guys that are involved, I get on well with all of them and I just hope that everybody is happy at the end of the day. There's always going to be somebody that's unhappy I suppose but I think the big thing will be the picks. 

 Q. Another good score today. 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I'm hitting the ball very solid. I'm hitting a lot of fairways and greens, so give myself a chance lot of chances. The greens aren't easy. 
 Yesterday afternoon, they were very uneven, and you know, I just realise that before I went out, so the last few days, I've been really trying hard to get the speed right, just try and get the speed so the ball is just going at a nice speed at the hole. It bouncing around a little bit and it's not easy to adjust the speed. 
 David today, he putted great and he was striking his putts great and they were tracking well, so you've just got to strike your putts better. 

 Q. Is that the key to it?
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think so. We were chatting about it going down last hole. He holed a good putt on the eighth for birdie, and the ball was just tracking. He was striking the putts really well and it goes in. End of the day that's all you can do is just try to hit the putts better than I'm doing at the moment and hopefully have a few more. 

 Q. And the weekend? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I'm halfway through and luckily for me, I'm not in The Ryder Cup situation, so definitely going under the radar for a bit and so I'll be in with a shot on the weekend. The wind has definitely died down from where it was this morning, which is a bit of a disappointment. Hopefully have a good weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT