IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2008
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about a good day, if you would.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I wasn't playing very well at the start but scrambling, and 1-over after four or five holes, managed to make a good birdie on 7 and played well after that really. Had a good back nine, and managed to make four birdies on the back nine which is very good around here. So very pleased.  
  
  Q. Nice way to finish, as well.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, the winds are different this year as to what they were last year. The last hole, the driver, you can shake it in the wind and distance is a premium on the last, just got to hit the fairway. I had about 245 to the flag. Pretty good second shot. Just caught a bunker shot.   
  
  Q. Well you mentioned last year, I trust you've got an affinity with this place.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, there seems to be some courses that you seem to like and play well around, and others you don't. This is luckily for me seems to be one I still like. So that's always nice when you come back here.   
  
  Q. I'm sure you don't want to over-analyse why that might be, but any indication?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I don't know. I think obviously having played well around here, you seem to be comfortable with the tee shots, the approach shots and I've putted well again today on the green.   
  
  Q. I take it there are signs that the form has been coming.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I didn't really play much over the winner but I practise a lot and I try to improve on technique. I've had some signs this year where I've had good rounds, but weekends have been very poor. So obviously I'm looking to string four good rounds together, rather than just the odd one. So hopefully I can do that this weekend.   
  
  Q. Is it fair to say that you are the sort of player that you need to build up a head of steam; you've got to improve one week to the next, rather than just come out of the blocks firing?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think most guys are the same. There might be the odd exception, but you need to play some tournament golf to get into it, and I know that. You know, I'm sort of gearing up for these big events.   
  
  Q. Going back to obviously last year, you've come back -- amazing memories to come back with a 4-under in the first round.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I was just thinking about that coming off the last green. I've improved by half the amount of shots from last time I played here. Hopefully I can keep it going for three more days.   
  
  Q. And get one better.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: And get one better, that's the objective.  
  
  Q. Some of the lads are complaining about the new tee boxes being put in, that they are more difficult to play off, that for your secure hitting 6s and 7s?  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I thought the course was pretty spot on today. I don't think there's a hole out there which you can say that one is too long or too difficult. The wind hasn't been up all day.   
 The toughest hole I would say 8 probably again, but I was going at the green with 5-iron. I should be going at the back of the green with 5-iron and I'm one of the average hitters on Tour, so a lot of guys will be going in there with probably 7-irons.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT