ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2006
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRADLEY DREDGE:  It was a case of trying to take the birdies when they came along as they weren't many chances out there. Ideally you take advantage of the par fives but even those holes weren't easy today.
Q. Not being into the focus group means you have been quietly going about your business?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yes, it's funny really. I have my wife and some friends here for the weekend so I should get some cheering. I suppose it always much the same for this tournament unless you are in the main group. It's nice sometimes to have some people watching as it spurs you on.
Q. You did brilliantly at St Andrews on the first day, so you must take a lot of confidence into tomorrow?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I am still learning the course - you never really master that course. Even now I stand on the seventh tee and I still look and think, well, I think that's the line but you are never 100 per cent. You are never quite sure around there, but I am looking forward to it tomorrow. I believe the wind is supposed to die down a bit.
Q. You chose only to walk Kingsbarns on the practice days. Do you think that plan worked?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  The thing with this tournament is that you know you are going to have long days, so it's quite tiring. I feel that to play a course a day in the build-up is a bit too much. So I played 18 on Tuesday and 18 on Wednesday and then just walked around one. I decided to walk this one because there were some changes at Carnoustie and I wanted to play the new tees at Carnoustie.
Q. How do you rate your performance today in those conditions?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I was difficult to get the ball close to the hole today. The greens were firm. There are some big slopes on the greens and then there was the wind. Throw all those factors together and it's not easy to get the ball close to the hole.
Q. You led in Switzerland and closed that one by a comfortable margin?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I take some confidence from that and I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I will be playing with Padraig Harrington tomorrow and he's a good guy, so I will enjoy that.
Q. I think victory here would send you into the top ten on the Order of Merit. Was that an aim at the start of the year?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I set my own goals. Ryder Cup was a goal but I never played well enough. I'm starting to play well now after the Ryder Cup. It's nice to start playing well but it would have been nice to play well some time before it. If I can finish the year off well I will get towards where I was aiming at the start of the year. I was looking towards top 15, top 10 on the Order of Merit.
Q. What was it like watching the Ryder Cup?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  It was brilliant. I was watching in Spain. My dad bet me £10 because he thought the Americans would beat us. I said 'you must be joking', so it was nice to take some money off him.  It was great for The European Tour. I though Woosie's captaincy was very good - I always thought he would be a great captain. The thing in his favour was that he could have put any of the guys together in the pairings and people would have said they go together fine.
Q. Was there a little bit of envy?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  There always is. That's been the case since I was 16 or 17. It's a goal every time it comes round. I haven't achieved it yet but hopefully I will still keep improving as a player and get it.
Q. Nice to take some good form going into the World Cup?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  Steve and I are looking forward to playing that again. We get on well and it was nice to lift the trophy again. We have been talking about it all year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT