ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2006
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You appeared to keep the momentum going after your course record 64 at St. Andrews yesterday, particularly early on?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I got off to a good start again today, birdieing the first two holes. I hit some really, really good shots at the start. A couple of iffy shots now and then but I managed to scramble it around when I did hit a poor shot. I also chipped in twice, which doesn't happen often. Apart from the bogey at six, I am very pleased with the day because the conditions were a bit funny. All of a sudden the wind would get up and then die down. We had some rain now and then, and it would change direction. It was a funny day. It's a tough golf course. They have made some changes here and it has become even tougher.
Q. How does 4-under at Carnoustie, generally perceived to be the tougher of the three courses, compare with your score at St. Andrews?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I have always found it hard to score around St Andrews. I must have played 40- or 50-odd rounds there and I think to score well around there is a lot to do with course knowledge. I seem to be getting better at it but it has taken me a while to be successful around that golf course, that's for sure. As for Carnoustie, it is tough but you can see a lot more of the trouble around here. It's laid out in front of you. You've just got to keep hitting good shots.
Q. Were the changes to the course enough to alter your approach today?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  It certainly did at the ninth hole. You used to stand there and hit it as hard as you could down the right-hand side to take all the bunkers out of play. Today I actually hit 3-wood off the tee. There are two bunkers on the right, about 270 off the tee, and then there are two more down there at about 290. So I decided to hit 3-wood and give myself a longer second shot, because I just think it is too narrow to hit driver off the tee. So all of a sudden I am hitting a five iron when I would normally hit an eight or nine iron into the green.
Q. You are well placed at 12-under. Thoughts on tomorrow?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  I'm very pleased. I don't know what the weather forecast is for tomorrow - you never know what to expect here. Kingsbarns is a good golf course. The greens are quite difficult - you have got to hit the right portion of the green.
Q. Did you play Kingsbarns earlier in the week?
BRADLEY DREDGE:  No, I walked around it this week. I decided that because they had made the changes here, I would play Carnoustie and St Andrews, and walk around Kingsbarns.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT