HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2017
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two consecutive rounds of 69, very consistent golf around a very tough track?  
BRADLEY DREDGE: Obviously very pleased with that.  I don't think I've been playing my best but it's been pretty decent.  Been playing a bit more conservative than I would normally but the golf course dictates that, as well.   
 Q.  Two dropped shots over three days, that must be very pleasing when everybody today seems to be going the opposite direction.  
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I've been fortunate with the weather, as well.  I haven't played in a drop of rain yet, so you know, you've got to get lucky sometimes.  So got to try and take advantage of it, as well.  Obviously delighted to only drop two shots.  Not drop many would have been better but you're always going to make mistakes somewhere.  In a good position, so see how we go tomorrow.   
 Q.  You missed the cut the last three years here.  Was there a change in the way you've approached --  
BRADLEY DREDGE: Thanks for reminding me.   
 Q.  Trying to put a positive on it.  Was there a change in the way you've approached the golf course this year?  
BRADLEY DREDGE: I think with the weather we've had this year, the course is playing much softer than normal.  For me, I prefer to hit driver as much as I can, and over previous years, this is very much hitting 3-iron and sort of rescue and a lot of those sort of clubs off the tee and you have to be very, very accurate.   
Over the years, I feel as though I've done okay around here.  I really enjoy playing the course.  This year, probably plays a little bit better for me personally because it is a little bit softer.   
 Q.  Signs in Sweden you were getting back to some of your best golf, and hopefully now you take that into the final round, because not too far off the lead, it would appear?  
BRADLEY DREDGE: Obviously the leaders still have some tough holes to play.  I just saw Peter Uihlein has gone to eight, so I'll be in a good position.  It would be nice to crack on and not make too many bogeys and see where that gets me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT