VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 8, 2002
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You're in very good position.  I know Cabrera is a long ways away, but no lead is insurmountable here, is it? 
BRADLEY DREDGE:   It's the first time I've been here, actually.  So it's a very different course.  It's like when you first go to St. Andrews, and this is just different.  Some people say it's great.  Some people say it's not very good.  I think it's just different.  You've got to give it a lot of respect.

Q.  Is it really all about strategy on this course; you don't overpower it, do you? 
BRADLEY DREDGE:   Obviously, somebody like Cabrera, what did he hit, 7-iron to 17 yesterday?  Obviously on certain holes, you have an advantage. 
But length really isn't an advantage around here.  I think, placement of the ball off the tee, you've really got to find the fairways, and then you've really got to know where the pin is on the green.  I mean, I played 10 today and I couldn't believe, I hit short of the flag, but it came all the way back there for a 65-yard pitch.  It's not very often I have a 124-yard wedge and then have another 65-yard wedge after it.  But that's the way it is.

Q.  Do you like the challenge?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   It's just great.  It's like nothing we play, really.  I should imagine, I haven't been to Augusta, but imagine in some ways it's similar to Augusta, with sloping greens.  What they have done, they have bought a different seed of grass, different type of grass on the fringes of the greens.  If you are short and it spins, you'll come 30, 40 yards back down the green.  It's different.  Whether you like it or not, it's different. 
It's a great tournament.  It's fantastic weather and the course is in fantastic condition. 

Q.  Where do you stand in the Order of Merit at the moment?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   26th I think.

Q.  So there's a lot to play for. 
BRADLEY DREDGE:   Obviously thinking Top 15 still.  This is a big week for a lot of people.  So I'll just be  -- when I go in there on the weekend, you never know what happens.

Q.  A win would be something that would really cap off the season, if that would be feasible?
BRADLEY DREDGE:   And this would be a great one to win.  I'm just going to go out on the weekend and keep doing the same things I always do.  Especially on a course like this, things happen.  Sometimes they are bad and sometimes they are good.  Just got to try and be very patient, I think and take the rough with the smooth.  Simple as that. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT