COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2017
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 64 yesterday, level par today.  You said yesterday you'd like a bit of wind.  You got a bit of wind?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, unfortunately it didn't really go my way (laughing).  Yeah, just didn't play as well today.  I was struggling and I didn't hit as many fairways as I would have liked yesterday but today didn't get as many as I would have liked and didn't putt as well.  Just overall, not quite as good today.
Q. A lot of flags seem to be a long way back.
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, makes it a bit tougher.  9 is a tough flag to get at wherever you are, especially the wind is in off the left.  I was going in with a 4-iron, so 2-putt was good for me.
Q. If I was to say to you on Thursday, you're going to be 8-under par, tied at the halfway stage on Friday, would you take it?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Prefer to be three ahead but I'll take it for now.
Q. Level par for round two in conditions a little bit tougher than yesterday.
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, started off, it was pretty benign, pretty calm.  But wind got up and certainly made things a bit more difficult.  We were chatting about the wind yesterday, and I just didn't play great.  It was grinding level pars, so at the end of the day, you can only do your best.
Q. 8-under at the halfway stage, do you take that in what looks like a congested leaderboard?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, very much so.  I notice having a quick look there, there's a few guys on 8-under at the moment.  Might not be leading end of the day, but still in good position for the weekend now.  So like I said yesterday, long way to go, and always looking at the back nine on Sunday.
Q. Do you sense still a possible advantage, having gone out early, because weather conditions suggest the wind is going to get even more unpredictable this afternoon?
BRADLEY DREDGE: You're right, definitely.  You've got to think greens are going to firm up, as well, so it's going to get tougher.  It's not going to get easier.
Q. Overall thoughts ahead of the weekend?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Just try and improve on what I'm doing, and try and get my eye on the greens like I did the first day and hopefully get myself in contention on the back nine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT