COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 26, 2017
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much do you like this golf course?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, played it enough over the years, and this year, greens are I think probably slightly less grainy than normal.  Felt as though I really got my eye in today, apart from my last two putts.  But apart from that, putted really good.
Q. 64 around here in the afternoon.  When you got here, you'd have seen some good scoring this morning.  Did that put pressure on you in a way?
BRADLEY DREDGE: I think you get used to it over the years.  You know that you're going to get to the course and good scores are going to be up there.  So just go out there, play your own game and see what happens.
Q. A Top-20 last week, but how big was the gap between last week and when you finished playing last year?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I had only five weeks off, which is unusual for me.  Normally I take a bit longer.  So I was actually a bit behind in my practice when I was actually at home.
So last week, I actually hit the ball really good.  Actually got the new M1 driver, and it made a big difference in my game.  But unfortunately last week on the greens, I really struggled.
But today, I actually didn't hit as many fairways as I would have liked.  But putting was good and approach was good.
Q. Are you a target setter?
BRADLEY DREDGE: No.  I used to be.  I've tried different things over the years.  Now I'm down to the old adage of a shot at a time.
Q. And one tournament at a time?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Exactly that, yeah.  Just try and take it one thing at a time and see how it goes.
Q. And would you like to see the breeze get up a bit as we go through the week?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Definitely, yeah.  I prefer it a little bit more windy.  I'm sort of a bit more used to playing the wind, I suppose.  I quite like it and I get used to it around here, as well.  It's quite a good challenge.  Greens are always firm, so it's always tough to get the ball close to the hole.
Q. Well played today.  Your thoughts?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, obviously delighted with the score today.  A bit surprised, I thought I was going to hit the ball a bit better off the tee than I did, but I hit a few more fairways.  I putted really well, and at the end of the day, I was just compiling a score, and obviously 64 was a good number out there.
Q. You started with a birdie and a couple birdies on the back nine.  That must have kept the momentum going.
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, on the turn there, birdied 10 and hit it close on 11.  It's nice to get some momentum going for the back nine then, as well.
A couple of tough holes then.  Sort of around probably 12 was a bit tricky today, even though I hit the tee shot in a perfect place.  But you've got 13, 14, 15, which are quite tricky.
And then I always find 17 a bit of a funny par 3.  Hard to get the ball close.  But you have got 16 and 18 to finish which are good birdie chances.
Q. You quite like it around here.  Tied fourth last year?
BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, good history.  I'm sort of not quite comfortable on the greens around here.  Seems as though it's slightly less grain at the moment on the greens.  So for me, the lines were a little bit clearer today.  I'm sure you could ask me tomorrow and I'd say I couldn't see them.
Q. The wind is abnormally down today.  How has that affected?
BRADLEY DREDGE: I understood that today, scoring was going to be good.  It was the opportunity to go at more flags and get the ball a bit closer to the hole.  Without the wind, it sort of makes it a lot easier to get the score going and get the putts in and get in with some sort of number.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT