AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 3, 2013
Bartolo Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Bartolo.   
   
 Q.   Bartolo, I know you've had playoff experience, but it's been a while.   Can you talk about how you have to rev it up.   How do you rev it up and how do you keep the playoffs in perspective?   
ARIEL PRIETO:   See the target, hit the target.   (Laughter.)   See the ball, hit the ball, again, please?   
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you've been in the playoffs and you've had playoff experience.   How do you draw on that and keep it in perspective, revving it up and at the same time not putting too much pressure on yourself.   
BARTOLO COLON:   I believe the age what I have right now, I don't have any pressure, because I have experience about it.   
So I don't think I gonna have any pressure.  
   
 Q.   Bartolo, you were around last year and this year.   What's the biggest difference between last year's team and this year's team?   
BARTOLO COLON:   I believe the only difference that we have this year than last year is about the catcher that we have and Larry was the only new guy that we have this year.   After that, everybody is the same.   And I believe we have the pitchers, we have everything.   Everything is the same.   
   
 Q.   How much difference did that break you got a month and a half ago when you went on the DL, how much difference did that make for your physical well‑being and for your "stuff" when you're pitching?   
BARTOLO COLON:   I believe it's all about the emotion that we can have in the playoff right now that made me the way the team goes after the month and a half.   Because I've been working a lot, I've been working hard, that's one of the reasons that I feel strong right now, stronger than a month and a half ago.   
   
 Q.   What stands out to you when you look at Detroit's lineup?   
BARTOLO COLON:   You know, this is a team that we have to worry about.   They have a dangerous lineup.   The only thing we have to do is face them and keep doing the same what I did.   
   
 Q.   How hard was it to watch the playoffs last year?   It was hard watching teammates?   How much did that motivate you to come back and have the year that you had?   
ARIEL PRIETO:   He's nervous.   He tried to say that last year he tried to watch the game from home right after what happened last year.   So this year, the motivation that he has is feeling happy and he's going to try to do the best, thank you God.   
   
 Q.   What's your opinion about Cabrera as a hitter and how he's compared to all the best hitters you have ever faced?   
BARTOLO COLON:   I believe he's one of the best hitters right now in baseball in both leagues.   Everybody knows how important he is for the team, and at the same time, tomorrow we're going to face for the first time.   
He was one of the guys that I would follow all the time since when he started as a rookie.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT