AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 9, 1998
Bartolo Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I was trying to remember if he was with the team -- Bartolo, were you with the team
last year at this time and where were you watching the games from?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: I was with the ball club at the time, but I was not active on the
roster. 
 
Q. I understand that. Was he in the bullpen, was he in the dugout, was he at all the
games?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: I was watching the ball game from the dugout. 
 
Q. In your complete game performance this year and today you seem to get stronger the
later innings. What do you attribute that to?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Today was a total team effort. I just felt complete today because of the
fact that everybody participated, everybody helped me and I just felt stronger as the game
progressed. 
 
Q. Comment on the defensive play of Omar in particular?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Omar Vizquel, what can I say? He's just terrific out there, and let's
not forget Enrique Wilson because he did a terrific job. 
 
Q. You said the other day you were a little nervous in the first couple of innings in
Boston. How did you feel tonight in the early innings and did you feel better as the game
went on?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: The game versus Boston was more of a pressure-packed ball game and I
knew that I felt that I had really had to do the job for the ball club, so that was a
different situation. Today, it wasn't life or death and I just felt totally confident out
there. 
 
Q. Mike said that you needed to pick up your intensity in the first couple of innings
of the game. Why was that?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: In previous games, I've had a situation where I kept the ball up for
whatever the reason and, now, I just felt that I had more control of my pitches and that's
sort of helped me today.  
 
Q. How much of a difference was it for you to be pitching with a lead after you went up
2-1 after two innings and was there a particular point where you felt locked in?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Today I was really trying to concentrate more on the fact that I was
pitching against the mighty Yankee team and so, in turn, I concentrated on pitch for pitch
and I just felt that I could do the job. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT