AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 8, 1998
Bartolo Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you explain the Poncho?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Well, back home, basically, he had a mule and his name was Poncho and so
that's just -- he's kept it since he's gotten here and that's it. 
 
Q. Can you talk about facing the Yankees line up?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: When I get out on the mound, I'm just going to basically concentrate on
what I have to do. I don't really want to get into that too much right now except that I
know what I have to do. 
 
Q. How does your arm feel?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Thank God, I'm feeling real good. The arm feels fine. 
 
Q. In the game in Boston, afterwards, Sandy Alomar said that he thought that you really
grew up in that game. Would you comment on the start in Boston and what you -- what he
said and how you felt about that game?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: I really have thrown well against that ball club in the past. If the
right thing to say is that I was scared the first couple of innings, then I may have been,
but I really got it together after the second inning, I was really ready to go. 
 
Q. Did you have a tired arm in the second half of the season and how has the rest that
you have gotten recently helped you?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: I had to come to the realization that the Major League season is a lot
longer than the Minor League season. You're talking about a longer Spring Training, also
talking about a six-month-plus season as opposed to a five-month season and I can only
thank Mike Hargrove for having some initiative to give me the rest when I needed it so
that I could in turn get recharged and go from there. 
 
Q. Does having the start against Boston under your belt, does that kind of have a
calming influence going into this game? 
 
 BARTOLO COLON: Absolutely. I feel more confident, more relaxed, and I feel like I'm
ready for this ball game. 
 
Q. You were specifically dominant in that game here against the Yankees when you
pitched eight innings in an 11-0 win, had a bunch of strikeouts. Do you expect any hitters
-- not just the Yankees -- do you think that a team comes back wanting to get at you
because you pitched a game like that against them?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: I'm sure that they're going to be waiting in the weeds as far as that's
concerned, but I'm going to try my best to go back out in and do as good a job, competent
a job as I did the first time. 
 
Q. Jaret Wright made a comment about power pitchers vis-a-vis the noise here at Jacobs
Field, as a pitcher does that help you, pump you up or does it hurt?
 
 BARTOLO COLON: It's all about whether you're at home or you're on the road and when I'm
at home and I get that support from the fans, it just charges me up and makes me go at it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT