AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 13, 2001
Bartolo Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Are you ready to come up to the mound tomorrow and throw a game close?  Are you looking forward to pitching tomorrow as well as you did against Seattle the first time? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  I said that physically, I am fine, and whatever happened in the last game happened, but we'll see what happens tomorrow.  But I'm ready for tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Does it matter to you what time the game will start tomorrow, whether day or not, or if you don't know until the last minute? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):   I'm going to be prepared to pitch any time.  If the game is at 1 o'clock, 4 o'clock, I'm going to be ready, if the game is at 8:00, I'm going to be ready.  I would like to pitch a night game, too. 
 
Q.  How much pressure will there be on you with the outcome of today's game? 
 
BARTOLO COLON:   Well, I've got to wait to see what the outcome of the game today is and then I'm going to start putting my thoughts... 
 
Q.  Do you have a theory as to why you pitched better on the road than at home this season? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  The outcome, I was pitching better on the road, but I have no explanation for that because I feel the same way, away or at home health-wise. 
 
Q.  What did you do so well in the first game that allowed you to have that success against Seattle? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  I was always ahead of the hitters and that was the key for my success; that I was throwing strike one to most of the hitters, and I never was behind on the count.  
 
Q.  Have you given C.C. any advice about facing Seattle since he's never faced them? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  I never had a chance to talk to Sabathia about the Seattle team, and probably the best way  -- when I go there, with the input of the pitching coaches and Seattle never saw C.C. and it probably might be an advantage for me.  
 
Q.  Mike Cameron said the other day that if you pitched that way all the time, you would be a Hall of Famer; how do you feel about that? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  I've got no comments for that because right now my mind is in this series and I'm going to wait until the time shows what's going on.  
 
Q.  In the past you have not been the No.  1 pitcher for Cleveland and this year you are; does that change your mindset at all? 
 
BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaac):  You know, I'm really proud to be No.  1 this year.  Sometimes being the No.  1 is really a hard test because you've got to face the No.  1 from the other team, too.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT