AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 8, 2001
Bartolo Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you feel going into the start, are you ready, are you pitching your best?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I feel good, and I'm healthy.  I'm good.  And I'm throwing the best that I could throw.

Q.  Would you talk about your last start against the Royals, and how would that lead into your start tomorrow?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I didn't have my best stuff on that day, but in this week I have to stop thinking about it.  This is a brand new game, and that's in the past.

Q.  What's the game plan going into tomorrow, and what do you need to do?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  Facing the Seattle Mariners, they're one of the best teams in a long time in baseball.  I've got to be on top of my game, and I think I've got to have an idea of what I'm going to do on every pitch.

Q.  You pitched very well against the Mariners,  does that give you a little confidence going in, you've pitched well against them this year?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I've been lucky that every time I pitched against Seattle I always have been lucky enough to pitch good, and I'm going to try to pitch the same way.

Q.  You came into this season with some pretty high expectations, and it's been up and down.  Do you see this postseason as a chance to maybe make your mark, and maybe make up for some inconsistencies in the regular season?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I'm going to try to do my best, and this is the right time to do it.

Q.  It appears that Ichiro may be a key batter against you tomorrow, how are you going to pitch against him tomorrow?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I'm going to go with the report that we got and see what happens.

Q.  Would you talk about what striking out 200 guys in back-to-back seasons means to you?

BARTOLO COLON (Through Luis Isaacs):  I feel really proud to do that, strike out 200 batters in two consecutive seasons, and I'm really proud about it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT