ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 12, 2015
David Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Dave, how would you assess how you've gone throughout the pool stages, and just how the team has gone through the pool stages, a couple of losses and a few setbacks and personally how you've gone?DAVID MILLER: Obviously started quite well with a hundred, but from there I think I've had a couple starts where I've maybe wanted to continue through those starts, but unfortunately I haven't.  But I'm really enjoying my batting at the moment.  I feel like getting in good positions and giving myself a chance.  And then obviously with the team, like you said, we've had a couple upsets, one or two here, but that's always -- I believe that might happen in group stages, but as we move forward, I think we've shown over the last year, year and a half that the consistency that we can play, and I think here now the boys will be rearing to go come that quarterfinal and preparing really hard for that, as well.Q. Dave, just to go to those two chases that didn't go so well, what does it feel like being part of the lineup?  What kind of responsibility do you feel is on you when you're in that situation, and how do you think you'll deal with it differently going forward?DAVID MILLER: Well, I don't think there's a huge amount of responsibility on me as an individual.  It's a team performance so everyone has to sort of chip in here and there.  Unfortunately we came short the other night.  I felt over the last sort of year that I have got better at chasing, and I think it's just what you think out there and trying to be clear as much as you can, and then obviously executing the decision you make. But you know, I think just giving myself the best chance I can when I'm chasing as an individual, trying to assess as you go along and take it as deep as possible, I think that's obviously my sort of routine that I like to stick to.Q. Do you feel based on those couple of chases that you have had that anything needs to change as far as the way you approach batting second?DAVID MILLER: Me or --Q. Both you and the team.DAVID MILLER: I don't think so at all.  I think we've -- like I said, the last year and a half we've been really sort of working hard towards this World Cup, and I think we've shown in the past what we can do.  I think this game is sometimes a cruel game.  It's the way it goes.  But like I said, the last year, year and a half we've performed chasing, so I don't think there's any areas where we need to maybe improve.  I think maybe just the execution of certain shots that we played the other night.  But I don't think anything more than that.Q. Sri Lanka is your possible opposition in the quarterfinals.  Kumar Sangakkara said yesterday about their team that the key for the way they get success is the fact that they enjoy the cricket, they play with a smile on their face.  Do you think your side can say something similar?DAVID MILLER: Definitely.  We've got a good thing going, a great environment at the moment with AB and the management.  It's a privilege to be a part of this setup, and I think the guys are really enjoying their cricket in the group stages so far, and it's a great place to tour, as well, so on and off the field I think there's been a lot of enjoyment, and that's really important. Hopefully can come off first ball, though.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT