INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2018
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. FOGNINI/D. Thiem   
6-4, 1-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough luck today. How would you assess your performance anyway?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It was a good match, actually, from both of us, I would say.  Was a very intense fight, basically from the beginning to the end.   
So I'm disappointed that I lost, obviously.  But game-wise, I'm not really disappointed.   
I mean, there would have been chances to win the match.  If you compare it to last year or to Madrid there was, as well, a lot of close matches which I could have lost.  And today, it happened.  And he played well.  The whole match was good.   
So, yeah, it's a loss which is not too painful, which is just, yeah, motivating me for next week.   
 Q.  Do you think the crowd may have had an effect on your game?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Not really.  I mean, it was nice to play, obviously.  The Italian crowd is great.  And I was expecting that way, so it was completely fine.  Was fun to play under that atmosphere.   
 Q.  What are your expectations or feelings going to Paris?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm sorry?   
 Q.  What are your expectations or feelings going to Paris?  
DOMINIC THIEM: My feelings are good.  I'm playing well.  I was fighting well from the first to the last ball.  And still have --  I will play Lyon next week, and there I can adjust some things on my game.  I can have some more practice days.  And, hopefully, some more matches.   
But, in general, I feel good for Paris.   
And the draw here was also shocking for me.  I mean, to play Fognini the first round, it's really tough.  And I think  - - or I hope in Paris I have a little bit longer time to come into the tournament.   
 Q.  Yesterday, you said that you had just a session of training on Monday.  Not enough for the first set?  Because you had a slow start in the first set.  More difficult this for you, or not?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No.  Last year, it was the same.  I had just one day of practice.  Yesterday, I had one and a half hours doubles.  And also a little bit practice before.  So it was completely fine.   
That was okay.  He was playing very good in the first set.  So, it had nothing to do that I arrived late.   
 Q.  Is there anything you would change in your performance today if you could replay it? It was something that you reproach to yourself, particularly, more than something else?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah.  I mean, I would hit the return in the third set.  I think it was 3-3, 15-40.   
Yeah, just a little better return.  That's the first change which comes to my mind.   
 Q.  When you beat Fognini the other two times, you won so easily.  Is it because you think he wasn't playing as well as today or also because you were playing much better than you did today?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I played well today.  I mean, I didn't play bad at all.  It was just him.  He was very pumped today.  He was playing at home.  He already had a great win against Monfils the other day.   
So, that was the biggest difference today to the other two matches.  That he was completely different player and a very good player today.   
 Q.  You said you're going to Lyon and try to adjust some things and looking towards Paris.  Which are those things?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, today was fine, just some mistakes here and there, which I tried to erase.  And that's it.   
I had good experience as with playing the week before Roland Garros two years ago.  I won Nice.  I went into the semis the same year.  So, it's fine.   
I hope I can get some good matches.  The tournament is very strong, so there are gonna be good battles against great players.  So, I think it's a good thing that I played here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT