NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/D. Thiem
6-3, 5-7, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a very tough game, very close game.  What did you make of it?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, it was I think way better performance than the last weeks, last tournaments, but still not perfect obviously.
Was normal first two sets, then the third set was little bit weird I think when I broke back for 5-All, then immediately got a shocking break for 5-6, then still had chances.
I think it was pretty open until the end.  I think there were some things just not good enough.  I think he deserved to win.
Q. Normally a defeat in your first match with Rafa still to play would look like a perilous situation.  Do you have extra hopes given his injury struggles coming into the Finals?
DOMINIC THIEM: It would have been better to win the match, of course.  But still, I mean, there are two more matches, two more chances.  I think it's just over when I cannot reach the semifinal any more, and when I also cannot calculate it any more.  That's all what I think about now.
Q. You said on Friday that last year you felt very nervous and tense playing here for the first time.  Did nerves play a part today, as well?  You seemed to start quite slowly and looked tense at the beginning, then in the final set as well.
DOMINIC THIEM: Yes, I mean, there's always a little bit of tension before every match.  And especially here, of course, a little bit because of all the atmosphere, arena.  Also because it's your first match, it's against a really, really good opponent, so you're very tense.
I think it's normal.  It's like this on any other event.  It doesn't have anything to do with the Masters.
Q. Considering one game is over now, what do you feel most at this moment?  Is it the pressure to succeed in the next matches or just being a part of this wonderful tournament?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I'm disappointed, of course.  I lost.  But still there are two chances, two more chances.  I'm trying everything to still reach the semifinals beside the loss.
Q. There is a strange combination of factors in your group:  all the four players have reached this week the best ranking.  You are No. 4, Rafa No. 1, Dimitrov 6, Goffin 8.  Never been higher.  I would like to know if that should help your performances in a way or if it counts for nothing?  Is it more pressure?  Is it important or not important?
DOMINIC THIEM: For me, it counts nothing because I reached this ranking because of my performances earlier this year.  Probably it would help me more if I played well the last weeks, and that's why I got a new high ranking.
I got it because I played very well earlier this season.  That's all.  I mean, it's of course nice that there is a 4 now, my career-high ranking, but it doesn't help me, doesn't affect me.  It's not bad, it's just a number.
Q. And the others?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think Rafa is used to be No. 1.  I think for him is pretty fine.
The others, I think it's the same for them like for me.  I mean, it's always nice to have a new career-high ranking, but it doesn't affect the game at all.
Q. What lessons do you feel you can learn from your performance today that you can take into the next match and hopefully maintain a bid to win the title?
DOMINIC THIEM: It was not bad.  I mean, I improved a lot since the last tournaments.  But still there were many things which were not good.
I have one practice tomorrow to fix this stuff for myself.  The opponent, whoever it will be on Wednesday, is completely different to Grigor.
I will just focus on myself, have a good, productive practice tomorrow, and then obviously try everything to win the game on Wednesday to still have a shot for the semifinals in the last game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT