U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/A. De Minaur
6-4, 6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about how you feel from the game and just your overall performance.  Coming from yesterday, was it difficult to get started today?
DOMINIC THIEM: It was really different, the conditions, between yesterday and today, and my goal was to break immediately, and that's what I did.  Well, set 2 and 3 yesterday and today were really good.
Q. Talk about what you feel.  Were there any improvements you need to make or what did you learn especially from playing in this game just now?
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course there are always improvements, but set 2 and 3 were really decent, and the biggest thing I have to do now is probably to just continue like this, because the first set was not good.
It was pretty nervous start, but then it really got better, and I try to start off tomorrow like I finished yesterday and today.
Q. There are going to be a lot of eyes on you, especially with some of the big names that are not playing this tournament.  What are your thoughts on that?  What are your thoughts of some of the big stars not performing in this tournament, not playing?  Do you feel any extra additional pressure?
DOMINIC THIEM: Not really.  I think I'm not in the first row of the favorites.  Of course maybe in the second, but I think there are more eyes on three, four, five other players.
So I can play calm from the background.
Q. What did you actually do between yesterday when your match was postponed and today?  Were there things you made sure you wanted to do just so you were in the right place mentally to come out and pick up where you left off?
DOMINIC THIEM: It got canceled pretty early yesterday, and then I knew pretty early that I'm going to play at 11:00 again.  It means early wakeup, so I just had some treatment, some dinner, and that's it.  Basically the preparation was not different at all than it would be to a normal match from Love-Love from the beginning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT