ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've had some good results this year in Masters tournaments, with a quarterfinal, semifinal and final.  What has been missing for you to get that title?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, this year was always Rafa in my way, I guess.  But I'm pleased.  I mean, I played only my first semis this year, then straightaway the first final.  So I'm quite happy with my performances until now in the Masters tournaments.
It's really tough.  I mean, it's from the first round basically only top 50 players to play.  It's very difficult to go deep.
Q. This year you were able to beat Murray, Nadal, Djokovic, which is pretty good.  You said last week that you thought you were pretty far away from the top four level.  What makes you think the gap is so big between the younger players and the top four?
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, maybe the gap is not that big playing-wise.  I think we can beat them now.  I think it's just very difficult for us to win the big titles, to win the Grand Slam tournaments.  Yeah, I mean, we can beat one of them for sure, like, almost every day, but to win a Grand Slam you have to beat two or even three of them.  I mean, that's why it's so tough to win these big titles.
Q. A lot of people say tennis is a mental game.  Being 23, how difficult is it to break through, to have the belief you could get through these big players to take the title?
DOMINIC THIEM: It's a very mental sport.  There are very tough situations in every match.  Well, I mean, it's important to believe, of course.  But I think it's also important to know at one point how difficult it is to win a big title.  Well, it's not easy at all.
Q. You're seeded third here this week.  It's your highest seeding since the beginning in a Masters 1000.  Does it bring any extra pressure to you?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, not at all.  First of all, I'm only seeded that high because some players pulled out.  The Masters tournaments, even that many players pulled out, it's still an unbelievably strong field.
I don't think that it actually matters that much what position you are seeded between 1 and 8.  It's nice, you have a bye in the first round.  If you're seeded 1 or 8, it doesn't make such a big difference in a great field like that.
Q. You are one of the players that plays the most matches throughout the season.  You said last year you were going to make some adjustments to this year's schedule.  How do you feel this season is working out for you?  Are you planning on making some adjustments from now till the end of the season, till London, if you qualify?
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm feeling much better than last season.  It was everything new for me to play that many matches, to play that many tournaments, and to go deep as well.
But, yeah, this year is really different.  I mean, last year I had a lot of points from the 250 tournaments, from the 500 tournaments.  This year it's completely change.  I have almost all my points from Grand Slams, 1000s, these events.
I think I did a good adjust.  Of course, the goal is to be kind of fresh until the end of the season.
Q. What are your thoughts on Milos Raonic, and perhaps a rivalry between you and him?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, there's not really a rivalry.  We only had two matches so far.
But about him, there's not so much new things to say.  I mean, he's in the top 10 since a very long time.  He's a threat or a favorite for every title basically every week.  So I don't think I can give any news about him to the people.
He's a great player, and he's there since many years.  So all the respect to him.  He's an absolute star in the tennis.
Q. First up for you is Opelka or Schwartzman.  What can you tell us about them as a prospective matchup?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think they are pretty different, those two.  I know Diego, of course.  I practice with him often.  A good friend of mine.
Opelka, just saw sometimes in the television.  Probably a new Isner and Karlovic coming up.  It would be more fun to play Diego, of course.  I hope also that he wins.  Also that he's a good friend of mine.
But, well, I'm looking forward.  It's going to be tomorrow night, I think, hopefully in a good atmosphere.  I have to take whoever comes.
Q. If you end up playing a friend, how difficult is that?  You also play Zverev sometimes.
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, it's, of course, a little bit more difficult than normal matches.  But still you have to cut it out for these two hours or something.  As there is no physically contact like in other sports, it's easy to handle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT