ROLAND GARROS
June 9, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/D. Thiem
6-3, 6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What would you say were the unique difficulties of playing Rafa at Roland Garros?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think he's tough to play in general on clay.  I mean, doesn't really matter where.
I think he played a good match today.  I was not on the top of my game and the result everybody saw.
Q. You have had a really good run here at Roland Garros this year.  What are your overall reflections on your time here at Roland Garros?  What's pleased you most about your performances over these two weeks?
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course, I mean, it's nice to be in the semis again, but now I'm really disappointed because I just couldn't play the way I wanted to.  I don't know why yet, so I have to find some reasons.
But of course, in general, it was a good clay court season, but I think a very bad ending for me.
Q. Maybe the fact you didn't play too much on this court could be a factor?  Or not at all?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I mean, it's of course bigger and a little bit different view, but didn't really affect the game at all, I think.
Q. Do you have any sense of how far away you are from being able to produce your best tennis as you would wish to on an occasion like this?  Do you have any sense of how far away from that you are?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think the last matches were better.  Today I was not able to produce my best tennis at all.
But it doesn't have to do anything with this stage or with the occasion, because I also played bad matches in different tournaments in earlier rounds.  So it doesn't have to do anything with the occasion or that it was a Grand Slam semifinal here on the center court.
Q. You know in your day you're capable of beating anyone.  Are you frustrated that you are still searching for the consistency you would like in your game?
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course.  Of course I'm disappointed that, first of all, I just didn't play the way I can play.  I mean, I was pretty far away from my best tennis today.  That's the first thing what disappoints me.
And the consistency I will have to find, and I think I will also find it.  It's a matter of time.
Q. Looking forward to the grass court season, can you tell us a bit about how much you're looking forward to Wimbledon and how you will prepare?
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, grass, it's always nice to play on grass.  It's not a long period of the season, so always special.  And I will play Halle, Antalya, and then Wimbledon.  Of course, it's completely different than clay.  Because I think you can lose to way more opponents if they have a good day or if they have a good stay of serve or something.
So it's gonna be completely different than the last weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT