ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/N. Djokovic
7-6, 6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You played obviously very well.  Aren't you surprised what happened in the third set?  I mean, Djokovic never surrenders normally.  6-Love was impressive.  Were you surprised or not?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I think there have been some key points in the match.  The first set was very, very long and very close.  Then in the second set, in the beginning, I was down Love-30.  I still made the game and broke him in the first service game and again broke him in his first service game in the third set.
That's everything very tough.  It's understandable that there is a little bit of tough things mentally coming up to him.  And that's why at the end it was probably a little bit easier.
Q. You hadn't ever beaten him before.  In Rome, you won one game.  How did you turn this around?  Did you consciously go in with a different game plan?  What was on your mind?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I didn't play a different game style.  I just had a positive win-error statistic today that's very important.  I think it was never the case against him before.
Yeah, the first set, I could easily lose, and I think it was the key for the first victory against him to win this close first set, and then have a good start to the second set, as well.  Because, for example, in London at the Masters, I couldn't continue the way of the first set.
Q. Obviously the next match is going to be even more difficult.  You're going to face Rafa Nadal.  Could you talk about the semifinal that's up next?
DOMINIC THIEM: First of all, it's great for me to be in the semifinals again, to defend that.  And of course, I think on Friday is coming the toughest opponent ever here in Roland Garros.  Gonna be the fourth match against him in, like, five or six weeks.  Not really big secrets.
Well, he's again in his best shape.  So gonna be the toughest match what you can imagine.
Q. In Rome you said after you beat Rafa that mentally you were spent by the time you went into the game with Novak in the semifinals.  What did you learn from that experience and how will you ensure that you don't have that same kind of hangover for Friday's match?
DOMINIC THIEM: First of all, I think it's better if there is one day off.  Second of all, in Rome, I was not only tired from the match against Rafa, but also from before and from the week in Madrid.  It was pretty tough.  And the first time for me I go deep in a Masters.
I think it's gonna be different.  I feel much better now than in Rome.  It's hopefully not happening to me.
Q. Last year you had reached this stage at a slam for the first time.  Today, how differently do you feel as a player heading into this Rafa match?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think last year everything was sensation for me.  I could only win, basically.  And this year, of course, I had to defend the same as everything.  So I think it was a little bit more difficult this year.
Also, last year, I mean, of course I wasn't satisfied with the semis, but still it was amazing for me.  This year, of course I didn't expect it, but I wanted to go deep.  So it's for sure a very different mindset.
Q. I'd like to ask about Rafa's forehand.  It's such a great shot.  How do you defend against it?  Just talk about trying to deal with it.  Talk about the spin of the shot and the speed.
DOMINIC THIEM: You cannot defend it all the time.  I just have to watch that I'm not giving him his favorite positions on the forehand.
I mean, it's one of the best shots I think ever in tennis.  So anyway, you cannot avoid it all the time.  I will concede some winners on Friday (smiling).
Q. Do you feel ready to win a Grand Slam?
DOMINIC THIEM: It's a tough question.  I mean, so far I have always played way worse match the following day if I beat a top guy.  So I hope I can improve that.
I mean, it's a joke how tough it is to win a slam.  Because obviously now I beat Novak.  On Friday is Nadal.  In the finals there is another top star.  That's why it's a slam is because it's such a tough achievement.
Q. You're playing really well here at Roland Garros.  What's working well for you so far?
DOMINIC THIEM: I really -- I like the conditions.  It's a fast clay court which fits my game very well.  And then also I think I really like the balls here.  You have a great feeling with it, and I think almost every player does.  That's why we also see some good rallies, we see some good matches, because I think it's one of the best balls on the tour.
Q. I'm curious about what you sign on the camera lens after the match.  Is it a reference to your tennis club?
DOMINIC THIEM: No.  It's a reference to my football club in Austria (smiling).
Q. Which is?
DOMINIC THIEM: It's called First Tennis and Football Club.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT