ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/H. Zeballos   
6-1, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Did you always feel like you were in control of the match?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I think it was a very good match today.  It was great fun to play out there.  Perfect conditions in the big Lenglen court.  I was enjoying basically every second of the match.   
 Q.  Your next opponent is maybe Novak Djokovic, who won two sets and leads two games to Love.  What do you think about this next match?  
DOMINIC THIEM: If he's gonna win, it's gonna be a very interesting match.  Well, Zverev hit against him.  If I play him, I have to change something compared to the last matches.   
Yeah, I also have some experience to play against him.  I will talk to my coach, to my team.  Then maybe change something up and hope that I play a good match on Tuesday.   
 Q.  You're in the second week for the third time  after being in the top 10 for a while like under a year.  Does this feel quite normal to you now or is it still quite new for you to be in this position in a slam?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, it's still something very special to enter the second week.  I think it's a quite big difference between third round and fourth round.   
It's always something special to be in the second week.  It's only my second quarterfinal, so it feels very, very good to me.   
 Q.  When you lost to Novak recently, was it more physical or was it more mentally coming back after such a big win over Rafa?  What was the biggest factor there?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I think it was a combination of everything.  I played finals in Madrid before, and then already in the first two matches of Rome I felt that somehow I'm getting more and more empty.  Then against Rafa, yeah, I played with the last percents.  It was amazing match, and the next day, I was just done.   
So I don't think about this match too much.   
 Q.  You were successful here at Roland Garros last year, as well.  What do you think it is about your game that suits playing on clay?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's for sure, of course, the clay court I'm feeling great on.  And then also the conditions here are almost perfect for my game.  I like the balls a lot.  I think you really feel the balls with the racquet.  I mean, every player, I think, it's pretty good matches overall.   
I like the conditions here.  I enjoy the whole tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT