ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/B. Tomic   
6-4, 6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel after this really speedy victory?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It was very hot out there, so I'm happy that I won in three sets.  It was a tough opponent and a close first set, I guess.  I was also a little bit nervous before the match, I have to say, and because of these circumstances I'm happy with my performance.   
 Q.  Bernard Tomic said in his interview right now he doesn't want to get in rallies with Dominic Thiem, he said no one wants to get in rallies with Dominic Thiem on clay.  Do you have a comment?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's good to hear this from such a good player like him, you know.  Of course if I play my aggressive game style, I guess it's tough to be in the rally with me, and, I mean, also he's not home on clay, so of course he tried to shorten the points and to play fast, to break the rhythm.  That's what he tried, and he's not home on clay, so he's not probably ready to go the rallies.   
 Q.  You're one of the players who even as you have continued to rise in the rankings has played a lot of tournaments and continues to play a lot.  I'm just wondering, when you see other players or older players like Federer that might skip a major, take longer breaks, if this is something that might change your thinking now or later in your career.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Right now I'm not gonna skip a major, I guess (smiling).  No, I think this year I played all the big events basically, and how many 250s I think I played, three, so that's not a lot.  Many other players also played that amount of tournaments.  And of course, when I'm over 30, I won't play that many again, but I'm young and I'm fresh, so I think there is no problem.  Of course last year I got tired at the end of the year, but it was also the first time for me.  If I might do it again this year, I think I'm more used to it.   
 Q.  What can you say about the weather?  It's very hot today out there.  It's like in Rio?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's not like in Rio, but it was very hot today.  I think I never played in that hot conditions in Paris.  I think it might change in the next days, so gonna be a little bit more rain, but actually, I like the conditions.  If it's that hot, it's a good bounce, you can put a good spin on the ball.  So I kind of hope it stays pretty warm.   
 Q.  When you said you were nervous, is it because it's typical for a first-round match at a major, or is it because you come into this tournament with different expectations of yourself after last year?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, it's different things.  First of all, it's again a major best of five, so you have to be longer on court, you have to be focused for a longer time.  And then also, of course, I played well in the preparation, and this tournament here is one of the biggest highlights for me, probably the biggest highlight of the year, the slam on clay.  Of course I was a little bit tight and nervous the previous days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT