INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 20, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/D. Thiem   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Yesterday you literally hit Nadal off the courts.  Today unfortunately the accuracy was missing from your ground-stroking for you to be able to effectively employ the same tactics against Djokovic.  Can you talk about how frustrating that is?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, it's not really frustrating.  There are some reasons why this happened today.  I mean, first of all, they are different type of players.   
Against Novak, it's really tough for me to play, I mean, because he doesn't give me any time.  I don't really like to play against him, because he has a game style which doesn't fit me at all.   
Yeah, then, also it was the first time for me to play on such a high level for three weeks or more, and today I paid a little bit the price for that.   
 Q.  When you enter a court against a player you said you don't like to play, is the mindset different from the start?  Are you searching new ways of beating him?  Is it mentally complicated when you know you can't find any solutions?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, of course I go in and I try to beat also the players I don't like to play against from the game style.   
But still, of course, it's a little bit tougher.  Also, of course, everybody knows, or everybody knows how he feels himself before a match.   
Actually, I was already a little bit tired in the end of the match against Querrey, and then I was surprised by myself how I went out yesterday but also knew that it's not gonna be like that forever.   
 Q.  It's not the right time, but I want to ask you for the very last time about your training session with Sepp Resnik, night races and trunk races.  Because last year, before Roland Garros, you know, interview, you said that it was not true, because, for example, the photo with the trunk was an idea of the photographer.  He didn't want to take the picture into a gym.  But in this month, even this week, we read again, again, about this story.  Can you tell us once and for all which is the truth about this story?  
DOMINIC THIEM: The truth is that I'm really tired of this story already, and, yeah, that I don't know why everybody wrote about it or it was like one day of photography, and it was, like, I think 2013.   
Yeah, it's what I told already last year.  It's not the truth that I went every day running at night or something, that -- yeah, I don't know.  Some newspapers made it up, and I get asked about it every week almost.  I don't know what's that great about it.  Yeah, I get a little bit tired of it.   
 Q.  Were you also surprised by how pumped Novak was?  Were you expecting that kind of intensity, or was it a little bit of surprise for you, too?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, he was really there from the first point.  He was pushing himself.  I mean, I was not surprised.  I was expecting that from him, but I couldn't really do anything against it, because I was empty.  I was just not mentally on the level I should be against these opponents.   
It happens from time to time if you play a lot of matches.  And if it happens against a guy like Novak, 6-0, 6-1 or a score like this, is the logical outcome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT