INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/P. Cuevas   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Very good match today.  You weren't tired coming from Madrid?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course I'm feeling it a little bit, but yeah, I mean, I have a very good confidence right now.  Yeah, the match was good and it was a very tough opponent.   
I'm really happy that I won it again, so short, after the first match in Madrid.   
 Q.  What are the differences between this match and the match in Madrid?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It was very different, because I think the serve was more important in Madrid because of the altitude and everything.  In Madrid I didn't face a break point, and it was also way more difficult to break him.   
Today I got broken twice.  I broke him three times.  So I think today there were more longer rallies, and the game was decided more from the baseline.   
 Q.  You know very well Zverev.  What do you think about the match of tomorrow with Fognini here against a clay specialist with this crowd?  What your idea about?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's gonna be a huge match.  Actually, I hope that I can watch it, because it's always fun when Fabio plays in Rome.  He always plays well here.   
I think the people love him in Rome, so it's gonna be tough for Sascha.  And if both are playing well, it's gonna be a huge match.   
 Q.  You're not NextGen anymore, but have you heard about the new things they are going to introduce in the finals in Milan?  Do you like them?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course I heard about it.  I'm not a big fan of the let rule, because it's not really necessary.  Doesn't really speed up the game.   
And also, I think it's fast four...   
 Q.  Four games, five sets.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, I played the same in Sydney in the exhibition, and it was over two-and-a-half hours for four for five sets.  It didn't really make the game faster.   
But we will see what's happening if it's under serious conditions.  I think the shot clock, it's a very, very good thing, but the other two things, we will see how it's gonna be under match conditions in Milan.   
 Q.  What about the coach situation?  Do you like to face your coach on a match?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I don't like it, because it's a sport.  It's a pretty special thing, I think, where you have to face the opponent without any help.   
I mean, it would be good if you wouldn't get a warning for coaching from the outside, so if the coach can show you something from the outside, but I really dislike it if they come on the court.   
 Q.  You are very old, so you're not NextGen.  But do you see yourself like next No. 1?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I don't see myself the next No. 1.  I mean, I think since there is the ranking, a little bit over 20 players reach the No. 1 ranking, so it's a very tough thing.  Everybody is hoping for it, but you cannot really think about it or believe that you're the next No. 1.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT