INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Welcome to Rome.  You just played the final of Madrid tournament.  Don't you think that the season on clay court is too compressed?  Many tournaments back to back without time to decompress and so on?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course it's pretty short, the clay court season, but back-to-back big tournaments are normal.  I think it's the same with Indian Wells, Miami, and then Montreal or Canada and Cincinnati.  So that's not a big problem.   
But, well, I think the clay season gets a little bit shorter and shorter, so we will see what's happening.   
 Q.  How much of a milestone was that Masters final for you?  How much was that a goal and make you ready for whatever your next goal might be?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It was a very good week for me.  I mean, there were some positive things.  The match against Grigor was a first match after pretty long time where I really won a close match and everything.   
And then also it was pretty tough physically, and the way I played after that match was good.  And also the finals against Rafa I think was already much better than Barcelona.  To play finals in such a big event where almost all players are competing, it's a great thing for me.   
 Q.  How good is Rafa right now?  You have seen him up close a couple times in this clay season.  Everyone is talking about, oh, he's going to win the French Open again.  Is that the feeling you get?  He's a huge, huge favorite at this point?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I think he's very close to his best game again.  Everything what he's doing is really good.  I mean, also, he's extremely fast on the legs again.  His strokes are really powerful, so it's a very, very tough thing to beat him on clay right now, I guess.   
 Q.  You are very close to the top 3 now, top 5.  What do you need now to make another step for the first...  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, still many things to improve.  Yeah, I just have to try to make really good results also on the other surfaces than clay, also, to play well in the big tournaments on hard court and on grass.   
If I'm able to make this, then probably I will be high up in the rankings.   
 Q.  This afternoon the president of ATP is going to announce some new rules to be applied at the NextGen Finals in November.  Did players like you have been consulted about new rules to apply to tennis match or not?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I think it's gonna be no let in the NextGen Finals, and I think it's gonna be sets until four.   
Yeah, we will see how it works, but I think now it's too early to say anything about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT