ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. ANDERSON/D. Thiem
4-1 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just start by talking about what the injury was and when you first felt it?  Did you have it coming into the match or was it during the match?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, I felt it since like two weeks or something.  It didn't get worse.  I decided to go out and to try, but yeah, obviously it didn't work out.
Yeah, against such a good player, it doesn't work out with like not 100%.
Q. You played the doubles final a week ago and came straight here.  Do you feel like any of that exacerbated the problem?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, for sure not.  It came two weeks ago, and then it got a little bit better in Kitzbuhel.  And this week it got a little bit worse again.
I will go back home now and check everything about it.  We can MRI and then we will see, I think.  I don't hope that it's anything really bad.  I hope that I'm going to be 100% again in Mexico.
Q. I was going to ask what you are going to do now.  Obviously you will go home because you're not playing the Olympics?  You have a little bit of time?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it was planned that I stay here, but, yeah, I will go home, check everything about the injury, and then hopefully I will come back to Mexico.
But, yeah, I think now it's the time to just give the body a little bit of time to really get 100%, because obviously since Wimbledon it's not the way I want that the body feels.
Yeah, I hope that Mexico is on time, and if not, yeah, we'll see.
Q. When you rise in the rankings as quickly as you have, and all of a sudden the questions start coming about the next generation, breakthrough, and can you move up to challenge the big four, is there a mental adjustment you have to make to not let yourself be pulled into that and get ahead of the process for young players to develop?
DOMINIC THIEM: No.  These questions are not really a problem.  I think a little bit difference is for sure that I didn't expect to play that many matches and that many tournaments and go that deep in almost every tournament.
And last year also I played a lot of tournaments, but obviously I had a couple of first-round and second-round losses.  That's different.
Yeah, I will have to get used to play that many matches.  And also, for sure now it's a little bit kind of situation that the body, yeah, it doesn't want to 100%, so I have to give it a little bit time to recover 100%.
Q. As you were saying, you had a lot of success this season.  Does that lead you to adjust your schedule at all in the second half?  What have you learned about the amount of tennis your body can play?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I mean, we made the plan already last year.  Yeah, my coach didn't expect that I'd do that well.  Myself, for sure I didn't expect to do that well.
But we will stick to the plan, and I think it was the right thing to do.  But maybe I took it easier a little bit too late, so now I have couple of problems which are caused to this.
Yeah, still, probably the second half is a little bit easier.  Not so many tournaments.
So, well, I hope I'm 100% again in Los Cabos and then to play refreshed the last quarter of the season.
Q. There is talk now that you're within the top 10, of you perhaps making the O2 at the end of the year.  Did you set that as a target for this year?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, not really.  But of course now -- before the season, I for sure didn't set this as a target.  But now, of course, I start to think about it a little bit.
Yeah, I mean, I didn't play well in Wimbledon.  Now here I had the first-round loss.  So it's getting very tough to get.  Like now I think I'm not in the right shape to play the tennis what I would need to maybe qualify for the O2, so I just try to get my form back, to get back my good shape from the first half of the season, and then we will see.
I mean, if I make it it's a great thing, but it would be just a bonus for a great season, anyway.
Q. I think you were sick after Wimbledon for a bit.  Do you think that's contributed to the injuries?  Because you got a little bit weak?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, maybe yes.  Maybe I was practicing a little bit too hard after the sickness, because obviously I wanted to play well in Kitzbuhel.  I played very well the whole season until Wimbledon, and if you play that well also the body works well.
You lose the feeling a little bit when it doesn't work your way.  When the body needs a little rest you lose the feeling.
So maybe I started a little bit too early after the illness.  I don't know.  So, yeah, I have to check it out and maybe the injury comes from starting too early, still being a little bit weak from the illness.  But I don't really know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT