WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. THIEM/F. Mayer
  7‑5, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. What do you do in the rain delays to relax your mind and stay focused at the same time?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it's a very good atmosphere in the locker. Many friends. We were watching Centre Court matches together. There is a basketball basket there and a little golf putting, so there are some things to do.
But, yeah, if it takes too long of course it's not easy anymore. Yeah, you just have to keep your focus, which is not easy, with, yeah, all the surroundings and all this. I made it good today.

Q. I think you said in German this is one of the most focused, concentrated matches you have ever played. How do you get into that mindset?
DOMINIC THIEM: I don't know, unfortunately. Otherwise I would do it every time (smiling). But, no, there were no matches the last days, so I was, I think, really at 100% today and I was already ready for the match yesterday. I could keep that feeling until today. I'm really happy with the performance.

Q. What is it that's enabling you to play at this level on the grass? Were you always comfortable prior to this year and just didn't get the results? Or is it just the result of your confidence coming from playing so many matches and winning so many this year, would you say?
DOMINIC THIEM: No. I mean, I was feeling not comfortable all the last two years on grass. I think the biggest difference this year is of course I got a lot of self‑confidence, but the biggest difference I think is my movement. I am much more down and much more stable.
The movement I think is the biggest difference to the other courts. It's soft. You have to stay low. The balls, they stay low. I think I'm moving much better over grass than the last two years.

Q. Am I correct to notice you're serving and volleying more than you did last year and slicing more? Or is that about the same amount?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I'm doing a little bit more. I also feel a little bit more comfortable on the net, so I'm not scared to play serve and volley couple times.
Also the slice. I think it's a little bit more effective than the last year's. Last year's it was just a defensive stroke, and now at least nobody can hit me a winner on the slice. On grass it's one of the best shots.

Q. It's quite a tough draw and tricky opening match for you. What did you learn from the previous match against him and how did you use this today?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, I was really not scared, but I had a lot of respect from him. And until the last point I was really, really happy when I made the match point, because, yeah, he won a 500 on grass. Beat five really good players on the way. It was for sure one of the toughest draws in the first round for me.
Yeah, I think I played a little better than Halle and he didn't play that well. I think this was the difference.

Q. You cracked the top 10 this year. How big a deal was that for you and what other goals do you have this year?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, top 10 was a big milestone because it's so tough to reach. You need so many points, so many good results.
I think now my next big goal is just to stay there as long as possible, because maybe it's even tougher to stay there than to break into the top 10. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT