BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2017
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/M. Zverev   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you expect a match that would be that quick?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course not.  I mean, he's a very tricky opponent, but I had a very good start.  In general, I mean, I returned very well.  Actually, probably better than I expected myself.   
So it was very, very good performance from the first to the last point.   
 Q.  How do you prepare to play against someone that has this very peculiar style of play?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, it's really different to play against him.  You cannot really prepare.  I mean, it's very important the first two shots against him, return, and then the second.  I mean, he's covering the net really, really well.   
So you have to have good placement and a good pace.  That's what I was able to do today.   
 Q.  You stayed on court for 58 minutes.  That's probably less than you normally do on a normal day.  What are you going to do between now and the end of the day?  Are you going to train more, do something else?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No.  I mean, I was working really well before the tournament, and also yesterday, so no problem to have a little bit off.  I think it's very nice.  Especially tomorrow I have I think also off, so I'm going to have a very good practice tomorrow.  I think it's nice for the body and for everything to take off tonight, or today.   
 Q.  What do you do around here?  Do you play golf?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm not a good golfer (smiling).  So I don't play golf.  Well, I mean, I really enjoy to watch some matches.  Not live, unfortunately, but on the television.   
I'm looking forward to Philipp's match against Wawrinka later.  So I'm going to watch this, for sure.   
Yeah, then relax, watch some TV, and that's it, basically.   
 Q.  (Question about upper half of the draw.)  
DOMINIC THIEM: Not really.  I mean, next up is Monfils or Isner.  So it's a really tough match.  Of course, the draw is pretty unique in the bottom half, but still every match is tough.  So I don't think that it's better to be in the bottom or to be in the upper side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT