BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 13, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/D. Thiem   
6-7, 6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first set was obviously a really long one, and a big high for you winning that.  What happened at the beginning of the second?  Did you lose concentration a bit or was it him stepping up?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, it was a very good and very intense first set.  After that, I lost a little bit of energy, which is required against a guy like Novak to play close and good sets.   
I came back obviously.  I had the energy.  But the beginning of the third set, I was trying again to get that match.  He was playing well.  I couldn't quite keep the level up from the first set.  Yeah, that's why I lost in three.   
 Q.  I know you're a big Chelsea fan.  Did you know that Jose Mourinho was watching?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I met him right after the match.  Was amazing.  I didn't see him in the crowd.  Still, I knew from somebody told me some days ago that he will be watching.   
 Q.  Had you met him before or was that the first time?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, no, it was the first time.   
 Q.  And what did he say to you?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, he congratulate me to do a good season.  We were exchanging some words, but it was pretty hectic.  It was right after the match.  It was a funny time to meet him for the first time.   
 Q.  Djokovic is a very popular player here and everywhere.  Did you feel the crowd was supporting you during the match?  
DOMINIC THIEM: The crowd was very nice.  It was a really good atmosphere.  I mean, 17,000, it's I think by far the biggest crowd I ever played.  I think they are also excited to see some new faces at this tournament.  That's why they cheered a lot for me I guess.   
 Q.  What changed for you personally between the first set, then the second and third?  
DOMINIC THIEM: The first set, I mean, it was 1:05 or something.  It last like sometimes a two-set match is lasting.  Of course, it was intense.   
I lost a little bit energy, not much, but just a little bit.  Of course, against a player like Novak, he immediately steps up.  That's how the second set went.   
I mean, in the third set I had a pretty good start.  It was I think 1-Love, then he broke me.  But I couldn't reach the level again from the first set.  Yeah, that's how the score came.   
 Q.  What do you learn after a match like this, playing against the No. 1 in the world?  What do you think you must do to improve?  
DOMINIC THIEM: There are many things.  Also if I keep the level from the first set, it's not a guarantee that I win the match, but I have chances.   
Well, there are so many things to improve.  I think there were too many unforced errors in the first few shots, in the rallies.  Yeah, other things were good, other things were bad.  There are many things what I'm looking to improve.   
 Q.  What is your target for this tournament going forward?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course, I want to play two more good matches, then I will see what the outcome is.  But first of all, it's a very good experience for me to play three matches against top-10 players.  Compared to the last few tournaments, it was a very good match for me today.   
I just look to keep that up, and I will see what happens in the next matches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT