INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 12, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/R. Federer
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is the most emotional victory in your career?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, there were some very emotional victories, but, yeah, I'm very happy to be in the quarterfinals.  Yeah, it was a very tricky match today.
Q. Clearly Roger was not 100% with his back.  Does that affect how you played?  Do you feel it diminishes the result a little?
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course he was not 100%, but still, he played some very good points.  I think, yeah, you cannot -- you cannot put it out of your head.  It's impossible, I think.
So, yeah, that's what made it very tricky, and of course maybe against Roger who would be 100% maybe I wouldn't win today.  So of course it's also effect of the win today.
Q. How significant to figure is Roger Federer in your tennis life?  How important is it to be able to beat him for the first time?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I think he's the idol of almost every tennis player.  When he started, I was still very young.  I was 10, 11 years old.  First of all, it was already very big for me to play against him in Brisbane, and now to beat him, even that he was not 100%, it's very nice for me.
Q. You are still in the tournament, but if you think about Roland Garros, you have made two rounds there for two years.  What are your expectation there?
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course I want to play better than the last two years.  Yeah, I think I can do it.  I have more experience.  Everything's going to be a little bit easier because I'm seeded top 16, and, yeah, for sure, it's the big highlight of the clay court season.
For me, probably it's the biggest highlight of this year.  So going to try my best.  Yeah, I hope that I can reach at least the second week.
Q. Who taught your beautiful backhand?
DOMINIC THIEM: My coach.
Q. Who?
DOMINIC THIEM: My coach.
Q. The name of the coach.
DOMINIC THIEM: Günter Bresnik.
Q. How pleased were you with the way that you played today?  How pleased were you with your game and the mental aspects, as well?
DOMINIC THIEM: The game was okay, but I think the mental aspect was not easy at all, because, yeah, I tried to not focus on him too much.  But, yeah, sometimes I did it, of course.  I think it's very tough to not do it at all, but, yeah, it was okay.
I think yesterday I played better, but with all the circumstances, I think it's okay for me.  It's nice.
Q. Do you think mentally is more difficult to prepare this match against Roger Federer or the next one after beat Roger Federer?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it's nothing -- nothing really change now.  I'm in the middle of the tournament, and I will do everything like I did before.  And of course I will try to win again tomorrow, so nothing really change after today.
Q. You have beaten Federer, you have beaten Nadal, you have played Djokovic.  Who is the most difficult for you to play on clay, you think, of the top players?
DOMINIC THIEM: All of them are very difficult to play, but all of them are so different that I think you cannot really compare them.
Q. I don't know if it's true, but I read on the tennis side that maybe in the period of Olympic Games it's possible that you will play a tournament in Los Lobos [sic] maybe, or other place?  Is it true or not?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it's true.  I'm going to play in Mexico.  Los Cabos, yeah.
Q. This tournament is, it will be in the same period of the Olympic tournament or...
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah.  So I don't play the Olympics.
Q. Which is the reason this way?  You can explain your choice?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, there are many reasons.  Maybe I'm going to explain it another time but not today.
Q. I just wanted to know if does it give you a special feeling that you beat him, and if that's one of the reasons why maybe, when you had three match points, the first one is a double fault, it's like if it's sort of big pressure even in those moments when normally, you know, three match points you should feel quite, I don't say relaxed, but enough, maybe?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, match point was very windy and I was looking exactly in the sun, so this was, I think, more the reason for the double fault.
But, yeah, against these top guys you can never be relaxed, because, yeah, one little lack of concentration and they are back in the game.  The last thing I wanted was that it's gonna be 5-All.  So, yeah, was happy that I made the second match point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT