MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/D. Thiem
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The first set was very intense, a lot of breakpoints.  What do you think of the level you had this first set?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think the level was pretty high from both of us.  Of course, I had a lot of chances.  Probably I should take more than I have.
But, yeah, he was fighting unbelievable all the set.  At the end, yeah, it was of course a big disappointment, the first set.
Q. How do you compare this match with the one in Buenos Aires, the level?
DOMINIC THIEM: I don't know.  I think the level was pretty high, especially in the first set, today.  In Buenos Aires, maybe things were going more my way, you know.  I was making more breakpoints and everything.  Maybe in Buenos Aires he did some easier mistakes on important points, which he didn't make today.
But I think Buenos Aires was a good match and today was also a good match.
Q. Considering the good results you're having since the beginning of the year, do you feel more confident you can compete with the best?
DOMINIC THIEM: For sure my good start to the season helped me a lot.  Yeah, it's very important for me to play exactly these matches.  Even though I lost today, it was still a very good experience.  I think I can build upon it.
Q. You had so many chances against Djokovic in Miami, chances here, too.  Is there frustration to feel like you're close, but...
DOMINIC THIEM: For sure, it was a big frustration after the match in Miami.  Today it's also a big frustration.
I mean, some of the breakpoints he played very well so I didn't have a chance, but then there were also some of them where I really had some easy shots, which I missed.
Of course, it's very frustrating.  But now it's over.  I cannot do anything about it.  I will try to convert more breakpoints in the next matches.
Q. The ninth game, you had six chances.  One of those was a lob.  Was that a key point for you?
DOMINIC THIEM: It was well played by him.  I didn't have any chance to smash the ball.  It was just too high.
As I said, I mean, the ninth game of course I had a lot of break chances, but there were not any stupid mistakes from me.  He saved them very well.
The problem was before at the 3-All game when I had Love-40.  The first three breakpoints basically I have to make.
Q. You've played a lot since the start of the season.  Do you feel fresh enough?  Do you think you're going to need to adjust your schedule?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, of course, I feel fresh.  I'm very happy that the tour is in Europe now.  No long flights, no jetlags for like four months.
Everything is a little bit easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT