ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/D. Thiem   
6-2, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  What do you think you can take from that semifinal?  What are your thoughts on it?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, he was just too strong today.  That's all I can say.   
But still it inspires me to even work harder.  I hope I get a new chance soon in the future.   
 Q.  In the third set those three games you raised your game to a different level.  What did you do differently then?  Why you fail to maintain that momentum?  
DOMINIC THIEM: In general I made too many easy mistakes.  In the start of the third set I think I reduced the number of the mistakes for a short time, and, yeah, that's why I took the lead probably.   
 Q.  What is your feeling right now?  Disappointment or satisfaction or maybe tired?  What is the biggest feeling now?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, right now I'm feeling empty, of course, but it's normal.  It's after every tournament like this, after, yeah, all the pressure goes away a little bit.   
Yeah, of course also a little bit disappointment.  Well, he was just too strong today, and that's pretty much everything.   
 Q.  You just mentioned pressure.  Did you feel a lot of pressure on yourself throughout the tournament?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course, but it's almost in every tournament and in every match like this.  As a tennis player I think you have it all year long every week, so it was not more because it was Roland Garros.  It was just like it is.   
 Q.  Turning to the grass, you said you're going to go to Stuttgart for next week.  Have you per chance had any contact with, say, Edwin Weindorfer about maybe training at the new grass courts in Santa Ponsa on Mallorca?  Has anybody mentioned that possibility to you?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, but I think I will go to Mallorca after Halle for a few days for exhibition, I think.   
And, yeah, there I will also practice.  I heard there are good courts there, so gonna be a good preparation for Wimbledon, I hope.   
 Q.  Toni Nadal says that's where Rafa is going to do some training.  I'm wondering if that's something you might consider.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I think I'm there for like three or four days, and for sure we will practice there.   
 Q.  Next week you will be 7th in the world.  What is your reaction?  What is your thoughts on that?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's very nice.  It's a big milestone, I think, for every tennis player to break into the top 10.   
But, yeah, right now I'm not really happy about it, but I hope that I can be when I see the new ranking on Monday.   
 Q.  Walking off the court, how far did you feel from Novak's level?  Is it big?  Is it smaller than you thought?  How did you feel about the gap?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I think he played really well today, but I also think that sometimes - or mostly throughout the match - I made it maybe a little bit too easy for him, too many mistakes.   
But, yeah, it's tough against him.  He doesn't give you any presents.  Return is unbelievable.  It was already the problem yesterday that I didn't get any free points with the serve.   
Yeah, then if you have to play basically every game without serve, without the advantage of serve, it's going to be unbelievably tough against him.   
 Q.  You have played a lot of matches the last three weeks, and of course you have gone through a lot of new things, like a lot of rain suspension and stuff.  So how do you summarize this experience in this couple of weeks?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it was a very good experience, obviously.  I'm happy about how -- because I didn't play really well in Madrid and Rome.  I really didn't have a good feeling.  Then I worked very hard in Nice and I got back my good feeling.  I started to play very well again.   
Of course semis is a very good result for me, but, yeah, right now I'm really still thinking about the match, still thinking about the loss, and after every loss I'm disappointed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT