ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/M. Granollers   
6-2, 6-7, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Your first time into a quarterfinal at a Grand Slam.  Congratulations.  Can you just talk about what you feel about that accomplishment?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's a real great thing.  Like two years ago I was here with Ernests and he played semifinals, and back then I couldn't really imagine that I'd go this far myself one day, and it's already here like two years later and it feels really good.   
 Q.  How do you sort of balance the satisfaction of feeling that good but then also the drive to want to continue on in the tournament?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, it already felt good to be in the last 16.  But it doesn't really matter during the tournament now.  I don't really think about it.  I just think about the next match, which is very difficult, and already tomorrow.  So everything what is in my mind is how I can do my best tomorrow.   
 Q.  We saw you practice with David Goffin, who is a good friend of yours, I think.  How do you look forward to this match?  It must be very special, both quarterfinals here at the French Open.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, very special.  Played already in Melbourne.  We practice a lot together, because, yeah, it's always really good and really tough practices with him.  And also very nice guy.  Also hang around a little bit outside the court.   
I think it's gonna be a very interesting and very nice match to watch.   
 Q.  How did you deal with this kind of tough schedule, I mean, the rain delay and that you have to wait for like another day.  How did you spend these past two or three days?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, that's very difficult, because all this walk on court, walk off court, warm up, cool down like five or six times a day really makes you a little bit -- yeah, the concentration goes down.  You get a little bit crazy in your mind.   
So it's really not easy.  But, yeah, today we are in nice conditions, and I was happy that we could play the full match today.   
 Q.  You said that David is going to be a tough match.  What makes him so difficult to play, to beat him?  
DOMINIC THIEM: He takes the balls really early.  Doesn't give any time.  He's really, really, really fast on his feet.  In general, he developed since two years amazing.   
Yeah.  Really tough matches, like I think it's 2-5 head to head, so that shows it all.   
 Q.  I'd like to know if you remember, you have seen Muster, Skoff, or Melzer, any of those inspire you a little bit?  Also, I don't know if it was asked before, these conditions, do you think they help your game, which is quite heavy, quite strong, or more than maybe some others or not?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I don't think so.  I think both conditions are fine for me, because if it's hot, if it's sunny, then my topspin goes away much more  so the shots are heavier.   
In these conditions, like today or like yesterday, I have more time to make the full swing.  I have no problems with both of them.   
 Q.  Asking about Muster, Skoff, and Melzer, if one of those inspired you when you were a kid?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, they didn't inspire me, but of course I watched the matches, especially from Melzer when he reached the semifinals six years ago.  Was really nice to watch it in television.  And Muster and Skoff, I'm too young for them.   
 Q.  Some of the players yesterday were saying the conditions were unplayable.  Did you feel like it was unfair for you guys to be out there on court?  At one point did you tell the officials that you had had enough of the conditions?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, the conditions on the court were okay.  I think they interrupted the match on time, so it was fine.  The tough and annoying thing is that we have to go out like three or four times even though they know that probably in less than one hour it's going to rain again.  That's the annoying thing.   
But the conditions when we played was -- I mean, it was okay.  On clay you can play.  If it rains it's not really a problem.  Of course if it's too much, then it's too slippery.   
Yeah, the bad thing is this all the time going on 100% concentration and then again off.  And all these up and down.  For me, that's the tough thing.   
 Q.  Of course clay is your favorite surface, so maybe Roland Garros might be one of your favorite Grand Slams.  If you have any memories of Roland Garros, like a good thought on this tournament, could you share that with us?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, obviously I watched it every year, of course, on TV.  But, yeah, the real special moment for me was when I played in the finals of the juniors here.  It was like for me the biggest success in my junior career and really nice experience to be like in the second week and still in the tournament, even if it's a junior.  But still, even as a junior it's really nice success if you go this far in the tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT