MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2014
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. THIEM/S. Wawrinka
  1‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   At the beginning of the game you seemed to be very nervous.   Was it right?   And can you tell me when the match changed? 
DOMINIC THIEM:   Thank you, first.   I didn't have many matches against these top guys, so wasn't really used to his pace.   He had an unbelievable start and I didn't really know what happened.
Of course I was a little bit nervous, but it wasn't the reason for the first set.   His pace was just too high for me.   I played a good game in the beginning of the second set to break him, and then I started to get used to more and more his pace and angles and his game.
I think it's probably one of the best what the men's tennis has at the moment.   Also, I played unbelievable the second and the third set. 

Q.   How do you feel now?   You played in such a great level with your backhand, which was very surprising in a way.   Did you feel very relieved on court after, or how do you explain this very easiness to make...
DOMINIC THIEM:   Honestly, no.   I cannot really believe it.   I was in this famous zone during the match.   I was really unbelievable concentrated. 
I think that's the way how you can play these very good matches, if you are 100% concentrated and 100% out on the court. 

Q.   Of course we realize that it is a surprise, but when we saw you playing in Barcelona last week, we realize that you are playing incredible, you are doing a very good match, but you lost one match that you normally never should lose.   The thing is, how do you feel with your tennis?
DOMINIC THIEM:   This year I played very good so far.   Played also very consistent.   I made seven out of eight quallies, and the qually matches, they help a lot.   I get used to the level of the top 100 guys, and I think I had this year already 35 matches.   That's the most important. 
I think that's it's more important, to play almost every day against these top guys to increase your own level. 

Q.   How is it important to be in a team with Gulbis?   Does it help you a lot or change something in your way of working?
DOMINIC THIEM:   He helps a lot.   He is still young, but he's very experienced also already, so he can help me a lot.   I'm making the way right now he also made, and I think it's‑‑ I'm very lucky to have one guy like him in the same team.
Of course I think for him it's also good to have a good practice partner.   Each of us, it's only good for each of us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT