AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/T. Fritz   
6-2, 6-4, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Although it's a different surface here than at the French Open, how can you translate your runs to the final there here in the next week?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I don't know yet. I mean, I'm still trying to do that. But I feel pretty positive now as I had a pretty tough second-round match. I think I really raised my level today. Against Taylor, also our two meetings in the US Open, this was very tough. Four sets as today. He beat me in our last match at the Laver Cup.   
I beat a very good opponent today, especially on a hard court. So that gives me a lot of confidence for the next round, and also proves me that I'm on the right way to raise my level from game to game.   
 Q.  Why do you think you've been able to have so much success against Taylor, particularly at the Grand Slams?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, I also have to say, honestly, that I got pretty lucky in the three meetings against him. I remember in US Open and also today, I think especially in the second set, saved six or seven out of seven breakpoints.   
Somehow in the meetings so far, I mean, the US Open and here, I pulled myself out of very close situations. In the Laver Cup, he turned the tables. He's serving great. You have to expect close matches against him. That was today again the case.   
Again, I pulled it out. For sure going to be different stories in some future matches.   
 Q.  How are you able to dig deep and pull it out in matches like this? Is it more physical or mental for you?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I think it's both probably. More mentally, because there were not so many tough rallies today. As I said, first set was great. I was cruising somehow.   
Second set was 6-4. As I said before, I got lucky a little bit. I saved so many breakpoints. Always hit a first serve there. The score didn't really was like the game in the second set.   
Then third set, he barely missed a first serve. Then, of course, it was mentally tough to regroup.   
I was very close to the finish line when I broke him for 4-2. Broke back immediately. That was not easy at all. Then probably best game of the match I played in the last one when I broke him to 6-4.   
 Q.  What do you think he needs to add or change or adjust his game to get over that next hump?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I think he has definitely the game for it, 100%. He also improved a lot during last year, won his first title. Has now a good ranking, so he's seeded in the slams.   
He's a great all-court player with very solid groundstrokes, unbelievable first serve. Yeah, the only thing which he can improve, probably the second serve. But everything else, he will for sure be soon in the second week of a slam.   
 Q.  Monfils next. How do you see that matchup?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's always fun to play against him. Such a great athlete. Such a great sportsman. We had fun and great encounters in the past. I expect similar.   
Sure going to be a nice atmosphere, as well. He's such a good shot-maker, always amazing rallies against him. I mean, he got back into top 10 last year, playing great as well in the beginning of this year.   
I'm expecting a tough encounter. But, I mean, second week of a slam is special. Every opponent is playing outstanding tennis. It's going to be a really good and tough match.   
 Q.  How do the conditions here suit your game?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I feel great with the conditions. I feel good. But they're changing so much because the weather is so inconsistent here. I mean, it plays completely different when it's 35 degrees than what it's 20 degrees, and it can change within hours.   
Maybe this is one of the tournaments where we have to adapt the most. But court speed and balls are completely fine for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT