AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/A. Mannarino   
6-3, 7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In the end of last season you had some great wins over Djokovic and Federer. Do those wins on the hard court help you feel like a contender here this year?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, they gave me a lot of confidence, especially back then. But they are also a while ago. I mean, almost two months now.   
So I have the feeling that almost everybody starts from zero again, especially here in Australia as it's the first slam.   
But of course I have still some nice thoughts, some nice thoughts about how well I was playing on a quick hard court back then. It helps me to come into the tournament with more confidence.   
 Q.  The last two slams you were in, you were out in the first round. How does it feel to, you know, be through now to the second round?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, it's always nice to get a win. Each win is nice, because every single player in the main draw is amazing, is a player with a very high level. So every victory on this stage is worth a lot.   
So I'm very happy that I'm through to the second round. And as we could see in the last two slams, every victory is hard work. Yeah, so I'm happy that I got this one, and I hope that I can keep up the good level.   
 Q.  How do you feel going forward in this tournament? Do you feel that your game is there, that you can go past the fourth round?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, the practice week was really good. I was playing great in the practice week, but it's something very different coming into the first match with all the pressure, with all the tension in it.   
So I think that today was a very good match and good step in the right direction.   
I hope, of course, that I can keep it up and also hope that I can improve still many things and get better from match to match.   
 Q.  Have you thought about changing any part of your routine or anything to prepare for the hard courts?  
DOMINIC THIEM: For the hard courts?   
 Q.  I mean, for the Australian Open.  
DOMINIC THIEM: No. I mean, of course it was a little bit different, because Thomas Muster joined the team. In that case was a little bit different than the last slams, but we practiced a little bit different, but still was good. Was a good intensity. I prepared very well for the tournament.   
Obviously I was trying to somehow get into the tournament like in Paris the last two years, because there I had my best results.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT