NITTO ATP FINALS
November 19, 2020
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RUBLEV/D. Thiem
6-2, 7-5
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Can you just give us an idea of what your mindset is and how you feel when you play a match like that?  I mean, we assume when we watch that given you're already in the semifinals it's just difficult to have the same intensity to want to win as much.  What's going through your mind?  How do you feel in a situation like that?
DOMINIC THIEM:   Yeah, I mean, it's exactly what you said.  It was difficult to keep that amazing intensity like I had in the first two matches.
Obviously I wanted to win the match 100%, but still, I mean, the first matches were pretty tough or pretty long.  I had a great, great intensity in almost every single rally there.
So of course with the fact that I was already qualified in the back of my mind, it was maybe difficult today to keep that intensity alive.
Whenever I'm not on 110% here at this tournament, I mean, there is no chance against any player.  That was today.  I mean, he had a great start to the match, and then I was all the time running behind in the score.
Well, that's why he deserved to win.
Q. I know that you don't know yet who you're going to play, and obviously everybody here is completely top class, but would you feel a little bit unfortunate to win your group and end up playing Novak in the semifinals?
DOMINIC THIEM:   Not at all.  I mean, as I said, everybody of the players here, they are great.  Doesn't matter who I face.  I have to find that way of playing, like in the first two group matches again.
Anyway, I have no influence.  The winner of Sascha against Novak I'm gonna play against the winner of this match, and both of them are great.  Both are former champions of this tournament.  So doesn't matter.
For me just the goal is to find the great intensity tomorrow in practice, and then try to be 100% in the match on Saturday, whoever I face.
Q. Do you feel you will be favorite in the semis?
DOMINIC THIEM:   No.  I mean, not at all, actually.  I think almost all matches here at the Finals are pretty open.  The guy who has the better day, the guy who is playing better at this certain time is gonna end up winning, and it's the same for me in both semifinals.  There are no heavy favorites this year, I guess.
Q. I'd like to know what is your opinion about what's happening between Djokovic, the ATP, the PTPA.  I don't remember if you were in favor of the PTPA or not.  And what about Djokovic asking to -- well, asking to be, to participate, to accept the nomination?
DOMINIC THIEM:   Well, you know, honestly I like what ATP is doing.  I think in general they are doing a great job with everything they are doing.
So, well, me personally -- for me, there is no reason to join any other player organization or something.  But, well, everybody can have their own opinion.  I think that's no problem.  But for me personally, ATP is doing a great job, and that's why I'm super happy with them.
Q. Obviously I know your focus is still very much on London, but looking ahead to Australian Open, how complicated is that situation potentially not playing any warmup tournaments before a major?
DOMINIC THIEM:   It's gonna be -- if that case is happening, that the Australian Open is the first tournament, then it's going to be similar like the US Open.
There was Cincinnati, but, well, for me personally, it was not a great warmup tournament as I lost the first round easy there.
In general, I hope that the Australian Open are happening, and if it's happening without any tournament before, well, we have to live with that and try to go there early, prepare as well as possible for the major.
But I think right now everybody is hoping that Australian Open are happening and that we can travel to Australia.
Q. In a match like this where you have already advanced, just curious what is your motivation when playing a match like this?
DOMINIC THIEM:   There was still a huge motivation.  I mean, 200 points are a big, big motivation.  I mean, it's a lot.
But I also have to say it's really difficult, this tournament, because they are the eight best players in the world, so I have to be probably more than 100% to be able to win those matches.  Especially after those two tough encounters against Stefanos and against Rafa, I was maybe not able to put up that 110%.  Then it's impossible to win against any of the other players.
But the motivation was there.  I mean, I was trying everything to win that match.  But still, I mean, I'm honest, the loss is not painful at all.  The focus is on Saturday.  I'm honest, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT