CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/K. Khachanov   
2-6, 7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you say your performance changed from set one to set two?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Honestly, he played very well in the first set. I think it was closer than the score says. First two games of him, I always had breakpoints. Of course, I was disappointed to lose that set.   
But still I had the feeling I'm not playing that bad. I just got little bit more aggressive in set two and set three. That was the right step.   
 Q.  Nicolas Massu after the game was happy to see you fighting like that. For you, too, I guess?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yes, I'm really proud that I was fighting like crazy throughout the whole match because, as I said, Karen was playing exceptional well today. Probably quality-wise it was the best of our three matches we had so far.   
I have the feeling that until maybe one and a half sets or until 6-2, 5-3 for him, he was the little bit better player. I only came back into the match because I was fighting, because I was always believing that I can still turn it around. That feels great now.   
Of course, it's always close if two top-10 players play against each other. Today I was the little bit luckier one, yeah.   
 Q.  It's not only a good victory because you are in the final, but also because you got your ticket for the ATP Finals. I guess you are proud of that?  
DOMINIC THIEM: For me personally it was one big goal when I started into the season. I'm very, very happy that I made it again. But it's not because of today's win, it's because of all the season.   
It's a big honor for me to be again a part of that big event in London. It also shows that I played another very good and consistent season.   
Of course, I'm looking forward a lot to it. But now I'm fully focused on this tournament, then three more very important tournaments. That's still far away.   
Of course, it's a lot of pressure also gone.   
 Q.  Since you played against Khachanov in the past, any new techniques you used tonight?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Maybe I was going to the net little bit more. But it was also because of the surface and because I had also to change something. Like I said before, I got a little bit more aggressive in the second set after I lost the first one.   
Also the two matches in Bercy last year and this year in Roland Garros, they were very one-sided. In Bercy he was much better. In Roland Garros, I was much better. This time we were like eye-to-eye, I would say. Maybe he was a little bit better the first two sets until I came back.   
Basically I tried to play similar than in Roland Garros, maybe to come to the net a little bit more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT