ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/M. Cilic
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. After that very solid match, do you feel your Indian Wells level is returning pretty quickly on hard court?
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm so happy with the two wins.  But all the conditions are so different compared to Indian Wells that I think I'm not able to say if I'm on the level or not.
I beat two amazing players.  I've really had a great transition from a good confidence in the European summer.  That's also my first quarterfinals here.  The match today was unreal because I saved nine out of nine breakpoints, which doesn't happen that often.
Also at the end it got really tricky again.  I served great basically all the second set, then the last games I got big troubles.  So the match had everything.  I'm really satisfied.
Q. Looking ahead, you have another one tomorrow, not going to be easy.  Analyze Medvedev.
DOMINIC THIEM: He's having a great season.  First time top 10.  I think one of the guys with the most wins, playing every week unbelievable, solid tennis.  It's going to be very, very tough match.
I played him in Barcelona finals, which was of course in my favor because it's clay.  I think it's not his favorite surface.  Then we had a great, close match in St. Petersburg, which was a very high level.
I'll try to see this one again, look what I did great there, try to play similar like that tomorrow.
Q. You just had three days before to be ready for this tournament.  How did you adapt your training during these three days?
DOMINIC THIEM: I had, like, four sessions which were pretty good.  The most important thing for the successful transition and for the successful start in this tournament was my confidence.
Well, the last three, four years I didn't play worse than this year, but I just came with low confidence and I came little bit sad to Canada because I didn't play good in my own home tournament where I usually, of course, have a lot of pressure.
This year everything is different.  I won this title at home.  I made one of my biggest dreams come true.  Of course, I'm so confidence coming here.  That's the difference.  That's also make the transition pretty easy.
Q. Do you feel the crowd was behind you today comparatively to yesterday?
DOMINIC THIEM: Yes, compared to yesterday, of course they were more on my side.  I think the crowd was very fair.  For a 12:00 match, it was packed, which is always nice for us players, super nice to play in an almost full stadium.
It was a nice atmosphere.  I think they appreciated both of us when both of us we played good points.
Q. About the schedule.  Yesterday you played a little late, today morning.  You were okay with that, no problem?
DOMINIC THIEM: No, it was good for me because I'm still not 100% used to the time zone.  I'm awake anyway early.  So 12:00 is a perfect time.
Q. I've been told you're learning French with Kiki.  'Do you know certain words in French' (asked in French)?
DOMINIC THIEM: It's getting better I think every day.  I'm answering in English (smiling).
Weeks like this help me, of course, in France or French-speaking parts of the world.  I can hear all the commentaries in French, I can read some newspapers in French.  That helps me a lot.
Of course, I try to learn a little bit every day if I'm not too lazy.
Q. You were 0-5 at the Rogers Cup before yesterday.  How much did that first win help for today or maybe for the rest of the week?
DOMINIC THIEM: I didn't think about that too much.  I knew at one point in my career I probably would get that first win.  But in general, every victory in a Masters 1000 event helps gaining the confidence because it's always against a great player because these tournaments are so strong.  Every victory helps to get a lot of confidence.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT