CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  My question is, how did you feel after the match today? In Wuhan you had an exhibition match with Fognini. After the doubles, as well as exhibition match, how do you feel?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Very good. I mean, I was flying here to Beijing, had some good practices, then going to Wuhan. Good and fun exhibition with Fabio. Again yesterday a good practice. Today doubles start.   
It's always nice to start the tournament with a win in doubles. Had a good feeling on the court. I'm really happy that the singles tournament starts tomorrow.   
 Q.  What is your goal in the China Open this year, as well as the Asian swing?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I have the feeling that I'm playing very well in practice. I mean, I had some tough losses the last two, three years in the Asian swing. I want to improve my stats here, win as many matches as possible. That's what I try to do.   
This tournament here, also next week Shanghai, two of the strongest tournaments in all the year of men's tennis. Every match is a big challenge. I hope to start successful tomorrow.   
 Q.  You were in the final in the French Open. You were struggling with injury in the US Open. Any comments on your performance in the four Grand Slams this year?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I mean, of course it's always very, very special and great to play French Open final. But the other three Grand Slams were really bad this year. Second round, first round, first round. In my position as a top-five player, I have to do much better.   
That's my goal for next year. I really love the French Open, it's great to do well there. For sure next year I want to do way better in the other three slams than I did this year because it's not satisfying what I played there, the results there.   
But, yeah, now is this tournament and the Asian swing. One positive thing of being ill at the US Open, had a long time off after that, is that I'm fresh now, that I'm really ready for the five remaining tournaments.   
 Q.  You've been four cities in China: Beijing, Wuhan, Chengdu and Shanghai. Out of the four cities, what is your favorite and why?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I didn't see a lot unfortunately from Chengdu. I only saw the tennis club and the hotel. I was not a long time there. I mean, I wish I could visit the pandas. Maybe next time.   
Wuhan and Beijing I really like. I was three years ago at the great Chinese wall here. It was a great experience. Wuhan is so big for a European like me. It's amazing to see how big a city can be.   
Shanghai is maybe a little bit more similar to our cities than the other three. But it's great experience every time to come to China.   
 Q.  I noticed your coach also went to Wuhan and came here to Beijing with you. He just joined you this year. Since February he joined the team. What kind of impact did he bring to you? Any plans to work with him next year, all year around, or focusing on major events?  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I will work with him all year next year, that's for sure. I have the feeling that the relationship is going very well. My tennis since I started to work with him is going in the right direction. I think I improved many things. I had a very successful year so far: three titles with him, Grand Slam final. I really have the feeling that I'm on the right way.   
I think I want to continue like this, be even more successful with him.   
 Q.  We're very lucky to see your dad, your mom and your brother this year. Will they be coming back next year?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, my dad is here, yeah. My brother and my mother, they are not here. Yeah, maybe in the next years they will come with me one time.   
 Q.  You won the best outfit last night. What is your view on Chinese apparel? Did you have experience with Chinese culture?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I like my outfit a lot yesterday. Was very nice. Also interesting because I think on my coat there was a pretty famous Chinese painting. It was very interesting.   
I like Chinese culture. I like spicy food. There are some things which are great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT