MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/D. Thiem
7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You had a lot of chances in the second set and in the first, to be fair.  Where do you think the match went wrong for you today?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I think that to beat these players, Novak, or Rafa, you need to have to have this little luck, this momentum going for you, and that was not the case today.  Some breakpoints for me were a little bit unlucky and some of them I missed, which I usually don't do.
And second set also, he plays an unbelievable game.  I break him in a 15-minute game and he breaks me back with an unbelievable game.  That was also not the best for my momentum.  In general, it was a good match and I cannot beat these guys every single time, so it's fine.
Q. You have faced Federer, Djokovic and Nadal on clay.  It hasn't been in the same tournament, but still who is tougher to beat on clay for you?
DOMINIC THIEM: I think it's easy to say that Rafa will always be the toughest to beat on clay, but Barcelona and Madrid is so different.  It is very, very fast here, but he's the king of clay, so that's the only answer (smiling).
Q. Novak played one of his best matches since the Australian Open today.  What do you think of his level today?
DOMINIC THIEM: His level is always pretty high.  I think, of course, today he played very good.  I think if he would have played like this the previous tournaments, he wouldn't have these kind of bad results for him.
But I think the closer it comes to the Grand Slams, the better he'll play and we are pretty close to the French Open, so he's coming to his 100 percent again.
Q. Novak had three time violations today.  What do you think about the 25 second time policy and would you like any adjustments to be made to it?
DOMINIC THIEM: I really liked the shot clock.  It was a good addition to the game, I think.
And it's also okay to take away the first serve from the player if he exceeds the time.  I think that's completely fine.  It was twice today.  One time, he hit me with an ace with the second serve, unbelievable, so that was also not going all my own way.
But, in general, I think this whole rule and also the shot clock is a good thing.
Q. Pretty hot out there?  And another question.  With Masu, Nicolas Masu, great champion, it is a good relation.  But Gunter is still there, how is that?
DOMINIC THIEM: Pretty hot today, yeah, I agree (laughing).  Nicolas is my coach now and Gunter not anymore.
Q. Not friends?
DOMINIC THIEM: Not friends, but we're okay.  We were never friends (laughing).
Q. Despite today's loss, and later you have your doubles match.  Your feelings overall for this week and your results in Madrid?
DOMINIC THIEM: I never complain about 1000 semifinal.  It's a very good result.  I beat three very good players and I lost 6 and 6 to Djokovic.  So, of course, I know that I won't beat these players every day.  But it was a very good tournament and now I will enjoy doubles, whatever the outcome is, and then full focus on Rome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT