ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/G. Monfils   
6-4, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  That was a very convincing performance.  You must be very happy with how you played.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, it was a really good match.  My best match so far in this tournament.  And I have to be honest, he helped me a little bit, because he had a really bad start into the match.  Of course the life on court is way easier if you're up 5-2 double break after only 20 minutes I think it was.  That really helped me.   
After that I stayed solid.  It was the first match for me at this tournament where it didn't have any up-and-downs.  It was really solid.  I'm very happy.   
 Q.  You have been to the late stages of this tournament quite a few times now.  Do you feel used to it now?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Not at all.  I mean, first of all, it's always still a pretty special thing to come to the second week, and of course even more special to win the quarterfinals.   
It's the best stage of the Grand Slam, it's an amazing thing, and I think it never gets old or I'm never getting used to it.   
And, yeah, it's a really good thing.   
 Q.  The three guys ranked ahead of you have played short matches this tournament.  How conscious are you of trying to conserve energy and be as efficient as possible as you hope to get deeper and deeper?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Of course it's very important, because, I mean, we all hope that we're here for two weeks.   
And two weeks in a Grand Slam, it can be very long.  So it's important to save energy in the first rounds, but sometimes it's not possible, because all of every single player of the 128 here is an amazing tennis player, so sometimes it's just not possible to get it done in three or something.   
So sometimes you have to dig it out in a longer time.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you about what happened in here the other day.  First of all, have you had an apology?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I had an apology.  I mean, I don't know who's fault it was exactly.  It was just a very, very strange thing.  I mean, it never happened to me before, something like that.   
I mean, I'm easygoing.  Of course it was strange the first few minutes, but I have forgotten it now.  That's it for me.   
 Q.  But when you spoke to German TV yesterday, you were quite critical of Serena.  Do you feel like she didn't behave how maybe she should have done?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I don't know if it was her mistake or if it was only the mistake of the officials, but I don't know if she saw me or if she saw that somebody's in the room.  So if she would have seen me, then it would be nicer from her to wait.   
But, I mean, it's also understandable, in a sort of way.  She lost and everything.  So I think it was a little bit mistake of her, mistake of the officials, but as I said, it's forgotten.  It was a funny thing, strange thing, which made a big round in all the social networks, but, well, now I don't put any attention on it anymore.   
 Q.  Did you get fined because of what happened?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I got fined?   
 Q.  I'm asking.  
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm the only one who didn't do any mistakes there, so why I should get fined?   
 Q.  You didn't do any TV interviews after you left room 2.  
DOMINIC THIEM: No, I was only one who was not doing mistakes.  No, I didn't get fined.   
 Q.  Tell me about the tweener.  That was a special moment in the match.  
DOMINIC THIEM: It was an amazing shot.  It was really amazing, of course, because it was the only choice I had.  I was so far off the ball and couldn't play it any different way.  And if that ball goes in it's always a big highlight.  And I'm happy I have my first tweener of the year, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT