INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. VERDASCO/D. Thiem   
4-6, 6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Do you have any explanation of what happened today?  Were the conditions so special, had an impact on the quality of your match?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, one thing is I lost today.  The second thing which comes along with that is I really dislike how we players get treated at this tournament because yesterday was, in my opinion, not acceptable.   
Every single guy knew that it's going to rain the whole day, and they hold us here until 7:00, 7:30.  They also know since, I don't know how long, that there's going to be the football match yesterday night.  The ride back from here to the hotel took like one and a half hours.   
I mean, I was having dinner.  I couldn't even have treatment, otherwise I wouldn't get enough sleep.  Then they schedule me at 10:00 today.  I don't think that's acceptable.   
Then there are also few other things.  I mean, I'm coming Sunday midnight from Madrid.  I have to do Monday so many things for the tournament.  Ahead of that, I don't even get more than one hour of practice court alone.   
There are many things which are not acceptable.  Of course, it's one of the reasons why I lost today.  I'm quite pissed about it.  I don't really think about the match itself now.   
 Q.  Could you tell us what, in your opinion, should have been done.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I mean, if everybody knows that it's going to rain all day, then let the players leave at 2:00 or 3:00 when there's no traffic, when there are no guys beating each other up on the street.  We can go home, have treatment, can prepare for today.   
It's no problem if it's raining.  It's also no problem if we have two or three matches a day.  It happens from time to time.  But then the tournament should also help us a little bit.   
I'm not talking only for me.  I'm talking for everybody.  They took Shapovalov-Djokovic here.  They had one and a half hours from the hotel to here.  They knew that not one ball of tennis going to be played yesterday.   
The other thing is that I'm arriving late on Sunday.  I have to do so many things here on Monday.  At least I should get one and a half hours alone on practice court if I do so many stuff for the tournament.   
Like this, I mean, I was tired, exhausted today because of all these shitty things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT