NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2018
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/D. Thiem   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How difficult was it out there tonight for you?  Did you not feel your game was coming together quite well?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I didn't felt good out there.  I mean, I was playing very, very bad.  Many unusual mistakes, I would say.  Also, I mean, they were only at the beginning crucial moments, because afterwards it was too easy also the score.  In the beginning at some crucial moments, I made mistakes where I don't really know where they are coming from.   
At the end was way too much, too many unforced errors.  The score was logical after that.   
 Q.  You said you made many unusual mistakes.  Like Nishikori, he did two days ago.  He said the reason might be the combination of the ball and the surface.  Do you feel the same way?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, sometimes I also felt strange to play.  But it's not easy to play here.  It's a little bit strange, that's for sure.  Even like that, it's not really acceptable that many errors like I did in this match today.   
 Q.  You go into the final round-robin match 0-2.  How do you prepare yourself for that match knowing you could play well and win but have to hope other results go your way if you are to qualify?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, first of all, I have to get my tennis back.  I'll try that tomorrow.  If I don't get it back, I don't need to watch for the other results because then I will also lose my third match.  I have to get my good tennis back.   
I really want to play a good match.  Doesn't matter if it's the last one here or not.   
 Q.  Your career went up a notch, becoming for the first time a Grand Slam finalist.  How do you assess your improvement this year?  Looking forward to the off-season, what do you have to work on to make it to another stage?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, overall there was a big improvement this season, I guess.  Even though I had some injuries and illnesses at the wrong time, I would say, at some important tournaments, so I missed out some events where I could make some good points, I would say, where I could even develop my game better.   
At the end for next year, my goal is to get more consistent and to delete matches like today or like other matches like today.  Today was not the first bad this year, but to delete these from my tennis.  Then I think it's a big step forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT