ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2018
Dominic Thiem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/A. Zverev
6-4, 6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Obviously, Sascha was injured today, and the points seemed to go quite quick.  Was that a sign of mercy from you?
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, it's never easy if your opponent obviously is not 100%.  But he's one of the fittest guys on tour, and even for him it's maybe even a little bit too tough to play three five-setters in the first rounds of a slam.
So I expected somehow that he's a little bit tired, but still I'm happy how I finished the game.  I let him run.  I was doing what I had to do, and so I'm satisfied.
Q. You hit a lot of -- a huge percentage of your serves wide on both sides.  Was part of that thought process to make him go outside the court and then chase a lot of balls and put more mileage on his legs perhaps?
DOMINIC THIEM: For sure.  I mean, it's not working that good when he's fit, but at this situation it was perfect.
I was hitting wide.  He was not hitting returns like normal, and I immediately had the control of the point, and that's why I was serving that many serves wide.
Q. Third straight time you have won a quarterfinal here and gone to the semis.  What do you think you're doing better this year than you were even doing last year?
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm a better player in general, for sure.  There was another year of work where I improved and developed my game.
Then, I think this year I'm physically and mentally fresher than I have been the last two years.  I know how to handle a Grand Slam now, how to handle -- to get that deep in such a tournament, and I think everything gets better with experience.
Q. Anything concrete in your game other than the macro stuff?
DOMINIC THIEM: Not really concrete.  I always knew how to play on clay, but I think that now I'm just making less stupid mistakes.  Maybe I'm even a little bit more aggressive and that's a good combination.
Q. How difficult was it to remain focused?  It can be difficult when your opponent is struggling, but it was a pretty ruthless display in the end.
DOMINIC THIEM: It's not difficult.  I mean, we were playing a quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament.  So the only thing I wanted to do was to win.
At the end, it doesn't matter how your opponent feels or who is standing there.  I just wanted to finish the match in a positive way for me.
So it was not tough at all to stay 100% focused.
Q. At the moment, Novak is two sets down against Cecchinato.  Whoever comes through, whether Novak or Marco, what are your thoughts on those two players?  You played Novak here in 2016.
DOMINIC THIEM: Novak, I mean, he's a legend and one of the greatest players of all time.  So it's always a big challenge against him.
For me, he's definitely on his way up again.  He's soon going to be probably again at the top of the game.
On the other hand, Cecchinato is full of confidence, probably the most confident player out there right now.  He never won a match at a slam, and now maybe he's soon in the semifinals.  So everything is going easy for him.  He can play completely free.  He was beating two great opponents with Carreno and Goffin.  Maybe now even a third.
So both of these matches are going to be tough.  And, anyway, semifinals of a Grand Slam is always.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT