CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2019
Wang Yafan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/Wang Yafan
7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you start by describing your game and taking us through the first two sets.
WANG YAFAN: At first I start match, I start plays good first game. Yeah, 2-0 up. After I didn't feel good serve. I have a lot double-fault. So play very tough, very tough.
After maybe I didn't have very good serve for first, just the second and kick like this. I didn't have many point with the serve. After I feel maybe better.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Back in Miami you won. The match today was very close. Anything you have improved? Anything you need to change for the future?
WANG YAFAN: The last time we met, when I was ahead, I kept putting pressure on her. It was quite a stable performance from me in terms of my serve.
Today, overall, it was fine. Close score. Somehow on the key points I wasn't able to deal with them as well as she did.
Q. On tour this year, you've had several breakthroughs, your first title on the tour. Your ranking has improved compared to the beginning of this year. Looking at next year, what is your goal and expectation?
WANG YAFAN: First of all, of course I want to improve my ranking. My next small goal is to be a seeded player in the Grand Slams so that I can avoid the top-seeded players in the first round.
Q. After the match you didn't leave the court to talk to your coach. What did your coach say to you?
WANG YAFAN: First of all he thought that I played a good match because she was a top-seeded player. It was a very close match. Those were encouraging words from my coach. It was support that I could play those top players in the China Open.
For example, during the on-court coaching he taught me to serve better. He told me that I wasn't serving very well within only 10 minutes. After the 10 minutes, I adjusted pretty well. However, I lost a bit of confidence after that 10 minutes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT