CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2019
Wang Yafan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WANG YAFAN/Wang Xinyu
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were able to hold your serve all match. What made your serve so effective today?
WANG YAFAN: I feel today first three games I didn't play very well. Little bit tight. I think I serve good today, win many point just the first serve.
I think after I start play. Like, I feel I relax little bit. I feel I can play very clean.
Q. Other than your serve, what did you feel gave you the advantage during the match today?
WANG YAFAN: I feel it's good.
Q. What do you need to do to keep advancing farther in the tournament? What are you focusing on to keep winning going forward in the tournament?
WANG YAFAN: I think just play like every point, just the focus. I didn't think too much.
Q. How does it feel to play against another Chinese player in a Chinese tournament? Is that cool for you?
WANG YAFAN: I think it's tough. In China, Chinese tournament, play against Chinese players is more people watching. I think it's tough match.
Q. Do you feel extra pressure playing in China?
WANG YAFAN: Yeah, little bit.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. In your match today, you had to exert a lot of effort. There were many rallies. Aside from serving, do you feel you played well in the rallies?
WANG YAFAN: Well, I played very clean today. This was very critical. I was really good at winning key points, critical points. I didn't let her convert breakpoints or set points.
Q. On your first title this season. What does it mean to you?
WANG YAFAN: It boosted my confidence definitely, I was able to win such a title. It was very meaningful. I never thought I would win a WTA title on this tour. Now I think there are many opportunities, more opportunities to come to win more titles.
When I compete against top players, I will be more confident in those matches, or even win those matches.
Q. In terms of rankings, what are your expectations?
WANG YAFAN: Of course I hope I can advance further. Most importantly in the big tournaments, in the Grand Slams, I can make it into the top 32 and be a seeded player. In the main draw, I would not be playing against the top players in the first round of the main draw.
Q. This is your second time in the second round of the China Open. You played against top players in the past. This time you faced a Chinese player with a lower ranking. Do you feel in the past two years you've improved a lot to be at this stage?
WANG YAFAN: Of course, I saw improvement in the past two years. I'm more mature in terms of match points. I was able to make strategies in terms of holding my advantage.
What was your first question?
Q. Was it because you played against a Chinese player who you're familiar with, or you've made solid improvements?
WANG YAFAN: Well, she is also familiar with me, my style of play, because we practice together. For Chinese players, when we meet together in a big tournament, both of us face pressure.
Is the mental game is as important as how you play on the court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT