CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2018
Wang Yafan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/Wang Yafan   
7-6, 6-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  After the end of the second set, you talked with your coach for a long time.  What did you talk about?  Could you share with us?  Because you talked for a long time, I was wondering what you talked about.  
WANG YAFAN: Well, we talked about what I should do, tactics, or the problems with the opponent, how I should adjust my plans and strategies.   
 Q.  In the third set, your serve was broken, and then you broke the opponent's serve again, then your serve was broken again.  How was your mentality back then?  
WANG YAFAN: Well, it was okay.  But physical condition, I had cramps which interfered with my serves, my movement.  I couldn't do it very well like I did in the first two sets.   
 Q.  What about receiving serve?  When she served with topspin, it actually affected how you returned the serve.  
WANG YAFAN: Well, the serve was really a pain point for me.  I couldn't really hit them either at the baseline or I couldn't return the balls very well.  That was the biggest thing I should work on after this match.   
 Q.  After two very long matches, how is your game?  Even though you lost the match, but fighting against a top player, how would you evaluate your performance?  
WANG YAFAN: Well, my performance, I did okay.  In the first set, I was a little bit tense.  I shouldn't have lost that many points.  I should have relaxed more in the first set.  I was waiting at the baseline for too long.  I didn't do many attacks.  That is something I should work on, that I wasn't very satisfied with.  But the last two sets, I think I was okay.   
 Q.  This is the biggest tournament in this season.  You had a breakthrough in Miami this year.  You actually played very well after Miami.  Your ranking is in the top 100.  How would you evaluate your performance in those big tournaments this year?  
WANG YAFAN: Well, big tournaments, I had to fight against top players.  I had opportunities, but I couldn't win the matches.  I would give myself 60, 70, but I hope I can do better in those key points.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT