CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2017
Wang Yafan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/Wang Y.   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  How do you judge your backhand performance today because today your opponent made a lot of shots to your backhand?  What went wrong during the game?  
WANG YAFAN: First about the backhand, I think I prepared for a faster game, so I was waiting for that.  But she slowed down a little bit so I couldn't adjust accordingly.  So many of the relatively easier shots I couldn't do because I lacked rhythm.   
The last two games, I think I wanted to play more aggressively, but I couldn't finish with other shots.  I wanted to play the game in a wider scope.  I think I didn't manage the shots really well for the opportunities I had.   
 Q.  This is your last match of the China Open, but many Chinese players could use this tournament as an opportunity to interact with other players.  Do you have plans like that during the China Open?  
WANG YAFAN: Yes, I interacted with players from other countries.  Also I trained together with the Chinese players.  We had great interactions.   
After I finished the match today, I'm not sure what I'm going to do for the next few days.  I'm not sure if I'm going to train together with the others for the next few days.   
 Q.  Previously after the Chinese tournaments, after you finish the group matches, you will focus on the WTA tournaments, but how did you recover from injuries?  
WANG YAFAN: Well, after I recovered from the injury, that's about five to six months.  I've been taking part in tournaments.  I think I should also focus more on systematic training.  I felt my stamina was not as good as before.   
Right after returning from time off to play against the top players, it's very difficult.  For each and every match, I need to play my best.  I need to really struggle to overcome my opponents in order to win the match.   
Of course, I always hope to win in the end.  But even though I was defeated, I feel I am progressing compared from the time I was recovering, so I am also quite satisfied.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT