NATIONAL HOT ROD ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 23, 2006
Ron Capps
John Force
Tommy Johnson, Jr.
Gary Scelzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT




















 RON CAPPS:  Yes, sir. 

 RON CAPPS:  It feels good.  Last year I was crushed I wasn't in it.  You win it not only once but you win it like we did three times and you look so forward to this event, and to stand around and walk up and watch it when you are not in it, it was a pretty empty feeling.  I talked with Ace and we said we would work real hard to make the field this year. 

 RON CAPPS:  It was a snakeskin car.  I have been with U.S. Smokeless Tobacco nine or ten years.  We had a special car put up in the snakeskin.  We caught it on fire first round and they sent me to the infield care center, the burn center and the late Steve Evans snuck me out in the golf cart and we got back to the pit area.  And there was about 30 fans helping put the car back together because I think Del Worsham at the time was in the force.  And I was in the burn center watching the TV.  I said, we may have a shot at this.  Steve Evans snuck me back and we went on to win the thing with our backup body.  It was an emotional day. 

 RON CAPPS:  We haven't qualified as high as we wanted to.  Last year we sat down and looked and the showdown points that Skoal put up is to get into the field, but you also have to look at it for points, at season-ending PowerAde Championship points.  So we lost a lot of points with our standings in qualifying and we really want to work on that, not only to get into the Skoal Showdown but to make sure we gain as many points as we can and everything that goes with that.  
 I have said it especially the last ten races, almost every interview, we are fighting for a championship right now but our second goal right behind that was to get into the Skoal Showdown.  We got in.  It is a tough field.  Dale is not in, like you said.  There are tough cars that didn't make it.  A few races ago I was pretty nervous.  The last race we knew who you were and then you look at who you are going to run the first round.  We are nervous on a race day where after Saturday qualifying you know who you are going to run.  Now we know who we are going to run for a week so it has made it pretty difficult. 

 RON CAPPS:  Okay. 

 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  Good, good.  Proud to be in it.  That's probably one of our team's most important goals throughout the season is to make sure we make the Skoal Showdown and to get the car and not only for the championship for the whole season, but that's probably one of the bigger things on our minds throughout the season.  

 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  I guess you get a little nervous, but not really.  This is the eight best guys out here as far as the eight best cars and the best guys you race against every week.  It is not really more nervous, but it is definitely the toughest eight cars out here.  It is not going to be an easy trip.  

 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  Yeah, you know, last year, this being the thing everybody kept asking me if there was added pressure, I kept thinking yeah, there is a little bit of added pressure.  When it came down to it, the support they give us is win, lose or draw.  I was actually most comfortable going into that first round last year and probably drove better than I've ever driven and still got beat.  I think there is probably just more added pressure we put on ourselves, not from the sponsors, not from Skoal or anybody involved.  
 Skoal Racing Monte Carlo, you want to make sure that's in the deal and I think that's where the pressure comes from.  And when you finally get in it, race day is kind of a relief.  I feel more relaxed I think than I do all season. 

 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  Absolutely.  I couldn't think of a better time to peak in the season than coming into Indy for the Skoal Showdown and the U.S. Nationals.  Definitely the car running right now the way it is it gives me a lot of confidence and definitely gives you a hope that you have got the car to beat going into that.  We qualified, I think -- I think this is the highest I have ever been in the Skoal Showdown coming into it and we missed getting lane choice by just ten points there last weekend.  
 I don't think that's important.  We are trying to have a little bit of advantage, but I don't think it will hurt us at all.  It will be a great race between Gary Scelzi and myself. 


 JOHN FORCE:  We are running.  

 JOHN FORCE:  It is really good because if you can win it, it is just kind of -- you have worked all year for this and part of last year qualifying.  So it is kind of a way to flex your muscles if you can and back it up back-to-back, that's really cool, and make NHRA give you the extra bonus.  We all like this. 

 JOHN FORCE:  Well, stuff happens.  

 JOHN FORCE:  Nope, yeah.  It is just the way it goes.  This year we have come out and we have pretty fast hot rods, just can't win races.  Capps is whipping me in the heat.  I hope we get a cold front here in Indy so I can survive.  It is what it is. 

 JOHN FORCE:  I better have to if I am going to whip these young guys.  They have the energy.  I have to find it through PowerAde or something or Power Bars.  I am on the Power Bars.  

 GARY SCELZI:  Just got in from the rest room.  That's probably too much information. 

 GARY SCELZI:  Yes, sir, Bob. 

 GARY SCELZI:  It is flattering to be in these because it is the eight best of the whole year and Funny Car is such a tough class anymore that it is like a normal race.  Anybody can win from any spot.  It is just the eight of us are the elite, and the 100 grand is always sweet, too. 

 GARY SCELZI:  Tommy has been drinking a lot lately and I think he will try to get off the sauce before the Skoal Shootout.  We will give Tommy all he wants, so to hell with Tommy. 

 GARY SCELZI:  Damn you, Fry. 

 GARY SCELZI:  That's it.  Hopefully we will get the car qualified early on Friday and Saturday so we don't have to mess around and we can go stand on it and see what we can get away with it because it is 100 grand.  It is a gamble.  You have the best of the best.  You have to see what you can do on Monday.  The key is to make some good runs early so you have a good idea of where you are at and hope the weather doesn't throw you a curve. 


 Q.  I like to be thought of as a good friend of NHRA.  Ron, how is Ace doing, first of all?  
 RON CAPPS:  He is good.  He is pissed off; he is waiting in line with the car and he is up there and I am down here.  He is back to normal. 

 Q.  Is he all done with his chemo?  
 RON CAPPS:  Yes.  He didn't have to do it.  The stuff they pulled out was noncancerous.  That was the best news, he had no chemo to go through this time. 

 Q.  This is for Tommy, Ron, and Gary.  With the successive forces TV show, has his head gotten any better? 
 GARY SCELZI:  If Force can't fit in the room, that's because he is talking from the parking lot. 

 Q.  Is he wired?  
 GARY SCELZI:  He is always wired.  

 Q.  Ron, what do you think?  Tommy, is he the same quiet kind of guy?  
 RON CAPPS:  He is looking a little older.  
 GARY SCELZI:  I am sure the people who don't watch the show and they are gasping and they can't believe they are seeing him.  We all know it is the Force we know.  We have seen him in the room with his underwear on. 
 JOHN FORCE:  I don't know how to act, first of all. 

 Q.  Thank you, gentlemen.  
 JOHN FORCE:  I want to race, not interview.  It has been so long.  

 Q.  I guess I do just -- if I could just have John comment.  John, have the Muslim communities made any comments to you or your PR people about the pig running through the pipeline?  
 JOHN FORCE:  I have been hearing about how much trouble I got in. 

 Q.  Were you serious?  
 JOHN FORCE:  Are you trying to make me look dumb?  

 Q.  Did you know the pig was going to run 3,000 miles?  
 JOHN FORCE:  It is a 3,000-mile pipeline.  If he put him in there, they wanted him to come out the other way.  They said they put pigs in the pipeline and I take it for what they say.  If they don't come out the other line, you know you have to get them in the pipe.  What's so dumb about that?  

 Q.  This is for John.  You have been a popular driver for several years.  How much more popular are you now to the non-racing audience since your show has taken off?  
 JOHN FORCE:  Well, the first question I'm asked every week, now that Scelzi, do you have any chance of catching Capps?  Still has nothing to do with the TV show.  People are caught up in what I do out here and it is exciting.  We find a new group of fans with my family and just interested about racing.  And I think if we are accomplishing anything, we are showing them what we do, and that will help the sport and that will help us find new sponsorship, all of us, not just my times.  We are getting a lot of new people looking.  We will see.  

 Q.  This is for Ron and Gary.  What is it about Indy that has become -- it has been special for decades now.  Is it the fact it is a little more special now knowing so many teams have moved to the area?  Just explain this is for Ron, Gary or whoever else wants to answer this, how important Indy is to NHRA.  
 GARY SCELZI:  I think it is the prestige and the age of the race.  From the beginning this is the race that the guys from the west coast would come out to, the guys from the east coast, from everywhere.  If you didn't have money, you saved your hundred to come to Indy to make the splash.  If you could do well here, that would be your ticket to paradise, you could land a sponsor, at least you would be recognized or try to become a household name.  
 I mentioned the story years ago in 1986 I came here with my alcohol dragster.  I was dead broke, battling for the championship with Bill Walsh.  I made it to the final and I got beat by Eldon P. Slick.  Nobody had heard of him before.  Nobody heard of him ever.  Every time this guy was in a drag race, it was Eldon P. Slick, the winner of the U.S. Nationals in 1986.  I think he ended up winning two or three races.  Great guy, but that was his tag, that was his deal that he won the U.S. Nationals.  
 It is one if you win the championship or you don't win a championship, if you have won the U.S. Nationals, you have done something.  
 RON CAPPS:  Growing up in the sport, I used to it watch all the heroes.  You watch all the other drag races but you particularly watch Indy.  To watch all the guys that have won Indy over the years, the history, it is definitely something you want to put on your résumé as the driver. 
 JOHN FORCE:  What makes me nervous about Indy, the guy we are up against right now -- we are up against everybody in the room, but Ron Capps' crew chief has won this thing ten times or something.  He holds the record for wins here.  No one has dominated at Indy like he has, so we will keep an eye on you.  

 Q.  How are you doing today?  I have a question for TJ.  TJ, Bob alluded about the fact that the added pressure of the sponsors event.  Since Indy is your transplanted home and the fact that not only do you have to race the rounds of the Skoal Showdown but you are also in qualifying for the elimination come race day, how does that all transpire or come to play into your philosophy for the weekend?  
 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  You definitely want to go out and try to get the car qualified Friday and Saturday so you don't have to worry about that.  That's the last thing you want to worry about when you go into the first round of the Skoal Showdown.  If you are not qualified, it puts more pressure on there.  As long as the guys go out and get the show good Friday and Saturday, you can forget about qualifying for a short period of time and just go out there and go back to a normal Sunday race.  
 Being able to sleep in my own bed a couple miles from the racetrack, that helps a little bit and takes the pressure off.  There is still added pressure.  Indy is so big and you want to try to win the Skoal Showdown on Sunday and get back and win it on Monday.  I think it will all go back on how you qualify Friday and Saturday.  The first run may dictate how the whole weekend goes. 

 Q.  Despite who wins the Skoal Showdown, you guys are all winners in my book.  
 JOHN FORCE:  Thank you. 
 RON CAPPS:  You and the seven others of us are going to sleep in Tommy's bed.  

 Q.  This is for John.  How are you doing?  
 JOHN FORCE:  Pretty good. 

 Q.  With all the distractions of taping this show, how are you managing to keep a focus going into the best race of the season, the Indy?  
 JOHN FORCE:  I thought I was going to be free at Indy, but A & E wants more shows so the cameras are coming to Indy, which is going to be a pain because it is hard to focus.  You walk around with a radio stuck to you all day and a radio in your ear.  I took a job, I have to do it. 

 Q.  Are you adjusting or is it still difficult?  
 JOHN FORCE:  It is hard on the whole family because you live it.  It was fun at first and then it got painful.  We are trying to work through it.  To win a championship as everybody in the room knows, you have to focus every day on just that.  If your focus isn't there, you can't win.  
 And that's the issue that I have of getting back to Castrol and Ford and Mac Tools and the money they are spending.  They are great I have a TV show and it is doing good.  But, you know, we are here to sell Mustangs and you need to get that job done.  It is a way for any driver, Capps or Scelzi or Tommy here.  So I just have to get my stuff together.  There ain't no party and beer drinking in my life.  It has pretty much come to an end here for a while. 

 Q.  Here is a question for any of one of you.  You struggled with the weather in Memphis.  What's the weather forecast for the Indy race?  
 JOHN FORCE:  I don't think it will be as bad as Memphis.  If it is as good as it is here today it would be wonderful. 

 Q.  Let's hope so because the cars affect those cars.  
 JOHN FORCE:  It depends on the fans.  The fans take it either way.  Tires smoking, balls of fire or national records.  They are always happy.  We will give them something.  

 Q.  Tommy, how is Melanie doing?  Kind of fell into a slump after that great start.  
 TOMMY JOHNSON, JR.:  She is not any easier to live with at home, I can tell you that.  The TV show is affecting John's household, the slump is affecting mine.  She is all right actually.  She is enjoying the success they had earlier in the season and hopefully see will be up here on the starting line rooting for me on Sunday in the Skoal Showdown.  
 But I think they are on their way back.  It is a little bump in the road.  We all go through them.  I went through it earlier in the season.  We had some struggles and I used her for motivation.  Hopefully he can kick her in the butt and she can do better the rest of the year.  

 Q.  When you made the comment Scelzi about everybody sleeping in everybody's bed, I wasn't sure what you were talking about.  
 GARY SCELZI:  You have a good imagination.  I am sure you will figure it out. 

 Q.  Can you comment on the tire situation this year?  Everything going okay?  No problems?  
 GARY SCELZI:  We are testing new stuff for next year right now and we made two runs on them and they look good.  So I think the tire thing is a thing of the past.  

 Q.  Goodyear -- 
 RON CAPPS:  Good Pros Regular. 

 Q.  Goodyear came out here with NASCAR Craftsman truck with testing of the new oval.  They paid for the test.  It costs a lot more to run an nitro car in testing.  When you go out to test a Goodyear product, do they pay for your expenses or anything?  
 JOHN FORCE:  You are compensated whether it is through money or through tires which you get over the course of the year. 
 RON CAPPS:  They pay us a little more than the rest of them, John, but you don't know it. 
 JOHN FORCE:  We want to sure thank Skoal for putting up the money for this show.  Thank you.  


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT