KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CRISTIE KERR:   I'm actually a little tired now.   Yeah, it was weird.   I started feeling really bad on Tuesday night.   I woke up and just didn't want to get out of bed.   Just kind of knew something was wrong.
I just was going to stay in bed and try to recover, but my husband was like, You got to go see a doctor.   So I went, and he was like, You have heat exhaustion and maybe something else going on.
So they took me to the hospital and gave my IV fluids and ran some tests and I had an infection.   So it was a good thing I went, because maybe yesterday could have been like today, too. 
I'm a little bit tired now, but I'm feeling a lot better.

Q.   Any concerns about not playing beyond today? 
CRISTIE KERR:   No.   No, I'm feeling good.   It's a hilly course.   It's a long day with threesomes.   Just going to get rested up for the quick turnaround.
I have no idea what the weather is going to look like tomorrow.   People are saying it doesn't look too good.

Q.   What was your first round like? 
CRISTIE KERR:   It was good.   You know, it was the first time.   I hadn't played the whole golf course before I played the tournament.   I didn't get to pay the back nine because I thought I was going to be able to play the pro‑am yesterday. 
So I had only played Tuesday the front nine, so it was a little refamiliarization with the back nine.   But I hung in there, made some good birdies, and kind of got it going in the right direction after the 10th hole.
Almost choked on my sandwich on the 10th hole.   They're like, Do you want to have somebody else go?   I thought I was okay.   I probably should've had somebody else go.   It was kind of a weird day like that.

Q.   Speaking of your back nine, you bogeyed 10, and then the wind starts to kick up and you still make three birdies and five pars coming in.   You've got to feel pretty good about the way you finished. 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I do.   Just got to go get rested up.   Tomorrow could be a long day with the rain. 

Q.   A 100% chance, they said. 
CRISTIE KERR:   Jeez.   Well, I looked at the radar before we played and I thought it was storms that were going to go through tonight and be done with, but apparently there is another system coming in. 
That's too bad.

Q.   Being a former champion, do you go into your mental rolodex knowing that you can make the adjustments that you need to?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, and it really helped me a lot today ‑   especially with not being able to play the whole course and not being able to play the pro‑am.   I was really looking forward to it, because I love playing this golf course.   Yesterday it didn't happen.   I was glad when I woke up this morning that I was feeling a lot better.   I was just like, Hang in there.   Do the mental stuff well today and make some birdies.   I had a good round under my belt.

Q.   Have you played Pinehurst No. 2 yet?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I played this past weekend.

Q.   What are your thoughts?
CRISTIE KERR:   I think it's great.   I mean, I have no idea how the divots are going to come into play.   It's just a really good, solid golf course.

Q.   How do you think it compares to Pine Needles?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I mean, to me it's a similar feel.   I think the greens are not quite as big at Pinehurst No. 2 as Pine Needles. 
You definitely need to play there a few times to know where to miss it and where not to miss it and when to be aggressive when you can't.   So it's good to get a couple rounds. 
Who knows what's going to happen that week, so at least I've played the course a couple times. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, definitely.   We're doing like a little wine tasting for the members of Pine Needles on Monday.   Yeah, so it's going to be fun to go back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT