NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 2, 2014
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about your round going into the weekend?
CRISTIE KERR:   I didn't play super great today but managed to shoot under par.   The last hole was disappointing.   I hit two of the best‑‑ I made two of the best swings I had made all day and just kind of ended up not in a good spot.   That's the way it goes sometimes.   But playing solid golf going into the weekend.

Q.   In general how is the course playing?
CRISTIE KERR:   It's playing good.   You definitely have to get the right bounces and kind of get lucky on some shots.   It's unfortunate the last shot was one of my best swings of the whole day and it ended up going way over the green with a difficult two‑putt.   That's just how my day went.

Q.   You've been playing super consistently, just logged five consecutive top 10s.   Do you feel good?   You just look relaxed. 
CRISTIE KERR:   I do, and I trust my caddie, and we don't get stuff like the 18th hole very wrong very often.   Honestly it's straight downwind into the green now, and it's definitely not doing that when I was over the ball.   I just got unlucky.

Q.   So that was just a matter of the wind?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it was a misread of the wind.   When Suzann hit, she hit the same club that I did, not quite as hard as I hit mine, but I hit mine really solid, and usually it flies about 108.   We thought it was just across, and the wind just gusted downwind, and I kind of hit that one on the back of the fringe there a little too hard.   But you've got to get it past the hole.

Q.   I know you and Mark have gotten off to a good start in your relationship I saw on the telecast.   You guys did "Caddie Knows Best."   I think you guys got the W.   You guys were the winners out of anyone they've done.   Is that kind of a telling tale, just you guys working together?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I think we have fun out there.   We're both intense about what we do but know how to make each other relax at the same time.   We're developing great as a team, and just got to get that first win on the board, and I think the floodgates will open.

Q.   What's it going to take this week to finish at the top?
CRISTIE KERR:   A low score (laughing). 

Q.   Was 18 the only one where the wind deceived you?
CRISTIE KERR:   Oh, for sure.   The wind is way stronger now than when we played even two holes ago.   This was kind of bad luck.   I hadn't hit it really solid all day, and the one shot I hit was unlike‑‑ I knew it was a little long.   I didn't think it was going to airmail the green, though. 

Q.   Can winds be tough to figure out on this course?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, there's a lot of elevation changes and kind of like little doglegs here and there that changes direction that can change totally a shot.   You have to keep your eye on it, and sometimes you just can't plan for it, and that's kind of what happened on 18. 

Q.   With all the young players on this Tour, how much does being a veteran and still having the success you're having, how much do you take pride in that? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Well, definitely.   I'm only 36, so I feel like I'm still one of the younger ones out here, but maybe I'm not anymore.   But just try to stay fit and keep going, and honestly, with golf it's not like it's where you have to sprint to play.   It's an endurance sport, and as long as you keep yourself in shape you can play as long as you want. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT