KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2014
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CRISTIE KERR:   I hit two hooks on 17 in a row and that hole owes me tomorrow.   That hole owes me tomorrow, big time. 

Q.   Tell us about 18 and the approach?
CRISTIE KERR:   I felt pretty good over it.   Honestly, I think it was kind of an anti‑hook swing, which it shouldn't have been.   I didn't feel it.   It was a weird rhythm shot and just kind of I stood up on it and obviously it was the worst shot I could have hit and then it was the best shot I could have hit, so go figure, that's golf.

Q.   How far was your putt, do you think? 
CRISTIE KERR:   60‑something.   It was perfect. 

Q.   Just talk about the game, mood changer, from what you would have walked off with on 18, probably feeling‑‑ potentially going bogey, bogey?
CRISTIE KERR:   I don't know.   I'm going to talk to Dr.Parent tonight and kind of sort through some things that I was feeling maybe coming in and I'll be right as rain tomorrow. 

Q.   What were you feeling?
CRISTIE KERR:   Just not quite as much focus.   I don't know, just that's golf.   I'll just do better tomorrow.   I hit a good short putt on 11 and the thing snapped on me and that was kind of like a momentum killer.   Then I hit a bad putt on 14 and then birdied 16, was great and then 17 and 18‑‑ but can't win on Saturday, so have to go out and do as best I can, take care of my job. 

Q.   How long was the putt on 16?   Didn't you make a big putt? 
CRISTIE KERR:   It must have been like 30.   That green usually is really firm and releases.   I couldn't hit anything else.   Couldn't get hybrid to go over the green, so it was good. 

Q.   What was your yardage on 18 on your second shot? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Like perfect 8‑iron.   It was 146 to the pin or something, 47 to the pin, it was perfect.   Just messed it up. 

Q.   And you're just trying to get it close on the putt there?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I didn't want to 3‑putt. 

Q.   Are you going to have Team Kerr shirts made? 
CRISTIE KERR:   No.   My Team Kerr is my husband and a 16 little pound monster. 

Q.   Can I ask one question about the International Crown, at the end of this week, teams will be set and we are trying to get an idea of the excitement of representing your team and country? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it's great.   Obviously I haven't really set my schedule that far ahead but any time you can play for your country, it's amazing. 

Q.   What a finish, what a final hole to finish off like that, take us through that hole, what an amazing way to come out in the third round?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, well, I hit a couple hooks in a row on the 17th hole and I guess that was the anti‑hook swing.   I had hit it very well all day and just kind of hit some bad putts on the back.   I'm going to go work on everything when I get done with the interviews and just look forward to tomorrow.

Q.   Dip in the water, you come back, you looked obviously a little bit of emotion, it was on the downward side and then you come out with that putt, talk about that finish?
CRISTIE KERR:   That was pretty amazing, like I just told you, it really is one of those moments that you just remember for a lifetime.   I mean, it's one in how many that you're going to make but I was just trying to get it close.   Usually that's when those go in.   So pretty amazing. 

Q.   Saw you pointing to the sky; who was that in particularly, somebody watching down on you? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, just God.   He always watches over us.   So that was not just me, yeah. 

Q.   Taking the momentum into tomorrow, clearly that was quite a boost.   What's the mentality going into the final round? 
CRISTIE KERR:   I'm just going to keep playing well.   Today was the worst that I've scored over the last couple days, and you know, it was good to get in the heat of the battle in the back, and you know, take that feeling into tomorrow.   Did a lot right, more right than wrong out there, and I've just got to just take that last putt as a momentum boost and kind of everything is meant to happen. 

Q.   Obviously in the position, exactly where you want to be, right in the lead, you said you have a new reason to play golf, and Mason Kerr, he's your momentum and your motivation to play; what will it mean to get this first win as a mom? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Technically, we won Kingsmill when we were pregnant last year so I think he's already got one under his belt which makes things a little easier.   But it's great to have him on the road.   I mean, you just look at him, and when he recognizes you, he smiles and he giggles and he's just so much fun.   He's such a good baby.   We're so lucky, so it's going to be fun tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT