CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2013
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Other than 18 how were things going for you today?
CRISTIE KERR:   I played really well.   I barely pulled my tee shot on the last hole and kind of‑‑ just kind of came a little funny out of the lie in the rough, and I tried to keep my chip under the hole, which I did, but I left too long a putt and I just missed it.   Kind of bounced off line.   It was starting to really bounce towards the end of the day, and luckily I made enough birdies today.

Q.   You're taking minus 4 out of the day rather than bogey on 18 I think would be your lingering‑‑
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I played too well really to just focus on that.   I'm just going to go hit a couple shots, hit a couple putts and go get some dinner and be back out here tomorrow.

Q.   Course conditions overall?   We've heard the course is in really good condition. 
CRISTIE KERR:   It is.   The greens got kind of mushy towards the end of the day, which they do on poa greens, but all in all they held up really well.   It seemed like when they were in the shadows they got a little bit more bouncy. 

Q.   I know in terms of last week was a disappointment for the Americans not winning, but you guys all seem to be playing well, and if you look at the leaderboard there's a bunch of you guys up at the top this week.   Does it just show that the putts just didn't fall last week?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I mean, there's no excuses for last week.   They just played better than us.   We tried as hard as we could.   I mean, that's a team competition.   Somebody could go undefeated and you could lose.   Our first Solheim Cup I won one point and lost four and we ended up winning, so it's kind of an interesting competition like that.   But yeah, I'm glad to be in one‑on‑one competition now and ready to go.

Q.   And fun to be in the position you're in right now?
CRISTIE KERR:   Definitely.   It's only the first day, too.   There's three more days, and you have to play solid for four straight days.

Q.   Better to be in‑‑
CRISTIE KERR:   Even the person that wins the tournament eventually is going to miss a five‑footer during the week, unless you win by 12.   That's just the way it goes.

Q.   Is that about how long the last putt was, about five? 
CRISTIE KERR:   At least five.   Yeah, about five feet.   Just kind of bounced right in the beginning, and it just never had a chance to stay up. 

Q.   You birdied your 15th and 16th holes, right?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, and the putt on the 16th hole bounced as bad as that one and ended up catching the left lip and lipping in.   One misses, one goes in.   That's just the way it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT