PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 25, 2013
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   On that note, your second round here, 24 holes into the tournament.   5‑under for the day.   So you know, solid effort.   Just talk about this week just in general.   I know it's been different.  
CRISTIE KERR:   It's been different.   It's been tough, and you know, God, this poor golf course.   This golf course was in such good shape, and you know, one of the best courses we've played in a while, if not all year.   And you know tough, but fun, and you know, to see the flooding and what happened, you just can't believe it.   
A guy who's lived here for 50 years says he hasn't seen it like that ever in this golf course, so it must have just been like high tide and like 18 inches of rain.   It was just crazy.  
And then trying to figure out what to do and trying to figure out how to make it an official tournament.   And it's just been so strange, you know, but I think everybody's really happy to play.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today.   It's almost weird to talk about 5‑under on 12 holes.  
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   But just sort of take me through it.   What worked for you?  
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, you know, I hit it really good today.   You know, I made one bogey and just kind of pushed that putt.   
But just hit it really good, gave myself a lot of chances, and you know, it played a little more difficult today even I think because of the wind.   So it was good, and it kind of feels like a shoot‑out, so you only have 12 holes every day, you know, and you gotta just go as low as you can because there's going to be somebody that's trying to do the same thing.   So I did my job today.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about coming off the win at Kingsmill.   You had a couple weeks off.   To be back out and with a three‑week stretch, including at a major that you've won.   What does this kind of stretch mean to you in your season?  
CRISTIE KERR:   I think it's great.   You know, I hadn't won a tournament in the beginning of the year for a few years, and it's great to get one early.   Gives you a lot of confidence.   
You know, I didn't even ‑‑ you know, I had a really, really good solid putter on Sunday at Kingsmill, but it kind of saved me.   I really didn't hit it that good.   I'm just trying to learn how to get better under pressure and in contention, and it was just good to get one.   And you know, to know I have a lot of golf left and kind of have some fun.  
   
 Q.   Okay.  
CRISTIE KERR:   Okay.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT