RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good score today?   
CRISTIE KERR:   You know what, from what I understand, today is going to be the nicest day so we had to shoot a good score today.   
   
 Q.   You had a bit of extra practice going into this week, you missed the cut in Virginia, did that turn out to be an advantage?  
CRISTIE KERR:   Actually, you know, what I thought it was going to be an advantage, and then with the weather delays on Saturday night in Richmond, we miss‑connected and we didn't get here till Monday morning.   So it ended up not being an advantage.   
But I was able to play nine straight off the plane with no sleep Monday and I got to see the course twice.   With these conditions, you have to have a good caddie and be a good team and be able to judge what's going on out there.  
   
 Q.   What did you make of the golf course today playing it competitively?  
CRISTIE KERR:   It's one of the best courses are I've ever played.   It's so good.   It's probably the best ladies British course that I've played, and I used to say Royal Lytham and St.Annes was my favourite and it's still one of my favourites, but this is an unbelievable golf course because you have to have it all, patience, a lot of long clubs into greens; it's just not worth it.   Suzann took driver on a couple of places and I took 3‑wood off the tee and she's in those bunkers pitching out, and you just can't challenge them.     
   
 Q.   Lately you've said putting has not been up to your normal standards but we always think of you as one of the best putters in the game; what's going on?   
CRISTIE KERR:   I think I'm just moving the handle a little too much and that's kind of making me move my head a little bit.   So I'm going to go work on that when I get done.  
   
 Q.   As we go into.   The next three days we have won multiple times around the world and you know what it's like when you have that feeling that you're going to win‑‑  
CRISTIE KERR:   I'm just trying to take it day by day right now.   I haven't won in a while and I know I'm going to win some more in the future and it's just a matter of when.   
Sometimes you'd like to think it's in your control and sometimes it isn't.   I'm just going to try to be patient and play every day as good as I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT