SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   We'd like to welcome Cristie Kerr into the interview room.   Congratulations, another solid round, 2‑under par today, sitting near the top of the leaderboard.   Take me through the day and what was working well for you?   
CRISTIE KERR:   I made a good birdie on 2.   And I hit a couple of putts that would not drop.   Made bogey on 6 and was able to birdie 9, 10, and 11.   So I got to 3‑under on the day, and I just kind of hit a little bit of a road block from a momentum standpoint.   
I three‑putted the 14th hole.   When I thought I made the par putt, I kind of left that on the low side.   And again, I kind of had some putts that could have fallen coming in.   But I made a good par save on 17, so it will be good momentum going into tomorrow.  
KELLY THESIER:   Just to put yourself in position, like you said, some things didn't go right today, but to find yourself near the top with a chance to win on Sunday, what's that feeling like again?   I know you've been feeling good about your game.   But to put yourself in that position has got to feel pretty good.   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, not to call it, but it's Cristie Kerr golf.   Even when I haven't played my best, I still shoot 2‑ to 3‑under and give myself a chance, and I've done that.   Typically the winner of this tournament shoots for the win on Sunday.   So that's what's going to have to be done.  
   
 Q.   You're a past winner here in 2008, not on this golf course, but do you have good feelings coming back to an event you've won and knowing what you have to do on Sunday?   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, definitely.   I won at Columbia Edgewater, and I love that golf course.   This is a spectacular golf course as well.   I've come close here a number of times and I'm looking forward to tomorrow and letting it all hang out.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a target number or a score you feel you need to shoot to win on Sunday?   
CRISTIE KERR:   I think tomorrow you kind much have to.   You can kind of predict what the winning score will be because the weather's going to be good.   It's going to be pretty much like this tomorrow, so I think at least 14‑ or 15‑under would probably win.   
So she's at 11 right now.   So she's played good, but it's golf.   It's sport.   You can't predict it.   So I'm just going to try to go out and shoot as low as I can.  
   
 Q.   Also, (Indiscernible)?  
CRISTIE KERR:   I think I know her game about as well as anybody else's.   I tend to try to pay attention to my own game more.   But she's a pretty straight player.   She doesn't miss a lot of fairways, you know, a streaky putter.   So hopefully I'll get streaky tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT