SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 17, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Cristie Kerr into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great 6‑under 66 today.   I know it's a very comfortable golf course for you.   Can you take me through your day out there and what was really working well for you?   
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I played really well.   It's probably the best opening round I've had all year.   I just got off to a good start.   I birdied the first two holes and birdied the 13th hole.   I started on the back.   It's 3‑under after 4, and just played the tough holes really well on the end part of the back.   I could have made more, but that's how it is in golf.   On the back nine, I was able to birdie the 4th hole and get on a roll again.   
I birdied four of my last six holes.   So, you know, I kind of kept the momentum going throughout the round and hit the tough shots well when I needed to, and I made a lot of putts today.   That was good.   
THE MODERATOR:   You started on the tougher nine really, and to be able to get off to such a good start, did you feel you had a bonus from the get‑go to get birdies early on those holes.  
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I think so.   The pin on 10 was tough.   You had to wedge it into that pin, it was way back right.   You had to be pretty precise, and a great birdie there.   And I made a long putt on 11.   
On the 12 hole, I hit a long bunker shot and got up‑and‑down there.   So I was feeling this was going to be my day.   I just played really solid.   
THE MODERATOR:   You said best first round for you so far this year.   A 54‑hole event, how much more key is it to get off to a hot start?   
CRISTIE KERR:   It is key.   You have to have a low round in a three‑day tournament.   It's nice to get it out of the way.   You've got to go out there tomorrow and make believe it's the first day of the tournament and try to get a low one again.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little about your year and how it's going?   It's been a while since you've won, and we always sort of expect it out of you.   Can you talk about how that's been for you?  
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it's been tough.   Last year I had so many good tournaments and didn't get a win.   This year I played some great golf but had some inconsistencies.   I feel like I am ready to win again, but I've got to do first things first and get two more solid rounds.   
You know, I've worked really hard.   I just came back from vacation in Italy, so I feel refreshed a couple weeks ago.   Didn't play last week.   I feel more relaxed and comfortable and ready to play golf.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask about that vacation.   How much time did you spend not touching a club, and what all did you do in Italy?   
CRISTIE KERR:   I think I took nine days off.   Well, I'm not as young as I used to be.   I have my elbow I've got to worry about now, and little injuries and I'll take a little more time off for when I can manage it.   You know, just little nagging things.   Not anything major.   I just kind of wanted to go.   
I went with a group of friends and it was great.   We went to Tuscany and went around to the different wineries.   Went to Ornellaia, and not only a fun vacation, but research for me because of the wine business.   We had a lot of fun as a group.   
Came back, and I felt like I was ready to start practicing, getting ready for this week.   I love Portland.   I love the city and the weather and all the golf courses here.   So this is an enjoyable week for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT