U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy at 1‑under?
CRISTIE KERR:   Is that an actual question? 

Q.   Happy with your round today?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I played really well on the front, and unfortunately I made a double on ‑‑ let's see, what hole.   11th hole.   I hit it in the water again on 10.   I'm going to just aim at the bunker and hit it in the bunker every day or hit 3‑wood off the tee.   I don't know what the deal is there. 
Made double on 11, then I really bounced right back and made an amazing birdie on 12 and then a great birdie on 16. 
On 14 and 15 I had putts that I hit exactly the way I wanted to and they didn't go in, kind of a little bit like yesterday.   But played really solidly, made a good par putt on 17, and 18 I hit a good putt for birdie, but it didn't break, didn't do anything. 
So just a very important round for me.   One that said I wanted to keep up that consistency, and I did that today.   Even though I had some adversity in the middle of the round, I was able to bounce back from that.

Q.   With the moderate numbers out there, what's the setup like today as opposed to yesterday?
CRISTIE KERR:   You know, it's just playing kind of tough.   Yeah, there were a couple of low rounds, but I think the key to this week is consistency, you know, trying to shoot four rounds under par.   And I've done that halfway through the tournament, and I want to keep up that consistency and make a couple of those five, six‑footers that have kind of eluded me the last couple of days, so it is great to see low numbers.   But I think at the end you gotta look at kind of what your average score is at the Open and count them up at the end of the week.

Q.   Always wanting to go on moving day.   Also at the same time not try to make those big mistakes that everyone is trying to avoid out here this weekend. 
CRISTIE KERR:   I think I gotta go out and take care of my own job and forget about what everybody else is doing.   It's not like football where you can tackle somebody; right?   It's not like the Green Bay Packers up here. 
I've just gotta take care of my own job and really execute my course strategy, and you know, it would have been a couple more under if a couple of those putts had gone.   But you know, I got over par through the middle of the round and I was able to shoot under par.   That's a really huge thing for me.   And going into the weekend who knows how they're going to set it up.   So you can't really predict.

Q.   You made a birdie on 16 coming off the rough and after the two holes previously. 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah.   That was huge.   To see one of those putts go in, and you know, I told Worth, my caddie, that it was kind of my fault I hit it over to the right because had I hit hybrid good and turned, I would have been right in front of the green and I just wasn't set on that shot and I told him that was my bad there, but I made up for it.

Q.   Any advantage to the early tee time this morning as opposed to yesterday?
CRISTIE KERR:   I think you're seeing the lower rounds come out of the morning.   I can tell you it's not getting any softer hitting into the greens.   The greens are really bouncy, and you know, we'll see what afternoon scoring is like, but I was glad I shot under par.

Q.   6900‑yard course, but there are still some good numbers coming out.   You said you've had a couple of good rounds out there.   What's making this course scorable despite the bear of yardage on it?
CRISTIE KERR:   I think you're going to see some different pins on the weekend.   I think they've been pretty generous with the pins so far, and I can tell you I don't think the USGA is going to like that there were so many low numbers the first couple days.   So I think you might see a different course this weekend. 
With that being said, 5‑under is leading after two days, which is nothing, comparatively.   I mean if it was really low scoring, 10 or 11‑under would be leading, but it's not.   It's an Open.   We're very close to par still, and this course will show its teeth this weekend.

Q.   With that in mind, you've won an Open before already in the past, so do you feel like you have an advantage over some of the younger players that maybe have not been in that position to see what an Open course can do on a Saturday or Sunday?
CRISTIE KERR:   I always draw on that experience, of course, but it's hard to predict what's an advantage and what's not an advantage.   You just don't know.   Sometimes it's an advantage to not know that you can go out and win.   You've seen that before.   That's what happened with Webb Simpson at the Men's Open this year.   So it's really hard to predict that.   If I'm staring down somebody on Sunday at the 18th hole, I think that experience really helps.   Thank you guys.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT