LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 19, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   68 today; bogey‑free.   Great round.   Just tell me about what went right. 
CRISTIE KERR:   You know, just Jason and I really worked on strategy.   I feel like sometimes in the past we've hit good shots and been in not so great places.   So we're really focusing on where we want the ball to finish on the greens. 
That's really making a difference as far as even if you do miss a shot you have somewhat of an easy up and down instead of being short‑sided or whatever. 
I hit some hooks today, but I hit a lot of really good shots today and made some great par saves when I had to.   Just been working really hard on my game.   The last couple days I haven't really tried that hard, and I think that's made a difference. 
Just trying to be as determined as I can be in every shot.

Q.   Just compare yesterday to today conditions‑wise.   We haven't really talked to anybody about what the wind was like out there for you guys today. 
CRISTIE KERR:   I would say it was pretty similar.   Maybe starting out the day we might have had a smidge less wind, but it picked up like right on like two holes into our round.
So pretty similar.   Same wind direction.   Some of the pins were a little bit more accessible.   I would say pretty similar conditions, though.

Q.   Seems like based on the leaderboard that the top‑ranked players are enjoying the scores.   We've got you, Ai, Pettersen, Tseng, all up in the top five.   Can you explain that?   Is it a shot‑makers course?   Is it designed for a better player?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I think it is.   You have to definitely control your ball flight.   If you get a hook wind and the pin is on the left side, you've got to aim right and not hook it. 
You have to really control the shape of your shots.   When it's windy, it's definitely more creative.   I think that's why you're seeing a lot of top players at the top.

Q.   Last one.   Just looking forward to the next two days, your strategy would be? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Keep doing what I'm doing.   Try and shoot in the 60s the next two days.   Seems like the conditions are going to be pretty identical. 
You know, if I miss shots, grind for the pars.   I've been putting great, so the more greens I hit the better chance I have. 

Q.   Great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT