RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2012
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We're here with Cristie Kerr.   Congratulations on a great round out there today, 6‑under par. 
CRISTIE KERR:   Thanks.

Q.   Did you go into today with any notion of feeling like you had to shoot low, especially knowing where the leaders were at?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it was a must.   You know, to be able to get three or four back as of right now with some bad weather coming in tomorrow, it's not a bad position to be. 
You know, it's going to be tough tomorrow with the rain and the cold and the wind, but I felt like I needed to have a low round to get back in there today.

Q.   I was going to say, after yesterday you did look disappointed after your round.   How were you feeling about your game heading into today and did you see a round like this coming for yourself?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I did.   I saw this kind of round out there for me.   I was really frustrated yesterday, and I came out with a little more calm attitude today, and I got control of my mind, and I put it to good use.

Q.   As you said, dire conditions expected for tomorrow.   What's the game plan going into tomorrow and knowing where you're at, a few shots back probably of the leaders heading into the final round?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, we'll have to see what the conditions are, but all the pressure is going to be on them and I'm going to go out and just try and golf my ball through the weather.

Q.   How have you been feeling about your game heading into this week and have you been pretty pleased with how you've been able to play so far?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah.   I've been progressing and working on my mental stuff, working on my game with my coach, Brian.   Things are coming together.   It felt really good today to have a good round and be able to be determined and go out there and do what I wanted to do.

Q.   Just how much family do you have here with all the Team Kerr purple folks around?
CRISTIE KERR:   I've never met those people, actually.   I'm here with my husband, and we have really good friends that live here.   The Carlottis and their kids.   So a little bit. 

Q.   So you're used to this desert golf kind of thing?   Do you think that helps you out living here?
CRISTIE KERR:   I think so.   I think it gives me a little bit of an advantage on the greens as far as kind of knowing the valley effect and kind of how to putt the greens.

Q.   Tomorrow with the weather, do you think that'll go to your advantage, maybe that'll turn into a crap shoot?
CRISTIE KERR:   Well, if I play like I did today tomorrow, I think it's going to be an advantage, but I have to take it one shot at a time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT