RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 26, 2011
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Cristie Kerr in the interview area. Thank you for coming. You have a great last few years in this championship. You must be looking forward to this week.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I always enjoyed playing over here. I think it's kind of shocking to people that this is my favourite kind of golf, you know. I like golf where you don't have to be perfect, where the bounces are going to be different, and it's interesting every day.  
 THE MODERATOR: You've had a chance to look at eight holes. Any first thoughts on the course?   
 CRISTIE KERR: I think it's fantastic. You can see why it's one of the great golf courses that there are over here. It's challenging but fair. You know, it's interesting, and it's all about the conditions here. I think we're supposed to get some rain or something on Thursday, so it's going to play -- it never plays the same in a tournament as it does in the practice rounds. It's just perfect weather right now.  
  
  Q. Have you seen it much on TV in the past and is it the same as you imagined?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I have seen it. It's always different when you're here in person. On TV it looks like a much bigger golf course, but the 18th hole is much more narrow than it looks on TV, and it's a very good golf hole.   
  
  Q. Have you actually played the 18th yet?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I have, yeah. I played 18 holes yesterday. I played 1 through 4 and then 15 through 18. This is great, the pro-am here, because we get to play our own ball, so it was good for me to get a chance to rest yesterday and go see part of the course. Yeah, I played 18. It's a pretty good hole.  
  
  Q. It's got quite a reputation, that hole. What do you know of its past?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, obviously the Jean Van de Velde story, everybody knows that. I actually got to meet him last week at the Evian, and Paul Lawrie, and what's happened with Sergio and Ernie Els there before. This is the first time the women have played here.   
  
  Q. When you met Jean Van de Velde, did you sort of avoid talking about Carnoustie or did it come up in conversation?  
 CRISTIE KERR: It honestly really didn't come up. We talked more about wine because he really loves wine. That was pretty much -- it was the gala dinner last Saturday night at the Royal Hotel in Evian, so it was more about wine than Carnoustie. He just wished me good luck.   
  
  Q. I'm looking at your record this year, and you've seemed to do everything else but win. Would that be a fair summation?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yes, I think so. I probably would have finished in the top five again if I had a good Sunday a couple days ago. But that's golf. Yeah, I have done everything but win this year. It's a bit frustrating, but I've just got to keep plugging away, and it'll be that much more satisfying.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, and good luck this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT