U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2011
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You went 69, posted 71 today. Did you feel like you put yourself in contention in this tournament?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I did. You know, yesterday was tough. I played 34 holes and in some bad weather, too. So it got really difficult to see. And, you know, the greens, you're gonna have a couple 3-putts this week, and I did unfortunately yesterday and that was the difference for me.   
 But, you know, I played great and basically amounted to -- yeah, I was in contention but I made one bad swing on the 10th hole. I guess it was the second round. I made a triple, and, you know, and a couple 3-putts. To win the Open, you can't do that. But I still had a great tournament.  
  
  Q. When you were standing over that putt at 17, how confident were you that you could put it in?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I was pretty confident. You know, it was a pretty tricky read, though. I was a little bit jacked up.   
  
  Q. Is that when why it went over?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, a little bit. You know, I was excited to play, and, you know, I hit a great shot. I was right at the pin, and I just knew when I hit it it was a little too far. There is a little ridge that, you know, if you get it a couple yards past the hole it kinda goes down and onto the fringe.   
 It would have been a much easier putt if I had -- even if it was just past the hole, it would have been a much easier putt.  
  
  Q. Was this the greatest test of patience you can remember in a major championship?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I think so, yeah. They're still not gonna be done for a while.  
  
  Q. Last night you talked about how today somebody could easily tie her, and somebody just did.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Uh-huh. Yeah. Well, it's never over till it's over, especially in these things. People really want it, and that was a gutsy putt.   
 We were watching it inside. It was a little bit of a tape delay. We heard the crowd cheer, and we were like, Oh, she made it, before we saw it on TV.   
 It's gonna be interesting.  
  
  Q. How do you feel how it was handled this week with all the weather delays? Was there any way to avoid this Monday finish?  
 CRISTIE KERR: No, I don't think so. I mean, on Thursday we kind of knew it was gonna go to Monday. We almost got it in yesterday. I mean, it was such a long delay, they had to let us warm up.   
 If they would have sent us back out, I don't think the last groups even would have finished. The USGA did a great job with all the weather delays. And, you know, even learned how to say "30-minute delay," "15-minute delay" in Korean in the locker room. They did a very good job. I mean, they have all up-to-date weather stuff.   
 They got us off the course when the conditions started to get really bad. They gave us enough time to get everybody to safety.   
 I just feel really bad for the fans this week. I mean, they never got a consistent, normal day of golf to watch. A lot of people didn't end up coming back today, but, you know, the fans were great.  
  
  Q. Those of us that aren't in the inside were wondering if it might have been prudent to just stop it yesterday and let everyone come back today fresher.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I don't know. But even the forecast for this afternoon wasn't great, either. I mean, what are you gonna do?   
 I think, you know, they pushed us as long as they could push us. Yesterday was the first time that we could actually even go back out on the golf course coming in from a delay, so I think we were excited to get more golf in for tomorrow. And all the fans were still here.   
 The USGA did a great job. They have a lot of people to consider; not only us but the people on the course, getting them to safety.  
  
  Q. Moving forward, thoughts on playing Carnoustie?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't know much about the course but I know it's tough. I like tough. I'm gonna get there Sunday night, and I will be able to play Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. We will take a local caddy with us to give us insight into the course. I have a seasoned caddy on the bag. We should be all right.  
  
  Q. Aside from the one bad swing you mentioned and the weather delays, what are you gonna take away from this week? What's gonna stick with you?  
 CRISTIE KERR: How good I just ground it out all week. I'm proud of myself. I mean, it's all about timing, too. If I make that swing, you know, anywhere else on the golf course, you know, I probably am in a bunker or, you know, like if I make that swing on 13, you know, I'm left. I've got room to chip to a pin.   
 I hit it like, you know, on that hole left and it hit the downslope and it went way into the woods. The only thing I was thinking about, if I was Arnold Palmer, someone would have jumped in the way of that thing. So I guess I have to keep getting more popular so I can get a little army following me around out there.   
  
  Q. You've come so close really the last month, you know, but no wins to show for it. Is that frustrating, or is it more just about the fact you're playing well right now?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I think a little bit of both. I've been playing great. Yeah, it's frustrating I haven't won. It will happen again. I just have to stay patient. I stayed patient this week; that's for sure.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT