U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. On your finish like that, how much do you want to get back out there? Now you have to wait. Is it hard to have to wait now?  
 CRISTIE KERR: No, I think it's actually a good thing for me. I need to work on my golf swing with my coach. I think the rain delay hurt me a bit. I didn't hit it in a good spot on 7. I was in the front row bunker.   
 Almost made par, but, you know, that's not an easy way to come back out. Especially waiting overnight for rain delay, a long bunker shot to a tough pin is not how you want to come back.   
 But that's the hand I got dealt. My first swing of the day, didn't make a good swing and had a bad bounce. Had as about as difficult an up-and-down you can have on this golf course.   
 Almost made birdie on 9. It's a good start. Considering everything, I guess it's a good start.  
  
  Q. What do you do to pass the time now?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I'm going to go practice and go home. I don't even know if I play later today. And if we do, it's not gonna be more than four or five holes. I'm not going to stress over it. I'm pleased I have a lot of time to work on my game with my coach.   
 Get rested up, because it's gonna be a long weekend.  
  
  Q. Probably hit that green on 8, if you're, you know, playing -- if that's not your first drive basically.   
 CRISTIE KERR: I mean, that's your guess as good as mine. But I think I would have had a better chance if I had been playing and not -- you know, that's, you know, a difficult par-3, so, you know, you want to be, you know, having played.  
  
  Q. Do you still feel good about where you're at at even?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean, I won the Open in Pine Needles. I shot even the first day. It's not a bad omen.  
  
  Q. Is the course playing very different?  
 CRISTIE KERR: No, not really. I don't think they got a ton of rain last night. It was lightning storms all around.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT