LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 12, 2011
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Cristie Kerr into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. You knew it was going to take a low number to kind of catch up to the leaders, but for another runner-up finish, how do you feel after this one? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I played pretty well today. I thought the back nine played a little tough. We had longer clubs into the greens by two or three clubs. 
 I played good; I just needed to get some of those putts to the hole, give 'em a chance it go in. Left a couple short. 
 It would have been nice to make birdie on the last hole, but it didn't matter. She was too far ahead.
 MODERATOR: After this tournament now you go into another tournament where you're the defending champion, to Wegman's. Has this a fun stretch for you going to these tournaments where you played so well last year and now you're playing well again? 
 CRISTIE KERR: It is. I love both of those golf courses, and I'm looking forward to Wegman's next -- well, after the week off. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. I know you've played solid golf lately. Talk a little bit about what's worked in your game lately. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I at the Sybase where I had my first second-place finish, I changed my irons. That's been, you know, a big part of the reason why I'm playing better as of late.
 I was struggling to hit my irons close if it even hit the green, and now I'm getting a lot more looks at birdie. That's usually where I have my strength, is on the greens, so that's been great.
 My whole game has been great: short game, everything. 

 Q. You always seem to play well here. What do you think this course has that suits your game? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I think you do get a lot of looks at birdie on this course. As you see, the scores were low for everybody, and I think that's what fans want to see.
 You know, I can read these greens really well, and I think I've played well every year I've played here. 

 Q. Following up on that, you go out on this course, you go out onto the other course, you go on at two different times of the year. So beyond that common thread, when you go into a tournament where you've had success in the past, are you clearly more confident going into the week? Do you feel different than an event where maybe you struggled in the past? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I think that's the same for everybody. Having good memories always helps. I feel like I can feel my way around the course well here, and, you know, there's horses for courses. That's the expression.
 I've just always played really well here.

 Q. Three straight runner-up finishes. I know they're not the wins you would've hoped for, but do you take a lot coming off the past three tournaments and how you've been playing?
 CRISTIE KERR: I do. The margin between finishing second three times and winning three times is very small. I mean, it's as small as it gets in the game. I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully get a putt or two more a tournament to drop, and then it's a different ballgame.

 Q. I saw the family that was here last year with the five children, I saw the little girls again. Did you have a chance to spend any time with them this week?
 CRISTIE KERR: I did. I pronounced their last name Ducagi(ph); but it's actually Duchai (ph). It's Slovakian. It's a different pronunciation. 
 Yeah, I spent time with them this week. Went to dinner or Thursday to Maldaner's in the city. That was a nice restaurant. I've been spending a little bit of time with them after the rounds every day. Hopefully we have this tournament next year, so I get to see them. 
 But even if we don't, I'm going to bring them out to a couple tournaments hopefully and spend time with them. Their family has become very good friends with our family.

 Q. I would think you're at the point in your career where you beat people as much with your head as your game you have so much experience in all the circumstances. Looking back to today's round and over the four days, how many mental mistakes do you think you made today? And then over the four days, can you identify how many you might have made that would have made a difference?
 CRISTIE KERR: Today, mental mistakes? I felt like I was pretty solid today. The shots I missed or mishit or hit left, I don't think these were mental. I think that sometimes you make some bad or a little off golf swings.
 I needed an 8-under par round, which is nearly a perfect round, especially in the windy conditions. And the way the wind turned around on the back nine it played tougher today, so that was a lot to ask. But I almost did it. 
 Over the whole tournament, maybe three or four times where I wasn't there. Maybe four or five, max where I wasn't mentally there over a shot or putt.
 You know, it definitely saves shots out there because your misses end up better, and then you're on the green instead of missing a green and you have a chance to make birdie.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, because you can't be perfect. I mean, if you try to be perfect you end up being less perfect. If you have like one, two max a day where you're not 100% there, I would say that's fairly acceptable.
 Because, you know, if you're focusing for that long, I mean, sometimes I get a headache when I focus really well. Like I had to take some Advil on the 15th hole because I could feel pressure building up. That's just me. I focus a lot. 
 Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT