LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 3, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRISTIE KERR: I played pretty steady. I could have gotten a couple more putts down the stretch to fall. I hit a bad put on 7 and on 8, I miss-read it, a couple of missed opportunities there. But you know, the pins are tricky, and you know, under par again, and I think I'm poised and I'm ready for the weekend. 

 Q. Are you thinking that much ahead to accolades and stuff on the golf course, or can you block all that out? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, you think about it a little bit. You would be lying if you said you didn't care about it. But I've got a job to do on every shot and I'm just trying to take care of that, and you know, try to roll the rock, make some puts. 
 I think that I've putted kind of average for me the last two days, and I think if I can put a little bit above average the next two days and play fairly well, I'll have a good chance at it. 

 Q. How is your back? 
 CRISTIE KERR: It's better. I got some therapy on Wednesday, and it's better. I think it was from doing a lot of lower body work last week. I just tweaked it. It's nothing major. I have not been into the fitness van the last two days so it's been a lot better. 

 Q. There's the six mug shots hanging on the poles when you drive in, the six players in the hunt for the various titles and stuff. Based on the feedback from the civilian side, do they find it more interesting having more players fighting it out for No. 1 or having kind of like a dominant Alpha-male type female?
 CRISTIE KERR: Alpha-female? 

 Q. If there is such a thing. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, that's the question everybody's been asking almost every week. I think it's just more interesting having more people up there. Obviously I would like to be the dominant Alpha female, but you have to work really hard for that. 

 Q. Lexi Thompson today petitioned the Tour to have six additional exemptions, which would give her 12 for 2011. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't think you can do that. 

 Q. That's why she petitioned the Tour. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't think you can do that. You get six exemptions unless you're a member of the tour and you have the right to qualify. That's never been done before. I wouldn't expect that would be done.

 Q. Do you think that's excessive? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I think so. She wants to try and play on our tour, and you know, she's 15 years old or 16 years old, and she's not even really got her high school education complete yet. 
 So I think, you know, that was her decision to turn pro early, and, yeah, she's a great player, but she's also very young. And you know, that's the rule, six exemptions. It's to protect the rest of the people that are members that need to get those exemptions sometimes. 

 Q. Do you think this could open the floodgates to something if they were to grant it for other young people who believe that they are ready, too? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I don't think that's a good idea for the tour to do that. I mean, why wouldn't they do that for Michelle Wie then, you know. If they didn't do it for Michelle, why would they do it for Lexi.

 Q. Have you played with her before? 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, she's a South Floridian. She's a good player. But she's very young. And exemptions are a sponsor's thing, yeah, but at the same time, it has to -- we have to protect the integrity of the tour. 

 Q. Do you think that she has the ability to come in and --
 CRISTIE KERR: Of course. She plays well. I mean, getting more exemptions also gives her more opportunities to win a tournament, which would allow her to be a member. The Q-School is there for a reason. There's a process that everybody has to go through. 
 The men's tour is different, but until we look at redoing the whole thing, I don't think it would be a good idea just to say, hey, because you're you, you get six more exemptions. This is an unusual case, but I don't know.
 But at the same time, she's an American and it would be great seeing another American playing well, but where does it stop if you do open those floodgates. The Tour has got bigger problems than to worry about that right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT