CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 17, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Cristie, with so much on the line today and with an opportunity to win the event and also pick up that world No. 1 spot, what were your thoughts heading into today's final round?
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I figured if I could have another low round, I could manage to do it, but the weather conditions were a lot tougher today, and I didn't quite hit it good enough to get it done. I had a strong finish, though, which Top 5, hitting it the way I did this week is, I think, a victory.

 Q. Did you happen to know what you needed to do to pick up that No. 1 spot?
 CRISTIE KERR: No. I'm usually pretty oblivious. I'm usually the last to know anything like that, but why don't you tell me.

 Q. Well, let's just say you need a couple bogeys from these final groups and then you'll get it, but it really depends on other people right now. Let's talk about this round. It really seemed like you didn't pick up some momentum until those final holes. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I hit it really bad. You know, I'll tell you, I just worked so hard on my game this week, and sometimes you just don't quite have the swing. 
 I hit it not so great on the second round, shot 4-under. Yesterday was my best day of ball striking; I shot 6-under. And today was like the first day, so shoot 2-under hitting it the way I did, you know, I shot over par the first day, so I get to be in some warmer weather next week and work on my game.

 Q. Well, enjoy that warmth. Thanks, Cristie. 

 Q. Does it matter?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it definitely matters to me. I mean you play golf at the level that I play, you want to reach the pinnacle of your sport. 
 But I'm going to play golf for a long time, so whether I get it back for the third time this week or not, I have a lot of golf for the rest of the year.

 Q. That's what I was going to ask you, how many tournaments do you have left?
 CRISTIE KERR: Malaysia, Korea, Lorena's. I have four tournaments left.

 Q. Is that sort of the bigger deal to be No. 1 at the end of the year?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean, yeah, but you want to get there and stay there. I mean I've been there twice this year already, and the first time I lost the No. 1 ranking not playing a tournament, and then not playing a tournament I got it back. So it's weird how the averages work out.

 Q. How much did the weather mess you up today?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I just struggled with my swing kind of all week, and then the cold weather didn't help things much. You're supposed to have nice weather in Blackhawk here.

 Q. This is very unusual for October. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Is it? 

 Q. Very unusual. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Really? Because it's usually like hot.

 Q. It's usually like Thursday and Friday. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I mean it was not above 60 degrees today, and the ball was going nowhere. And not hitting it solid on top of that, I really had an amazing finish birdieing 16 and 18. Made a good par save on 17.

 Q. Was the course very wet?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah. Really wet. It took me eight minutes to get the mud off my shoes walking down the hill on 17, you know. 
 Ilhee hit it in the hazard, and you know, that'll -- unfortunately for her -- she made a great 5, but I was able to get the mud off my shoes when she went back there to off the tee again.

 Q. (Indiscernible) the greens when everything is rolling slow. 
 CRISTIE KERR: A lot slower. Yeah. You have to adjust, the conditions, and I left putts short out there, but I managed coming in and had a great finish.

 Q. Do you know anything about Beatriz? Have you played with her at all?
 CRISTIE KERR: I have played with her. She's not a very long hitter, but she's got a lot of will, a lot of spirit. And it seems like she's going to go on to win this tournament, so good for her.

 Q. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT