CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 16, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Cristie, what great playing. You started the week with a 73, went 68; 66 today. What have you been able to find over the last couple days?
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I hit it a little better every day. I didn't hit it very well the first day and I struggled with the putter big time, and you know, I've just worked really hard. I've been hitting balls until dark every night, and you know, just keeping a positive attitude, just trying to eliminate mistakes and, you know, get a lot of putts for birdie because that's where I tend to excel.

 Q. We certainly hear that from other players on the coverage. We asked them who they thought was the No. 1 putter on tour, and your name came up time and time again. So in your mind what makes you such a fierce putter on the greens?
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't know. I think confidence is a big part of it, but you have to be kind of an artist on the greens and be able to read the slope and feel the speed and have confidence, be able to stay still and hit the putt you're trying to hit. It's always been my favorite part of the game. You know, I have other favorite parts now, but you know, ever since I was a kid, it was the part that I liked to practice the most. So I don't know, it's just a gift from God, I guess.

 Q. Well, you have a chance to be No. 1 after this week, and you said that this roll ex-ranking race is kind of like a roller coaster ride. Are you enjoying this ride right now?
 CRISTIE KERR: I am, and I think I put a little too much pressure on myself on Thursday and just didn't play my own game, and when I'm playing my own game it's good enough, I think. So I'm just going to go out there and try and enjoy it tomorrow and have some fun and try and get as many putts at birdie as I can and we'll see what happens.

 Q. Cristie, great playing, and keep going. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Thanks. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you, you played great on the front nine and then you got to 11. You hit a great drive, and then you hit one kind of deep in that bunker down there and you got up-and-down. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Uh-huh.

 Q. How big was that?
 CRISTIE KERR: It was pretty big. You know, I tried a little too hard on the shot into the green and got mad at myself for that, but you know, kind of an awkward bunker shot. I had a leaf behind the ball.

 Q. Yeah, I saw that one. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, and just caught a little too much ball, but I made a great putt. And coming in, I had some chances. I didn't hit it quite close enough, you know, coming in to make 3 or 4, but you know, I played well on the back and was able to shoot 6-under today.

 Q. Talk about putting too much pressure on yourself. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.

 Q. Were you thinking about that No. 1 maybe a little bit?
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I mean you always think about it, but it has to reach a point where you have to be able to go out and play golf, because playing my own game is good enough to beat pretty much everybody, so if I can just play my own game and not pressure myself, that's my fatal flaw, if I have one, is I try too hard sometimes.

 Q. To be 12 shots off the pace after that first round and now you're right there. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.

 Q. It's right there. Are you surprised that you were able to make up that much?
 CRISTIE KERR: No. Not really. You know, even shooting 4-under yesterday I didn't hit it very well and I went over to another golf course on get on a range that was flat to be able to hit balls, and I hit balls till dark, and I definitely hit it better today. 
 Just gotta go out and if I can shoot a low one tomorrow, I'll be able to take the tournament. Obviously I've got -- I don't want to get ahead of myself. I want to be able to just try and do well on every shot and do the little things well like I did today.

 Q. As well as you shot today, there were other opportunities out there. You had 8. 
 CRISTIE KERR: There always are. Even if you shoot 61 like I did in Tulsa that one year. I parred the last five holes. So there always are. It's golf.

 Q. Where was the moth again?
 CRISTIE KERR: Oh, my God. On 15. Ask her about it.

 Q. It landed on your downswing. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Seriously, like I was like here, and it landed on me, and I was like -- I don't know how I stopped. I looked at my caddy and I'm like, did I swing at it? He's like no, you didn't. You stopped.

 Q. When you went back to it, what did you do with the shot after that?
 CRISTIE KERR: Oh, I hooked it. I hit the tree -- it was going in the hazard. I hit the tree and it came out and I hit a good shot out there and almost made birdie. But it was a lucky break. But I literally had to take two or three minutes because my heart was pounding in my chest, because it absolutely scared me.

 Q. You really thought that you had gone through?
 CRISTIE KERR: No. I didn't think I swung at it, but just to be sure I was like, what? No. I didn't get past like right here. It was like a stop.

 Q. If it was baseball, it would've been called a balk. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't know what it would have been called for -- that's actually what I thought about. I said to myself, even if it was baseball, I would have been safe. (Laughs).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT