NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 10, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 MODERATOR: Cristie, welcome back. Obviously kind of a disappointing day for you. Just talk a little bit about it. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I started off hitting it fairly well. You know, just couldn't get any of the putts to go in. Almost made birdie on 1, 3, 4. Good par save on 5. 
 Just couldn't quite get it as close to the hole. The reads were a little bit off. Hitting was a little bit off. Everything was kind of a little bit off. Couldn't get any momentum going.
 MODERATOR: I assume at 18 you knew you had to make birdies. I mean, Katherine was at 19.
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I knew I had to make birdie. It wasn't a mental error. I was in a downhill lie and I was aiming five yards left of the hole , and just started way right. You know, I've been kind of fighting that all week. 
 Some with the driver -- more with the driver, but it was one of the first irons that it kind of went that way. I was in between 8 and 9, and 9 would have been exactly where hers was. That wouldn't have been a very good opportunity for birdie.
 I was trying to chip it in at the very least, but I wasn't trying to knock it that far by the hole. I knew she was going to make par, so, you know, second- or third-place finish when you're trying to win a tournament is, you know, whatever. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. When you chipped it in on 12, did you think you were going to finally get things going and jumpstart your round?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I hoped. I hit a good iron on 13 and totally misread the putt. I had to bring my caddie in to help me read some of the putts.
 I didn't ever get into a flow for a couple holes in a row. I made that putt on 14; that was a great putt there. And almost one on 15. I had a chance on 16, 17, and just today things didn't go my way. 
 If I had played half as well as I played the first three days it would have been no contest. Obviously today I didn't play well. Even par is like shooting over par on this golf course. 

 Q. Did you know at any particular point what was going on? Like you said, the first couple holes you had some close shots. No. 3 was the one in particular that put it in there tight. Does that build momentum too, just like when you're making birdies the last couple days and when you're not making them on a day like today?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, like I said I couldn't get the momentum going. The putt on 3, I don't know whether I pushed it. I was in a big patch of like where the Bermuda has grown in. 
 And when I hit it, I thought it just bounced off the putter right. I don't think that I pushed it. But, I mean, it never had a chance. My reads were off all day. I probably misread that one as well. 
 Just kind of a tough day out there for me. 

 Q. With a tough day, is it disappointing to you to finish second or third in a tournament, or in this particular tournament? What's the reaction just to the overall play you had this week? 
 CRISTIE KERR: You know, I think I played very, very well this week. Obviously I didn't play as great today as I would have hoped. When you're leading a tournament by three shots, you certainly don't want to lose. You want to extend and win by a bigger margin. 
 I was able to do that earlier in the year, and today I wasn't. I'll learn from this experience. Some weeks are different. Some weeks you're thrilled to finish eighth because you didn't play well and you finished eighth. Obviously this is disappointing to finish second or third.

 Q. And to follow up on that, can you just talk about where you think it'll put you in it the Player of the Year standings?
 CRISTIE KERR: I'm not sure. I think I would have had to finish first or second by myself to have the chance to get that back. That's even more disappointing. 
 I gave it my all today and just didn't have any magic out there. 

 Q. Can you comment on Katherine's play? As the round was going on, seemed like she was building momentum her way like you did the last few days. She even left a few putts out there. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, she played very well. Yeah, it's probably some of the best golf I've seen her play. She was kind of, you know, playing within herself and knocking in putts. She was making the putts and I wasn't; that was the difference. 

 Q. I take it No. 1 is still a goal and it's doable in your view. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yes.

 Q. What's your take on getting there?
 CRISTIE KERR: No. 2 is definitely not my goal.

 Q. Stupid question. 
 CRISTIE KERR: That's okay. Yeah, No. 1 is definitely a goal of mine. 
 MODERATOR: Thanks, Cristie.
 CRISTIE KERR: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT