NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 7, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Welcome. Great play today. No bogeys; seven birdies. The leader right now. Tell us about the round.   
 CRISTIE KERR: I played great. You know, I thought I was going to be a little rusty coming off a three-week break. I just guess kept my expectations low today and just tried to do my mental stuff well.  
 I didn't hit the driver particularly great, but I hit in my irons great and putted well. I hit 18 greens. It was a great day. And even did an interview on the golf course.  
 MODERATOR: Really?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, for me that's different.  
 MODERATOR: That's fantastic. Any long putts, anything stand out for the birdies?   
 CRISTIE KERR: I made a couple long putts today, a couple good two-putts from some length. Started on the first hole and parred the first four, and then birdied 5, 6, 7, and 9.  
 Trying to think how long these putts were. You know, 5, 6, 7, and 9 were pretty close. All within 10 feet. Birdied 15. It was fairly close, five, six feet.   
 16 was probably the longest putt I made all day from about 20 feet. 18 I made about a 12-footer.  
 MODERATOR: I feel like I ask you this every week, but it continues to be a story. It's the Rolex Rankings No. 1. Now that you're No. 3, does that change your mindset at all? How much is that driving you to get back to No. 1?   
 CRISTIE KERR: It's definitely driving me. You know, I'm just going to, again, keep doing what I'm doing. Like at the LPGA Championship, I did what I did today every day. Obviously that's the goal.  
 To end up being No. 1 at the end the year, one would think that I would have to win at least one more tournament. It is on my mind, but I've had some time off and I feel refreshed. I'm breaking it down a little bit more simple now.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. Were you sick yesterday, or any particular reason that...  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I didn't feel that great in the morning. I love this golf course. Even we had carts in the pro-am, I heard. I just didn't feel great. You know, for like a week and a half I've been sick.   
 I think it was like one of the days I was starting to feel better, on Tuesday, I worked out and got a massage and I just overdid it. I woke up and just couldn't get out of bed. I just rested most of the day and came out here and played great today.  
  
  Q. Did you know early on that you were going to have that type of a round?  
 CRISTIE KERR: No, just kind of fell into it. I stayed in the moment the whole day. When you do a lot of things right, they add up in the right direction. That's what happened today. Just going to try that again: Keep my expectation low and not try and limit myself, like I did in Rochester.  
  
  Q. How about putting yourself in position? I know it's only one round, but it's your name at the top.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I like that. It's fun to be at the top of the leaderboard. It's only Thursday; can't win it on the first day. You've heard before you can lose it. It's great to be in this position at the top of the leaderboard right now, and I'm just going to try and build on this every day.  
  
  Q. Obviously you've been here before. What's your impression of the tee box being back on 17 and also on 8?   
 CRISTIE KERR: I think the tee box on 8, moving it back is good. It's a good, challenging tee shot. You have to hit two really good shots to get it up near the green somewhere, and the wind has to be downwind.  
 It would be good if they kind of moved it -- kept the tee box back and moved it -- kept the tee box back and moved it up and moved it back, you know, change the setup of the course a little.  
 And the tee box on 17 was there at least for the last couple years that I can remember.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it's the same as it was last year, to my knowledge. So I know they do move it up and back on that tee as well.   
  
  Q. Is it different on a course like this with no par-5 that can be reached in two? Is that unusual for courses that you play?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Seems like the LPGA keeps moving our par-5s back but keeps the par-4s very short. It would be nice to have a couple par-5s you could, you know, get to in two and for them to vary the setup and make some of the par-4s tougher.  
 We have a lot of short clubs into par-4s, and it seems like -- you know, and I'm not one of the shortest hitters. I'm probably top 20 in driving distance or somewhere around there. I can't really get to hardly any of 'em.   
 I played with Sophie Gustafson and Brittany Lincicome, and they could really only get to one today. I think they need to kind of look at the setup and just kind of do what the USGA does and change the setup of the course day to day instead of the same thing.  
 To make our courses longer, they're adding the length in the par-5s. That's kind of misleading as far as the courses playing longer. We just can't get to the par-5s. The course doesn't really play any longer, but that's one thing that I think -- we all try and do things to get better. That's one thing the tour, the people setting up the courses should kind of vary the setup.   
 On the other hand, it's hard because they're trying to make the course play so that play is fast, pace of play as well. So it's kind of tough job that they have.  
  
  Q. I asked (indiscernible), and she one of the reasons was it was the sun, because there is less sun this time of year. But that would also fit in with what you said around Saturday and Sunday because there's less field and...  
 CRISTIE KERR: What do you mean less sun?   
  
  Q. Because it's a week later than last year.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Right.  
  
  Q. So it's going to be difficult to get the whole field through today. I think that was part of it.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Right.   
  
  Q. When you're talking about the No. 1 ranking, does it help you, hurt you, when the top 2, 3 players - I mean, Ai is here, but just the two of you - does that give a chance with them not being here?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Ai is here this week?   
  
  Q. She is here.   
 CRISTIE KERR: I don't know. Yeah, I would say that -- I don't know. I mean, just because if she's not here she's going to be playing Japan, and that tour is pretty heavily weighted for the ranking as well.   
 You just got to play better than everybody at the end of the day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT