RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We have Cristie Kerr in the interview area. Cristie recently won the LPGA championship presented by Wegmans by no less than 12 shots. Pretty good effort. She also has a very good record in this championship, having had four top 10 finishes, including a tie for 5th the last time it was here at Birkdale. You obviously enjoy links golf.  
 CRISTIE KERR: I like it a lot. It's a different type of golf. You have to play the bounds. I really love this golf course.  
 THE MODERATOR: Is there anything in particular you like about Birkdale?   
 CRISTIE KERR: I just like how it's out in front of you and you can see where you need to go. And, you know, the approach shots into the green, they fit my eye. And these greens are very good. So I like the course a lot.  
 THE MODERATOR: How was it playing in the Pro-Am today; it was probably a little wet, wasn't it?   
 CRISTIE KERR: The first four, five holes we played in the rain, and it was quite cold. And then we expected it to rain the rest of the day. But it actually cleared up. So I don't think even the weather people know what's going to happen here. But I think I shot even or 1-under par today in the tough conditions. So I played well.  
 THE MODERATOR: Can I harken back to your great win a few weeks back, winning by 12 shots. Is that the best golf you played in your life?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Absolutely. Like I said, that week was a dream performance. Struggled a little bit the last couple of weeks, and hopefully I can play well this week.  
 THE MODERATOR: It's obviously a major championship. But you go in here this week with a fantastic race, at the top of the players' rankings. Does that add a little of spice to the whole thing as well?   
 CRISTIE KERR: It does. Every week counts, and you have a chance to be No. 1 every week. So it's going to be exciting until the end of the year.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. How important is it to finish the season world as No. 1?  
 CRISTIE KERR: It's very important. I worked my whole life for it. I'm in a position now to do it. There's so much golf left this year that, you have to be in it kind of every week. And your bad finishes need to be in the top 10. It's an exciting time for the LPGA because we have a number of different players that can be No. 1. It's very important to me, though.  
  
  Q. On that note, do you think that if you win the tournament by 12 shots, you should get extra points in the rankings?   
 CRISTIE KERR: No, it doesn't work like that, obviously. But it certainly felt well to play that well in Rochester and to win another major championship. I've been close the last couple of years from my U.S. Open win in 2007, and it was good to get another major championship.   
 For a world No. 1, for the rest of the year, it's going to probably take another couple tournament wins. I've had a good start to the season as far as trying to accomplish that and I've got to keep playing well.  
  
  Q. It was a while back, but do you have any strong memories of 2005 here?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I remember how bad the weather was. But I played a lot of good golf that week. And I birdied, I think I birdied the last hole to finish 5th. And this golf course is one of the best in the world. So it should be a good week.  
  
  Q. How much is becoming world No. 1 on your mind throughout the week, or can you keep that off your mind while you concentrate on the job at hand?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I have to keep my eyes on the job at hand, because I've been No. 1. I've lost that. Gone to 2nd or 3rd now. So it's time to chase that and get that back. It's a fun challenge. You've got to post good rounds, consecutive good rounds, and then it will happen again.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT