U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Cristie Kerr shot a round of 1-over par, 72. It was a long, hot day. Let's take questions from you. 

 Q. Tough start. What goes through your mind after a start like that, particularly after what you did two weeks ago?
 CRISTIE KERR: Sure. Well, it's a different golf course. There's not going to be 19-under on this course. If somebody is under par at the end of the week, I'd be surprised. 
 Yeah, it was a tough start. Had a great tee shot off the first hole, and, you know, I was just kind of in between clubs. You just can't miss short there, even if you hit it over where I did is fine. I just kind of misjudged how firm the bounce and the chip would be, and I bogeyed the first and then hit in the rough on the second. 
 I would venture to guess the second hole the scoring average is over 5, even though it's a short hole, that pin placement. And, you know, just kind of made a good up and down on the third hole. 
 You know, from there I was able to make two birdies. You know, I was kind of fighting momentum all day. You know, I had a great, you know, birdie chance on 9, but I hit it in the bunker. You know, kind of slowed my momentum down a little bit and just kind of -- the heat got to me a little bit on the par-3. Just kind of was a little light-headed. 
 Was kind of on I think the 13th hole is the -- this is confusing me. Let's see, 10, 11, 12, the 13th hole I guess. 
 MODERATOR: 12 is a par-3, and 15 is a par-3.
 CRISTIE KERR: 12 is a par-3? No, 12 is a par-5. 12 is a par-5.
 MODERATOR: Well, they've got this wrong.
 CRISTIE KERR: That's wrong. 13 is the par-3. That's all wrong on your sheet there. Yeah, 13 is the par-3. Just kind of, you know, I thought the putt was going to be faster and just kind of lost it mentally for a second and just realized I needed to start drinking some Gatorade. 
 Unfortunately, that was a mental error and it led to a bogey. You know, I had I chip that could have gone in on 15 from the right side of the green. I don't know how it didn't go in. It just totally lipped out. 
 You know, just hit it in the bunker on 17, so I didn't really have a lot of momentum, but I didn't really make a lot of mistakes today.
 So, you know, I think I'll get some rest, and, you know, get out here fresh and early in the morning.
 MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Can you remember a round that took longer? And how much tougher did that make an already tough course to take so long?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it definitely did. The USGA said they wanted to us play 4:40, 4:45. There's 156 people in the field; on this golf course, there's no way. We were an hour over that. We all knew that. 
 But, you know, it was definitely hot. It started cooling down later in the round, but it was definitely hot in the middle of the day. That's definitely a factor when you're out here -- I got to the golf course this morning at like 11:00, so I've been out here for eight hours already in this heat and practicing. 
 I hung in there today pretty well, and I think that's a pretty good start for me in this tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT