LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2010
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pretty stiff wind today. I didn't get to d see you on 3, but I'm sure that probably had something to do with the bogey. But otherwise, a pretty consistent round, another -5 for you.
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I played really well. Putted well again. Have a good feel for the greens. 
 I just played a bad hole on 3. Kind of hit it right off the tee, way right. My putt actually lipped out. 
 So I've been playing great. Just got to keep it going.

 Q. To be two rounds and be at the top of the leaderboard -- I know you've had success here in Springfield before -- but just to head into the weekend, to know that you're already at the top of the list, you don't have work to do to climb, that's got to be a good feeling as well?
 CRISTIE KERR: Definitely. You know, I think that I'm gonna try and just keep doing what I'm doing , and maybe I'll be able to pull away from the field a little bit going into the weekend. 
 But can't take anything for granted. You've got to play every shot the best you can. You know, obviously that would be the best-case scenario. You know, want to be there come Sunday. 

 Q. Did the wind change at all from when you tee'd off to the afternoon, or was it just kind of stiff and gusty all day? 
 CRISTIE KERR: It was stronger when we tee'd off in the morning today than it was yesterday, and it's just steadily picked up. I think the front played pretty tough. There are some holes that are very into the wind.
 I kind of didn't play 3 and 4 that great, but I was able to save par on 4, and that kind of propelled me for the rest of the back.

 Q. You mentioned No. 3. Some players said a couple holes in particular seemed like they played differently today because of the wind. Some of 'em mentioned 15. I mean, I don't know, 3 or 15 or whatever... 
 CRISTIE KERR: No, I mean, you just kind of got to play what's in front of and you play to the best of your ability. There was definitely a little stronger wind and more holes into the wind on the front nine. 
 But I tried not to really be like, Oh, my God. I can hit whatever shot's in front of me. 

 Q. You're from Florida. It blows down there. You sound like you're feeling a lot better today. 
 CRISTIE KERR: I'm feeling a little bit better, but I've definitely got a cold. I'm glad to have the afternoon off. I was coughing most of the night, like a dry cough. Just kind of didn't sleep well an again.
 Hopefully I'll not sleep well again for the next two days and keep shooting 5-under. 

 Q. You had two -5 unders. You got to be pretty happy. 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean, I've done really well the last couple days. They're behind us now. I've got to focus on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT