LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2009
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. Great round today, tied for the lead depending what happens with the last group. If you would take us through your day, obviously pretty nice today.  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, absolutely, today I just could think of Fred Couples and Corey Pavin at Sawgrass, when I made that shot, because that does not happen very often. That's probably a one in thousand, maybe more. So that was really cool. I've been playing great all week.   
 My mental game I feel like is back to where it was at the beginning, middle of the year. I got caught up in the whole Player of the Year, which obviously I want to do; but to do that I need to do my mental stuff well. So just going to go out there tomorrow and remember that's proven, and the rest will take care of itself.   
  
  Q. Of all of the players currently fighting for the lead, you're the player with the most skill out there --  
 CRISTIE KERR: Are you calling me old?   
  
  Q. No, I didn't say that. Experience, you know. How do you think that experience might help you tomorrow, because you've been in those situations before?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, this is why I play golf, to have a chance to win golf tournaments. Yeah, I'm definitely going to count on my experience. Just going to take it day by day and just try to shoot my target score every day and so far I'm doing that. Go out there tomorrow and just try to be selfish for what I want to do, and if I do that, then it the rest will take care of itself. You know, my experience will definitely help me out tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about becoming really tight (for the lead).   
 CRISTIE KERR: That doesn't bother me. It's better than being five shots back. I said to my caddie, today is moving day and that's what I did, I moved into position, and I'm excited to be where I am.   
 This is what Tiger Woods does every week. This is where he wants to be and this is where I want to be, and I'm more and more comfortable being around the lead. I've been close this year, so this is another testament to how hard I'm working and where I want to be.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little bit more about your business ventures, your wine brand, and how is Birdies for Breast Cancer doing and how do you feel about giving back to the community and what's ahead for your foundation?  
 CRISTIE KERR: Birdies for Breast Cancer is doing really well. We had an event in New York City and we opened the Cristie Kerr Women's Health Center at Liberty Medical Center in Jersey City, New Jersey. We are probably going to give about 100,000 from the event to the hospital which is just from the event. It was our first event in the New York City area. So we plan on having another four or five years at least in that area at Liberty National Golf Club.   
 We are also making wine, like you said, it's called Curvature. We are just in the final process of getting the licenses. It's easier to make wine than it is to get the federal licensing if you can believe that. It will be for sale probably in the next month for the holiday time and 100 percent of the proceeds from that are going to go for breast cancer research, probably to the center, as well. It's very exciting and hopefully going to raise at least 100,000 from that, production of the wine.   
 We are going up to Napa hopefully in December to make our next two years vintages of wine. It's fun for us to go to do that and also to give back. Thom Filicia, who is the designer on the show "Queer Eye For the Straight Guy" is going to be helping us design our women's health center. He also lost his mother to breast cancer, and we are collaborating a lot. So everything is doing great. Thank you for asking.   
  
  Q. What was key for you today?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I just played very solidly like I have all week. It's been lower every day, as well. I made a par putt on No. 15 that was key. I hit a good iron into the green but really misjudged the wind, so made about a 9-footer for par there, and then I holed out on 16.   
 So it's all about momentum and trying to capture the momentum, and then great up-and-down on 17 and I parred 18.   
 So just take that into tomorrow.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT