NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 3, 2009
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Was it just getting out early and going today?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I think it was. You know, I kind of knew that I needed low round. I just wanted it to feel good for myself, because it hadn't felt good.   
 Just wanted to have fun. It was a lot more fu in out there today. (Laughing.) Just kind of clicked to my caddie. Talked to him and said, We gotta go back to doing some of the stuff we'd been doing in the beginning of the year, about thinking about where you want to leave the ball on the green instead of trying to pick the perfect club. We just clicked out there today.  
  
  Q. Right. That's perfect. And with your (indiscernible) how much confidence does that give you?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Well, I went back to my two ball. I told my caddie, Just shoot me if I try and switch away from the two ball.   
 Because sometimes when you don't see things going in, even if you don't feel you're putting poorly, you switch. Like I've been doing that the last couple weeks and Samsung, and here I'm back to my two ball.  
  
  Q. So looking forward to tomorrow. You've done this before.   
 CRISTIE KERR: I am. Yeah, I mean, this is the same position I was in last year. I'll have to have another round like I did today, but I played great today. That's all I can ask for, is try and do this every day.   
  
  Q. And having eight birdies and no bogeys and knowing the donations are going to Birdies for Breast Cancer...   
 CRISTIE KERR: Absolutely. And we just partnered with question Kwiat. I'm sure you've seen it. Go to kwiat.com. We just partnered with them. They're sponsoring me. I have an exclusive partnership with them. They've made these Kwiat star earrings and necklace that they'll be selling from there and retailers around the country.   
 So if people want to go and buy it, they can either call the Madison Avenue boutique or they can, you know, go online. I don't know if they'll be available online, but you'll be able to go to different retailers and they're gonna sell these. We're gonna get 10% of the proceeds.   
  
  Q. Great.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT