P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 11, 2009
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Cristie, welcome. Thanks for coming in here. You're enjoying a great year thus far, one win. You're on top of the Money List for the year. If you can just kind of talk about the year and how you're feeling coming into this week.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Besides my allergies today, I played the course beautifully. I hit the ball great. Putting and chipping are back to where they were around the time of Kingsmill and the British and Evian. I think that I'll be ready to play this weekend.   
 Yeah, I have been having a great year, have done a lot of stuff right. Last couple weeks I think I've been kind of trying to rebound after the Solheim Cup a little bit, but I think I'm going to be ready to play here in Northwest Arkansas.  
  
  Q. Cristie, your third year playing here. I'm just kind of wondering what you think of the course changes and how that maybe will play to your game.   
 CRISTIE KERR: Sure. I think they're going to be great for me. I think what they've done to the golf course turned out beautiful. The greens are amazing. They're putting very true, nice speed. Not bumpy at all.   
 I think the changes that they made to the course made the course better. So I like the changes.  
  
  Q. Your allergies normally bother you like this?  
 CRISTIE KERR: You know, it depends where we go. It depends on what's in bloom. I'm highly allergic to rag weed, so I think with all the rain and everything, that's kind of come out and I forgot to take my medicine this morning.   
 My Pro-Am guys had one of their wives go get me some Zyrtec from the store, and I just took it on the 18th hole and it hasn't kicked in yet.  
  
  Q. How important would it be finishing on the top of the Money List to you?  
 CRISTIE KERR: It would be very important. It's definitely one of my goals and something I want to achieve this year, but I can't lose sight of how I've gotten to this point, which is doing the small things well, doing my mental stuff well, working out. And later in the year it becomes more difficult to try and do those things, because you're more tired.   
 So I think that -- you know, I went home after Canada for a day and a half to Arizona, saw my dog, was in the house, slept in my own bed, and I think that kind of has recharged me a little bit. I feel more rested. I feel like the last couple weeks in Canada and Portland I might have put a little bit too much pressure on myself, but still even not playing well, I finished in the Top 20. So I think that's a sign of how I've elevated my game.   
 I feel a little bit more at peace with what I have to do and what I'm trying to do this week, so I think that's a good thing for me.   
  
  Q. Cristie, on the Solheim Cup, I think you had a quote to the effect of how do I make the last putt if it comes down to me, something along that, and I think maybe they clinched it before it got to that point.   
 CRISTIE KERR: They did.   
  
  Q. Was that sort of for the benefit of maybe the younger players on the team to sort of inspire confidence in them?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I think, yes, definitely. But you know, I really did mean what I said. I would have loved to have the opportunity to clinch for the team or if it even came down to an 18th hole to have to make a six or seven-putt to win, that I wouldn't let my team down. I would do that. It almost did.  
 I think that Beth Daniel was a great captain and Meg and Kelly Robbins were great assistant captain, and they shuffled around with the singles where they wanted to. And towards the end of the singles rounds, they had us positioned perfectly, that if it came down to us, which it did to one of the last couple matches. Morgan was behind me actually and closed out her match before I finished, and I was 1-up, had hit a perfect drive on the 18th hole, and everybody was running back and forth on the green on the 18th hole. And it's hard to want to hit it at the green when there are people like running around, and I hit it way right.   
 But you know, had I needed to win that hole or had that hole to win the Solheim Cup, I would have been prepared to do that.   
 That's why you play the game. That's why you want to be one of the best in the world because those are the fun things to do.  
  
  Q. What does winning the Solheim Cup mean to you?  
 CRISTIE KERR: It's definitely one of the highlights of my career. It's playing with your very best friends and peers in a team event against Europe, it's one of the LPGA's Marquis events. It's playing for your country, for your teammates. It's definitely one of the highlights of my career.  
  
  Q. When we talked to Michelle Wie yesterday, she kind of singled you out as somebody that helped her along and was kind of a leader on the team and helped her with things. What kind of things did you try to do with Michelle to try to introduce her to what the Solheim Cup is all about?  
 CRISTIE KERR: I played every practice round with her. I've known her since she was 12 years old and we've actually become very good friends. She's a great kid. She really is. And I say kid because she's still 19, and I'm 31 now, turning 32 this year.   
 I played every practice round with her. She was my partner. I was surprised we only played one match together, and I just tried to make her feel comfortable and let her know what to expect, because she said even just around us during the week that it's so much more than she expected, and I tried to prepare her for that.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right? Good?   
 CRISTIE KERR: Okay. All right. Thank you guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT