U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2009
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you just talk about your round today? You had a great round.
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah. It was quite the show out there. You know what, I was kind of feeling really light-headed when I started. I don't know whether it was the cardio I did before the round. I ate enough, but just maybe a little pumped up.
 Just kind of felt light-headed, and when I get like that, it's kind of hard for me to have feel, and I just hit some really bad shots starting out. And started to feel better, you know, the third, fourth or fifth hole in when I started to settle down a little bit. And I hit some amazing shots on the Back 9, which was my front. And you know, putting, I feel like I'm putting great, so if I get it up there, I have a pretty good chance to make it.
 And then just kind of hit a bad layup on No. 1, and then got kind of a really bad lie, and then you know, ended up making bogey and didn't hit a very good drive on 2, but 3, I was just like, okay, just fairways and greens. This is the Open. This is going to happen to everybody. Hit it on the fairway and green and made birdie, and I got the momentum back, and I played great coming in.
 The pin on 8 is really tough. Hit a great chip just to get it 12 feet. I actually hit a decent drive off the tee, maybe a foot in the rough, and you know, were in between clubs, and you know, my 9-iron distance was right into the lip of that bunker, and I was thinking to myself I don't really want to do that. I can get up-and-down from over the green if it goes over, and I actually hit a good chip and a good putt and it didn't go in.
 And 9, that's as good as I can hit a 7-wood, went over the green and kind of a weird lie and made a great up-and-down. So I played great. I got the momentum back when it went the other way, and that's kind of how the end of the round ended up.

 Q. How does it feel midway through the tournament compared to Sunday when you won?
 CRISTIE KERR: It feels great. It's great to know that I've won one, and I know I can do it on the weekend. I feel very comfortable.
 Nobody's immune to getting pumped up and having adrenaline obviously, but I feel very comfortable with my mindset and my game plan and what I have to do. So I feel like I know what I have to do, instead of in '07 you're kind of like, well, what do I do in this situation. How are you going to feel, teeing up in the final group on Sunday. I kind of know what that feels like, so I kind of have a little advantage there.

 Q. The light-headedness you're talking about, what cured that? Is that like a vitamin drink that cured it?
 CRISTIE KERR: No. I just made sure, you know, I started to eat a bit. Sometimes when I don't -- when I get in the competition, sometimes I don't eat quite enough in the afternoon rounds. And I did. Sometimes you can't control that, you know, from being a little pumped up.
 It is the U.S. Open, after all, and just kind of settled down, and I kind of flushed whatever I was feeling out of my system. I drank a lot of water, and started to feel better.
 Once I started to feel better, I got the feel back, and you know, on 13, which is a good place for it to show up, when I had my practice swing and hit the ground, I could actually feel myself hit the ground, so I hit a really great shot on the green there. And I told John, that's the first practice swing I could actually feel hitting the ground, so I was kind of back. And I played great, you know, for the rest of the day.
 It's not playing easy out there. Shoot under par, I said I wanted to try and shoot under par every day, and here we are halfway through and I've done it. So obviously that's my goal the next two days is to just try and shoot under par.

 Q. Given all that's happened this week, how important is it to have you and Paula in the final group?
 CRISTIE KERR: It's great. I got the question earlier in the week, why aren't more American golfers playing well, and I think we're kind of answering that question.
 It's important for women's golf, and especially girls junior golf here in America to have us up there. That's how I learned, wanted to be a professional golfer is by watching the U.S. Open and watching the LPGA on TV and seeing those stars up there, so it's important.

 Q. When the crowd's following you (indiscernible).
 CRISTIE KERR: No. It's more about the competition for me, and the golf.
 It is awesome to have the fans rooting you on, and they are this week, kind of in my corner, I think. And it's just about the competition. It's about excited to execute the shot the way you want to. I hit some really good drives on the back, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. Will you work on anything tonight?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah. Just going to work on simplifying. You know, sometimes I get the club a little too far away from me instead of a little more narrow. So like a little more L swing-ish, so I'll go work on that a little bit and then go home. It's almost 7.

 Q. Between 16 and 17 the feel comes back on those three holes?
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah. On 13 and 14 I started to keep feeling better. Maybe I was a little dehydrated. Sometimes that can do it to you and I did a little cardio before I teed off. So maybe I got a little dehydrated.
 I'm not going to get into my family history, but my mom has an issue with potassium, so maybe I'm predisposed to that or something. I drank enough water and I had one of those Amino-Vital things, which helped, and I started to feel better and just kind of when you're going and you're in the groove, you gotta keep going as much as you can. And those three birdies certainly helped.
 I hit a great shot into the green on 18 and hit the down slope. I made 18, 5, 9. Those greens are getting really crunchy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT