U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2009
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRISTIE KERR: Yes. The greens were actually a lot firmer this morning than we thought they were going to be, and the greens were definitely in the upward ranges of 12 to 13. 
 There were a lot of greens that were near slopes and to have where you could take a free run at it, I only had two or three of those today. So it was great golf. It was about what we expected.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 CRISTIE KERR: No. Just we were at a U. S. Open. You know, you can. You gotta be concerned with everything. 
 It was a funny story. I actually got up-and-down from over there. A bottle of wine for my caddie. So I have good memories from that. 
 Short game can never be too good. You have to try and make that the best part of your game because you're going to have periods of time like today where I hit it great and not so great. So you gotta keep your momentum going so you can keep the momentum going and hit good golf shots.

 Q. (Inaudible). How much of a difference does that make?
 CRISTIE KERR: It's terrific. You know, I've said I'm going to take each day as its own separate competition, almost. And today I won for myself, and I'm just going to go out and do the same thing the next three days and not get ahead of myself, and that's what I seem to do on tough conditions, which is to my advantage, and I'm just going to go out and play my game. 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 CRISTIE KERR: Always. Always in golf.

 Q. Any one stand out?
 CRISTIE KERR: Not really. I was in the moment and hitting each shot, and they're not all going to turn out the way you want. I wish I would have hit a couple putts a little harder or softer here or there, but that's golf.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 CRISTIE KERR: Yeah. Definitely. The greens are starting to get a little baked. There's no wind to get firm, to get really firm, and the edges of the cups are going to start drying out. And I'll tell you, every single pin today with the exception of maybe one or two is near a slope or on a slope, which not unfairly, but you have to really be paying attention to what's going on today, and I think the afternoon if the greens speed up, might have a little trouble on the greens.

 Q. (Inaudible).
 CRISTIE KERR: You know, I hit it right of the hole there, and it wasn't too bad actually. There's -- 18 is a peach. You know, 17 is actually a pretty flat spot. 16 is a pretty flat spot. I'd say 15 is right in the middle of like if you're below the hole it goes to the left. And then back to the right. If you're above the hole, it goes hard left, so you really have to kind of watch what's going on.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 CRISTIE KERR: You know, I'll have my caddie to go out and scope out the course and see what's going on and see if there are any pins we need to be cautious with, but you just play a little bit more run at them in the afternoons, and off the tees might be some different clubs instead of drivers and we've been here enough.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT