U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2008
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. How was the day? Restarting?
  
CRISTIE KERR: Restarting? 
 
  
Q. Were you in any kind of rhythm, did the rain affect you at  
all?
 CRISTIE KERR: I was in a good rhythm. But I was happy to get a chance to hit a few practice balls on the range. Work on my swing a little bit.
 I  
got a chance to stretch a little bit in the locker room and I think  
that helped me coming in. I'm just pissed off at myself because  
I hit it right off 9. And I stopped because a bug flew in my  
ball and then I started my routine again and I don't think I was quite  
settled so I'm mad at myself for not being quite in the routine like I  
was the first time I was over the ball. I did start over but  
sometimes I was in the middle of a swing like I can't usually stop too  
well. So I did. It startled me a little bit because I was  
prepared for the gnats. The gnats are fine but it was a big  
fly. It flew on my ball. So I'm kind of mad at myself that  
I didn't get back deep enough into my routine and I'll learn from that  
for the next two days.
 
  
Q. Did you swing at it? Did you get it?
  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it went somewhere. I should have  
killed it. 
 
  
Q. Look at the big picture though, you've got to be happy with 4- 
under going into the weekend?
 CRISTIE KERR: I played well. I've had some good breaks, had some bad breaks, but I guess that's everybody out here. I almost holed out from the fairway on 7 and it spun back like 25 feet. So that's going to happen after a little bit of the rain. 

 I  
just got to take out of this that I'm in position again and I have  
that fire. I've got it. 
 
  
Q. What similarities can you draw from last year, except for the  
rain delay?
 CRISTIE KERR: The feeling I have inside me. The feeling I have inside my head and my heart. The ability I feel like I have right now to get it done. So it's not pressure on myself, it's just nice to have that feeling.
 
  
Q. Did you have much of an angle from the trees on nine?
 CRISTIE KERR: I had a chance. I had about a -- maybe about a 10 foot opening, 12 foot opening and I had a pretty good lie but my caddie basically said it's Friday afternoon or Friday nine o'clock at night, why? Give yourself a chance at par, why risk it this early in the tournament. And I tended to agree with him. I've been known to pull off some pretty amazing shots, but you do that when you have to and there's a lot of golf left. So I feel like I'm playing well and it wasn't a time that I needed to do something desperate.
 
  
Q. Coming in here that fire, is that something that sort of  
builds?
 CRISTIE KERR: This golf course -- this golf course and Pine Needles just turns my switch on. That's the only way I can describe it.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT