ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2007
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Very satisfying to get into tomorrow?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, absolutely.  This is a really fun format, and I didn't make it into the final day last year.  You know, it is very satisfying.  I played very well today.   
 I didn't try and go super-low, but I'm hoping I'm saving my best for last tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  How aggressive do you have to be tomorrow do you feel?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  You know, it just depends.  It depends on the tee time, if you're first out, last out.  I mean, tomorrow with the scores being erased again and the weather probably going to be good, you've just got to try to do the best you can.  Pins are going to be tough, it's going to be a different day out there, there's going to be a little bit more nerves from people probably.  I'm just going to take the same attitude I've been taking into this tournament every day and take it into tomorrow and not put pressure on myself.   
 I've felt the presence of destiny all week, and I'm just going to keep feeling that.   
  
  Q.  Will it be at all like sleeping on the lead tonight?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  Not really because you never know what's going to happen.  You never know with the wind and with the pins and with what people are feeling inside.  I've been pretty calm all week actually.  It's eerie, it's a similar feeling to the Open I had, so hopefully I'll be able to carry that into tomorrow.  I've got nothing to lose.  This is a winner-take-all format, so even if you play great and finish second you're not taking home the big money.  I really have nothing to worry about.   
  
  Q.  Are practice rounds overrated?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  No, it would have been nice to get a practice round.  They were very nice in letting us play a couple holes when we got in.   
 It was a horrible mechanical problem we had, a pressurization issue with the airplane.  We actually got pretty lucky because we waited about two hours for catering, and it was the only food we were going to be able to eat all night.  Had that plane taken off, who knows what would have happened, so we were very lucky we didn't take off.   
  
  Q.  How did you discover that?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  We all went to the snack bar to grab a burger and the warning light came on, so we were going to bring everything back in the plane, and they're like, we're going to be here a while.  That's the way it goes, you have a safe plane and no practice round.   
  
  Q.  So you deplaned because there was no food on the plane?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  We were waiting for the catering for like an hour and a half, two hours, so after an hour and a half we went in to get some food and then the warning light came in while we were in the snack bar.   
  
  Q.  Could have been like a Payne Stewart type of deal?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  I was good friends with Payne and that was a terrible loss, and the LPGA certainly didn't need to lose three of its marquee players.  It was the safest thing to just get a different airplane.   
  
  Q.  How interesting will it be with the pick-your-tee-time draft today?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  I don't really know too much about that.  I heard it's just whoever shoots the low round gets to pick the tee time.   
  
  Q.  My understanding is the names come out of a hat.   
 CRISTIE KERR:  I don't really care.  You know what, you can look at it two ways, there's an advantage to posting a number and there's an advantage to knowing what's going on.  I think you've just got to golf your ball around this course and I'm just going to maintain my really relaxed attitude into tomorrow.  You really have nothing to worry about.  You make it on the last day, you're a winner anyways.   
  
  Q.  Is there one side or the other that you feel more comfortable with?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  No, not really.  I'm a member here, I love this golf course.   
  
  Q.  Do you pay more attention to the scoreboards here than you do in a normal tournament?   
 CRISTIE KERR:  Maybe the last nine holes.  People always think I don't look, but I know where I stand.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT