CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you just talk about the round? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  It was probably one of my best ball-striking rounds of the whole year, and just putting miserably, and I figured it out on the last hole and I made a birdie.  I made a putt and it went right in the middle.  I've made nothing over the last two days and got one back, so that's really encouraging.  If I keep hitting it the way I've been hitting it and start rolling the ball, come Sunday it could be good. 

 Q.  Is that what you have to do, to just kind of hang around, hang around, be within striking distance? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, it is.  It's great to be leading, but most of the time when you're a little bit behind -- well, statistically speaking, we've charted it over the years, and people that are leading going into the final round -- depends on the person, obviously Tiger is one of them, Se Ri is one of the people that win when they're leading, but it's not always an advantage. 
 If I get only a couple back tomorrow or tied, it's going to be a good Sunday. 

 Q.  Do you expect the field to come back to you, or are you going to have to chase them? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  No, I'm going to have to chase.  Although, I don't know, I think the weather forecast might be for rain tomorrow.  It just depends on the weather.  If the weather remains the same, I'm going to have to put up a couple good 60s rounds over the next two days. 

 Q.  Playing in the afternoon, was that a little different than yesterday? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  You know, I thought the conditions were a lot more similar than sometimes.  Sometimes it can be a lot firmer in the afternoon.  The fairways were a little firmer today, but I thought the greens were still fairly receptive, and the green speed might have been a tinge slower today.  But pretty similar. 

 Q.  So just the putting that hasn't -- 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, you know, been doing a drill to kind of like shorten my stroke and make me accelerate more, and I think I'm doing that.  The only difference is these greens aren't lightning fast, so I think I'm coming up really short on a lot of putts. 
 My stroke naturally is very long and fluid, and sometimes it gets too long.  That's why I do that drill.  But I've got to stop doing it right now because it's going to have a little bit of an opposite effect. 

 Q.  Are these greens still a little tough to read? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  I think they're a little bit tough to read.  You know, only 8-under is leading after two days, which most times it's double digits, so these greens are a little bit more subtle to read. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT