CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about the round. 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Well, I hit it pretty good.  I didn't putt as well as I would have liked to.  I had a lot of chances out there for birdie and missed a couple short putts today.  I have a lot to work on, but all that being said, I shot 2-under and I'm only four back at this point and it's only Thursday, so there's a lot to be positive about. 

 Q.  How did the course play? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  I think there were a couple holes that played downwind that were kind of easy, and then coming in, 16, 17 and 18 were all into the wind.  18 is playing tough today, you're going to see a lot of bogeys there.  I unfortunately hit it in the right rough, had a bad lie and just made bogey.  Like I said, it's only Thursday. 

 Q.  Do you think of yourself as the defending champ when you're out on the course? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, absolutely.  It's always been a goal of mine, I want to defend.  And this is a good start for me. 

 Q.  How good is 6-under out there? 
 CRISTIE KERR:  It's really good.  You know, I think that people that played early in the morning might not have had quite as much wind, but that's a really good score on this course. 

 Q.  The greens, a lot of people are just -- like you did on the 18th, everything is so close but just not falling. 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, I think there are some greens that are really smooth and some that are bumpy, just because they had a lot of rain last week, and it depends on where some of the greens fall as far as sunshine. 
 But they're very good, and I think the reads are very subtle out here.  First day on the course in competition I shot 2-under, so I've got to be pretty positive about that. 

 Q.  I just want to ask you about the approachability of you guys out here.  During the Pro-Ams it's been so good, you're the defending champ, just made a bogey on the last hole and still took the time to sign the autographs.  I don't know about the men's Tour, but you guys make it a point to give people your time. 
 CRISTIE KERR:  Absolutely.  I think that's part of the job, and it's important.  I like signing autographs.  That's the reason why we have a job and why it's fun to play, so I'm always happy to do it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT