CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2006
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRISTIE KERR:   I bogeyed 6.  I hit it in the rough off the tee and kind of hit it short to the green in the rough and chipped it up there about nine feet beyond the hole, 10 feet, and almost made it.

11, I hit like a gripped pitching wedge to about six feet, made that.

12, I hit it right off the tee again and got it in the same spot, exact same spot I hit it yesterday, but the pin was way left, and pitched it in.  Out of the rough, back in my stance 9 iron, just pitched it and let it run.  It was 80 feet if it was a foot.  It was great.

A great up and down on 13 for par.

15, again a little pitching wedge to about 5 feet, made that, and then I had makable putts on 16 and 18, just didn't    the read wasn't right.  I left a lot of putts short in the heart today.  It was kind of a little scrambling round for me.  I didn't hit it great.  I'm going to go work on that when I'm done.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Even though you say you didn't hit it great, you still had three birdies on the back nine.  Talk about the rest of the round and going into preparing for tomorrow, for the weekend.
CRISTIE KERR:  I'm going to go hit a lot of golf balls.  I'm sure that makes my caddie very happy.  I've just been struggling a little bit the last    well, more today than any other today, hit it thin and right and gross.  I know what I have to work on.  But it's hard to fix it on the course sometimes when you're in your mental frame of mind and you're playing in a competition, it's really hard to fix that sometimes.  You try a couple of different things, it didn't quite work.  Jason is like, one more hole and we can go work on it on the range.

My caddie kept me up and positive when I wasn't hitting it well.  You know, I scrambled well and my short game was unbelievable, which when you're not hitting it well, to shoot 2 under is a good thing.
Q.  As much as you say you're not hitting it so well, it seems like yourself, Lorie and Angela, each had rounds where you made some birdies but gave back some shots too.  Is the course playing that much tougher today?
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, I think the greens are getting hard, firm.  Like I said yesterday, I thought as the week goes on they're going to get firmer.  You know, they tucked a couple more pins today.  This is a great course.  There are a lot of great pins on the greens here that really    even if it's a short hole    you know, I had lob wedge into the last hole and I did everything I could do to keep it on the green because the green was so hard.  So it's a testament to how great this course is and the condition of it.  They can make it play as easy as they want it or as tough as they want it because of the hole locations.
Q.  I don't have a question about today's round.  Can I ask you a question not on today's round?
CRISTIE KERR:  Yes.
Q.  Last year you appeared on an episode of The Apprentice.  Is that true?
CRISTIE KERR:  Yes.
Q.  You weren't a contestant, so what you were you doing on there?
CRISTIE KERR:  I was the prize for the team who won the challenge, the team who won the challenge, to be able to play golf with me and Donald.  Since the very first ADT Championship, which was our tour championship.  Obviously the format has changed for this year, but four or five years ago I met Donald there at Mar a Lago and struck up a friendship and just played a lot of golf with him.  He called me out of the blue one day and said, Do you want to do this?  And I said Sure.

I got to ride on his helicopter from New York City out to Bedminster, New Jersey, and then back.  So it was great.  I think he is a tremendous person and he does a lot for the game of golf, and women's golf more importantly.

We have the biggest tournament at his course purse wise, not the biggest tournament, but the million dollar first place at his course.  And there's even    I've heard rumors, talks of his course in L.A., another tournament.  So he's done a lot for us.  I've just been friends with him and I do what I can to help Trump Golf, which is his thing now.  He really loves golf and he's into building great golf courses.  It's just awesome.
Q.  You tracked down Angela in the final round in Tennessee; is that right?
CRISTIE KERR:  Yes.
Q.  Any thoughts on this being a little bit parallel?  She's got three shots.  It's not the last round, but second to last round.  Any thoughts on what happened there might happen on the weekend?
CRISTIE KERR:  Regardless of who is at the top of the leaderboard, I have to go out and play the course as best I can.  I think the course is going to do nothing but get harder, with the hole locations and the firmness of the greens.  So I've really just got to go out and play my game.  And it doesn't matter who is at the top of the leaderboard.  That definitely isn't going to affect the way I play the course.  Because this is a course you've got to be extremely focused on at all times.  You can't let yourself get caught up in who is it that's ahead of you.  You're just trying to make birdies and trying to get on top.  So that's kind of how I approach things.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Cristie, thanks so much for coming in.  Nice round.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT