MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 13, 2006
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How big was the birdie on 18?
CRISTIE KERR:  Oh, it was huge.  There's a big difference between, you know, six shots and five shots on Sunday, and you know, I feel like I putted well.  Didn't hit it great, but I hit it really good coming in, which is encouraging for tomorrow.

I had about four or five lipouts today, which wasn't fun, but I deserved to make the birdie on 18 and hit the perfect putt and it went right in.
Q.  You've been here before in terms of having to chase from behind, what's that like mentally going into tomorrow?
CRISTIE KERR:  It can absolutely be an advantage.  I'm not going to be playing in the last group, I don't think, because if Lorena shot 6 under or something    it gives you an advantage to get ahead and close the gap and put some pressure on the leaders.
Q.  Do you have the frustration    inaudible?
CRISTIE KERR:  Absolutely but I found something in my swing which the swing wasn't    hadn't looked really bad, but it's felt awful.  I did just one thing coming in starting on 16 with that iron on 16, which is like a little scrape through feel with the club that I do.  I absolutely almost    I hit it as solid as I've hit it all year coming in today.  So that's encouraging.
Q.  Is there one or two shots you really would like to have back?
CRISTIE KERR:  The putts that lipped out because I felt like I hit pretty much     like I hit all those putts great.

No, just had some really, really bad lipouts out there, and to still shoot under par with that is an accomplishment.
Q.  Was it a really good scoring day?
CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, sure, absolutely.  But I didn't take myself out of it by my stretch of the imagination.  You know, go get 'em tomorrow.
Q.  Just the way Karrie has been playing last three days, how tough is she going to be to catch?
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, it is difficult to play with the lead and a big lead on Sunday, because you kind of play protective.  You know, you try and go out and build on it but sometimes it's not that easy.  So with this golf course, and some conditions and some wind tomorrow, anybody in the top 5 right now I think can win.
Q.  Last week is kind of the same situation, you were in second place, you caught Angela, you won the tournament; are you more comfortable that way?
CRISTIE KERR:  You know, it really doesn't matter to me.  I just want to be there and have a chance on Sunday and be within a couple shots.  You know, whoever wins the day tomorrow will win.
Q.  Talk about being defending champion as well, you've tasted victory here before, is that any advantage at all?
CRISTIE KERR:  I think it is because I know how to close on this golf course.  You know, if my swing is there and putting has been there, if everything comes together tomorrow, which I'm hopeful of, I think I'll be close.
Q.  I don't recall what your lead was last year going in
CRISTIE KERR:  We played 36, so the first 18 I think I had only about a shot lead and then I built more of a lead.  I'm glad we don't have to play 36.
Q.  What about if the weather is bad tomorrow, do you like playing in the rain?
CRISTIE KERR:  I don't think it's going to be    I think they are saying just scattered thunderstorms.  So it just depends.  It's going to be a day of patience if the weather is bad.

Like I said just try and play as well as I can play and put myself in position.
Q.  Did you start doing anything risky to try to catch Karrie?
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, I mean I with a just trying to find my golf swing out there and I did coming in, so when you're trying to find your swing, you know, you try and hit your normal shots and it just doesn't happen.  So not really.

I was just trying to find my golf swing.  I got a bad break on 15.  I hit a great 3 wood and the wind just got it a little bit.  It hit in the fairway and kicked dead right into that, so I had a really difficult shot there when I could have had an easy pitch.  Because if it hit a little bit more left, it kicks towards the front of the green.

But, you know, that's golf and you know I'm just going to try and do as good as I can do tomorrow.
Q.  The difficulties of playing with a five shot lead on the final day
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, that's certainly where you want to be.
Q.  When you do that, do you bring it in?
CRISTIE KERR:  No, I'm not that kind of person, because I know if you protect, you tend to play course.  So I expect her to go out tomorrow trying to make birdies.  She's a really experienced player, so somebody is just going to have to a better round to catch her.

Bogey on 1, blocked a drive a little bit in the trap and kind of made a mental error and hit it right of the pin, hit a great chip, lipped out and I was about four feet and had one of the wicked lipouts.

Even the second hole, I hit 6 iron on the par 3 to about ten feet and I had another wicked lipout, so that's kind of how my day started.

5, birdie, 7 iron to about four feet.

7, I hit driver, 3 wood kind of on the hill to the right.  Hit a good pitch to about ten feet and made that.

8, didn't really hit a bad shot there.  I just, you know, I kind of got it down in the gully to the left which is a really difficult chip.  Didn't quite carry it far enough, hit it short and then it lipped out.

10, I hit a good drive, and I actually hit a really good iron, which I was happy with and got it above the whole and misread it, under read it a little bit, got by about seven or eight feet and I missed it.

And then 11 almost holed out with a lob wedge and just tapped it in for birdie.

18, I hit 8 iron to whatever it was, ten feet, 12 feet and made that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT