MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2006
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, you've always said that this course to you is a magical place, you got a little bit of magic there on 18.
CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, actually I had no idea what the putt was going to do.  I relied on my caddie, Jason, to read the putt for me and he did a super job.  When I hit it I thought I hit it too hard, but went right in the middle; 30 footer, go figure.

I hit it a lot better today.  I hit one really bad shot, but got a different feeling with my grip coming in and started hitting better.
Q.  What helped you get on your roll on the back side?
CRISTIE KERR:  I think birdieing 9 helped.

10, I pulled it right again and had an awkward lie where the ball was not the bunker but I was standing in the bunker.  And you know what, on 10 I lipped the putt out, actually hit a great third shot out of the rough.  Pin was back right there so I had about maybe a 12 , 15 foot putt that I thought I made and lipped out.

Birdieing 11 really spurred me on, and I just started seeing all the lines and all the putts and just got on a roll.
Q.  So you have a really positive attitude going into tomorrow?
CRISTIE KERR:  Oh, yeah, every day you're living and breathing, you should have a positive attitude.
Q.  Sure helps when you shoot a low score on the back nine, doesn't it?
CRISTIE KERR:  Absolutely.  My friend had a hole in one, so I'm happy for her.
Q.  What was it like seeing Annika struggle or do you just take that
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, for the most part you pay attention to your own game, but, yeah, I've played with her enough to know that something was wrong or she wasn't having    she wasn't feeling her swing or reading the putts right or nothing was going in for her.  So, you know, should he was definitely not herself.
Q.  How do you hear about a hole in one while you're playing, is it through caddies?
CRISTIE KERR:  You just know.  I've been out here ten years.  You just know from the different reactions in the crowd, and we're on 13 and I hit it about six feet short of the pin and I had a feeling somebody was going to make a hole in one.  You could just tell by the reaction of the crowd.  I just had a feeling it was Natalie, and good for her.
Q.  Have you ever seen Annika like this?
CRISTIE KERR:  You know, I've played with her a lot over the years, and I haven't seen her like this in a while.  Everybody goes through this period of golf in their career, and she's certainly been on the top of the leaderboard for a very long time.

So golf goes in cycles.  It just seems like this year, even though she did win in Mexico, it seems like she's been struggling more this near than in other years.
Q.  What about Karrie, looks like she's put last year behind her and back to being one of the best players in the world?
CRISTIE KERR:  Absolutely.  I've also had the pleasure of playing a lot of golf with her.  She's playing with a lot of confidence right now and putting extremely well.  You know, I think she's back to where she was once she made the Hall of Fame.
Q.  Did you see where that shot of hers landed net to the cart path and how close that was
CRISTIE KERR:  You know what, I went over to she if she needed help with her drop, but I don't think she dropped it, so I didn't see where it was.
Q.  You talked about 50 some bogeys on that hole; is that a deceptively difficult hole?
CRISTIE KERR:  I think you first have to get your ball in the fairway.  If you get your ball in the fairway, you have a good chance of par or birdie.  But especially the back right pin location, it's going to be hard to manage.
Q.  Heading into the weekend, is the back nine on a Friday the best day to get some momentum?
CRISTIE KERR:  You know, with this golf course you've really got to look at the chances you get and you've got to make good par saves when you can.  It's just the kind of course that you've got to be paying attention at all times and I don't think you can distinguish one nine over another.  You know, this course plays tough regardless.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT