MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2006
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Was it tough keeping it together out there today?
CRISTIE KERR:  Yeah, I didn't hit it very well.  That's been kind of the theme the last couple of weeks, but I've been managing my game well and hitting the good chip and making the putt when I need to and the birdie on 9 really helped.
Q.  That was the story the last couple of weeks, but you won last week.  What does that mean for everybody else out here?
CRISTIE KERR:  I don't know what it means.  I just want to hit it a little better to feel better.  But I'm hanging in there and I can't complain.
Q.  Were you able to turn it around after your first nine, looked like you were visibly frustrated after your first nine; what was going through your head?
CRISTIE KERR:  I just made some stupid mistakes, made a couple bogeys.  I 3 putted the 18th hole, which was our ninth hole.  I just misjudged the speed and I just don't like making stupid mistakes.

It's one thing if you hit it poorly, but you can get up and down with your short game.  What I did really well last week was not have any of those stupid mistakes.  So I'm going to go work on my swing a little bit and go have some lunch.
Q.  How about having the defending champ and No. 1 player in the world and leader most of the day in one group?
CRISTIE KERR:  Oh, it was exciting.  Playing with Annika and Karrie was a good experience for me.  Good friends, and it's always a fun time out on the golf course with them.  I constantly learn from them and look forward to tomorrow.
Q.  Do you feed off each other?
CRISTIE KERR:  Sometimes you'll kind of maybe look and see what they are hitting on a par 3, if they pull a club out of the bag or something but not really.
Q.  Do you normally expect in a situation like that where one is playing really well for the other ones to pick up on that?
CRISTIE KERR:  It's definitely easier.  I guess that's the question he just asked.  Sometimes it's easy to pick up on the momentum and sometimes it isn't.
Q.  How about how the course is laid out this year?
CRISTIE KERR:  Oh, the course is perfect.  I think the conditions are difficult.  The pins were tough today.  You've got to really, really watch whether you're uphill or downhill when you're putting, because if you're downhill you could knock it seven or eight feet by without blinking an eye.
Q.  How big is it to get in and get done before the bad weather comes?
CRISTIE KERR:  I don't think I quite understand your question.
Q.  If it starts pouring this afternoon, is it good to be in the early group and get out of here?
CRISTIE KERR:  Well, yeah, definitely.  It's good to be done when it's not raining, yeah.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT