MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 7, 2005
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for joining us, Cristie.

Why don't you take us over your scorecard.
CRISTIE KERR: 
I started on 10.

Birdied 11.  I hit a pitching wedge and made about a 20 footer.

Then I birdied 14, 9 iron, basically had a tap in, like I hit it about a foot.

15, I hit a 3 wood just over the green from two on the par 5, chipped up to about two feet and made that for birdie.

Three putted 16, not a very good first putt, left it way short.
Q.  How far was the first putt?
CRISTIE KERR: 
Geez, had to be 35, 40 feet.

17, made a birdie opportunity and just didn't hit it hard enough.

18, I had a 9 iron and I hit it about two and a half feet, made that for birdie.

Second hole, 6 iron made about the 15 footer.

Third hole, par 5, hit it just short of the green in two.  My chip lipped out actually for eagle, and I tapped it in for birdie.

My blood sugar got a little low.  It took us five hours and 15 minutes to play.  I didn't have enough food in my bag.  I was trying to find stuff at the end.

Three putted 5 from about   I don't know   maybe about 30 feet.
Q.  What did you hit off the tee there?
CRISTIE KERR: 
8 iron.  Kind of pulled it off the tee.  Again, left it way short.  That was pretty slow for some reason.

For 8 I hit a bad drive, had to chip out, and hit an 8 iron on the green, just missed my putt for par.

Thought I made the putt on 9 but it was just low.  It is hard to believe it is only the finishing of the second round.
Q.  How do you feel about playing 36 holes tomorrow?
CRISTIE KERR: 
I don't know if we will be able to get it in tomorrow.  It is fine with me.  I have just got to be prepared with enough food and make sure I get enough rest, and make sure I eat enough tomorrow to make be able to store some carbohydrates going into the round.  That is important.  I think I got mentally tired at the end of the round.  It was a long day.  But, you know, I will get plenty of rest tomorrow.  See if I can hit it a little straighter coming in.
Q.  You said you are going to the range, is that something you want to do to get done so you can rest?
CRISTIE KERR: 
I want to hit some balls, reset how my swing feels and just work on my game a little bit because it wasn't that good coming in.  Just didn't for whatever reason, just lost momentum and didn't hit quality golf shots coming in and just made some bogeys.  I would like to work on my game a little bit.
Q.  You looked to be like rummaging around for food on the first tee, and you grabbed a banana.  Did you feel the hunger pangs coming on at that point?
CRISTIE KERR: 
I don't know.  I know for me when I get in contention and I am playing with a lead or whatever, my adrenaline flows a little bit more than normal.  For me, I have to keep pumping the food in my system.  My metabolism is really fast with the training that I do, the cardio and weight lifting and eating right.  You throw adrenaline in there, I will be burning some serious calories.

I will be overprepared tomorrow with probably a little bit more high carbohydrate snacks.  It should be all right.
Q.  36 holes to go, I guess anything can happen.  Is anybody on the leaderboard you are worried about or just take care of yourself?
CRISTIE KERR: 
 It is take care of myself honestly.  I can't control what anyone else does.  I have got to work on my game a little bit more and go home and have some good food.  Honestly, only the end of the second round you are going to see a lot of golf.  You will probably see the momentum swing back and forth, or who knows, they may play great and extend the lead.  Anything can happen especially with that much time.  It's not only a test of your physical game but of your mental probably equally tomorrow.
Q.  After two rounds in, what is your review of the changes to the course?
CRISTIE KERR: 
Well, I have commented on this before, but I really like the changes.  I think it suits my game.  You really have to think your way around the course.  You are not going to get up and down, you know.  Eight out of ten times you probably won't.  You really just have to kind of play conservatively to those pins that are a little bit close to the sides of the greens that go away.  You will have a tough up and down.  You have to go at the pins you can.  I think that you really have to think your way around the course.  The course is playing pretty long.  You have to play solidly.
Q.  Is 36 holes a part of your practice regimen at home when you are not competing?
CRISTIE KERR: 
Maybe on Golden Tee but no.  No, it is not anything any of us really prepare for.  You know, it can happen.  With washing the round yesterday, you know, there is a lot    I wonder if we can get 72 holes in.  We all wonder.  Hopefully 70 people will make the cut and not 85.  Not that I don't want everyone in, but that will increase our chances of finishing tomorrow, and maybe speed up the rounds a bit.  We are going to have ten hours plus of golf tomorrow, you have to be prepared for that.
Q.  How have you fared previously on 36 holes
CRISTIE KERR: 
Honestly, I couldn't tell you.  I don't think any of us could tell you, unless they happen to win the tournament.  It is so rare that we actually do play 36 holes.
Q.  I know you were asked this yesterday, but with so much focus on Annika this week, would winning with her in the field, especially with her gunning for history, would it be more meaningful?
CRISTIE KERR: 
Sure.  Absolutely.  It is not like I have never beaten her in a golf tournament before.  She wins a lot yes, but sometimes she doesn't win.  When she finishes fifth or sixth, nobody seems to remember those times.

It would absolutely make it more memorable.
Q.  I see you've got a horseshoe hanging from your necklace.
CRISTIE KERR: 
Yes.
Q.  Are you going to watch the derby or
CRISTIE KERR: 
It is just    I don't know.  It's just a charm.  I started wearing it at the beginning of last year.  I don't think I am taking it off now.  It has proved to be good luck for me.  I think we can all use a little more luck.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Everybody all set?  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT