MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 7, 2004
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRISTIE KERR: 1st hole, I hit a 9-iron to about 15 feet, made that.

2nd hole, I hit a 7-iron to about eight feet, made that.

I hit 5-wood into the par 5 in two, and 2-putted for birdie.  Second putt was a tap-in.

4th hole, 7-iron to about 15 feet, made that.

5th hole I almost birdied.

6th hole, I missed about a 5-footer for birdie  - if that; it could have been four feet.

Hit it in the bunker in two with a 5-wood, I think, on No. 7.   Almost holed that, my bunker shot lipped out, made about a 2-footer for birdie.

Birdied at 11.  I had a lob wedge from 55 yards and made about a 6-footer.

13, par 3, 9-iron to about eight feet, made that.

14, bogey, was a really good bogey actually.  Hit it in the left rough off the tee, and my second shot almost dead on the back of the green because I didn't expect to hit it that clean.  Over the green and up and back down the ridge and hit a 6-iron, a little pitch shot for my fourth shot, made about an 8-footer for bogey.

Missed about a 6-footer for birdie on 15.

16, good par.

17, nearly made it.

18, really good up-and-down; hit it in the right rough off the tee, just bunted it out to about 50 yards short of the hole and made about an 8-footer to save par on 18.

PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.  You are one back.  Been having a great year.  Right there again this week.  Just your thoughts and we'll take a couple of questions.
CRISTIE KERR: I am just playing really confidently.  I haven't even really  -- I have been swinging at it since Vegas, not the way I wanted to, and today in the beginning of the round I found a little bit of a groove and started to hit some loose shots coming in.  But my short game saved me and feel like I am getting a little sick right now so I am not going to go and hit too many balls.  I have been just been playing really well.  Different attitude.  I want to be the top American player  - maybe, who knows, maybe, you know, I am not going to jinx myself, but I think I am setting my goals a lot higher.  I have got a new purpose with my Birdies for Breast Cancer initiative, all the fans out here have been really supportive of noticing that that's in place and getting involved and one of the volunteers Bob Margolee (phonetic), his daughter actually has breast cancer right now; had it before; was clean for a while and has it again.  I am dedicating this tournament in honor of his daughter.  I believe his daughter's name is Margo  - don't quote me on that.  It's been a long day.

But just make as many birdies as I can, try and raise as much money.
Q.  Since you won Las Vegas have you noticed that you just feel more confident and can overcome a lot more stuff during a round?
CRISTIE KERR: I think so.  To be able to kind of lose the lead there and then persevere and pull it out, you know, I feel like now I can handle anything that comes at me.  I felt that way before, but it's nice to have a reassurance when you win again.  So I used to be a little tentative in these situations, I think, in the past, but now I know it's there for me to go out and get just like anybody else.  So I am playing with a lot more confidence and a little bit more high-goal.
Q.  You said you feel a little sick.  Is it just the heat that got to you?
CRISTIE KERR: No, I had -- when I woke up   - maybe it's too much wine last night  - I don't know, I felt like I had a headache and like a little sore throat and as the day went on I kind of felt a little bit worse and now I am actually pretty tired.  I feel a little achy, but I always have supplies with me, so I am going to catch this before it turns into anything.
Q.  You said you did some nice scrambling towards the ends.  When the men played here and now that the women are here, scrambling is usually not the key.  It's a big GIR course.  Is that the way you look at it that if you are not on the greens, it's just not a real friendly place to be?
CRISTIE KERR: Well, yeah, the rough is about ten inches deep and any  -- I actually had a decent lie which what I thought was a decent lie on 12 today, so I decided to go more at the pin, but lo and behold, couldn't get it out of the rough.  I didn't think I had a great lie on 14, but I actually ended up hitting a really good shot and unfortunately going over the green, so, the rough is very unpredictable.  It's not a place you want to be.  So if you are in the rough off the tee you are going to be working hard to make pars.
Q.  Did you walk away from this round thinking, well, boy, I threw a nice number on the board or do you walk away thinking I really could have gone deep er --
CRISTIE KERR: I could have, but should'a, would'a, could'a.  It was nice to get off to an unbelievable start which kind of sprung me to keep doing better as the round went on.  But there's two days of golf left and this round is over.  I have got to focus on what is ahead of me.
Q.  How special is it to be in contention here on Mother's Day weekend, probably hits home for you?
CRISTIE KERR: Feels like fate, to be quite honest.  A good article was written in the paper, "Kerr seeks special win on Mother's Day."  If the Lord above has it in his plans, that would be one heck of a Mother's Day present.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT