ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2003
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for joining us, Cristie.  Three back of the lead right now going into tomorrow.  Tell us about how you feel. 

CRISTIE KERR:  I feel really well.  I played really solidly this week.  I put a new routine into play.  And it's holding up under pressure.  Which is good.  I played really very, very well coming in down the stretch.  I had, even though on 17 when I hit it in the water, I absolutely flushed it.  I hit it really solid and kind of did it with authority into the water behind the green.  Very solid though.  I made a lot of good saves for par on 9 and a great save on 17 for bogey.  I was able to keep the momentum going. 


Q.  What exactly do you mean by putting a new routine into play and why the last tournament of the year?

CRISTIE KERR:  Because it needed to happen.  I was just kind of putting the club down and then taking my stance and looking at the grip and taking my grip and my posture would change so much that it would change my swing.  So new I'm kind of stepping into it more athletically, taking my grip and then taking my stance more like a lot of the men on the PGA TOUR do.  Just to get it more athletic and to hold up better under pressure so that my posture doesn't change so much so I can start working on my swing more, instead of always fixing my posture. 


Q.  How difficult is it to avoid a big number on this course?

CRISTIE KERR:  It definitely is difficult to avoid a big number on this golf course.  I think half of that is playing smart and playing conservatively.  Everybody's going to make a bad swing or in my case too good of a swing.  But you just have to kind of just play this golf course a little bit more conservatively and try and get as many balls on the green and as many putts as you can, because the greens are so good you're going to make some putts. 


Q.  Hard to play like that tomorrow, knowing you got to put up a pretty good number to catch Annika?

CRISTIE KERR:  I can't control what she does.  I got to go out and hopefully my goal is to get a little bit more momentum going, maybe even earlier in the round.  So that coming down the stretch when you do have those tough holes, maybe I can put a little bit more heat on some of the other players up there. 


Q.  It looks like you might be in the last group with her, would you rather have that than being in the group behind?

CRISTIE KERR:  I played with Annika quite a bit.  In the last group a lot, actually.  So I'm quite comfortable playing with her.  She's a great player.  Nobody can take that away from her.  So I'll have to be on the top of my game to contend tomorrow. 


Q.  You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, obviously, but how would you assess this year for yourself?

CRISTIE KERR:  This year has been overall a good year.  I haven't won like we said before, but I finished in the top-10 seven times.  I've only finished top-10 in more tournaments maybe once, maybe in 2000 I finished top-10 eight times that year.  So I played very consistently.  I've been in contention more this year than I have been in years past, so I'm pleased with that.  And I'm improving every year.  And that's been my goal. 

PAUL ROVNAK:  You guys all set?  Well, thank you. 

CRISTIE KERR:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT