SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 27, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You just equalled the course record here for women with a 63*(sic).  How did you feel out there today?  
CRISTIE KERR: I felt great.  You know, I found a groove with my swing and a feel that I haven't had in my swing in a while.  It felt good to hit some really solid shots out there.   
 Q.  After the rain delay, you came out five birdies in a row.  Do you think that the rain had something to do with it?  Were you a bit more aggressive coming out after the break?  
CRISTIE KERR: I was just trying to do the best I could on every shot.  It was nice to go in the air conditioning for a little while.  It was a little longer delay than everybody wanted but I don't think anybody was complaining about getting a break from the heat.   
 Q.  When we look at your results from the last couple months, you really picked it up a notch.  What's made the difference your game over the last few weeks or months?  
CRISTIE KERR: I'm just working really hard and I feel very blessed to do what I do.  I've been one of best for a long time, and very blessed to have that happen.  So just got to keep working hard, stick to my game plan and my feels out there and stay out of my own way.  That's the plan.   
 Q.  It's a really bunched up field going into the final two days.  What's your game plan for the weekend?  
CRISTIE KERR: You have to see how the pins are.  There could be a lot of delays, as well.  You just have to stay patient and go out and do the best you can on every shot.  That's when those things add up positively in your favor.   
 Q.  In with an 8-under 63, nine birdies on the day, four in a row on the front and five on the back, what got you during those two stretches?  
CRISTIE KERR: I hit a lot of really good shots out there today, and I got the putter rolling, and, I don't know, my caddie, he was bowling during the delay and I guess we got the angry Turkey out there both ways.  Had a lot of fun.  It was good to get in a groove with my swing.   
I struggled with ball-striking yesterday and I was like, I'm not going to practice.  I'm just going to go and kind of think about when I was hitting it well, what it really felt like, and I was able to pick something up and make it work today.   
 Q.  It clearly did work for you, and you mentioned the rain delay.  We were unfortunately stuck for four hours, but we heard the thunder and lightning and knew why.  How do you pass those four hours, knowing you've got to come back to the golf course eventually?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just try to stay cool and rested up but not fall asleep.  I had a cup of coffee on the break.  A lot of us actually went to the range early and we were kind of stuck over there because when the e-mails were coming out every 30 minutes, like we would get them late.  So we're like, we might as well stay over there because we can't come back.  By the time we come back, we'll have to go back to the range.   
So we all were throwing golf balls in buckets of water trying to play a game, bounce something off there, to pass the time.  Sometimes that's all you can do.   
 Q.  What are you going to do this afternoon?  What do you do to keep the momentum for the weekend?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just try to get rest.  It's hot and humid and it's not going to let up any.  We had a little break from it today being inside.  Just got to get rested up and keep my head in the right space.   
*(Course record is 62.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT