LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You won a very emotional victory in Europe less than a week ago.  Did you bring that form here to Korea?  How satisfied are you with your opening round today, 5-under in cold conditions?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it is really cold today.  I played very well.  I didn't hilt it that great, but I managed and hit it in the right area and made some putts.  Had a good finish.   
 Q.  We know you as one of the best putters the LPGA has ever seen.  The putter was clearly working well today.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I putted very well.  Just managed my game really well.  I've been a little bit under the weather since I got here.  Just going to go rest and get ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Under the weather as in flu or something like that?  
CRISTIE KERR: My throat hurts a little bit, so just going to go get some rest and get rested up for tomorrow.   
 Q.  People always talk about sustaining form.  How easy is it to sustain form from one continent to the next?  
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, I don't know.  I've never done it.  Just got to focus on here and now and make sure I get rested up and get some good practice in for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Couple questions about last week.  You played for a wonderful cause, which is very near and dear to your heart, breast cancer.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.   
 Q.  Was it easy or difficult because of self-imposed pressure that you put on yourself?  
CRISTIE KERR: I don't know.  I just went out there and got it done.  I didn't put too much pressure on myself obviously.  I used it as motivation and not as pressure.   
It was a really emotional week.  I tried to just compartmentalize it so that if I was grieving or sad I was off the course, and on the course I was a tiger.   
So I went out there and I got it done for them.   
 Q.  You've won majors, 19 titles on the LPGA Tour, but that must have been in some ways one of the most satisfying.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, because it's hard to lose people and it's hard to -- everybody either knows somebody or has somebody in their family that's been affected by cancer.   
We've got to find a way to cure it.  The only way to do that is to keep raising money.  I was glad to not only win the tournament, but to raise more awareness for Sandra's charity and also my own.   
 Q.  Last question.  It's been a fantastic year on the LPGA with players selecting causes.  Stacy winning with Hurricane Harvey, you doing the breast cancer thing.  Gaby Lopez donating winnings to earthquake relief in Mexico.  Something very special about the LPGA Tour.  It's very collegial, that they look at the big picture.  
CRISTIE KERR: I think so, and I think we just need to have all the media outlets really pick up on that, because we're a good tour and we're a good product, and our players deserve to be sponsored more than they are.   
We give a lot, our players give a lot, and it really shows you the character of this tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT