SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Cristie Kerr
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On 8, you made a huge putt.  How big was (indiscernible)?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it really was.  Every putt is (inaudible) but she putted amazing today, walked in so many putts.  I just gave her the opportunities and she was just rolling the ball.   
 Q.  You almost beat a couple of them to the pole, I noticed that.  But I think Lexi's shot at 10, incredible shot she hit there.  You made an incredible putt there that kind of got the momentum going in a new direction, even though (indiscernible).  
CRISTIE KERR: Definitely, but I think the most important putt of the day was they hit it in the hazard on 1 and then made an unbelievable putt for par, and Lexi topped it for birdies.  So, we definitely got them right from the beginning.  We just can't expect (inaudible) it was huge.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) continuing the momentum from yesterday?  
CRISTIE KERR: It was a big momentum (indiscernible) yesterday and it was very key for us (indiscernible) the whole day a little bit, but finished earlier at the end.  And keeping the momentum today was huge.  And we both played really well and all the shots.   
 Q.  Cristie, how much are you pleased with the intensity and the crowd out here?  It's something else, isn't it?  
CRISTIE KERR: It's fantastic.  These are the crowds we expected, and this is what ladies golf really deserves.   
 Q.  Lexi, how nice is it to play with someone who always seems to make putts like she does out there?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's amazing.  I just gave her the opportunity, and I'm, like, go for it, Kerr, walk it in.   
 Q.  Cristie, when you look at U.S. points record, overtaking your captain, Juli Inkster, from a personal standpoint, what does that mean?  
CRISTIE KERR: I don't really care about that.  Honestly, I never thought about that once.  And that's just something to talk about.  I just want to help our team win.   
 Q.  How big is the momentum, looking at the red on that board?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think it's good.  I think this afternoon's four-ball is going to be huge as well.  I think everything is huge in these matches.   
 Q.  ... after seeing what your teammates did here yesterday afternoon?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Pretty fired up.  Juli knows something we all don't know.  I'm telling you.  She just -- she goes with her gut, and that's why she's a great player and a great captain.   
 Q.  You two had great success last year as well.  What is it about this pairing that seems to work so well for you two?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think we both never give up.  And we're always there for each other, always pumping each other.  If we're down, we know we're always there, like, we can get this back.  Amazing players for both of us, putting great.   
CRISTIE KERR: Florida girls.   
LEXI THOMPSON: That's what it is.   
 Q.  What's your reaction in passing Juli as all-time points leader?  
CRISTIE KERR: As I said before, that doesn't matter much to me.  Want to keep winning matches and keep helping my team win the cup.   
 Q.  Family has been a big thing of Juli's this week.  And you had Mason out here for the first time.  He did the flag.  What was that experience like for you?  
CRISTIE KERR: That was such an honor.  I can't even tell you how much of an honor that was.  I'm just glad he didn't rush the stage before the flag raising.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT