SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2017
Cristie Kerr
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The emotions that went through each of their minds over the last two putts.  Cristie, start it off.   It was a bit of a struggle before that last putt (indiscernible).  
CRISTIE KERR: Well, you know what, Lexi made a huge putt on 17 to keep us in it.  So it was pretty much a you-know-what sandwich out there from 1 to 18.  But, you know, the greens are tough, man.  You gotta get the right speed and we were both struggling a bit.  And I'm just glad it ended up the way it did.   
 Q.  Lexi, you said you said every prayer you could standing over that putt on the last hole.  Tell us what happened on 17?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was definitely a big putt, just to keep it going into 18 here and hit a great shot.  But I was very happy she was putting that last one, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Great round to start the morning off.  What's going through your minds after today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Gotta have a point.   
CRISTIE KERR: Gotta have a point and we made a huge par on 17, and sometimes all you need in this format is just a little bit of momentum.  And then we played a perfect hole on 18 to get the halve and it was very necessary.   
 Q.  Talk about that putt that you made there.  
CRISTIE KERR: Clutch.  Took a lot of deep breaths before I even went back to mark my ball, and I didn't have any nerves.  So that's scary.   
 Q.  Did you feel like a grind-it-out kind of day for you two?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.   
LEXI THOMPSON: It kind of was.  Alternate shot, like I was saying earlier, is a very hard format.  But we hit it very solid.  We were there for each other when we were down a little bit, and tried to stay positive throughout the whole day.   
And getting half a point is big in the Solheim Cup, and we just had to stay positive and keep in it and make the putts coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Did Charley's chip-in kind of free you guys on the last two holes; did you feel like you had no choice but to just finally lock in and make shots?  
CRISTIE KERR: No, I think we were trying to play that way all day, but it just never happened.  Alternate shot is really, really tough.  So we just needed that little bit of momentum.  We needed the crowd behind us on the last hole.  We did that.  We got it in there close and we made birdie as a team.   
 Q.  Lexi, what was that first hole tee box like?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's one-of-a-kind experience.  I love the first tee shot.   
CRISTIE KERR: She stiffed it.   
LEXI THOMPSON: Just the amount of people on that first tee and hearing all the chants.  There is nothing like it.  And playing for your country, first of all, is a huge honor.  But, yeah, I hit a good shot off the first tee with the adrenalin and the nerves.  Pretty cool feeling.   
 Q.  Are the crowds what you guys expected?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, and I think they're only going to grow every day.   
LEXI THOMPSON: Only going to get bigger.  The more the people better.   
CRISTIE KERR: Keep giving them USA moments like that.   
 Q.  Did it take a lot of guts hitting that (indiscernible) on the first hole, what was going through your mind (indiscernible)?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just trying to chip it out.  It really wasn't that big a deal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT