RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're on a bit of a roll.  Tell us about what's going on.
CRISTIE KERR: Just kind of simple with the golf swing, getting up-and-down.  Just making putts.  Just trying to stay out of my own way.  I've been doing it for a very long time, so just going to try to keep doing it.
Q. What was your first impression of this golf course?
CRISTIE KERR: I think it's fantastic.  Definitely gives you scoring opportunities, but there are some tough holes, as well, and it's obviously quite scenic.  It's pretty awesome.
Q. I know it's early, but do you feel like your form is pointing to something big and special again?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I've just got to keep trending in the right direction.  I played very well today.  I feel like I had one putt that I had bad speed on on 16.  It just looks so fast, and I guess nothing on these greens are fast, and I left it like way short.  Hit a poor iron into that hole.  That was the only hole all day that I kind of had a blemish on the scorecard.  I mean, if I would have parred that one maybe and birdied, it would have been 5 instead of 3, so that's how close it is.  It comes down to inches out here.  I've just got to not get ahead of myself and post some good numbers.
Q. A lot of American flags on the leaderboard.  What do you think of the decision Juli is facing in a few days?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, they're certainly making it tough for her.  But it's hard.  You know, you have two years to qualify, and then some of the players that haven't done quite as well are playing well.  It's hard.  I don't envy her position.  I might have to do it one day, but not right now.
Q. Morgan and Paula are good friends of yours, but it's looking tough for them right now.  Do you kind of feel for what's going on with them?
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, I'm rooting for one of them to win the tournament if I don't win the tournament, that is, because that would be hard to not pick them then.  But like I said, they have two years to qualify, and it's going to be a tough decision for Juli no matter who she picks and who she lets know that's not going to be on the team.  I just -- if you don't want to win, you want one of your friends to win, but certainly I'm still trying to win right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT