ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under and in these conditions, that was really one hell of a round, wasn't it?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it was.  The score added up really well.  It was still tough to stand over the shots that you needed to execute, and it's never easy here.  So I'm very pleased with the score.   
 Q.  What was clicking?  
CRISTIE KERR: I just controlled my ball really well out there, with the crosswinds and trajectory and I had a great day.  I just kind of hit the ball where I was trying to hit it in the areas I was trying to hit it in, and made some putts, as well.   
 Q.  What are you most pleased about, the birdies or the lack of bogeys?  
CRISTIE KERR: Both.  I mean, today was a great day, and as you can tell, you know, from the scores, as well, it's never easy here.  You can never take anything for granted.  You've just got to try to do as well as you can do on each shot and that was my goal.   
 Q.  That was a great way to finish.  It was a fantastic approach, wasn't it?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yes, we picked the right club off the tee so that we could have a full shot and be able to spin it into that green downwind, so we had good strategy.   
 Q.  Physically, are you feeling in 100 per cent condition?  Any injuries, obviously worse in the wind and the rain.  
CRISTIE KERR: I feel okay actually.  I struggled with a few things early this year but you know, this week, so far I've felt really well.  The physios that work with the Tour have really been helping me.   
 Q.  What was going well for you out there?  
CRISTIE KERR: Like I said, I controlled my ball flight really well and hit it into the areas of the greens that you can make some putts from.   
 Q.  This is a links course.  How comfortable are you with links golf?  
CRISTIE KERR: It's actually some of my favourite golf.  I told my caddie that on the back nine, that it seems like the tougher the conditions, the more I like it for some reason.  It's never easy.  But it allows you to kind of play different shots and be more artistic, if you well.   
 Q.  So you're liking the tougher conditions, so you'll be wanting it to get a little bit windier and wetter?  
CRISTIE KERR: This was tough enough.  I like to be challenged mentally, and you know, these kind of conditions force you to focus on the shot at hand and not get ahead of yourself, and I did that really well today.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of good rounds over here, but given the conditions, is that good as good as any?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think so.  I was controlling my ball flight so well out there.  What I was seeing and visualising, it was happening.  So it was a great round.   
 Q.  Did you embrace these conditions the first time you ever came here?  Can you think back to then, was it something that you enjoyed the challenge?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it is a challenge.  You know, my score today added up really well, but it still played really tough out there.  You can't take anything for granted in these conditions obviously.   
Yesterday was a horrid day.  I played four holes in the Pro-Am and my team quit because they had no rain gear and they were just soaking wet in the morning.  I felt so bad for them but I was like, I don't blame you guys.   
 Q.  Did you soldier on and play a few more holes?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  It was horrible.  It was horrible yesterday.   
 Q.  How do you rank that round among the rounds you've played over here?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think it's one of the top.  You know, I finished second at the ladies British at Royal Lytham before and Lytham is a damn tough, good course, and in tough conditions.  You can never take anything for granted here.  I'm not going to get too high about this round.  I'm going to enjoy it today and tomorrow is going to be another tough day.   
 Q.  Was it the ninth, the pick of your birdies, the best?  What did you hit?  
CRISTIE KERR: They are all great birdies.  I made a great putt on the par 5, fifth.  The birdie on -- I mean, they are all great birdies, really, truly.   
18, I think that was a great birdie, because there was almost no room to hit it that downwind.  I meant to go more left but I blocked it.  It was a good miss and it went on the back of the green and I had this like 100-foot into the wind and I 2-putted that.  It was great.   
 Q.  This is a big week and next week is a big week and Solheim Cup is on the horizon.  Does that get your juices flowing still?  
CRISTIE KERR: Definitely.  It's fierce competition.  You know, we won it last time but we still have to think of ourselves at the underdogs.  There's too much good golf to be played.  You just see crazy things happen in that competition.  You know, we were up in a match and Carlota like holed out a 7-iron to level the match, you know.  Chip-ins and long putts, there's just too much good golf to be had.   
 Q.  This year, is it your ninth?  
CRISTIE KERR: Should be ninth, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you got your own company, is it?  
CRISTIE KERR: Kerr Cellars.  We have two different brands and five different varietals.  We make a sauvignon blanc, chardonnay, pinot noir, Napa Valley cab and a reserve red wine, which is a blend, which is like a proprietary red wine.  Everything is sourced from Napa and Sonoma.   
 Q.  Have you tried whisky?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, we went to the Loch Lomond distillery.  Part of the education of becoming a sommelier, you learn about whiskys.  I was able to meet with them there.  Loch Lomond is gorgeous.  I had never been over there before.  It was Monday and it was sunny and beautiful.  We had dinner there, as well.  It was amazing to learn about the whiskys.  There's just as many subtleties in whisky as there are in wine, and to see how they are made and how they are distilled and blended and depending if you like highland style or lowland styles.   
 Q.  Have you got a favourite?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, actually one they gave us from the distillery was their signature cask whisky, so it's a little bit more of the highland style.  But it was nine-year, and it was amazing.  What's interesting about that one -- because I geek out about wine and different things, is they use a strain of wine yeast instead of their traditional yeast to distill, to ferment, rather.  So it just gave it like a softer, smoother taste, because that's not the traditional yeast they use for fermentation.   
 Q.  Is this your 20th year on Tour?  
CRISTIE KERR: 21st I think.  I can't remember.  I'm too old.   
 Q.  Still get the thrill of competing against the youngsters?  
CRISTIE KERR: Well, I feel young at heart.  Golf ball doesn't know age.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT