U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 15, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  She didn't think you were going to be able to finish and here you are, you know, in contention.  Can you explain that?  How did you get from there to here?  
CRISTIE KERR: Pure insanity.  Just grit, just determination like any other tournament in the world.  You would think about just going home but not this one.  So, I had to try to just stick it through.   
 Q.  Is this a physical ailment, Cristie?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just some spasming in my back.  Probably from picking up my son or my golf bag.   
 Q.  Can you talk about that craziness at 11 when the Coast Guard helicopter and fighter jet were overhead?  
CRISTIE KERR: A little plane ventured into air space they weren't supposed to be in.  They chased them right out.   
 Q.  You looked up.  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  Kind of cool to see.  It wasn't distracting.  I had to look at something else other than what was going on on that hole.   
 Q.  You made an all-world par on 15 and tried to get the President's attention.  Can you talk about that hole and trying to get Trump's attention?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  Just, you know, obviously I know him fairly well.  I don't see him that often but he's a huge supporter of women's golf and just fun, just going I know the president, you know.   
But now I think the people you used to know I don't know them that well anymore because he's really hard to get to.   
 Q.  How important are pars like that?  
CRISTIE KERR: Huge pars.  I wish I would have made that putt on the last hole.  Really, really fast and obviously with as fast as that left to right putt was I didn't play enough break so, you know, just -- every time I had a really makeable putt today they were really difficult.   
So, you know, I think you could see it in the scores today, scores really haven't gone anywhere.  They really kind of messed with the pins a bit and they wanted to keep the score kind of where it was and, you know, hopefully I can have a great day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Cristie, if things remain the same by the end of the day, how do you feel going into tomorrow?  
CRISTIE KERR: I feel pretty good.  I'm going out there doing my thing and I'm trying to be in a good mental space where I'm not putting pressure on myself.  I played so well this year, it's so easy to put pressure on yourself because of the expectations that either yourself or your family or other people may have for you, but I feel like I'm going to go out there and let everybody else put the pressure on themselves tomorrow and I'm going to go out there and execute my shots and make my putts.  If I can do that, then you never know.   
 Q.  What do you say to a President?  What do you talk about?  
CRISTIE KERR: We'll just talk, I guess.  I don't know.  I'm not going to talk politics.  I can tell you that.   
 Q.  Cristie, you won this championship ten years ago.  What would it mean for you to celebrate another anniversary?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think I might have to start a new tradition of jumping in that lake, maybe.  I don't know.  I don't know.  Obviously it would be a dream to do that.   
 Q.  You and Stacy were 5, 6-under on the front-9 before it kind of unraveled for her.  Were you guys feeding off of each other on the front?  
CRISTIE KERR: We were both kind of in our own world.  It's obviously nice to be playing with somebody who is playing well because sometimes you can feed off that momentum.  Yeah, it was a shame to see what happened on the back.  You never want to see that happen to anybody.  That's golf.  It's a four letter word.   
 Q.  Cristie, you've had 6 Top-10s this year and a win.  What's going on this year?  It's good to play well but what's going on with your game?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just doing the same thing I've done for 20 years.   
 Q.  20 or 21?  
CRISTIE KERR: 21.  I'm old.  I can't remember.   
 Q.  How do you stay so motivated?  
CRISTIE KERR: I love golf.   
 Q.  So when you see Ai retiring and Annika and Lorena and various other people, you're not getting any ideas, are you?  
CRISTIE KERR: Nope.  Thanks guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT