LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 14, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of zone were you in out there to shoot 10-under like that?  
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, I was just kind of being myself.  Yeah, everybody says being in the zone.  I just kind of stayed out of my own way today, which is what I have to do to have a chance tomorrow to post a number being a couple back right now.   
So just I hit fine.  Stayed out my own way.  Had a good time with my caddie, Brady.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun today.   
 Q.  Coming into 18, how much did 62 or 10-under tournament record kind of come into your mind at all?  
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, I've shot a 62 before luckily.  I mean, I was just trying to have the mindset it's not where I am, it's where I need to go, and stay in the moment, and, you know, not dwell on score too much.   
Because if you do a lot of little things right and well, the score will take care of itself.   
 Q.  (Regarding putting. ) Something that clicked in for you yesterday?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  It was just first couple rounds, you know, the back nine the second round I got some momentum going and some confidence with a very simple swing feel.   
You know, from there, it's just been me and my caddie out there working together and just trying to stay in the moment.   
 Q.  How big did the hole look to you?  
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, my job is to get it started on the line with the right speed, feel it, and try not to think about controlling it too much or being too tight or making it too much.   
Just try to send it on the line with the speed, and usually when I do that, they all go in.   
 Q.  Anything you need to work on that you saw from your round?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  I mean, obviously not.   
 Q.  No.  
CRISTIE KERR: Nice to shoot a 59, but 62 is pretty good.   
 Q.  (Regarding 12 and 16.)  
CRISTIE KERR: 12 I made it off the fringe probably 15 feet, and it was like a 70-footer or 16.   
That one is like just send it to the hole, if you have the right speed sometimes they go in.  This one went in.   
 Q.  As much as you have won on tour, how much does experience come into play going into a final round in contention?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think it plays a lot.  Tomorrow I am going to try not to put too much pressure on myself.  I'm just going to play my game, because inevitably I'm going to try to shoot as low as I can, and who cares about the lead?   
Because if I play better than everybody else, then I'll have the lead at the end of tournament.  That's how I have to look at it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT