ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were making putts today when other people seemed to have trouble reading them.  You were also feeding off the crowd.  Could you feel the energy out there?  
CRISTIE KERR: I could.  And I played here many, many years, and I read the greens the best when I just go with my gut.  So that's kind of what my game plan was coming into this week.   
 Q.  You're one of those players that the harder the golf course gets, the better you step up and the more you're focused out there.  What is it about hard golf courses that you enjoy?  
CRISTIE KERR: The challenge.  You know, the need to really have that pinpoint focus.  I think that's why I excel at these kind of golf courses.   
 Q.  I don't think anybody enjoys being in this position at this time in the tournament more than you.  As you look ahead to the weekend after a pretty long day, a really long day, what's the focus?  
CRISTIE KERR: I definitely want to get some rest.  I feel like I was swinging at it a little tired coming in.  But you know, it was great.  I was in this position last week at the Kia, so I feel like, just got to take it day by day and just try to get a groove with my golf swing on the weekend.  Short game, everything feels good.  So just got to get some putts at it.   
 Q.  Bit of an up-and-down round.  Ended on a high note?  
CRISTIE KERR: It did.   
 Q.  How did that feel?  
CRISTIE KERR: It felt great.  I felt like I was a little tired that back nine for sure.  That two-hour extra delay this morning was kind of like a little bit of a downer, but you know, I definitely ended on a high note.   
 Q.  How much of a grind was the day?  
CRISTIE KERR: You know, the last five, six holes, definitely felt like a grind with my swing.  Just feeling, you know, how heavy my legs feel right now, it's going to be great to get a lot of rest going into the weekend.   
 Q.  You've been in this position before.  What do you have to do to get the groove on the weekend?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just got to find a simple feel with my swing like I have been.  Obviously it didn't work on the back nine but I think it was more from being tired and my legs not really moving.  Just get a groove with the swing, and you miss a green, just get it up-and-down and get some birdie putts.   
 Q.  Although you were knackered on the last back nine, do you feel like you got in the end quite a good situation; that you'll be finished and other people will have to play?  
CRISTIE KERR: Oh, I thought before we teed it up on Thursday we were going to get the bad end of the draw.  I think we ended up getting the good end of the draw.   
 Q.  So you'll be able to go rest tonight, and how important will that be to have two rounds?  
CRISTIE KERR: Huge.  Huge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT