KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Cristie Kerr, 9-under.  What's been working for you the first two days?
CRISTIE KERR: You know, I've hit it really well.  Hit a couple squirrely shots coming in and had some really tough up and downs in the back, but all in all, played really today.
Q. Top of the board heading into the weekend.  What are the keys to close out again?
CRISTIE KERR: Just making it routine of you know, just playing my game every day and keeping it simple.  Staying out of my own way.
Q. Former champion of this tournament.  Do you have an inside track now going into the weekend?
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, you would like to think so, but you never know.  Just got to go out there and take care of my own job the next couple days day by day.
Q. Last year by your standards was a subpar season.  I understand that in November you underwent surgery.  I believe a knee.  Right or left?
CRISTIE KERR: Left knee.
Q. Did that contribute to, again, by your standards last year?
CRISTIE KERR: I mean, yeah, it did.  I fell at the Evian tournament last year and tore my meniscus and I kept playing on it for a couple months and it got worse.
I struggled with some of my equipment stuff last year, and I don't have to worry about that anymore.
I'm ready to play some good golf.
Q. Forgive me.  I don't follow the LPGA Tour.  Did you literally stumble and fall?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.  I slipped and I fell.  I mean, about 20 people fell that week.  It rained so much.  My caddie fell twice that one day.  I was the only one that got injured I think.
Yeah, that was unfortunate.
Q. You mentioned equipment issues.  Can you expand on that?
CRISTIE KERR: No, not really.
Q. How do you feel now?
CRISTIE KERR: I feel good.  I've rehabbed.  My knee feels great.  I have my game ready with me, I ice at night, and, yeah, feeling good.
Q. What you do you feel like is it with this course that sets up so well for you?
CRISTIE KERR: I think it's a course that demands a lot of you.  When you hit a bad shot you have to be able to recover and really stay focused the whole day.
It was a very long day.  I feel like my focus left me a little bit at the end, but I played really well.
Q. You have your own wine label.  Do you lean to red had over white?
CRISTIE KERR: I'm not prejudiced.
Q. Any mental adjustments?
CRISTIE KERR: No.  Just stay the course.  Keep calm and carry on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT