KIA CLASSIC
March 23, 2017
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Cristie, 6-under today.  What was the key to your strong round?  
CRISTIE KERR: Honestly, I had some long talks with my coach, and I just needed to simplify my game.  Like I needed to simplify my swing feel and not overcomplicate things.   
So kind of went back to some simple feels and played awesome today.   
 Q.  Is something like that easier to do at a course where you've had success and won before?  
CRISTIE KERR: Sometimes.  Not always the case.  But I've done that here before so, yeah, it feels similar.   
 Q.  Tell us what happened on 18.  I heard a nice roar.  You closed birdie, birdie.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I hit it really close on 17, and then I made it from the left fringe.  Kind of pulled the iron a little, but it was a great putt so it makes up for it.   
 Q.  Got to be good feeling to end on a high note there.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  How is the course feeling?  
CRISTIE KERR: Course is great.  Sometimes some of the greens are a little bumpy, but it's always been in great shape.   
 Q.  Pretty close there on the scoreboard right now.  How do you feel?  Any adjustments?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just keep shooting 6-under.  I don't think I have to adjust much.  It's only the first day.  Just day by day.   
 Q.  Would you mind going over your birdie holes?  
CRISTIE KERR: All of them?   
 Q.  I know there are a lot of them when you shoot 6-under.  Might take you a little while.  
CRISTIE KERR: I birdied the 3rd hole, 5th hole, the 8th hole; No. 10, 14, 17, and 18.   
 Q.  Must have been a bogey in there somewhere?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.  I had like a two-footer on the 2nd hole which I took my time on, and it hit something and did more than 360 lip-out.  Then the girl, Gwen who I played with, she did the same thing.  Must have been something like how they set the cup there or something.   
 Q.  Did you start on 1?  
CRISTIE KERR: I started on the 1st hole, yeah.   
 Q.  So that's got to be annoying more than a little bit.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, my putt on the 1st hole lipped out, too.  It was nice they all went in from there.   
I hit some close and made some longer putts.  It was a good mix of stuff out there today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT