CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2016
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice putt on the last there.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yes.  Necessary.   
 Q.  Makes the day end a little better, right?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I just struggled a little with my swing coming in, but I played great today.  I had a great front nine.  I even missed like a four-footer or birdie on a really hard par-3.  Hit a great shot in there, too.   
So just a little different mentally on the back I thought.  Maybe trying to force the issue a little bit.  Maybe just didn't hit it quite as good.   
 Q.  You've played this a few times now.  
CRISTIE KERR: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Thoughts on the greens being that much different than previous years?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, they are awesome.  They are so pure.  They redid all the surfaces.  You know, like I hit that bunker shot and the crowd went nuts, so I gave it a little extra because it kind of scared me.  I was like, God, the timing of that.   
But the greens are so pure that you can make a 15-footer for par when you need to.   
 Q.  Nice to be back in contention in defense here?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it's only Friday, but I'm going to learn from my back today, go hit a few balls, and relax the rest of the night.   
 Q.  How does your knee feel?  
CRISTIE KERR: It's a little sore.  I'm going to get it checked out when we get done with the season and see what the doctors say.  Hopefully it's just rest.   
 Q.  Does it hurt in any particular part of the swing?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  It's more like the walking.  Yesterday around the 12th, 13th hole I started to feel it.  Today it feels great.  Last night it was really sore.   
I guess it's kind of like maybe just some inflammation.  That's why I'm wearing the sleeve, to keep the in inflammation down.  I kind of look like a basketball player out there minus the height.   
You know, so just trying to keep the inflammation down.   
 Q.  You were sort of in the forefront of turning pro early in the late '90s.  A lot of LPGA players are clearly doing that now.  Do you think they'll last as long as you have out here?  
CRISTIE KERR: I have no idea.  I mean, I don't even know if they'll want to play as long as I've played.   
 Q.  That's a valid question, though, isn't it?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I don't know.  I don't know.  They kept getting younger.   
 Q.  Did you see yourself out here in the late 30s?  
CRISTIE KERR: Oh, yeah, yeah, I've always wanted to do this.  I would love to play as long as Juli has.   
 Q.  Is she a role model?  
CRISTIE KERR: Definitely.  She's always been one of my role models.   
 Q.  She's still out here --  
CRISTIE KERR: She's a grinder, a fighter; she loves to work and practice just like I do.  I mean, not a whole lot things better than this to do, so we're pretty blessed.   
 Q.  Lydia has been in sort of a mini slump for the past few months.  When you see her name up on the board...  
CRISTIE KERR: I would love that mini slump.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  No kidding.  She's like 10-under right now.  When something is on the line -- and you won last year; same thing -- where you feel like you've had good vibes, good success here, that mentally that kicks you into a different place?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean, definitely.  Good players are always able to call it up at some point, whether it's a pressure three-point shot in basketball or a clutch putt to make par or to win a tournament, whatever.   
Good players find a different level of focus.  Hopefully that's what I'm looking for the next two days.   
 Q.  Even though you were the defending champion, do you feel like you came in here a little under the radar given Ko and Jutanugarn?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean I haven't won a tournament this year, so if they're in a mini slump then I need to get going.  Yeah, two more good days.  I've been putting really well, so give myself a chance.   
 Q.  What is your putter?  
CRISTIE KERR: It's the Two Ball.  Old Faithful.   
 Q.  Is that one you've used for years?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, off and on for years since early in my career.  God, since like maybe third, fourth, fifth year on the tour.   
 Q.  Same putter?  
CRISTIE KERR: No.  Same design, different putter.  I have a bunch of backups.  I actually got all the backups that they had.   
 Q.  How many is that?  
CRISTIE KERR: Five.  Like two years ago they only had five in the company.  I got them all.   
 Q.  Wow.  That was revolutionary when it came out.  
CRISTIE KERR: Very much so.  It just lines up really well.  Rolls the ball well really.  I feel the speed really well.  It's good.   
 Q.  Like Juli, putting has in large part sustained you and helped you.  Some of the young players coming out now, they don't seem they've that touch.  Which is weird, because years ago --  
CRISTIE KERR: I don't know.  They seem to be winning.  The average age this year is something like 23.  I think you need to rethink that question.   
 Q.  Some players don't putt so well.  Lexi, let's say.  
CRISTIE KERR: I don't know.  She won a tournament this year.  I think we need to move on from that one.   
 Q.  Where your five putters that you took?  
CRISTIE KERR: At my house in Scottsdale.   
 Q.  Not like in a safe or anything?  
CRISTIE KERR: No, my neighborhood is heavily guarded.   
 Q.  Like Jimmy Connors storing up the ole Wilson racquets.  He did that.  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT