CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2015
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Cristie Kerr into the media center, 3‑under, 69 today. Three back of the lead. What do you need to do heading into the weekend to get to the lead? 
CRISTIE KERR: I think I just need to minimize some of the mistakes I've been doing the last couple of days out there because I feel like I've been making plenty of birdies. 
The weather has been kind of not too windy. Usually it's really windy here. So don't know what the weekend will hold with the weather, but just got to keep doing the small things well and try to minimize some of the mistakes that I've had.

Q. Is grain an issue out there? 
CRISTIE KERR: Not necessarily. I mean, I can read the green pretty well. The greens are kind of pretty inconsistent. Some are kind of smooth and have grass and some have no grass and sand. So you just kind of got to read what's in front of you. 
We don't always play in perfect conditions. Golf is not a game of perfect. So just got to continue to do a good job of reading the conditions and just try to hit the putts the right speed.

Q. Is it a situation where you feel like you have to be a little more aggressive because they are so inconsistent and at least get it there?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, I mean, there's definitely some that are‑‑ today I thought that were markedly slower than yesterday. I don't know whether it was because we played an hour and a half later tee times or not. Usually as the day goes on they get a little worse with the grain. 
But there were definitely some greens that‑‑ just a lot of sand. I 3‑putted‑‑ I hit a great shot into 16 and I only had like probably a 16, 17‑footer for birdie, and I left it like five feet short. Completely moved on that one, probably because I felt like I had to hit it so hard. 
Then Green, she had an 8‑footer for birdie and she left it a foot short. There were some putts that are that slow out there. You have to make yourself hit it. On those small ones, you have to make you stay still. Just try to do that this weekend. 

Q. They released the schedule today and you were there in the dark days of 10, 11, 12, and now it's 34 events, record prize money. Can you talk about your feelings about where the Tour is now and where it was and how the Tour got from where it was to here? 
CRISTIE KERR: It was definitely not in a good place in those years. We had gone through a couple commissioners and when Mike Whan came on, with all the change that we had before that with commissioners, nobody really knew what to expect from him and where he wanted to take the Tour. So he's been on over five years now, I believe. He said it would be minimum five years when he came on when I met with him to really kind of take our Tour from where it was to be positioned for success to where we could go up to a new level. 
We are kind of poised to be able to go up to that new level. I think golf in the Olympics is really going to help women's golf. And he knew that. I think that the Tour is exactly where he wants it to be right now. We all wish that we didn't have that period of time where we were taking a step back and didn't have tournaments. 
But we've got great leadership now with Mike. He does a great job with the tournaments and the sponsors and he's just got an easy way about him. He inspires us to give back more and do better. He's just a great guy.
I think you are seeing the change in the Tour that he was expecting and now we're all poised to be able to go to a higher level. It's getting there, for sure.

Q. I know you are focused on trying to win this event, just curious what do you make of Lydia and Inbee and the battle they've had for No. 1 and for all these honors? Just what do you see in their games that helped them elevate together? 
CRISTIE KERR: You are dealing with two players that don't get very emotional on the golf course. They are very even keel, right. I wish I had more of that in me, but that's not my makeup. 
But they are also very consistent. Those two things are very powerful combination. I guess this week is going to determine who gets Player of the Year, I think is what everybody is getting at. It will be interesting to see what happens and if they are both playing at their best to see who gets the breaks. 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT