SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
September 29, 2020
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   We will get started.  Thanks for joining us here today inside the virtual media center at the ShopRite LPGA Classic presented by Acer.
 Happy to be joined here by past champion of this event, Cristie Kerr.  Cristie, how are you doing today?
 CRISTIE KERR:   I'm good.  How are you?
 THE MODERATOR:   I'm fantastic.  It's been a little bit since we seen you in front of a camera here.  This is definitely a different year here in 2020.  How have you been able to adjust and handle what 2020 has thrown our way this year on the LPGA Tour?
 CRISTIE KERR:   I think everybody is just getting through it the best they can.  I don't know if there is a way to adjust to what's going in the world.
 You know, the year started off normally, like every other year, and wham, you know, March hit us and nobody knew what to expect.  We didn't know if we would be playing at the end of this year, so it's really, really great to be here.
 THE MODERATOR:   What's it been like for you?  You've been here a couple times, more than a few times, and you've also seen a lot of these events; been on tour for some time.  How does this compare to what you've seen in the past?
 CRISTIE KERR:   Well, certainly all the rules and regulations and things that we have to do and follow to be able to even play are different.  You know, the condition of the golf course this week and other weeks has not been normal for us because there have been a lot of furloughs and layoffs and not as much staff around to be able to maintain the courses.
 Like I said, we're just glad to be here playing in Atlantic City in one of our favorite stops.  We're going to make the most of it.
 THE MODERATOR:   What have you been doing to improve your game as we have been going on?  I feel like sometimes with players they always say that with the stop and start of what we've been doing, it's really hard to get a groove into your play.  Do you feel like it's been hard getting into a groove?
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, especially for me since coming back from the break.  You know, at the beginning of this year I started with a new caddie and we had a great start to the year.  We finished 11th and 6th and then COVID hit and we had five months off.  We came back and we weren't the same team; we kind of split up.
 So for the last couple weeks I've had a new caddie.  I love my new caddie, Kyle.  But for me, it's been hard to get into a groove.  During the five, five and a half month break, I seemed to start back three different times because we thought we were going to start up again and then we had another break.
 So it was kind of stop and start, stop and start.  You know, it's been interesting.
 THE MODERATOR:   Definitely.  Interesting is a really good word for it.  Here we are in Atlantic City at ShopRite.  This has been one of our I want to say prestigious events because we've been here for so long.  What are some of your favorite memories, aside from maybe even you winning?
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, obviously sharing the New Jersey Shoreline with my family has been -- you know, having some great memories for me here.  Obviously the win.  I don't even remember what year was.  I think it was 2005 or 2006.  I still remember a lot from that.
 It's just really sad not to be able to see the fans.  We usually get really great turn out from the fans here.  It's been different not to play in front of people this year, but hopefully I'm going to have a strong end to the year.  I put a lot of work in on my game and my mental game, and starting to train again, so I'm hoping to be able to regain that momentum I had in to the beginning of the year.
 Q. We've asked players what's it's been like without fans, but what's it been like for you without fans?  As you've just said, this event usually gets a lot of people out here.  What's it been like for you as you've kind of gone through all these events over the last couple months?
 CRISTIE KERR:   You know, for me, I've just tried not to focus on it so much, because you still have to play golf and you still have to kind of get into your own space.
 But it's definitely been different.  When you hit a great shot or hole-out a shot or chip in, nobody is cheering for you, so it's interesting.
 THE MODERATOR:   Have you been able to take a look around the course yet?  Have you been able to get a few practice rounds in?
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, yeah.  I've played all the holes.  I played nine yesterday and nine today, and course is definitely in kind of some rough shape.  There is definitely patches where the grass has been lost or there is too much moisture or the grass hasn't grown in.
 But from yesterday to today I thought the greens greatly improved.  We've got a great LPGA staff working kind of round the clock to get the course as tournament-ready as possible.  Hopefully won't get too much rain today so the greens can continue to improve.
 Yeah, definitely not in the shape it usually is, but glad to be here playing.  We know everybody is working hard to make the course as good as it can be for us.
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions.
 Q. So the list of past champions is a who's who list in women's golf.  What does it take to win on this golf course?  Why do you think it's such a great group of players that brings out the best of the best?
 CRISTIE KERR:   You know, it's just kind of an old school golf course.  Obviously the rough is very penalizing here and you have to hit the fairways.
 You have to be smart with your approach shots.  There are some pins you just can't be aggressive to.  The greens are not overly big here, so if you're not on the correct tier you can still make birdie.
 It's a thinking person's golf course.  You know, it's a great short game and wedge playing golf course, so I think that's why you see a lot of the great players that have won here have had very good careers.  That's where you make your money in golf, is chipping putting.
 Q. And the Cristie Kerr Women's Health Center in New Jersey, I think it opened ten years ago.  Can you give us an update on that?  Obviously COVID has presented a lot of challenges for a lot of things.  But charity-wise, how that's challenged you this year as well.
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, for sure.  I'm still involved with the Cristie Kerr Women's Health Center obviously.  It's got my name on it.
 But we do live in Arizona now, so we are west coast based.  When we get to the east coast we check in and see how things are going and there are still donations coming in.  But, yeah, COVID has really put a damper on things.
 Q. Will you have an event or anything later this year?
 CRISTIE KERR:   With the prospect of a resurgence in the fall I don't think it's possible for this year.  We didn't have one this past year either.  We've kind of chosen to solicit private donations from around the area for the center instead of having our event.
 It's just hard to be able to get people together now with COVID, so we've chosen our efforts to focus on the wine business and the profits from Curvature also go to the center.
 We're focusing on that and the donations instead of actively having an event, because it's really, really hard to have events right now.
 Q. What are your thoughts about the sponsors actually giving you an opportunity to play, even though some may be struggling financially?  What does this mean to you?
 CRISTIE KERR:   I mean, it means a lot.  For the sponsors that are continuing to have their events even without programs, I mean, that really says a lot to us.
 We a pretty global tour now, so it's hard in some respects for some tournaments to be able to be held because the majority of the people come from overseas to play here in the States; namely like the Kia Classic.
 So they weren't able to hold their event, which is very, very unfortunate, as are some of the other events as well.  In this landscape we have to be fortunate for the sponsors that chose to continue to play the tournaments, like the ShopRite and the KPMG Women's PGA, even when there aren't pro-ams, which are usually the big money makers and corporate entertaining opportunities for the sponsors.
 So we have to be thankful for those opportunities, and understand for the sponsors that aren't able to hold their events this year for various reasons, we have to just uphold them and support them as much as they're supporting us.  Whether they're not holding their event this year and they're extending their contracts, like everybody is working it out.
 This is definitely unprecedented territory for everybody, so trying to get through it the best we can.
 Q. I know it's been a million years ago, but you were here -- not here at this particular course, but another course playing the ShopRite when you were a high school kid.  Do you think of that when you show up for this event anymore?
 CRISTIE KERR:   I do think about that, and I believe it was this course --
 Q. Okay.
 CRISTIE KERR:   -- that I first played at.  I think 1997 was my first year.  Maybe not this course.
 Q. I think it was -- there was another course across the way in Somers Point.
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I think it was Somers Point Country Club or something like that.  I think you're correct.  For the last 20 years at least it's been here.
 Yeah, I have very good memories coming here.  Obviously winning on this particular golf course, that was a great memory for me.  Made a great putt on the last hole to win.  In fact, my caddie, Kyle, I showed him, Hey, when I won back in 2005 -- I believe it was '05 or '06; again, a million years ago -- you know, I told him, there was the putt that I made to win.
 This is where I hit my second shot 40 yards short of the green and got up and down to win.  I don't think you ever forget that stuff.
 Q. It was 2004 actually.
 CRISTIE KERR:   '04.  There you go.  While back.  (Smiling.)
 THE MODERATOR:   You're sporting the Kerr Cellars hat there.  You have been doing so much off the golf course, especially with your little boys as well.  They're probably starting online school.
 CRISTIE KERR:   Uh-huh.
 THE MODERATOR:   What's than been like for you this year, being able to juggle the great entrepreneurship that you've been able to do, as well as continue to play profession until golf and also have your kiddos at home.
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, it's definitely busy.  We have a lot of help during the day with our kids, and we spend time a little bit in the morning and evenings with them when they're not in school or with our nanny.
 You have to have a lot of help when you have two working parents and two full-time kids basically.  But it's been an interesting year.  We had a really great thing happen to us with Kerr Cellars.  Constellation brands invested in our wine company and we're going to continue to grow and flourish and become stronger in the marketplace with continuing to do the good work and their help as well.
 That's been an amazing accomplishment for us.  It's taken a few years to get that deal done and all the due diligence that comes with getting deal with a Fortune 500 company.
 I hope we have a tournament in Rochester.  I hope that fosters some interest from maybe Wegman's again or Constellation to be able to invest in the LPGA.  That would be fantastic.  They are in golf with Corona Premier with Rickie Fowler.  I used to be sponsored by Corona Premier as well, so that's been terrific opportunity.
 Just the times that I haven't been playing golf I've been focusing on the wine business, so it's been an all hands-on-deck year even though there has only been about ten tournaments so far.
 THE MODERATOR:   All right, one more from Beth Ann.
 Q. Lexi is about to launch a new skin care line in December, January, and fitness and other things around her brand.  Wondering as someone who has had business off the golf course for a long time, what advice would you give her about stepping into this new territory?
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, she has a lot going on, a lot of good things.  She just signed with Bentley as well.
 I actually wasn't aware of the skin care.  She's got a new management agency and they're seeming to do great things for her.
 The only advice I think I would give her is just make sure whatever you do that has your name on it, make sure you have control of it.  Because it has your name on it, and you want to make sure that things that you represent are representative of who you are and how you want people to portray you.
 Q. And she said earlier that it was cool to have something else to think about besides golf.
 CRISTIE KERR:   Yep.
 Q. Kind of pour her energy into.  How important has that been for you over the years?
 CRISTIE KERR:   So I guess that will be the last question since the computer has crashed.  You know, it's been very important to have something else to think about besides golf.  In truth, you can't play golf forever, and you have to be able to make a living off the golf course as well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT