SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 2015
Cristie Kerr
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  We knew it wasn't going to be easy.  It was going to be great golf being played by Carlota and Azahara out there.  So we knew we had to make birdies, especially in best ball.  And that's what we brought to the table.   
 Q.  Do you think, Cristie, your mentality for just being known as a bull dog on the golf course, never giving up, do you think that was a huge part of the success of your great play today?  
CRISTIE KERR: I think so.  We have great chemistry on this team of Lexi and I.  We have a lot of fun playing together.  We egg each other on.  If I mess up a hole, she's, like, I got you.  And the same the other way around.  And that's what makes a great team.   
 Q.  Four points down, you had to win this match, didn't you?  
CRISTIE KERR: We did.  We knew our team going up on the board would be huge.  We knew what we had to do and we knew it wouldn't be easy.  They played great, too.   
 Q.  After this morning, Lexi, you had a magnificent match.  Probably a little bit disappointed with the golf you played yesterday and this morning not to win that match, but to come out firing this afternoon, you played fantastic.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Thanks.  We played great golf yesterday and today.  There was no disappointment.  All square, yeah.  But we would like to win.  But they played great golf.  You can only do the best you can.  You can't control what other people do.   
 Q.  I mean, you had 11 birdies between you?  
CRISTIE KERR: Oh, yeah, I mean, they made a great team.  And they made the clutch putts when they had to and so did we.  I think it was fitting it was a half point.   
 Q.  What sort of score line do you need or are looking for to go into tomorrow?  
CRISTIE KERR: I have no idea.  I have no idea what's going on in the other matches.  We have to take care of our singles matches one at a time.  And if we do that, we should be good.   
 Q.  Congratulations, well played out there.  What was the difference out there, do you think, today?  
CRISTIE KERR: We made some really clutch putts on the front nine.  We were 1-up, even, 1-up, even.  And finally got to 2-up on the 8th hole when Lexi made a clutch putt.  They played great, we just played better.  We ended up on top this time.   
 Q.  After this morning it was really important that you guys came out firing and America as a whole put some points on the board.  You've done that.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, we won our match, so we did that.  It was hard coming out early in the morning to finish just one hole, but we did our best.  We played great golf yesterday and came in today with the same positive mindset and attitude.  And we played well out there today and this afternoon.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT