KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2015
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under today, just one shot off the lead at 9‑under.   You've got to be very pleased with your round today.   How did you feel finishing off there?
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I felt great.   Didn't get a lot of momentum on my back nine, but just seemed like I was hitting so many good shots and so many good putts that it was going to be inevitable to get a birdie, and I did finally on 8.   Take that momentum into the weekend.

Q.   Everybody says placement on the green here is so key.   How do you assess your placement on greens and management of your putting this week?
CRISTIE KERR:   Well, I had a couple putts I hit a little hard on my back nine today, but yeah, these greens you have to be in the right spots.   Gregor and I, my caddie and I, managed pretty well to put the iron shots in the right spots.

Q.   After a couple years here and obviously last year contending, is it a matter of getting more and more comfortable at this golf course after these three years?
CRISTIE KERR:   I don't think so.   I think I'm pretty comfortable with my strategy, and my caddie and I work really well on this golf course, so it's just a matter of waiting.   It's just a matter of putting four solid rounds together, and I've managed to do two of those so far.

Q.   When you look back at last year, obviously in contention until the very end, what would you take back or what would you take away from that?
CRISTIE KERR:   I just think that I've been there every year on this course, and it's just a matter of time.   Like I said, just have to be consistent with my rounds the next couple days, and I'll have a shot.

Q.   How were you feeling coming into this week?
CRISTIE KERR:   I think pretty good.   You know, last week I didn't have my caddie.   Unfortunately his father passed away.   It's great to have him on the bag, and I feel like we have a big cheering section up there, so hopefully we can get it done for his dad.

Q.   What's his name, your caddie?
CRISTIE KERR:   Gregor.

Q.   Last name?
CRISTIE KERR:   Johnston, Greg Johnston.   I don't really want to let people know that, but I think it it's just a little added inspiration for me to get it done this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT