CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2014
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty pleased with the round today? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, I definitely hit it better today.   I had a lot more opportunities for birdie, and I definitely missed some putts out there still, so there is a lot to work on.   I've just got to try to start the ball on line a little bit better, but overall I played pretty well.

Q.   Is it a little firmer out there today?   The scores overall don't look quite as low as yesterday?
CRISTIE KERR:   Not really.   I think the pins especially on the front nine are way tougher than they were yesterday.   I mean, we hit 3‑wood, and I hit a decent drive on 5 and I had 228 yards to the hole.   So they put the tee back.   It was into the wind, and they put the pin back as far right as they could.   It was the only hole I bogeyed.   I had a long two‑putt and left it short and missed it.   So that was the only bogey I had today, but I played pretty well overall.

Q.   Did your experience here in 2006 show you could be staying up close to the lead going into the weekend? 
CRISTIE KERR:   I think so.   So Yeon right now is probably making everything she looks at.   I mean, as somebody up by four or five would be doing.   I've definitely missed over these last two days, 7 or 8 putts that could have gone in, so if those go in‑‑ but I've got to focus on the weekend just getting those putts to go in.

Q.   You were at 12 here when you won in 2006.   Were you surprised how low they've been so far? 
CRISTIE KERR:   Yeah, the course is a lot softer though, and players are hitting it longer than they did back then.   It doesn't surprise me.   We're pretty good, you know?   People need to realize that.

Q.   I wanted to ask you about that.   There are so many golfers who at the age of 13, 14, 15 in the women's game who can compete with veterans.   Why do you think that is more so? 
CRISTIE KERR:   They're just a lot more prepared.   It seems like I get this question a lot.   They're just a lot more prepared to play professional golf than I was when I came out.   I just had my dad.   But they have their swing coaches, their mental coaches, their trainers, everything, everything.   They have sponsorships when they come out, and we didn't.   So it's a lot different world for them.   It's a lot of money involved in it now, so it's a business. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT