U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Had a good opening round.  A long opening round, but a good one.  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, a long one, sure.  A good opening round.  Of course, the course is not playing the same conditions on the practice rounds.  It's softer but still difficult, but I really like the course.  I feel very good on it.   
I had four birdies.  I played very solid almost every round.  One big mistake on the green.  I had four putts on the green, and the rest -- yeah, I missed just two tee shots, and the rest was very good actually.   
 Q.  Is that just a reminder of the danger that there is out there?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, of course.  You have to accept it.  You know it's impossible to do no mistakes.  So, yeah, when you do some, you have to accept it, deal with it, and stay focused.  So that I did.  It could be better, but plus 1 is still okay.   
 Q.  Did the course change even overnight from the start of the round to just finishing up here?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's even softer than yesterday afternoon.  So, yeah, the greens were still quite quick, but, yeah, softer fairways, greens softer.  So you have to check your distance, and you know it's not going to go far when it bounces on the green.  Just for the choice of the club, it's different.   
 Q.  And the game in general, feeling confident, feeling in good shape this week?  
GREGORY BOURDY: I feel actually very good.  I feel very good for two weeks, and I feel even better this week.  So as I said, except a few mistakes, it was a very good round.   
 Q.  You've been around a few years now.  How much does experience come in when you're on, off, on, off, like you were yesterday?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, that happens -- I don't say very often, but actually sometimes.  So, yeah, you know you have to stay relaxed, calm between the stops.  It's not very easy, but it's the same for almost everybody.  So, yeah, you deal with it, and you do your job.   
 Q.  Were you one of the guys who managed to catch some of the football yesterday?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's good to get the Euro at the same time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT