COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2016
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6 today, how happy are with you that performance?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, very happy.  I think it was not as difficult as yesterday.  This morning, the wind was not blowing so hard.  I think it's a good score, especially the hole-in-one, I'm very pleased about that.   
 Q.  Give us the details, on the 8th hole, never been a hole-in-one there before.  Just tell us what club you hit.  
GREGORY BOURDY: 6-iron.  I had 158 metres to the pin and it's a straight shot into the wind.  The wind a little bit left-to-right but into, yeah, very short and tap-in.  It's my third hole-in-one on Tour, great.   
 Q.  What was the feeling this morning, because you go to bed last night thinking, oh, we've got some horrible weather coming tomorrow.  How does it feel when you wake up and see that, oh, it's not blowing that hard?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Exactly.  Actually I had to play at 6.40, I think it was a good thing this morning.  It was not so hard.  I think it was blowing a little harder yesterday and we could feel at the end, the last few holes, it was blowing a little bit more.  So maybe this afternoon, a bit more difficult.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Tell us about the hole-in-one.  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's always nice to get a hole-in-one.  It's my, I would say, only third on Tour, but it's good enough.  Yeah, it's great actually.  I missed a few birdies before the 8th, and then yeah, straight in with a 6-iron.  So it was like two birdies straight.  Yeah, it's always a nice feeling to get a hole-in-one.   
 Q.  Were you conscious that that propelled you right to the top of the leaderboard at the time?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, actually I started very well.  My game was again solid this morning.  Just missed a few birdies, but yeah, my putting was not as great as yesterday maybe but yeah, the rest of the game, it was actually very good.  So I think yeah, 9-under after two rounds in these conditions, this course, yeah, very happy about that.   
 Q.  You say these conditions, but it's not been quite as breezy as we thought for you.  You struck lucky maybe.  
GREGORY BOURDY: You're right.  We thought it was going to be much harder this morning.  Yeah, the wind was not blowing so hard.  We could feel at the end, yeah, it was a little bit harder, so maybe this afternoon it's getting maybe stronger.  We'll see.  But I'm going to wait.  I have a big rest this afternoon.   
 Q.  In general terms, are you very satisfied with your game, because you've finished off last year very sweetly in South Africa and carried it on.  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, I had a good week at the end of last year, and I was in South Africa for the SA Open, finished 21st.  Last week I was a bit frustrated because my game was very good and I finished only 50-something, 54th.  Yeah, I started much better this week.  I feel very confident and my putting is very good at this time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT