ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2015
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us how good that is to start 2015.   
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, it's good after two months off.   It's nice to come back, play a nice tournament like this one.   It's a great place on a beautiful course and I started very well.   So yeah, everything good.   
   
 Q.   You never know what to expect from the first round of a new season.   But you probably would have been happy to have made par in a sense.   
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, I think I practiced well before to start well.   We never know; of course, even if we practice hard, we never know if we are going to play well.   
But I think I was ready for playing well this week, and that's what I did today.   
   
 Q.   So what has been the practice regime?  
GREGORY BOURDY:   Actually I stopped a few weeks because I needed it, and I had an injury, as well.   In December, I played just a few games.   I practiced hard just after the second of January, last week in Abu Dhabi.   So it was a good week with my coach and physical trainer.   Yeah, it was good to start and I think I'm feeling very good.   
   
 Q.   What did you do to yourself?   What was the injury this time?   
GREGORY BOURDY:   Actually we practiced more the putting the last few days, but I think it was a key, for example, like today.   But I played very well my long game.   But if you hole the putts, it's easier, as well.   I missed a few.   
   
 Q.   But your injury, what was that?   
GREGORY BOURDY:   My injury was‑‑ I forgot the name‑‑ on the shoulder, left shoulder.   So left shoulder, yeah, it was a bit painful.   So I needed just to have a little break.   But we work hard, as well, with my physio, and I feel much better now.   
   
 Q.   And the shoulder was as a result of playing?  
GREGORY BOURDY:   Just of playing.   Yeah, we play a lot during the year, and we do some physical training, as well.   So I think it's not unusual to get some injuries sometimes.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT