SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 3, 2013
Gregory Bourdy
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All guns blazing, birdies flying everywhere and you're only 1‑up; you knew it was going to be a good match?
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, it was a good match.   We made birdies on‑‑ three on first six holes and you're only 1‑up.   Yeah, you just have to hit good shots.   If you do that, put the pressure on the other guys, and hopefully you can win a couple and that is what happened on 8 and 9.   You win two and you're 3‑up after 9, and the back nine, we didn't play great, but it was good enough.

Q.   When you saw you were playing with Joost, you probably thought, now he's playing quite well at the moment, I'm handy for a bit of a point.   You must have been pleased to be chosen with him? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, of course, I think we were a good pair today.   We started very well both, and maybe that helped us to have some confidence for the rest of the run. 
Unfortunately I didn't play any best on the back nine, 8 and 9, but he did some amazing birdies, very strong, and so maybe next time, it's going to be my turn to help him a bit more at the end. 

Q.   You both kept the ball in play, you were both putting for birdies.   Was that the key to your win today? 
JOOST LUITEN:   Yeah, I think it was.   We did it the first nine and then we lost a couple holes and that's because we didn't really have too many birdie putts, maybe only one.   We said to each other, we need to keep hitting the greens and give ourselves chances.   I think we came back on track at the end.

Q.   So when you started the first early part of the round, it was blue all across the board; did that affect the way that you played? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   No, I don't think.   So we were focused on our game, and we knew in that format, everything can happen, so we have to play our game and see at the end if we are up or not.   But actually I think we are leading 3 & 2, so it's a good day for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT