ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about a round of 70 still in tricky conditions?
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, it was difficult again today, different wind, but yeah, still very different course than yesterday and the day before, and it was very hard to choose the right club today. 
If I made a mistake with this wind, I thought on 13, the par5, a wedge was okay, and I think I hit a good shot but I stayed short and I hit in the water, so double‑bogey after this one with a wedge, so it's a bit unlucky. 
But the rest of the game was solid, except at the end I missed a few shots, but I saved some very good pars, especially on 17 and 18.   So that's why I'm quite happy about the end, the scores.

Q.   And the end, you read that putt superbly? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, it was a great up‑and‑down, but maybe the best was on 17.   I was over the green and very, very bad lie, and for the chip, I stayed short and I holed a very good putt. 
So yeah, actually, I feel so great with my putting, so confident, so if I play well tomorrow, my long game, I think I have a big chance to do something great.   If I keep this putting, yeah, it's a key to win a tournament or finish very close.

Q.   And tell me if I'm right, because this season, there has been some exceptional rounds but not necessarily the consistency over four days.   This week you seem to have got it the other way around.   You've got a lovely solidity about your game?
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, I had a very solid game this week, but a few weeks ago also, the last few weeks were quite good.
This year, it's been consistent, and yeah, I'm looking to get another victory on Tour, so I'll do my best tomorrow to achieve this. 

Q.   And you are in a lovely place, that's a beautiful position in which to attack for a final day, isn't it? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Of course it's a good position, but I'd love to get three strokes better, also, but it's a good position, for sure, I have a chance to win, so I'll do my best tomorrow.   And it's going to be exciting with the other Frenchman with my friend, Thomas, is going to be in the battle.   So it's going to be, with the weather is like this, I think it's going to be an exciting day. 

Q.   Score a reflection of your play, do you feel? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, I had a double‑bogey after a good shot, actually, on the par3, the 13th, I thought it was‑‑ yeah, it was a good club and I stayed short.   So at the end, actually, quite happy about the end, because I had a good fight to get some very good pars, especially on 17 and 18. 
So, yeah, I think 70 is still a good score today.   Different wind than yesterday and the day before, so it was very hard to choose the right club. 

Q.   Give us your thoughts on tomorrow, chasing Peter Uihlein, he's obviously playing very well?
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, of course, he's playing very well, minus four today, it's a great score.   I wasn't so far today to get minus four, if I, yeah, maybe forget the mistakes.   But actually it's going to be interesting because Thomas Levet also is there, my French friend, and it's going to be, yeah, a great day tomorrow.   I love this course.   I enjoy this week, and going to do my best to play another very good round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT