ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 29, 2013
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good score to start in windy conditions in the afternoon? 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, actually, it was yeah I think tougher than this morning.   But actually the conditions were good, also.   It was windy but not very cold, not rainy, so it was still possible to get some birdies, and I did some.   So I think minus four this afternoon is a good score, so I'll take that. 
I made two mistakes, I missed two shots but the rest was very solid, especially my putting.   So, yeah, it's good to start like this with a good feeling on the greens.   Normally that's the key to play well in a tournament or have a chance to win.   So it's a good start for this.   Yeah, I feel confident in my long game but especially my putting today.   Yeah, really happy.

Q.   Can you compare it to other years, because we don't usually see it with wonderful summers, and the greens are baked firm this time around. 
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, it's a great course, a lot firmer, and not only on the greens but the fairways, also, are firmer, so we have to think about it and usually we first think about last year, what club did we choose, and we have to think straight, it's much more firmer, so we have to change the club that we have in the mind. 
Yeah, it's interesting, because it's a different course, and we have to choose the right clubs and especially to get close on the greens to have a chance to make birdies. 

Q.   And clearly we have been talking about this event as the start of The Ryder Cup points race.   Is that something that's crossed your mind, or simply because it is involved in the tournament this time?
GREGORY BOURDY:   No, actually I didn't know.   I didn't check it was starting this week, but actually I do my best every week, so even if it's starting this week, yeah; and if I play well, of course it's good. 
But I do my best every week, as all the weeks, and this week it's the same.   I try to play well the rest of the week and to have a chance to win and have a good chance to finish in a good position.   It's a good start, and I'll do the best tomorrow to keep playing like this.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT