JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GREGORY BOURDY:   I played solid.   I think like a bit better than yesterday, but yesterday was very good but my putting was so‑so.   Today the putting was much better, so that's why, for sure.   Yeah, I did eight birdies, and yeah, especially at the end, it was great to finish like this with two birdies, with nice shots, with nice putts and to feel good at the end of the round to start well again the day after.   
So, yeah, I feel confident.   I try to keep playing like this.   
   
 Q.   Well, this is an exceptional way to finish, isn't it, because they are not easy holes out there, particularly that home stretch?  
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, well, the two par 5s today was shorter than yesterday, 16 and 18.   So, yeah, it was a little bit easier or more difficult to get some birdies on those two holes.   And yeah, on 17, also, I hit a 6‑iron.   So I holed the irons today, so I felt good on the tee, also, on this one, and, yeah, it's a very good shot with a good putt after that.   And I think it was not so windy.   So, yeah, it was helping to get some birdies.   But you have to make the putts, also, and I did it.   
   
 Q.   And yet, imagine when you started, you couldn't have believed a 66 with the way the rain was coming down.   
GREGORY BOURDY:   Yeah, sure, actually I started very well with two birdies, first two holes, and then yeah, it's starting to rain quite heavy.   Yeah, it was tough.   I made two bogeys on 4 and 5, but I stayed patient and I talked to myself; it's not going to stay like this all day, and hopefully, it stops again after that.   
So, yeah, I stayed patient, calm, and I did some very good shots after the heavy rain.   
   
 Q.   You said you were feeling confident, what's the reason behind that?  
GREGORY BOURDY:   Actually, I love this course, I'm always feeling well on this course here in Gleneagles.   I'm staying in the hotel, one of the best hotels all year, so yeah, it's comfortable and confident.   Sometimes we don't know what you are feeling; you feel better on some kind of courses, and it's one of them.   
So, yeah, one of the French guys won here a few years ago and it was the first time as me, so I try to do the same.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT