HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 28, 2017
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another Rolex Series Event, you must be happy, especially on home soil.  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, for sure, we are very proud to get a Rolex Series in France.  I think this tournament deserves to be in the Rolex Series.  All the players think it's a really good course, a great venue.  So yeah, we are all very excited to play again this year on this big event.  So exciting to start tomorrow for sure.   
 Q.  Tell us more about the course, it looks beautiful, very manicured, but the fairways have a lot of undulations and you have a lot of wind and water, and of course that back nine is very tough?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, I think the back nine, but all the course, is very tough.  It's a different shape this year.  The conditions are a bit different this year.  I think it's better that way.  It's a bit softer, so we will have a lot of I think drivers to hit from the tees because it's getting the course a bit longer.   
I don't really like when it's too dry.  I think this course needs to get quite soft fairways to have the opportunity to play more drivers from the tees.  I think it's going to be, yeah, again, a very good, challenging course this year.   
 Q.  Tell us about what the week means to you, especially playing in front of your family and friends, a very different atmosphere.  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's totally different.  We can get a little bit -- we got a little bit that atmosphere at the Olympics last year.  We had a lot of French there to support Julian and me.  It was a very exciting feeling.   
Here it's quite different, as well.  We have thousands of people behind us, and it's the only tournament in France we have on The European Tour.  So it's really, really special, and when we are in position to win the tournament or finish well, it's totally different than the other weeks.  We can feel the support of the crowd.   
I finished once sixth here, and I always remember the atmosphere.  I try to get this again and play late on Sunday.   
 Q.  What's the first thing you think of when you think of France?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Tower Eiffel?  I think just food and wine but more wine than food because I'm from Bordeaux, so it's a really exciting wine region.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT