WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2010
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A nice way to start your WGC career, nice round.   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's a good start for my first one in the USA. I think it was one of the biggest of the year, so I'm really happy to play this tournament. It's my first. I've played the WGC in London a few years ago, but I didn't start as well as today. Yeah, very happy. I love this course.   
  
  Q. Nice start out there, you made some nice birdies, seemed to be enjoying yourself.   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, I made three birdies. I just made a mistake on the par-3, No. 15, missed my shot. But otherwise it was consistent. I missed just a few putts from nothing, so it was a bit unlucky, but it was good all around.   
 The driver I think was one of the keys here to play well, so I tried to keep that driver on the fairway, all week.  
  
  Q. You've been to the Hall of Fame and all sorts of things, you're enjoying yourself?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: I've been to baseball games -- I arrived last Friday, but as you said, it was my first tournament in USA, a very big one. So yeah, I wanted to do well, to start well, so I did it. I'll try to play like this three more rounds.  
  
  Q. Was there some nervousness out there for you today, some butterflies in the stomach at all?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: No, not really. I was excited. I was excited for sure, but I was okay. I was confident. I felt good on the course during the practice rounds. So yeah, I love the design, I love the -- yeah. The weather, also, I like when it's hot like this, when it's warm. So yeah, it's good, a good start.  
  
  Q. Very important to get off to a good start here today.   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, of course. It was very important for me to start well. I've got this big tournament this week, the PGA next week, so I've prepared for these two big events. Yeah, I've played well since a few months, so my goal at the beginning of the year was to play well on the big events, so I've tried to do that.  
  
  Q. Have you played two events this big back-to-back before?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: No, I don't think so. No, first time.  
  
  Q. Little bit of a different experience for you then?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, actually in Europe I played the Scottish and the British Open. They're always two big events, also. So yeah, good experience.  
  
  Q. Can that prepare you for coming over here and playing these big events, the big events in Europe? Can they prepare you well for playing over here?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yes, of course, of course. Actually I love to play in Europe, but I'd like to play more events in the USA. If I play good here, if I have a good feeling, it's going to be better to play more here, to get more invites.  
  
  Q. You must have been looking forward to this week because that's one of the rewards to winning Hong Kong was playing here. It was a long wait?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it was a long wait. I've got big highlights of this win in Hong Kong. It was a wonderful week, and with that I get the invite for this tournament, for also the HSBC at the end of the year. So I think it was an important win.   
  
  Q. What baseball game did you go and see?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: I don't remember exactly the -- I think it was Pirates, but I'm not sure. I don't remember the teams.  
  
  Q. Pirates are in Pittsburgh and the Indians are here in Cleveland and there's a minor league team in Akron.   
 GREGORY BOURDY: It was nice. I like to really enjoy the culture of every country. I've been in New York for Christmas with my family, but I didn't play a tournament. It was my first tournament here. Yeah, I like everywhere to see all their life and the culture and to go to see a baseball game is exciting with the hot dog and the Coke. Sometimes it's nice.  
  
  Q. You're almost an American now, you had a hot dog, went to a baseball game?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, and some burgers, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT