ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2010
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played today, how special have your first two rounds so far been here?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: It's great. I love this tournament so it's good to start like this, two good rounds. The course is difficult, as usual, especially with this wind. So I'm really happy about these two rounds, minus five, I think I have a good chance to do something very well this weekend.  
  
  Q. It looks like you might be competing for the top French man accolade with Jean Van de Velde, were you expecting him to be where he was yesterday?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Actually I didn't expect a score like this, but yeah, I'm really happy for him. He's a great player and he didn't play the last month, so it's great. It's great for him because it's a tough course, big test, so that's good to see him like this and with a score like this.  
  
  Q. Two birdies for you today, just talk us through those.   
 GREGORY BOURDY: I made the birdie on the 10th for a start and that was a nice one with a wedge. Had a good start. Then made some pars and a birdie on the 17th with a nice tee shot and a 5-iron after.   
 So, yeah, I feel good, and I didn't make a bogey, so I played very solid, very consistent. I need to keep -- I'm going to keep this for this weekend.  
  
  Q. Of the 18 holes, which do you find the toughest on this golf course?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: I think maybe the 18th, maybe 17. I think especially the 18th and 17th. There are not a lot of easy holes, so they are all difficult, but difficult to say if one is much more difficult than another one.   
  
  Q. Great crowds at this tournament, the French always come out in great numbers and you'll be hoping they will be following you in big numbers I should imagine?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yes, of course, it's good to see this, especially this week because we need them for The Ryder Cup. We need to have a big crowd, and it's nice, the course is lovely this week. It is a good field, so I think it's good.   
  
  Q. Grégory Havret's performance at the U.S. Open, what do you think of that and did it give you all a lift?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: It was great. I watched him on TV on Sunday all the round. He played so well. He maybe deserved to win or it was very, very close. He played great. But maybe he was a bit unlucky with his putting.   
 Well, it's good to see a performance like this. It helps to give maybe more confidence of him and of the French players.   
  
  Q. So you just need a big title and this could be it?  
 GREGORY BOURDY:   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT