THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GREGORY BOURDY: Very disappointing, as I was minus five before the 15th, and I made 9. So it's really difficult because identify just played great before, and so that's golf. And on one hole, you can lose maybe all your scores. So still minus one, so still have a chance the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. I generally do hate asking, but, what happened?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: I missed my 3-wood. Actually on the tee, I didn't want to hit the green but I saw I hit on the left side on the fairway, and I pushed it, and then a bit unsure about the line. We weren't sure if the ball went into the water. So I came back to the tee and exactly the same ball, and I did the same. And so after that, I had a very difficult shot through the tree, over the tree. So I made one more in the water. I made one more in the water and sand wedge and two putts. So tough, very tough.   
  
  Q. I spoke to Pablo Larrazábal last week after a 9 at a par 3, and he had never known himself to do that before, or nothing he would admit to, and it came as such a shock, but it was such a shock that he could laugh about it. You're certainly not laughing at the moment but because you are 1-under, can you shrug it off that little bit?   
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, I'm not laughing at all, but yeah, for sure, my game is quite good. It's getting better and better week-after-week, so yeah, a 9, it's maybe the first time I do that in a tournament. It's difficult, but yeah, I don't know what to say.  
  
  Q. You're right, your game is good, because at The London Club last week, there was the hole-in-one that was terrific, but things were moving in the right direction, weren't they?  
 GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, for sure, I was minus five on the eighth hole last week in the last round.   
 So I was close to doing something very well and the week before at Wentworth, I started very well, also, and also in Ireland I made an 8-under in the second round. So, yeah, it's better, I feel much better, but I need to be consistent, much more consistent to do a big result.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT