OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 12, 2016
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you just talk about the day in general and the conditions you faced today versus yesterday?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, of course, sometimes you're lucky with the draw, sometimes unlucky. This was very unlucky today; we can see on the sunshine now. It was very difficult this morning. Windy, rainy, a bit cold.   
But yeah, I played a good game, good game in these conditions. I think under par in these conditions was a good score. Well, let's see. Let's see what is my position today.   
   
 Q. After two rounds, are you pretty satisfied with where you're at?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, yeah, I'm really satisfied with my game in general. I think there are some quite easy holes, but a lot of strong holes, long holes, on this course, especially when the weather is difficult. So 6‑under, I think, yeah, it's a good score. It's a good start for the tournament.  
   
 Q. How tough is that stretch between, say, 11 and 14?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, it's actually, as I told to my caddie, we have a lot of 3‑irons, 5‑woods and 3‑woods today to catch the greens. I told him, yeah, be patient, and the last three holes will be short. I stayed patient and I made birdie, 16, 17, and missed 18.   
   
 Q. What do you know about the course now that you didn't know two days ago?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Nothing special, no. Nothing different.   
   
 Q. Does it play fair? Are you finding out how it plays in different conditions, but remaining fair?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, I'm just surprised about the tee box, so far on some holes. But I like when it's tough and difficult, so I'm okay. As soon as you can reach the greens, it's fine.  
   
 Q. You don't anticipate anybody running away with this tournament; it will be pretty tight over the weekend, don't you think?  
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, hard to say. I hope so (laughs). But I don't know what the lead was. I hope it will not be like this, but it will be for sure very exciting, the weekend, because you play only for the top three.   
   
 Q. Does your position now, do you start thinking more about the medal opportunity and how you might play down the stretch, whether you play it more safe to get a medal or if you stay aggressive to win the gold?   
GREGORY BOURDY: Actually, I thought for a long time ago about the medals. I come here only for the medals and come here for the Gold Medal. So I will play to, yeah, win the tournament and get the Gold Medal, and if I can't, I will be happy for a medal, as well. But I play for sure to win.   
   
 Q. And if you do, you have quite the fan base here. Very boisterous, it seems.   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yes, yes.  
   
 Q. You're pretty impressed by that?   
GREGORY BOURDY: No, it's fine.   
   
 Q. I noticed a lot of Europeans are doing really well. Is there anything about the course or the conditions?   
GREGORY BOURDY: No, I don't think so. Don't think so. Because we never know in golf, and we say every year, like the British Open, it's good for European guys. And the American guys are quite better easily.   
   
 Q. Not this year.   
GREGORY BOURDY: Yeah, but they are always in the top three or five, and they don't play at all, all year, links courses. So, no. (Laughter).  
   
 Q. What's been the most unique most for you Olympic‑wise in terms of the Olympic experience? Have you met any interesting athletes that you normally wouldn't have met?   
GREGORY BOURDY: I think it's just to be in the village with all the athletes, yeah, I have a long discussion with some big athletes. But just to be part of the spirit and even with the French athletes in the same buildings, so we can speak and eat together, and with the best in France, like Tony Parker, Teddy Riner, and the swimmers, like Manaudou. They are big stars in their sport, and so it's nice to be part of it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT