U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Gregory Bourdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously a bit of a stumble on 18.  Otherwise a fantastic round of golf.  How do you feel?
GREGORY BOURDY: It was a beautiful golf and I knew at the beginning of this week, I could do something well.  I feel very good in my game the last few weeks, and I really love the difficulty of this course.  I can play some great tee shots, good irons.
And today, I holed some putts as well, so A plus.  At the end it was a very good day on a very difficult course like this.
Q. Looking up and seeing your name on the leaderboard, what was that experience like?  How does that feel?
GREGORY BOURDY: The feeling is nice.  Of course, it's one of the biggest tournaments in the world with the biggest field.  So it's good to be at the top, and I'll do my best to be at the top on Sunday.
Q. You had made, I want to say, seven straight cuts coming into this tournament.  Did you feel like you had some pretty good momentum as you came here to Oakmont?
GREGORY BOURDY: Yes.  I had some good weeks before.  I know a course like this, difficult course like this, you need to come with some confidence in your game.  So I came here, yes, with a lot of confidence, and I started well, almost very well.  So it's a great start and I'd like to enjoy the rest of the week.
Q. Did you allow yourself to think about 63 at all during the day?
GREGORY BOURDY: No.  Actually, at the end, I could think maybe [indiscernible].  But I stayed actually focused and played shot by shot.  But, yeah, the goals [indiscernible].
Q. Ready to get back out?
GREGORY BOURDY: Sorry?
Q. Are you ready to get back out there?
GREGORY BOURDY: Yes, yeah, I'm ready after a good lunch.
Q. Have you ever played a golf course like this before?
GREGORY BOURDY: Don't think so, no.  Not sure when I arrived at the beginning of this week, I loved the place.  It's an amazing, amazing place.  Amazing atmosphere, amazing course.  I think it's perfect for a major and so yeah, I loved everything here and my game as well.
Q. How do you explain your success here if you've never played a course like this?
GREGORY BOURDY: Because it's -- the important thing of this course is for the difficulty from the tee shots, you need to play varied assorted game with tee shots and irons.  I knew the last few weeks were very good for me, so it's [indiscernible] we can play on golf, hardest conditions.  But I knew I could do something well.
Q. The shots at 16 and 18 that kind of rolled back down, did you feel like that was right about where you wanted to land it?  It just got a little long?
GREGORY BOURDY: Where, on 16?
Q. The par 3, it landed and rolled back down the green.  And then the shot on 18.
GREGORY BOURDY: No.  I played to pitch a little bit more right.  So, yeah, I missed it on my shot.  I knew that the pitch on the left was difficult to stay because I hit a 5 iron.  I needed a very strong 5 iron to go to the pin.  But, of course, this one was not too -- I could have bet I could have two putts.
But on the 18, for me it was a perfect shot.  But it is golf.  Golf courses like this, you have to, yeah, you have to play perfectly and sometimes play some not as risky as you want.  I could play a little bit further and take a minimum risk, but it came back in the divot and the chip was very difficult from there.
Q. Feel confident, feel good about the day?
GREGORY BOURDY: Right.
Q. What kind of shot were you trying to hit out of the divot?  How were you trying to play that?
GREGORY BOURDY: I tried to play a (indiscernible) shot with a 52 degree.  But, yeah, of course, it's an impossible shot.  We played Andrews like this, but it's -- yeah, you need to hit it perfectly, and I missed it.  Fortunately, there is a [indiscernible] cut.
Q. What do you think the reception is going to be like in France?  Do you think people will watch golf instead of soccer?
GREGORY BOURDY: I hope so.  I hope so.  I think like me or all the French people support our players, French players.  So I think out there I've got some people in France to watch the weekend.
Q. Maybe turn the Euros off and watch golf.
GREGORY BOURDY: France plays tomorrow.  So two days, they can watch.
Q. A little break from football.  Can Gregory Bourdy win the U.S. Open?
GREGORY BOURDY: Of course, it's possible.  It's possible.  I know it's possible so that's the main thing.  And then we'll see.  I can't say anymore.
Q. Do you know the history of French golfers in Major championships?  Are you aware of the history of French golfers in Major championships?  There hasn't been one since '07.
GREGORY BOURDY: Yes, 1907, Arnaud Massy, I know that was a long time ago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT