NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2013
Jeremiah Wooding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The Northern Trust Open exemption, what does it mean to you, being selected?   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   It was a great opportunity.   I was really stokedbecause the exemption, Northern Trust is so kind to have this exemption for a small group of people like myself who are just trying to get after it.  
  So to get the exemption and make the most of it means the world.   That's what the exemption is about, is trying to make the most of it, and that's what I'm trying to do.   
   
 Q.   You certainly did with the late run yesterday, talk about your play and 66 in the second round and you kept it going today?  
JEREMIAH WOODING:   Yeah, yesterday I turned at 3 over, and I knew I had the golf in me to go get it but I knew that it was not going to be given to me and I had to go out and earn it.   To birdie 17 in the dark‑‑ the scoreboard was lighting up the green and had some really good shots coming in.   
Today got off to a ho‑hum start and made some pars, but to make birdie before lunch is always a good way to eat.  
   
 Q.   What did you prove to yourself so far through the first 54 holes playing on the biggest stage in the world?   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   I just think that I belong.   This is where I feel comfortable.   My first ball on the fairway after the first hole, I'm walking down‑‑ this is where I'm supposed to be.   Had to get over it a little bit obviously but this is where I'm supposed to be, this is home, and this is where I'm supposed to live and just trying to enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   Your brother got this a couple years ago, did he give you any advice?   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   Yeah, in 2010.   Of course, he gave me advice just to stay calm, stay patient and go out and have fun.   This is such an opportunity and I'm trying to make the most of it, but it's not the end of my career.   I'm just a baby starting out, I'm 24, fresh our and just trying to get after it best I can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT