NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2013
Jeremiah Wooding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You made the turn, you're at plus three, what do you attribute that amazing turnaround in the dark to come in like that?  
JEREMIAH WOODING:   You've just got to keep your head down and keep plugging along.   That's what I thought, that's what my caddie told me, just get in the fairways.   I kind of struggled the first round when I kind of got a little waywardly.   So just hit in the fairway, and as soon as I hit in the fairway, I made a birdie.   
He said, today, you did pretty good from the fairways, so hit it in the fairway.   I just tried to stay patient and I knew nothing was going to be given to me and I had to go out and earn it.   It was fun.   It was fun grinding it out.   It was a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   We kept watching, you were right on the line; you were six feet on 17 and five on 18.   You were not only just hitting on the fairway but you were hitting them pretty close to the green.   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   I just kind of said, why not, why not just let it go.   Have nothing to lose.   Eagled two par fives.   Made some bogies here and there and missed some fairways.   I just said, let it go, pick a target.   That's what I did, wasn't afraid to lose, wasn't afraid of anything, just go get it.  
   
 Q.   Was there any concern of having to come back in the morning?   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   A little bit.   A little bit.   The tee shots on 17 and 18 are not the toughest but they are not the easiest.   I really would not want to have to come out tomorrow morning and warm up all the way again and go hit in the fairway, especially if I was even more so on number‑‑ I was able to make birdie on 17, and then I figured out we were going to play 18, just thought, good, get in the fairway, and then got on the green and made a putt.   
   
 Q.   So first Northern Trust Open exemption recipient to make the cut, which was in your application that it really was a goal.   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   Yeah, we are a small group of minority golfers and we are a small crew; and that was one of my goals to be the first one.   Not to take anything away from the guys that had come before me, but this is an opportunity that is well appreciated by the five of us that have gotten an exemption, and to make the most of it is great; to take the exemption and make the most out of it.   
   
 Q.   Can't wait to call Joshua?   
JEREMIAH WOODING:   Caught me on 18 and gave me a big hug.   It was a very cool experience.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT