U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
Alvin Kwak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's start with that 18th hole.  You were all over the place and it looked like he had the upper hand.  Tell us how you got back in that hole?
ALVIN KWAK: My tee shot was in the right woods, and I just punched out to 210 yards, and my hybrid because it was into the wind but I sliced it to the right side of the green which was bad, because the pin was on the very left.  I was just going for the best two-putt I could.
Q. How far do you think that first one was?
ALVIN KWAK: My first putt?  I don't know, 55-footer, I guess so.
Q. Were you surprised that you got it that close?
ALVIN KWAK: Yes, I was hoping it would stop.  I was lucky that the greens were slow, because I'm not very good with fast greens, so...
Q. Is this the biggest win of your career so far?
ALVIN KWAK: I won the Teen Worlds.  I don't know if that compares to anything up to this point, but it feels like it, definitely.
Q. You know how good a player he is and how much experience he had coming into this?
ALVIN KWAK: Yes, I do.  He told me this is his third time coming into since his sophomore year, so that's crazy.  That's top golf.
Q. To beat someone of that caliber and his experience, that has to give you a lot of confidence.
ALVIN KWAK: Yes.  I feel like that gave me the confidence that I can go all the way to the end of this tournament, which I barely made the cut.  So to be able to feel like this is great.
Q. Since you're kind of new to this kind of competition, what is the best part of your game?
ALVIN KWAK: I'm really consistent off the tee, and I hit a lot of greens in regulation.  So my when my putting is good, my score gets low.
Q. You got up on him early.  You birdied, let's see, you birdied the 4th and the 5th holes.
ALVIN KWAK: Yes.
Q. Do you remember how you birdied those holes?
ALVIN KWAK: The fourth hole he just gave me the hole because he chipped twice.  But I had it pretty close.
Q. How close was it?
ALVIN KWAK: About 12 feet.
Q. Then on 5?
ALVIN KWAK: The 5th hole was --
Q. That would put you 3-up?
ALVIN KWAK: Oh, yes.  I stuffed my wedge shot to like a tap-in.
Q. What did you hit?  What club did you use?
ALVIN KWAK: It was a 50-degree wedge from 110 yards.
Q. Later, on the back side then, he came back at you and actually took the lead.  But then you birdied 16th hole.  How did you birdie 16th hole?
ALVIN KWAK: Actually, ever since hole 5 I've been hitting my shots really long.  It's crazy.  I had to club down twice, and on that hole I was in the back of the green.  I had like a 20-footer right to left.  It was a big breaker, but somewhat drained it.
So I was pretty mad in the previous hole because I had a really good shot on the par-3 before that, and like 20 yards over the green.  So I gave him the hole.  The next hole I did the same thing, long, chipped and missed the putt.  So it was just giving away holes.
Q. Now that you're starting to think about what just happened, how happy are you?
ALVIN KWAK: Couldn't be happier.  This is just living in the present, this is the happiest moment ever.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT