WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  What happened?  What happened.  It was a tough match.  I mean, you have to give Natasha a lot of credit.  She played a really good match and she never let go. She was always playing good tennis.  She didn't get tired.  She was pretty consistent I thought, the whole match.  And I had a pretty bad first set.  I gave a lot of advantage with that first set.  And I don't know, I just didn't feel right today. I didn't feel I was really focused.  And she was playing well. At the beginning, I felt like it was really hard to play against Natasha.  I haven't played her for a while.  And she doesn't seem to do much, but she does a lot.  And I was trying to get used to that.  So I thought I fought really hard.  I did the best I could.  So I think that's as much as I could ask from myself.  Some days you don't play great tennis.  And today I felt on and off, playing some moments good, some moments not very good.  And it just happened. 
 

Q.  Was that last shot clearly in to you?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I thought it touched the line.  That's  what I thought happened.  It was very close to the umpire, so he didn't overrule.  And there was another call, the same line, and it was a big point and he didn't do anything. 
 

Q.  Gaby, what is the most difficult thing about playing Natasha?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Like I said, nobody talks about her. Nobody says anything about her game; like she doesn't seem to have that much.  She has that kind of attitude, like a little bit lazy and like she's not really intense on the court.  But she's very talented.  She has great tennis.  When she's on, she can beat anybody. 
 

Q.  Was it difficult for you to approach the net tonight?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I thought I started to come in a little bit more in the second set.  But, yeah, I guess it was a little hard to come in.  She was playing deep for some moments.  And she was passing very well, also.  So I was coming in when I had the chance only, when there was a short ball. 
 

Q.  You seemed to be really on when you were down 5-3 in the third.  And you really started to groove and really started timing the ball really well, especially on your backhand.  Was it just the urgency that you think you raised your game knowing that you were -- towards the end there, you had to do it?  Or did it just take you that long to catch your rhythm?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I just thought, well, all I can do is fight.  And that's all I tried to do.  I guess in those moments  you have nothing to lose, probably.  And I started to play without worrying too much, if it was going out.  And so that's what happens in those moments.  I thought I played well those games, but not good enough to finish it. 
 

Q.  Can you take that mind set at the end of your match and use that to improve and play a whole match that way?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Oh, yeah, if I have to start again, I will be more prepared.  There was a big difference with that first set compared to the end of the match. 
 

Q.  Do you think her nonchalance caused you to feel like, I can just feel her out, here, and when it comes to crunch time I can lay the hammer down?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't understand the question. 
 

Q.  You said earlier that she's a little bit nonchalant and maybe you can feel her out and then maybe when it matters it will make it happen.  And tonight she really surprised you a little?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  She was on tonight.  And sometimes you start having problems with your game.  And it's hard to keep that consistency through the whole match.  And it was a long match.  And she had it, she kept it.  And I was surprised by that.  She was able, mentally, to maintain that level. 
 

Q.  That was a couple of long points, end points in the second set that went her way.  Did that keep you back from the baseline?  Did that discourage you from coming up?  The points  at the net, back and forth, the volley shots?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, not really.  I mean not because of those points.  I was playing good.  That didn't stop me from coming into the net.  That wasn't the reason. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT