WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  In what areas has your coach, Juan Nunez, helped you?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, we've been working on a lot of things.


Q.  I notice your serve is much better?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, we've been working since last year on my serve.  And on all my ground strokes, tried to be a little more aggressive.  And we didn't change anything, really, really big, just very small details.  And it has made a change.  I guess the fact that I've been trying to work it out sometimes with small things, you need to adjust a little bit. And in the tournaments I started to really do what we've been working on and it has been improving a lot.  I feel like each week I was getting a little bit better.  And today I'm pretty happy with my serve.


Q.  You had real good results in New York,, why do you think that is?  And what do you feel is the reason for tonight's victory?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know, the city, the atmosphere.  I really like New York.  And I guess that has a  lot to do, and that really makes me feel motivated and have a lot of energy.  I had always some great results during the U.S. Open Championships.  And I guess I'll have to play, I hope every time in New York.


Q.  Does it also give you extra energy to be the title holder?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I'm not really thinking about that. That's not how I -- I'm taking it, you know, another year, another tournament.  If I have to go into my -- compare my game with how it was last year, it was better today.  Last year I was coming into the tournament, not having results, not playing good tennis, not feeling good with my game.  And today that's sort of different.  I feel very good with my game today.


Q.  Gabby, are you happy that the year is almost over? And what are you going to do once the tournament is over?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I'm really looking forward to a vacation.  It was a long year, I guess, because I had to play the Fed Cup two times.  And so I feel like I didn't have any time off really this year.  So I'm really looking forward to that.  And I guess just go home and be with my family and my friends and just enjoy my home.


Q.  Lindsay always has trouble with you, do you know why that is?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know, I guess she doesn't like  the change of rhythms.  Today most of the players like to hit the ball very hard, and that's who you usually play against. And that's something that is good about myself.  I can mix the game a lot.  I can do a lot of different things and I don't think she likes that.


Q.  Gabby, why did you decide to play the Fed Cup this year after missing it for so many years?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I thought it was about time.  I haven't played the Fed Cup for a few years.  And I feel like I really needed to play for -- in a team, I guess.  It's a really nice experience to be in a team with other players.  And also next year we're going to play the Olympics, and I wanted to be there, too.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT