U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell us about the last point.

GABRIELA SABATINI:   The last point of the match?


Q.  Yeah.

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I think it was very simple, just what you saw.  It touched my side first.


Q.  Last week, Steffi Graf, Monica Seles, what do you think is the difference?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Well, I mean, against Seles, I didn't have any chance really.  I didn't play bad, but she was just playing all winners and very close to the lines and, you know, not missing very much.  That is the difference.  Against Steffi, I could play, that is the difference.


Q.  Five years ago when you won here you did so by coming to the net first point of the match; here we saw you chip and charge.  Was that your plan going in thinking you can't go in by staying back? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Sure, I tried to come in when I had the possibility.  She was serving very well first and second.  She started to put her first serve in a little more and I just -- when it was a short ball, I tried to come in.


Q.  All the breaks - you were broken at love; you broke back.  Was it the wind, emotions, everything, how did --

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I don't know what happened.  I mean, I just -- very disappointing because I had many opportunities, you know, in the first set, in the second set, and it is just very disappointing to miss -- I mean, she didn't play bad.  She played well. But I missed, I double faulted, you know, against these players; you can't do that.


Q.  Is there a way to describe how disappointed it is to get this close to being in the finals, but not be there?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, it is disappointing more because, you know, I had pretty good chance.  I mean, the whole match I had chances.  The whole time, so I think I should have won this one set, and I think I could have won the match.  So it is really disappointing.


Q.  How was the wind? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, there was some wind, few moments was a little more; few moments not too bad. You know, I think it was for both, I mean, sometimes it helped me, sometimes it helped her, so it was for both.


Q.  Was it tough conditions like yesterday?  They were saying it was tough to play.

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, it is a little bit harder to play -- to toss the ball, you know, the ball is moving a lot.  It was going to one side and, you know, it is better play without wind, but, you know, the conditions are for both.


Q.  Did you feel you lost it with your mind or with your racket?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I don't know.  I would say with both.  I mean, I think mentally the plan was very good.  I thought I was playing very well and really knowing what I needed to do and I think I did it very well.  It was just something else that wasn't there.


Q.  If it is Monica and Steffi tomorrow, what do you think will happen?  What is your prediction?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I don't know.  I saw Monica the other day against Novotna.  She was making a lot of errors, so I think it is going to be a  very close match.  It depends I guess on each one of them how they are.


Q.  Are you happy with your play today?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, I thought I played a good match.  I thought I hit the ball very well.  I think everything was there, you know, the game was there.  Technically, I thought I played very well.


Q.  Steffi keeps saying she didn't expect to be this far because of physical problems; emotional distractions.  Do other players view her as having the mental toughness -- what enables her to rise above these problems all the time?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   What it is, probably she can separate things very well.  When she goes to the court, she is just playing tennis there. She is not thinking about what is going on in her personal life.  And, you know, that seems to be the one thing that she is doing very well, she can do very well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT