U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Gaby, what do you think about now that you made it through the next round and I know
everybody talked about all the attention that Monica and Steffi are getting, but quietly,
do you feel like this is turning into a situation where this could be your tournament?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, actually I like to come from behind, you know, like no one is
talking about me. I like that situation. I feel pretty good with my tennis, with every
single match. I think in this particular tournament, I have been very focused on each
match and that is why probably I made them easier, or the results looked easy. So there is
nothing I could say about my game that was wrong or something I need to do a little
better. I know, you know, now it is going to be a hard one -- I look forward to be in the
semis again one more time in New York. This is a tournament that, you know, gave me so
much -- so many things, you know. I won here. I always did very well here and so it is a
very special tournament, so I am glad to be in the semis again.

Q. Why are you particularly focused, you know, now as opposed to earlier this year,
whatever you just said you are feeling so focused on each match?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I guess, you know, you work on a lot of things and that is
what I have been doing and finally I am seeing a lot of results. I guess that is the
result of me getting, you know, a little more motivated, even more focused. I feel that
all the things are getting together. When you feel good, technically, physically,
mentally, that is the key to get all those things together and that is how I feel today.

Q. How come you have had difficulty; you are playing now like '90, that is what it
looked like to us, but you have had difficulty sustaining that focus and everything. Do
you have any idea of why you had that trouble?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think I had -- a lot of things happened on and off the court. I
felt my game got stuck a little bit in those two years. And, you know, I think that is
really the reason why, you know, I wasn't being very consistent or very focused. 

Q. Do you have any idea why it got stuck? Was it the changes of coaches that --

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, that had a lot to do. My mind was into that a lot, trying to
find the right person for me and it was a little hard. It took me more than a year to find
a coach and I think that had a lot to do.

Q. You mentioned a few times that you like this place. Is it New York or it is the
tournament itself and what do you like about it?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I have to say New York and I have to say the crowd is, you know, it
is a great crowd. I think it is one of the best ones. They really get involved into the
matches and they really -- you can tell that they are enjoying the matches very much and
it is more exciting for us too.

Q. What is it that Juan is giving you that maybe Carlos no longer gave you or never
gave you or...

GABRIELA SABATINI: Carlos gave me a lot of things. He gave me many, many things and I
learned a lot from him. And there came a moment where I needed to stop working with him
because I wasn't learning anymore. I think I had took everything I needed to take from him
and it was very good. He helped me a lot. So I just needed to move on to get another
person and Juan, I think, he knows a lot about tennis. He knew my game very well, and all
the things that I needed to work on and particularly on trying to make me play a little
bit more aggressive and work on my serve and try to improve that.

Q. Why is it that being two matchpoints up you serve like that -- you were two
matchpoints ahead and you, the first serve is at 65 miles an hour twice?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I was trying to mix it up a little bit today. Sometimes I wasn't
putting my first serve in and I felt like I needed to put it in, you know, to make a good
first serve that wasn't too powerful, but good enough, because she was attacking my second
serve a lot and coming in.

Q. How much do you think during the last three games -- last match that you lost
against?

GABRIELA SABATINI: The last matches?

Q. I mean, the famous match. The last three games, did you think about Paris?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, actually it came to my mind a little bit. You know what
happens with Mary Joe when she is down, she starts playing great tennis and, you know, she
was coming in very much all the time and it was hard for me to, you know, to play my game.
I started to play a little short too so I helped her a little bit too, so, you know, but I
try not to really get involved with the last match or that match that I lost to her, not
to get really involved thinking of that. I thought I needed to change it and to try
something different and to go for it; not just waiting until she is going to miss it.

Q. What did you focus on when she got down to 5-3, 5-1?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I just focused on the point, on hitting the ball, just keep being
aggressive; not just letting her attack me and I played deep balls.

Q. The fact that you are more focused and you are mental - your mental approach is
better, has that got to do with just maturity and age; something that has come naturally
through experience?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think that has a lot to do. You know, some people say, oh, you are
playing like 1990 or what is the difference, and I think today I am more mature on the
court. Like I am more aware of what I am doing on the court. I know what each ball --
where each ball is going and what I am doing with each ball and that is because I am 25
today and I have been on the circuit for a long time. 

Q. Does it have to do with your approach as well that you have been patient and that
you haven't panicked; you haven't burned out? Have you taken things naturally as they
come?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, that is something that you really have to do a lot, be patient
and wait and don't get crazy; especially if you are not getting good results, you know,
you can get really frustrated. Like I got a little frustrated at some point, but, you
know, I realized that I needed to be really patient and just focus on what I need to work
on and that is all.

Q. It is very seldom we see players kiss after the match. You and Mary Joe are friends?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, we are good friends off the court. We are good friends and I
think we both know that inside the court we have to beat each other, so we forget a little
bit about that and try to play our best on the court.

Q. When you were way ahead today and Mary Joe started to come back, how did your mental
approach differ today compared to other times when you weren't able to close it out?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Like I said before, just try to focus on the next point and instead
of my mind going crazy, just thinking about something else, you know, just, you know, keep
being focused; don't go away; just play your game, keep playing your game, keep hitting
the ball, you know and I think that was the difference when I lost to her at the French,
that match.

Q. So in past times, you have become rattled a little bit in your head?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah. Well, when those things start happening, you know, I think
each time you are winning like that what happens, the opponents starts -- just she has
nothing to lose, so she starts going for it and she starts coming in and doing different
things and, you know, so you have to keep being focused; don't lose it.

Q. You consider this match because you had a big lead and because you were able to
close it out a breakthrough of sorts in a way?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Definitely. I think it is a little break in that wall of those
things. I lost a lot of matches like that and, you know, it is frustrating to lose like
that, so, you know, I guess, you know, today I was able -- I was mentally able to confront
that and, you know, to finish it get it over with.

Q. Mary Joe said that if you have the believe in your game right now, you could beat
Graf, you could beat Seles, do you have that belief now and do you think it is going to
happen?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I believe, you know, I can beat them. I beat them in the past
and I am so much better today, so I don't see why I shouldn't be beating those players.

Q. Does winning 6-1, 6-3, give you a mental edge?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Definitely. I thought it was going to be a little even closer than
what it was. Even the results says that maybe it was easy, but the match wasn't easy at
all. It is like each point, you know, I had to play good tennis and fight a lot each
point. Mary Joe doesn't give you anything, so, but it does -- it gives me a lot of
confidence.

Q. Do you practice with her Mary Joe?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. I don't really spend that much time in Miami. That is
why we don't practice that much. We practice in tournaments sometimes.

Q. When your mind wanders, when you are in these situations, does it go to stuff that
is totally' non-tennis related?

GABRIELA SABATINI: No, it could be. I think it is more mental in what happens in those
moments, you know, like like moments from the past or a situation like that that happened
before.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT