U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What did you think of Martina's game?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: It was a very tough match, I mean, seemed like every single point I
had to play, I just had to play great, I mean, great tennis. That's what is so good about
her that it makes you play 100 percent. You know, everything she -- she moves so well, and
she gets everything back and, you know, I was changing the speed of the shots and at some
moments that didn't seem to be bothering her. You know, some points she was terribly
missing, but you wouldn't take it well until she was missing. 
 
Q. Do you think you had some trouble with your high top spin?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Did I have? 
 
Q. Do you think she was having trouble with your high top spin?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: She missed a lot of those with her backhand. I knew I had to make
her hit the ball a little uncomfortable, so I was trying to mix it up a lot. She probably
did more errors with those balls than any other ball. 
 
Q. Do you have any idea how good a player she will be after she gets two or three
year's experience?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: She's already a very good player. You know, I can't imagine how good
she will be, you know, in one year, two years. She's just, you know, still very, very
young. She's only 14, you know, and for having only that age, you know, she seems to be
handling everything pretty well. She seems to know what she's doing on the court pretty
good. 
 
Q. Can you compare her game to yours when you were her age playing out here?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: What was the beginning? 
 
Q. Can you compare her game to yours in terms of developing?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, you know, I still -- we have a little different game. I like
to play more with top spin and that was my game in the beginning, but she can hit the ball
very hard; she has a great backhand; she can hit it cross court and very well down the
line. You know, in that way probably, you know, I will say that I was playing with more
top spin when I was a little younger. 
 
Q. Is there anyone that she reminds you of?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. I mean, I couldn't -- I couldn't see Martina playing
when she were little, so I can't really say, but she has a great potential and, you know,
much stronger than anybody else that I've seen at that age. 
 
Q. What areas of her game does she have to improve as she continues to progress?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, I will say probably, you know, she has to come in a little
more because she has a great volley, she has great hands; today she came into the net very
well. She won most of those points, so I think she should come in a little more because
she has great tennis from the baseline and, you know, probably hurt a little bit more with
her serve, you know, doing more with her serve. 
 
Q. Gaby, when you say you need to get more aggressive, what kind of conditions do you
need to bring that out of you?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think it's there, you know, the volley is there. It's, you know,
try to play -- a little more inside the baseline and, you know, as soon as I see an
opportunity to come in, just do it. 
 
Q. Do you think you need a big opponent like Seles or someone else to make you more
aggressive to hype you up?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, I have to say against everybody I have to play aggressive. I
mean, today there's no one that can make me play just putting the ball inside. Against
everybody I need to do that, otherwise they're going to beat me. 
 
Q. Gaby, as a person who was in her shoes, what piece of advice would you give her in
playing tennis right now from what you see?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think she has to keep doing other things too, you know, not stop
doing, you know -- you know, whatever she likes to do besides playing tennis. I think she
does some things besides tennis, and, you know, that's probably the advice I would give
her, you know, that not to focus so much in tennis because you become too dependent on
tennis and that's not good because sometimes you can get very frustrated. 
 
Q. That's what happened to you for a little while, do you think?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know. I had moments, I had moments. I think nothing really
bad happened to me, you know, I just had moments and you get to a point where I realized
that I needed to do other things, but you just have to realize that you're not just going
to do it; you realize that you need to do it? 
 
Q. Gaby, what do you remember about the Martina -- (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I was just very little. They will tell me I have to play, go in now,
and okay, no problem. I love to go onto the court and play. That's what I wanted to do,-
that's all I wanted to do, just go to the court and play. I remember I played the third
round against Helena Sukova in the Stadium and it was like playing in any other court. I
mean, I just -- i wasn't conscious of what was happening or where I was, all the people
that were surrounding me and, you know, in a way I think that's good. It's just very
different, you feel different because you don't have any pressures, you don't have any
responsibilities. 
 
Q. How did your parents -- did they handle you at all in that situation; did they say
anything?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: My parents were not around me at that moment. I was with my brother,
and he was just a company for me in supporting me. They never put any pressure or say,
well, you have to do this or, no, never. That's probably another thing that it would be
hard to advise to somebody, but if I have to say to the parents something it would be
don't put pressure, just let her play and don't put any pressure on her. 
 
Q. Are you motivated by the possibility of losing to a 14-year-old kid; is that a
motivating factor?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Definitely, yeah. I think it is. I think it is. Inside there is
something -- a special feeling, you know, I don't want to lose to someone a lot younger
than me. You know, that's it, I will say an extra motivation for me there. 
 
Q. You say you have to play aggressively against everybody, yet in this match you
almost never went to the net. Was that by predetermined plan that you would just stay
back?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. You know, I just tried to come in when I have the
opportunity. I think if I have to say that there was something I should have done
different, it would have been probably coming to the net a little more. Yeah, I've been
aggressive, but it means, you know, just playing from inside the baseline and to attack
when I see the opportunity to come, just come in. So that's probably one thing I should
have done. 
 
Q. What are your thoughts on playing Arantxa? Like, how does that usually -- what does
that usually mean for your game?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, she still has to win tonight. 
 
Q. Can you talk about either one because I know you have great matches against her.
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I played Arantxa and Mary Joe many times and against any of those,
you know, I would have to come in a little more, I'm sure of that. And just keep playing
the same way I've been doing it, you know; go to the ball a lot. And, you know, from now
on it's going to be tougher and tougher. So, you know, I got here, you know, this is --
this is the second week, this is another tournament starting now. 
 
Q. Here when you played -- I don't remember if it was specifically Arantxa, but Mary
Joe, having played some memorable matches here against her --
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, the one that I remember the most is when I beat her in the
semis that year that I won the Open. I think I surprise her a lot by coming to the net,
you know. I was just playing from the baseline and in the middle of the second set I was
losing so I say well, I have nothing to lose so why not just come in and I did her pretty
well and I think I surprise her very much.  
 
Q. Gaby, are playing players like you in the women's field being overlooked with
Monica's return and Steffi's problems, and if so is it an advantage to you?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I think so. I like to come behind if no one is talking about
me. That's fine, you know. I think it's time for them to talk about the return of Monica
which is a big thing and, you know, that takes I guess a little bit the pressure off. 
 
Q. Is it your result a surprise to you in the tournament so far, any surprises to you
of the people still in the tournament?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. Not really. Probably, you know, a little bit, I guess,
Mary Pierce losing to Amy Frazier. I think Amy Frazier is a great player and she beat --
since that she doesn't say much but she could be really tough. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT