U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Gaby, you play Hingis next. Do you think that will be a more difficult match?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I expect it to be a more difficult match. She has been playing
very well this tournament and, you know, she is one of the players that is coming up, you
know, very strong. She has a great game, great tennis, so yeah. I never played her before,
so it is going to be a very exciting match. 
 
Q. This has been a good tournament for you, always been a good tournament for you, but
have you ever played as well in the first three rounds that you can remember as you have?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know. I always play pretty good, you know, in this
tournament. This year, I think I am playing, I don't know, I think a little more on the
court, like more aware of what I am doing on the court. And one of the things that I have
been doing very well is playing very deep and very close to the lines, and you know, I am
able to take control of the match, you know, by playing like that. 
 
Q. Why have you been able to play well here? Is it the court surface, or the place, or
--
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think a lot of things, the surface is very good. I feel very
comfortable on hardcourts. New York is a place that I like to come and visit and it is
fun. And the crowd is great too. I mean, they really get involved in the matches and it is
really great. It is nice. It is special to play here. 
 
Q. Gaby, do you have any thoughts on Martina; not her game, but her situation being
that you were in that situation. Is there advice that you can remember being 14 and having
that kind of pressure?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, now that I play her, I was thinking, geez, I was 14 when I
played my first U.S. Open. I don't know what kind of advice. For the moment she seems to
be pretty happy with everything. I hope that she doesn't feel any pressure or anything
like that from media or parents, you know, that is the only thing. But otherwise, she has
a great potential. She has a great game. 
 
Q. When you look back, the Orange Bowl and then coming here, is there anything you do
different or that you would tell a kid not to do?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: You know, I have come this far, so everything I did was pretty good.
I was lucky to have great people around me, great family that supported me; never put any
pressure on me, and I was just very happy because I was doing what I wanted to do and I
was fine with doing that. I wasn't feeling any pressure. 
 
Q. Was that match any easier than the scoreboard looked, 6 1, 6-1?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: No not at all. Every point I had to really fight a lot to play
really my best to win each point. She is a player that is not going to give you anything
and she fights every single ball and she runs to everything and she is a very smart
player, you know, she studies the game very well and she always has a good plan and so,
you know, the score has nothing to do with the match. 
 
Q. Three years ago you had a tougher match against Appelmans. What was missing in her
game tonight?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think today was a tougher match than when I play her a few years
ago, a lot tougher. I think she has improved a lot, her game. She is trying to come into
the net a little bit more. She is being a little bit more aggressive and I think that is
the change that she has made since that moment. 
 
Q. Have you watched Martina Hingis play at all or do you have any plan on your part
what --
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not so much this tournament, but I watch her before at other
tournaments and, you know, she has a very solid game from the baseline and she comes in
sometimes, but she moves very well, very easily, she moves from the baseline and she has
pretty good mentality, so I think I am going to have to keep playing the same way I have
been doing it, just mixing the ball a lot and just try not to give her any rhythm. 
 
Q. How do you evaluate your chances of taking the women's doubles with your partner
Martina Navratilova?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, it is a pleasure to be playing with her, you know, there are
so many players that she could have played with and to be playing with her is really an
honor, so Martina has, you know, so much experience on the Tour and I mean, she won so
many titles, in doubles as well, so I think we can do very well. I have been playing a lot
of doubles, winning a few tournaments, so I think we have pretty good chances to win. 
 
Q. Is there anything about doing that that is helping your game; does she talk to you
at all or just playing --
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, we try to, I guess, get to know each other
on-the-court-strategy and what to do and I talk to her, yeah, sure because I think she
knows so much and it is so good to ask her anything, so I do that when I need to. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT