U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You had impressive wins. You think it is good enough to take you all the way
through?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I guess I didn't have any really tough match, but I feel
pretty good playing. Everything in general -- everything is working really well, today
probably better than the day before. Like I said, I didn't have yet a tough one to really
test myself. But, you know, I think from now on, the matches are going to get tougher, and
that is what I am looking forward to. 
 
Q. Can you discuss the play of Martina Hingis at this early age; what you have seen of
her and you might play her in a couple of matches. What do you think of the way she is
playing?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think she has great potential. I think she has a great baseline
game, and she has very quick hands and she moves very well. She seems to be moving very
easily like without making any efforts and, you know, she has good forehand, good
backhand. At the net she can play very well. I played against her in doubles last week,
and I was surprised the way she was getting her volleys, and a good mind too. She is
pretty strong mentally. 
 
Q. Is she somebody the veteran players are afraid of?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know afraid of, but it is definitely someone it is not easy
-- it is not easy to play against.  
 
Q. Have you ever played doubles with Martina before?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I played with her once at the Italian Open. I think it was in 1988. 
 
Q. How did you do?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: We won the tournament.  
 
Q. You have spent four days in Toronto after the tournament there. Did that help your
preparation for this tournament?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I think so. I think, you know, the good thing it is close to
New York. The temperature is pretty much the same, and it was perfect. I didn't have to
move, stayed there, relaxed a little bit and also practiced, I mean, I took a couple of
days off too. But the practice was pretty good, and then it was good that I went to New
Haven and played a couple of matches there, to really get ready.  
 
Q. What are your observations on what Steffi Graf is battling through right now both
physically and emotionally and how she is handling things?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I would think that she is going through a very tough moment;
more probably emotionally with everything that is going on with the family. I don't really
know how her back is, but I mean, I am assuming that she has been having problems with it.
I think, you know, she is pretty strong. She is a very strong person, and a very strong
mind and I think she is handling it very well, I think.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT