U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel, in general, about how you are playing and what do you think about
your prospects for the tournament?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think I am feeling very good. My game is, you know, it is very
good. I think I have improved a lot of things. Today was an okay match. I thought I didn't
serve very well. Didn't put too many first serves in, and, you know, compared to the way I
have been serving the last few weeks, which was very good. But I am fit. I am feeling very
confident with my game, so it is just taking one match at a time and I think I have pretty
good chances. 
 
Q. What was the one thing that most surprised you about Monica's game when you played
her in Canada?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: You know, I didn't have any doubt that she was going to come back
and play good tennis because in tennis, I think the mental part has a lot to do and she
has a very good mentality, very determined, you know, very confident of herself. Probably
I felt how confident she felt with her game, that was the most impressive thing, you know,
because I mean, for two years out of tournaments without playing any matches, you don't
have the rhythm, even if you keep playing tennis, you just you are not playing matches and
the rhythm sometimes goes off. It wasn't like that at all for her. 
 
Q. Do you think that she has taken the limelight away from some of the other players
with her comeback?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think she is just worried about just playing tennis again, just I
think she is enjoying, you know, being back on the Tour and she is going to try to do her
best, anything, so she is going to try to win everything. 
 
Q. Monica coming back puts a lot of pressure...
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think it is very good for women's tennis that Monica is back on
the Tour, you know, it is exciting for everybody, for people, for us, and it is good to
see her back. 
 
Q. But it makes it harder, right?
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Oh, sure, it does, but I think it is more interesting now. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT