THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Gaby, what turned it around?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, when I was 5-1, I didn't feel very
good like -- like I was close to win the match, but that wasn't
-- I thought she started to play well.  She started to put the
ball inside the court and not making too many errors; started
to be a little more patient.  I started to feel a little bit tired
in the second set and then very tired in the third set, so I didn't
have much energy to, you know, to move and to play deep and to
control the match.  I thought she was controlling the match in
the third set.

 Q.  The fact that she injured her right shoulder, did that
make it any harder for you to play against her?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't think so.  I mean, the only thing
she, you know, she was doing different was just serving a little
bit slower.  But, you know, otherwise she seemed to be okay.

 Q.  Can you talk about your problem serving today.

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I did, you know, some doublefaults
at some important moments and probably being a little nervous
and, you know, losing a little bit of my concentration at those
moments, I think that is what it was.  Some moments it had a lot
to do; I give her a free point and, you know, that wasn't, you
know, good for me.

 Q.  Gaby, were you thinking of Paris in '93 during that match?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not really. You know, I think that match
is over.  That happened already and, you know, I am okay about
it and I wasn't thinking about that.  Today I did the best I could
and physically I thought she was much better than me.  And that
was the reason why she won.

 Q.  What is the problem with your shoulder today, anything
at all?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  I didn't have any problems.  It has
been very good the whole week and I am very happy about that.


 Q.  Do you feel now then that you need to be in better condition?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I mean, I don't think I need to be in
better condition, just rest a little more, that is all.  I am
working hard and I am doing everything I have to do.  I am just
-- I think I need a little bit more rest, that is all.

 Q.  When you walked off the court and went into the lockerroom
what did you do, smash a few lockers, break a few rackets?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, I am not the kind of person that would
do that.  I take it a little more inside and I don't break anything,
just try to stay quiet and think a little bit about the match
and that was ALL.

 Q.  Gaby, it has been about hour and 15 minutes since the
match was over.  Have you been sort of contemplating the match
in the lockerroom all this time?  Usually players come in a lot
more quickly.

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Trying to rest a little bit.  I was exhausted.
 I was really tired and had to drink a lot went to the trainer's
room and get some stretch and just rest a little bit.

 Q.  You didn't need an I.V.; did you?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.

 Q.  The loss in Paris, I think, it took awhile for you to
get over that.  Do you think that you are going to have that same
sort of problem with this one too?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  I think I learned from that and that
didn't help me at all.  I just have to be very positive right
now and not think about that.  I did the best I could and that
happens and, you know, now I have to think on the next tournament
and just be positive.

 Q.  Were you looking ahead at all to the final being so far
ahead?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I didn't want to think about the finals.
 I knew today was going to be a tough match, so I usually like
to go match by match, and, you know, until today's match was over,
you know, I wasn't going to think about the next match.

           End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT