THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1995
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  How do you think you played today you? Seemed to be pretty
much in control?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, he is always a little bit hard to play
the first match because here it is like home for me and people
love me a lot, so it was hard to get into the match and think
about the game itself.  My head was a little bit away thinking
of how beautiful it is to be there with all those people loving
me and cheering for me.  So it was special.  At the beginning
I thought I started a little bit tight a little bit nervous, but
then I was loose and I was able to play my game and I was in control
of the match.

 Q.  Gaby, what has Juan Nunez done for your game?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I think Juan has helped me a lot first
because he knew what were the things that I needed to improve.
 He knew my game before and I think he has a lot of knowledge
about the game, you know, technique.  He knows a lot about that.
He studies the players a lot and he knows how to play against
different players and he has a very good mind. He has a good personality,
determined and at the same time, he could be very easy, very flexible
and fun too.

 Q.  Do you get along with him also, I mean, after tennis?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, definitely.  He is fun and I get along
with him.  We do things off the court too, which is totally different,
but it is fun too.

 Q.  How about -- where do you see yourself overall, your game
for the last several years; you had a tournament -- you had a
tournament -- big tournament win in '94.  Do you think you are
approaching a level as did you in the past?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, at the Championships that was a great
tournament.  I played great tennis there and it has been awhile
since I haven't played that great tennis and it was good to feel
that finally and I guess to break that wall, winning a tournament.
 I started that year, you know, well -- I won Sidney again playing
great tennis, very smart tennis and, you know, at the Australian
Open I had a tough match a little bit unlucky, but I am here.
I am feeling good.  I have been -- I took sometime off a month
and that helped me a lot and I have been practicing all this time.
 I feel very good.  My shots are working very well.

 Q.  Did you do anything else besides practice?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Went home to the beach and relaxed a little
bit, with my friends and my family.  It was nice.

 Q.  Obviously you are a big crowd favorite even on grandstand;
there is a lot of noise.  Is that a good thing or is that actually
pressure for you to have to produce --

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it is good because today it was the
first match; it was a little bit hard, but, you know, once I play
one match, two matches; then I am going to be into the tournament
and that is what I want to do, to be focused and think about what
I have to do, but it is nice.  It feels very good.  I mean, it
is something that you can't value, people, they are so great to
me.

 Q.  Key Biscayne, it is kind of a second home to you; does
it help you, you think?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, it does because I feel very comfortable.
 It is so convenient this tournament.  I live right here.  It
is very comfortable and I love it.  I am very comfortable here.


 Q.  That helps you obviously to play better?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, it does.  I mean, you know, there is
that special feeling like playing at home, so obviously it makes
me feel better.

 Q.  You have been working on your serve, there is obviously
a marked improvement?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, we have been working on my serve. 
I think it got a lot better.  My first serve, it got a lot better,
much stronger.  I think players have a little more respect for
my serve because they know I can make aces and good serves, so
that gives me some advantage, you know, it would be easier for
me also to win my service game.  I still am working on the second
serve, which is still something that I need to keep improving,
but it is getting better.

 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT