VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 20, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Gabriela, in talking with your coach, Juan Nunez, what did he emphasize for a game plan to come up with for this match? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, I played Lindsay a few times before, so, I knew what I needed to do right and, you know, what I didn't have to do, but, you know, she hits the ball hard and very deep so I knew I had to play deep and my shots had to be, you know, very aggressive, and move her around, also try to mix the game, not to let her play the same and try to mix it up a little bit. 


Q.  Was there a time in the last two and a half years where you maybe thought this wasn't happening, especially like this? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I mean, I never think that way, that this is never going to happen, but I was hoping that it was going to happen, but, it's been a long time, I mean, you know, two years where I had a lot of -- I felt a lot of frustration, and some very tough matches that I lost.  And it's good today, to -- to feel, to see, to know that the game is there.  You know, I -- you know, it's there, I haven't lost my game and I can play that way and do it. 


Q.  Do you feel like it is a question that winning a title feels so good or is it the manner in which you won it? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Probably the way I won it.  It is not only winning the title, I think it means more the way I won the title, the way I played.  I felt so confident all this whole week, mentally very strong, and, you know, there wasn't something that I did bad, I did wrong, you know, everything worked out very well and I'm so satisfied because I feel that things are getting better. 


Q.  During those two and a half years, I think you mentioned on TV you had a lot of bad moments, but the one at the French Open in '93 with Fernandez, can you talk about what you felt like that day or immediately after that kind of match and what kind of effect that had on you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  That was the toughest one to pull out, you know, I was winning that match so easy and playing great that year, I really thought that, you know, I had a chance to win the tournament. After I lost that match, I -- you know, I was so frustrated, so disappointed, that it didn't go my way, and it took me actually a few weeks to forget about it.  I knew I had to play after Wimbledon and my mind wasn't there at all.  So, it was really tough, you know, to forget about that and to start playing again, start being focused again. 


Q.  Is it particularly satisfying that when you did win, today, finally winning one, that it came at a big tournament and not a small event? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Exactly.  You know, that also has a lot to do because the top 16 players were here, and what else can I ask for?  What other tournament can I ask for?  Also, because it's the last tournament of the year.  You know, finishing the year by playing this way, it gives me a lot of satisfaction and now I can say, yeah, I can take a break and feel relaxed and enjoy it. 


Q.  Did you ever lose interest in playing tennis or just wanted to keep at it so that you'd break through? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I never lost complete interest, probably at some point I thought of taking some time off which I did a little bit after Wimbledon and that helped me a lot mentally.  I need a break, because, you know, I just -- I wasn't even enjoying being on the court and it was tough. 


Q.  Gaby, when you beat Martina, did you think to yourself that that could be the start of something for this week? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I wasn't thinking that way because Martina's game was very special.  It was all the crowd, so many people were watching that match and there were a lot of expectations.  Because of that, maybe I felt more into the match, and probably that's why I played that way, but then I thought I just have to keep it up, because I'm not going to play another match like this.  I'm not going to have another opportunity like this one. So, you know, I kept my mind there, and, you know, I guess probably the match against Martina gave me confidence too, you can, to play that way and playing 100%, I did everything right.  I played great tennis.  I guess that had a lot to do also to keep extra confidence in my mind. 


Q.  Gabriela, are you more relieved to have ended the streak or are you more happy to have won? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Both things, but probably relieved.  I guess, a little bit more after this couple years that have been very tough, and now I have victory.  I played good, feels good, and it feels very, you know, relieved. 


Q.  Considering the way Lindsay has been playing, hasn't lost a set, getting to the finals, do you think she sort of succumbed to do big momentitis or in your experience would you rule that out? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know.  I think both things probably had a little to do.  I felt very good going into this match because I thought, I've been there before.  I've played five sets before.  So, I think that was in my favor a little bit more.  Lindsay had a great tournament, you know, yeah, she didn't have any tough matches, really, but I guess she was also content with getting into the finals. 


Q.  Gaby, you seem to be very focused today; would you agree?  Whereas the last two matches you did have a little trouble.  Today, you seemed like you knew exactly what you wanted to do and you were going to do it. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, probably today from the first moment, from the first point of the match I was very focused which it was probably the difference with the last few matches.  But, I knew today that I needed to win the first set.  I knew I needed to play great tennis from the beginning because I didn't know how I was going to be physically.  So, it was important to get the first set. 


Q.  Gaby, in a week from now, your contract with Juan Nunez is going to be over; are you going to keep with him? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  First I would like to talk to him about that before I tell you. 


Q.  Gaby, you broke her ten times including 14 tries, six in a row at one point; were you doing something different on her serves? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I was just trying to block the ball; just put it inside.  She was doing very well, doing a lot of aces, and I just stepped a little closer to the baseline and tried to, you know, get it back and I returned very well.  I think I mixed it up very well with slice and topspin which, you know, probably affected her a little bit. 


Q.  Gaby, the last two and a half years while it was very frustrating for you on the court, didn't you also discover life outside of tennis; did you sort of broaden yourself?  Could you talk about that? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes, I guess I had to.  You know, through tennis I learned how to enjoy other things off the courts.  And I do believe that that's necessary to do that.  Because if you do only tennis, it could be very tiring, and you need to do other things, so, and especially during those moments when I wasn't doing well on the court, you know, I needed to, I guess, to compensate to balance it, you know, off the court a little bit. 


Q.  Can you tell us what kind of things you did?  I know you talked about -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes, I just went home and every time I had a chance and just enjoying being there.  I have a farm there at home and, you know, I can get away from everything and relax and be with friends.  You know, reading, I don't know, I guess those things. 


Q.  Are you looking forward to next year maybe more than you looked forward to a season in a while now, the way you're playing? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, sure.  I think before next year starts I would like to have a little break and I've been needing that to have some time off, and then, of course, yeah, I look forward to next year.  I feel good, you know, I want to keep playing this way and maintain the same level. 


Q.  Gabriela, in the next ten years, do you see yourself still in women's tennis or branching out -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  In the next ten years? 


Q.  Branching out to -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I'm 24 now?  Maybe not.  I don't know, I always say that I don't want to play that many years, I want to do other things, I want to have a family. 


Q.  Do you want to sing later? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, maybe.  Why not?  I like to do that, so maybe make a record or something.  I'll let you know.  Don't worry. 


Q.  Lindsay said because of the talent that you have, that the key to beating you is sort of just whatever you're feeling up in your head and it seems like to an outsider you should be able to control that -- like if have you so much talent and ability in tennis, is that -- do you see her analysis as being correct; it's all up to you and all psychological? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, the mind obviously has a lot to do.  I guess there are a lot of things that have to be there.  You also have to feel good about your tennis and how you're hitting the ball.  If you can have that confidence, then, you can be focused.  But the confidence comes from, you know, feeling good about yourself, feeling good about hitting the ball, feeling good physically, and then you're able to, you know, to give it all. 


Q.  Gaby, at times you hit your second serve harder than the first one and sometimes missed was it -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes, I've been working on my serve, you know, first and second, and today probably at -- in some moments I didn't serve very well, but I kept doing it and I kept hitting the because, I kept you know going for my serves, because I knew I had to do that to keep playing aggressive.  You know, even that I doublefaulted a few times, you know, I was still able to go for those serves. 


Q.  Gaby, based on this win, do you still think you can achieve the number one ranking next year or in the next couple of years; can you look that far ahead; is that a goal? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I do believe that especially if I play the way I did this week.  I do believe that very much, and I think I'm in the right age also to be there, where I reach my peak and, you know, I think I have very good chances. 


Q.  Gaby, can you tell me in your book, the drills for the kids about their family and about how they behave; was that your idea-- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  What's that? 


Q.  In your book the things the kids have to do about life and not about tennis? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes. 


Q.  A lot of people may have predicted that you ask them to go do exercises on a wall and the fact that there were all things with the family and -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, I wrote the book, so it's all -- 


Q.  The whole concept? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Pretty much, and obviously I talked to them, to the company about it, and you know, we both did it together, but, I think it's very important for kids you know to -- besides if they want to play tennis or whatever they wanted to in life -- they got to enjoy life and do these kinds of things for someone, you know, for them to feel good about themselves and you know, just to try to go out, too. 


Q.  In what way, if any, did your experience and her lack of experience benefit you today? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, I talked about it yesterday a little bit and I said that that was going to be something in my favor, you know, the fact that I've been there before, I've been there many times.  I know what it feels to play five sets. You know, that gave me extra confidence.  I think it had a lot to do. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT