VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are you tired and are you happy? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Tired, no.  I'm probably a little bit, but not too bad, actually.  You know, as the match start going, I start to feel better and better.  I mean, it was -- actually, I think at the beginning, I was a little bit slow, and then by the end of the first set, I was just moving very well, and, you know, physically, feeling very good, no problems. 


Q.  End of the first or third; what did you say? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I said at the end of the -- I said that in the first set and then at the end. 


Q.  How much does it mean to you to be in this finals? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, it means a lot.  It's very important for a lot of reasons.  You know, because I've been playing great tennis which, you know, that's more meaningful than anything, because, you know, I haven't had that consistency for a long time, so, it's good to feel that, you know, I've been playing every single match very well, and being in the finals of this tournament, you know, this tournament means a lot to me.  It is a very special tournament, the best 16 players are here and, you know, finishing the year playing this way is even better. 


Q.  What's the difference in your game from this tournament last year? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think I'm hitting the ball much better.  I'm feeling more confidence with my shots, you know, before the baseline, I know what I'm doing on the court and being aggressive, you know, the shots now, they have aggressiveness -- and that's what I wasn't doing.  My ball wasn't hurting, it wasn't doing anything. 


Q.  Can I follow it up?  What are you doing that enabled you to get there?  Is it Juan?  Is it you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, Juan has a lot to do with this because we have been working on this and he keeps telling me, "hit the ball", and I have to do something with the ball, I have to hurt the opponent and it's working. 


Q.  Gaby, you mentioned this is a very special tournament.  Would it be doubly special to end this long period, two-and-a-half years that you last won a title -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  What's the question? 


Q.  You haven't won a title for two-and-a-half years. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes. 


Q.  Would it be extra special to win a title here? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, sure.  You know, I couldn't win a tournament for a couple of years and it will be great, because that's what I need today, to win matches like this, to win a tournament.  That gives a lot of confidence, and knowing that I'm there, that proves a lot. 


Q.  Gaby, do you think it's going -- how much of a help do you think it's going to be to you with this final having played a five-setter here a few years ago? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it's going to help me a little more because I've been there; I played five sets three times.  You know, I know what it feels -- I know what it takes, and probably will have a little advantage by knowing that. 


Q.  Gaby, coming in looking at the draw you faced the possibility of facing one, two, and three.  Arantxa in the second round, Conchita and Steffi, turns out none of the three; do you feel that might be an omen, that this is your chance? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure.  Even if they were not playing, I still had to play against great players who beat them, and obviously they were playing great tennis too.  So, you know, I'm satisfied with that too. I played great too, to beat them.  You know, I didn't have to play the top first few players, but I had to play the ones who beat them and they were playing good too. 


Q.  Gaby, what are you going to have to do to beat Lindsay Davenport? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  She's been playing very well, you know.  She didn't have any really tough matches, you know, in this tournament.  So, you know, I just hope I can be physically well-rested, and I'm going to have to play very aggressive, you know. I can't just play short or, you know, let her take control of the match because she's going to beat me. 


Q.  Gaby, what is the difference between Gaby 1990 and Gaby 1991, and Gaby today? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think the mental part has a lot to do with it.  In 1990, I was mentally very focused and I played a great tournament, you know, at the Open when I won.  Technically, today, I think I'm a better player.  But, of course, the mental part has a lot to do with it.  If it is not there, I'm not there.  It's hard to compare because this year, you know, I did well in some tournaments, but not very well in others.  But, talking about this tournament, everything is there mentally, physically, technically. 


Q.  Gaby, your serve, sometimes you're doublefaulting or not getting it over and then sometimes it looks drastically improved, like in the 90's; are you experimenting with it or changing it or playing with it at all? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, that's something I've been working on.  I feel so much better with the serve.  I feel a lot more confidence and I feel like I can go for it much more than I used to before.  You know, I make doublefaults, but if -- you know, if they're aggressive and I'm hitting them, that's fine, I will do doublefaults -- you know, I will make doublefaults. 


Q.  But, I mean, when it's working, is it something different -- has something been actually altered either by your coach or you; have you changed it? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  We changed very little things, detail. Very, very little.  I mean, nothing really big.  I think it's just, you know, practicing and, you know, and the matches, that's what it gives you the confidence, and each tournament I've been getting better and better.  Compared to last week, I feel better this week. 


Q.  Gaby, in the match today, did you notice that Kimiko was starting to tire; did you notice she was limping a little bit or that something was bothering her? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  She wasn't limping or anything, she looked okay, running and moving.  I know that she was making signs and she needed the trainer, but, you know, she was still moving very well, she was playing good tennis.  Probably the second set, I noticed that a little more because she just gave it away a little bit, especially at the end, and, you know, she tried hard in the third again.  But still, I mean, it's -- she played great, she played very deep.  She was still able to play great tennis. 


Q.  She said that she's rooting for you to win.  Are you starting to feel like players on the tour just want to see you get this over with; do they tell you that? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, not really.  No, but it's nice to hear it.  I think it's very nice -- coming from another player because we have to play against each other, and you know, we have to compete with each other, so, it's nice to hear that. 


Q.  Did she say that to you, like at the net, did she say, "go win"? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, she didn't say that. 


Q.  She said it in here. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Great, that's nice. 


Q.  Gaby, when you played with Carlos Kirmayr as a coach, you played a lot at the net. Today you played more from the baseline, would you like to play more of a net game? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I'm trying to mix the game, I'm not trying to play from the baseline all the time and I'm not trying to play at the net all the time. I'm trying to mix the game and, obviously, when I have the chance, I can do very well at the net too.  So I'm trying to come in when I have the chance and against different players, I have to come in more or less. 


Q.  You don't think tomorrow you have to play at the net more? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, again, you know, if I have the chance to come in, I will.  I can't stay too far from the baseline because she's going to take control of the match. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT