VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Gaby, the first set, would you think there was an emotional let-down from the other night? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, today was a different match, a whole different match than the other day.  I don't know, I guess, you know, today I -- today was a match that I had to win.  It was kind of strange, the match today.  I started a little slower, then in the second, I was able to get into the match, and start playing great tennis.  I started hitting the ball hard and stepping into the -- inside the baseline and I felt pretty good.  I mean, I liked the way I played in the second and third set.  
 

Q.  Did the first set seem too emotional or physical? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, probably more emotional, but, I think Julie, she played a great match; she started to hit the ball very hard; and I wasn't able to do too many things.  So, I was surprised the way she was playing.  She was putting everything inside and not missing, so --  
 

Q.  Often when you play in New York, it seems like you step it up and sometimes the big names go out; are you looking at this as another big chance for you to win? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Sure, I guess that's because I'm in New York, you know, I love to play here.  I love this city and, you know, I always do pretty well here, and at the Open I played a great tournament. These are two of the best tournaments I played in the whole year and it was in New York.  So, you know, it will be great to end up the year playing good tennis.  
 

Q.  What do these losses mean to you, just seeing Steffi, Arantxa; how does it shape up for you? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I don't know, I guess it is a little hard, it's the last tournament of the year and a lot of players are tired, and you know, it is a little bit hard, but, you know, the players that beat them are playing great tennis too.  Like Mary, she played good tennis today and well, she deserved it.  
 

Q.  Gaby, do you feel she kind of lost-- off the line call? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  She gets very emotional sometimes, and I guess she got a little bit upset with that call and in the second set, she didn't seem to be fighting too much.  You know, she wasn't trying that hard and I was, like, well, good for me. But, I thought she, you know, she was feeling a little bit upset.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT