U.S. OPEN
September 9, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How are you?  Next week when you look back-- what did it do for you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it was a very good tournament. Maybe a lot of things.  I think I felt the best, by far, compared to the last few tournaments that I played.  I thought I played a good level of tennis and I can see a lot of things are getting better. 


Q.  Did you think that final shot was long? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I mean, I didn't know it was going to be good or bad.  But I was running for it knowing that it was going to be good, so... 


Q.  Did you have any choice but to hit it through your legs? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, it was kind of high. I could have just hit it normal, but I just went for it.  I said, "Well, just got to go for it," and too bad I almost put it in. 


Q.  Did you ever practice that shot? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not really. 


Q.  Was it a slow start for you-- what happened the first set? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  It was kind of weird.  There was a lot of wind.  It took me a while to adjust.  I was doing a lot of mistakes and I wasn't feeling comfortable.  I thought that everything was there, but I was just missing.  The second set was very good.  I started to play very well.  If I could have started playing the first set like that, like in the second set, it would have been different. 


Q.  The two doublefaults in the tiebreak, was that nervousness or what? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, today the serve was very good.  I mean, the second serve was very good.  The first set I didn't put too many first serves in and I think that made a little difference because when I put those first serves in, I won most of the points.  So the second serve was good.  Those moments it was a little tight, you know, I missed those, I think those two were some very important points too. 


Q.  Is the serve the one area that you will be working on most as you leave here? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, sure.  We keep working on it.  We have been working on it.  We will keep working on it, sure. 


Q.  How do you see tomorrow's final; how do you think that will go? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it is going to be a very good match.  Just played the Canadian Open in the finals, it was great finals.  Give it their best and Arantxa is playing well.  She is a big fighter and I know she is going to give it her best until the last point.  It is hard to call who is going to win.  Steffi, today, was playing well for some moments and some moments not so well.  It is going to be a tight match. 


Q.  Steffi and Jana talked about how it was exciting to play their match, they were fighting and struggling and everything else; did you feel that today?  Was there a sense of adrenaline and excitement especially as it built, in the second set? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, it was great to be there.  It was nice to feel the people going crazy and to feel that, you know, it is -- that means more than anything.  I just wanted to stop the match and just hear that sound, the people cheering.  It was really great.  I think they enjoyed those last few points in the tiebreak.  They enjoyed the match a lot, and too bad I couldn't win the second, you know, to keep playing. 


Q.  Are you a little shellshocked that you are in here now instead of playing that third set?  Did you think you were going into a third? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I had a chance.  I mean, you know, I wasn't thinking I am going to go to the third set.  I was just playing at the moment and I know she never gives up, so you know, it was really tough.  She played very well.  I was 6-5 and I went to the net and she played a great backhand passing shot down-the-line which nothing I could do.  I thought I was going to win that point. 


Q.  Gaby, what will you have to do to win a major tournament again? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Just be a little more consistent probably through the whole match; maybe more consistent and be more aggressive too, but everything has to be there.  I have to serve well and everything has to work.  You can't give anything.  You have to really play great to beat these players. 


Q.  About what I asked you first, do you think this tournament did more good for you to come this far, or bad because you still want that big win against a big player?  Overall, was it -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I can't complain.  I can't say, oh, I didn't win and I have to feel bad about it - I can't look at it like that.  It was a great tournament.  I played very good matches and by far, this is one of the best tournaments I played for a long time.  So I feel good.  I am positive and I look forward to you know, to keep working on those things and this gives me extra motivation to keep going. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT