U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Gabriela, you were down 3-0 in the second set, definitely not a well played set; can you talk about your struggle in that second set? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I think she started to play much better the second set.  She was putting those first serves in, and it was hard for me to return them.  I don't know, I just tried to stay on the match, and, you know, sometimes she could be -- she's very much up and down and she started to make a lot of errors and I just tried to stay in the match and that's the reason why I came back. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No. 


Q.  Okay, I'll do it.  Can you please talk about those two missed serves? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Oh, nice.  I will be very happy to.  I don't know, I thought -- well, first I missed the first backhand volley.  I had it right there and, you know, it was kind of hard to hit it.  I don't know, I was getting a little bit tense too at the end and I rushed a little bit, too, with my serves.  I wanted to finish the match and I was rushing a lot and -- but the good thing is that at the end, 30-All I just went for the shots and I went for my serve, I put those first serves in and it was just good.  I played -- I think I got out of it very well. 


Q.  Do you think that towards the end, the two of you were both playing not to lose; briefly -- trying not to make the mistake? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  It's very hard to play Gigi because she's not very consistent in any -- it's hard to play with someone who is like that, doesn't give you much freedom.  I played very good the first set, but I wasn't still feeling like I was playing tennis.  I was really doing a lot of things.  She doesn't give you chances to really play a lot, and the second set she started to come in very much on every single ball, and she does that very well. That's her game. 


Q.  Over the last two years, you've made a number of coaching changes.  Do you think that contributes to your inability not to win a tournament in so long? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't think that would be the reason at all.  You know, like, could have been a little part of it, but I don't think it is a big reason why I haven't won a tournament. 


Q.  Why do you change coaches so often? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, because I wasn't happy or, you know, -- yeah, it wasn't probably what I needed-- exactly what I needed, or I wasn't happy 100%. 


Q.  What do you get from your new coach? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Get a lot of things.  I know him from before, actually, last year, we practiced together for a week, and I like him a lot as a person and I think he knows very much about tennis on the court.  He knows very well, what he's doing.  He has a lot of experience and he's very determined. He has a lot of good combinations, everything. 


Q.  But what do you do differently now because of him; what -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think I'm hitting the ball better, more aggressive.  My shots are more in balance and I'm moving better and I'm just hitting everything better, being more aggressive. 


Q.  What -- does confidence come into this at all, simple confidence in your game, does that have anything to do with it? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, it has a lot to do.  I start to have a lot of confidence in the last few weeks, especially with my game, with everything.  I'm feeling much more comfortable. 


Q.  How much will you have to raise your game against Sanchez Vicario? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I'm going to have to be very aggressive and fight a lot.  It's going to be a different match, you know, I'm going to play more tennis and, you know, just be aggressive and be consistent. 


Q.  You said you were feeling pressure towards the end there.  When you get to that point in a match, do you have to remind yourself how to win again, and not choke? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I guess you have to go back to your basics, like say, okay, take your time and, you know, this is how you're going to hit it.  And just be focused.  Because you go away, you lose your concentration, you go away and you forget what you have to do. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know.  Maybe I think about some guy or -- no. 


Q.  Bud, right? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah. 


Q.  Do you think for the last couple of years your game -- this long losing streak that you have won this tournament everybody brings that up, do you think you've been away from the game? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, in a way, yeah.  In a way, I was kind of -- I would say more frustrated with, you know, losing to people that I shouldn't be losing to, and that was very hard.  I had some very tough moments and sometimes I thought of maybe stopping for some period of time, you know, because it was really frustrating.  It was hard. 


Q.  In your heart right now, do you believe you can win this whole thing? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I believe I can.  I feeling very good, and I'm just going to have to take a lot of risk. 


Q.  When was this time that you were thinking of taking some time off? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  This was during French, after the French. 


Q.  This year? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes, uh-hum, fortunately, because of my shoulder, I had to take some time off.  I took about a month, maybe more.  I didn't play tennis for like 20 days, so that helped a lot. 


Q.  Just before you won this tournament, you had said that you really needed to get that Grand Slam victory, you really needed to win.  Are you back to that point right now where you really absolutely have to have this or want to have this very badly? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I need a big victory.  I don't know what could be -- it could be against the player or it could be a tournament.  I'm here to win the tournament, and I'm feeling good now, so, I'm going to try to do everything I can.  I have nothing to lose. 


Q.  At this tournament, like today, saving triple points, are you seeing yourself winning in situations that you know you wouldn't have a few months ago or over the last two years; do you see an actual difference in what's happening to you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, mentally, I think everything is getting together, because sometimes if you only play technically or physically, feeling well, but not that mentally it is not 100%, you're not there. I feel everything is there, mentally, I want it, and I'm eager. 


Q.  Do those situations help you, can you say to yourself like a year ago I wouldn't have saved triple point and does it -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I probably had moments where I wasn't feeling that way.  Definitely I had moments like that. 


Q.  Do you ever visualize yourself as you did four years ago here?  Like out there in a match like this and you're struggling, do you think back to 1990 when you won? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not when I'm playing there.  I don't think I need to think like that, because -- well, I have it, I have it inside, it is not that I need to go back to something when I won here.  I have it there.  It is a matter of just, you know, thinking about it and just, you know, just do it. 


Q.  Are you playing better now than you were in '90? 

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Technically, I think so, yeah.  Much better. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT