U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was it easier than you expected? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, probably. Yeah, it was a little easier than what I expected.
She just started to play very well in the second set, the first was not that hard, but the
second set she started to play very well and started serving much better and I had to play
well, really well to win that too. 

Q. Gaby, with Conchita losing today, how does that open up your section of the draw? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I guess it's, you know, tough to play against Conchita and
other players, but, still, if she was beating -- Ginger is playing very well and she's a
very good player, so I have to win the next round, still, so I just want to go match by
match and all the matches are very tough. 

Q. As each round goes on with these straight sets, do you feel more and more confident,
do you just feel it increasing? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I feel very good since the first match, from the first match I
started to feel very well. I played great first match, second one was very tough, and
today I feel very good again. I'm feeling very good. 

Q. Better than you have in a long time? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, yeah, much better. 

Q. When is the last time you felt this good? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: No, I mean, I had moments where I felt very good, on and off. But
here I think it's more consistent and I feel much more comfortable with my game. 

Q. Do you feel over the last couple of years maybe you've gotten too much advice about
your game and not let your instincts take over -- 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, everybody wanted to be my coach. Yeah, that was a little bit
hard because you start listening and it's kind of hard sometimes because everybody wants
to tell you something, this should be like this, or like that. But I think I managed
everything very well. I tried to listen to the person ahead and just focus on what I
needed to do. I had moments where that was a little bit hard. 

Q. Do you have someone from your family always at every tournament or only the Slams? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: No. Sometimes, it doesn't matter if it is a Grand Slam or not,
sometimes they come on trips, sometimes they don't. So, you know, it's good sometimes and
sometimes maybe, you know, I just travel with my coach, which is good too, so... 

Q. There are players that have a notorious hard time when their families are here; you
seem to like it -- does it help you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes, I don't feel pressure from them. I never felt pressure from
them. It's nice to have them, their company, their support, it's nice. And my brother is
here this whole trip and that makes it easier having a very good relationship with him.
So, I like it. 

Q. How old is your brother? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: He's 29. 

Q. So he's older? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes. 

Q. Did you look up to him when you were younger? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes. Yeah, yeah, he was the one who started to play tennis,
actually. I used to do everything he was doing and I remember my mother telling me to wear
a skirt and I said, no, but my brother is not wearing a skirt. I didn't want to wear it.
So I used to do everything that he was doing, so... 

Q. How old were you when it was clear that you were going to be better, like, when you
were beating your older brother? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, that was a few years, it took me a few years to beat him. He's
a male, so he was stronger than me, but when I started to play, like juniors in 1984 and
then '85, he stopped playing tennis a little before that. So he wasn't playing that often.


Q. How did that happen? Did one day your father, mother, brother -- how did it happen
that they said, hey, we have a good kid here? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I guess in 1984 when I went to Europe to play junior tournaments and
I became the number one in the world that year. 

Q. Not before that, didn't they know? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I mean, I had people like when I first started to play, everyone was
saying that I had a very natural game. My first teacher asked me if I worked with someone
before because my backhand was -- it seemed like someone worked on my backhand before. So,
I had great conditions. People were saying that. 

Q. So how old do you think you were? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, when I first started I was six. 

Q. How did you learn your backhand, Gaby, from your brother or just hit it? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know, I just had it. 

Q. Gaby, with Martina retiring at the end of this year, would you talk a little bit
about the impact she's had on you and any memories of when you were a kid watching her and
when you first met her? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I guess she was one of my favorite tennis players at the
beginning, and I wasn't watching that much tennis, you know, probably my -- Vilas at that
time and we only saw tennis when he was playing, but Martina-- she was one of my favorite
players to watch because I loved the way she played, very aggressive, coming to the net,
and I always liked that. And then when I first played her, I was just, you know, thinking
oh my God, I'm playing against her and it was a great experience for me. 

Q. Where was that? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't really know which tournament it was. I think it was in '85,
and you know, it meant much more -- much more to play against her than to win or lose. 

Q. What will you remember most about her? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I guess her personality, her character on the court and a great
person, I think she is. 

Q. Gabriela, in your own free time, are there any other sports that you enjoy playing? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I like soccer, I like to play sometimes. I always played when I was
a little girl, the guys used to come to my house and pick me up to play soccer. Of course,
my mother would go after and take me by the ear because, you know, they were all guys and
I was the only woman. 

Q. But you must have been good? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I was good, yeah. 

Q. Would you compare the way you feel about tennis right now to the same stage in the
'90 tournament? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Compared to what? 

Q. After three rounds of the 1990 tournament when you won it? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I'm feeling much better now -- I mean technically, I would say
technically, I think everything is much better. I'm hitting the ball better, I'm moving
better, my serve is better, and a big difference, I think. 

Q. Gaby, which person has had the most influence on your life and why; is it your
brother? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think so. 

Q. How come? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think so, especially at the beginning, because I was looking -- I
was always trying to follow him on everything and when I first saw him playing tennis, I
said, oh, I would like to play. So he had a very big influence on me. 

Q. Is he an actor, is that what he does? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: He's an actor, yes, in Argentina. 

Q. When people were trying to help you, did you get a lot of mail, people trying to
cheer you up and tell you what to do and change your game. Were there some really crazy
things like, play left-handed and things like that? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: No, not really crazy, but good things. That was one of the things
that I will always remember, when I was down or when I'm down, people I don't even know,
they send me letters saying, you know, play, do this, or do that and come on, play with
your heart and all things like that and it's really nice to hear that. 

Q. It encouraged you? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Very much. 

Q. Hundreds of letters would you say? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes, probably. 

Q. Gaby, your serves at 98 miles per hour. That seems -- have you done anything
different to your serve this year? 

GABRIELA SABATINI: Very small things. You know, very little things we changed on the
technique. Nothing really big. But small things that made a big difference. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT