U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Serving didn't seem to be an advantage for either player today. 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, we broke each other many times. It was a little hard to serve.
I don't know. It was a lot of wind and it was kind of hard. It was moving a lot and we
were breaking each other a lot. I think we both returned very well. I had a lot of
problems because she was returning very well and especially my second serve, she was
attacking the second serve and made it very difficult for me too.  
 
Q. She served for the second set, I think, three times. When you got into the
tiebreaker, did you think you would win it there? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Two times.  
 
Q. Did you think she would win it? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I just said, well, I am going, you know, to step inside and just hit
the ball and I am going to put pressure on her and I played very well. I think I started
to play very well at 5-2. I was playing more aggressive and doing a lot better. It was
5-2, I had nothing to lose and I just said, well, just go for it, and I started to play
very well. The tiebreak was hard. I started very well at 3-Love, then I didn't put any
first serves in and I think that made the difference. I played a little short. I didn't go
for the shots at the end. That is why she won the second set.  
 
Q. Gaby, her second serves, sometimes it landed deep, but fair number of times you were
able to attack it, it landed pretty short -- 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: My second serve.  
 
Q. Meredith's. How quickly are you seeing the ball? Is it a case of you taking every
chance you can to come in or passing up some opportunities? How did you feel about your
return? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Very well. I think that was one of the things I did the best. I put
a lot of pressure on her second serve. I remember playing her on grass and I did that a
lot and I played a good match and today I just tried to put a lot of pressure and she
can't pass that great. She was missing a lot, so it made a big difference in the big
moments.  
 
Q. Seeing the ball well. 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah. Thanks.  
 
Q. Gaby, you seemed to have a little more fight. Is it my imagination or -- 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, it was, especially losing the second set, it was kind of -- I
was 3-Love and ready to win it. After losing that second set, well, I said I have to fight
now each point, because it is going to be a tough one. She was playing very well, so I
fought hard and that was the key also to win the match.  
 
Q. Did you think even in Montreal when you lost to Steffi you seemed to be fighting
pretty hard? Is that a little different than it was six months or one year's change? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, much more different than the last few weeks, I would say, even
compared to Montreal. Today I think it is even better. I feel things are getting better
and I feel more comfortable with my game, so I am more into the match.  
 
Q. Gaby, you seemed to get obviously-- your record, in the last couple of years not
having won a tournament, you get a lot of questions about that. How do you deal with that
mentally? Do you try to just put it out of your focus or... 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I try to focus on the things that I need to focus on. I had some
very tough moments because it was frustrating for me to hear that and that was the reality
a little bit, too, so it was very frustrating. But today I am able to focus on what I need
to focus on and I am improving a lot of things and what else can I do, you know?  
 
Q. Has your movement improved within a match like that; in other words, will you be
moving even better next round after putting in so many miles today? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I think I was very good today. Especially at the end, I didn't
feel tired at all and I was moving well. So I am moving better last year and also my
stamina is a lot better and, well, tomorrow I am not playing. So I am going to have a day
off to recover.  
 
Q. What part of your game are you working on mostly? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Just to attack, to be more aggressive and serve and just attacking;
stepping into the ball.  
 
Q. Gaby, you said the last couple of weeks you have been feeling much better about your
game and you have kind of gotten the fight back in you. Did you just wake up one morning
and all of a sudden you said, "Gosh, I feel real good today, I feel like getting out
on the court and hitting some balls;" what was the key moment for you? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I think each day was getting better, that was how it happened. We
were practicing. I had a week off in between Canadian Open and the U.S. Open, and I played
an exhibition this last weekend and that helped a lot. I played great tennis, and I think
that showed me that I can have a good time inside the court and also play good tennis. So
each day was -- I was finding new things, I guess.  
 
Q. Do you recognize the courts are slower and the balls are softer? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, the court is slow; the same as always, but it's the slowest
compared to other tournaments and I think that is good and the balls, yeah, they get a
little bit big; especially you know, playing with a lot of topspin, they were heavy, but I
mean, I like it; I think it is good for my game.  
 
Q. Combination with the wind? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: With the wind, yeah, it was difficult today because it was going
everywhere, the wind; sometimes it could be very hard. I mean, on stadium, the wind moves
a lot, and it could be hard sometimes.  
 
Q. Gaby, we have been asking a lot of the women players in light of Jennifer and Monica
not being here if they have changed their minds at all about the age to play pro tennis;
Mary Pierce yesterday said if she had it to do it over again she wouldn't have left
school. You seem to be one player that succeeded coming out very early. Have you ever
changed your mind about it and do you have a strong opinion? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. I mean, everything I did was I think I went step by step
and I didn't rush anything and that was a good thing; thanks to people that I had around,
my family. I didn't rush anything, and today, probably -- tennis has changed a little bit.
It is more competitive, so I can understand why they want to change it because there are
more pressure, more responsibilities and it is much more competitive, so you know, today
probably is a good idea to change the rule.  
 
Q. Do you have opinions on -- like Mary suggested that if you are the top junior in the
world and you have no competition that you have to turn pro, but you should be limited so
that you have to stay in school. Now, earlier today Patty said that it could be done with
the level you play at and the wildcards and how many you get. Do you have any ideas about
how it should be? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: The best thing to do, I think, is to play some tournaments - not all
of them, you know, to have a limit to play tournaments. I mean, if you are doing very well
in juniors you can still go to school and play tournaments, but not too many, yeah.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT