U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How does it feel to get through on the first day? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, very good. I mean, it -- I expected it to be a tough one. She
played very well last week and she could be a very dangerous player. She has a great serve
and when she's on, she's really tough. I think today she did a lot of errors and she got a
little frustrated at the end. But I was very focused and playing very well, especially
serving very well. So I was very satisfied.  
 
Q. What are you doing different now compared to last year? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I'm just, you know, very focused. I'm just trying to play my game
and to hit the ball hard and stay more loose too. And since my serve is better, my strokes
are much better. I'm feeling more comfortable, so that's a mental confidence too.  
 
Q. Do you think you're playing as well as you did when you won it here? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah. I mean, I think even better. I'm feeling that everything is
very good, and physically good, mentally good. I just have to go match by match and see
how it goes.  
 
Q. What are you most comfortable with doing on the tennis court? What kind of game do
you like to play? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Aggressive, attacking all the time, especially today with the way
that the players are playing. They're hitting the ball so hard and if I don't hit the ball
hard, I'm not going to win. So, I like to play aggressive and come to the net when I have
a chance and that's my game.  
 
Q. Do you like to serve and volley more and more as this tournament progresses? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know about serve and volley. Maybe I can do it sometimes or
come into the net when I have the chance, but, you know, I'm not going to come in all the
time, but when I have the chance.  
 
Q. What's your most important goal right now; just playing very well; win a tournament?

 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Just to be focused, you know, just have a good strategy on each
match and have clear on my mind of what I have to do.  
 
Q. Who's coaching you now? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Juan Nunez.  
 
Q. And what happened with Carlos Kirmyar? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: We started again this year at the beginning of the year, and I felt
like -- I think I learned everything I could from him and, I don't know, I thought that I
needed a change and I did something new, I guess.  
 
Q. And what new things is Juan doing with you? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Everything. He's giving a lot of confidence in my game, especially
being aggressive. We have been working on everything, but mostly on being aggressive.  
 
Q. How bad does it feel to be in doubt about your own possibilities? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: How bad does it feel?  
 
Q. When you're in doubt about your own possibilities. 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: When you're in?  
 
Q. Doubt about your own possibilities. 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I'm not in doubt. I mean --  
 
Q. Never been? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, yeah, I've been, but not today. Today I'm feeling very good.  
 
Q. How did it feel that time? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Well, it was -- I think I had some very tough moments with a lot of
frustration, and it's hard not to have good results, good wins. It's hard to be motivated
sometimes, but I'm very positive and thinking ahead and that's how I am today. And my goal
now is to improve my game and just be focused.  
 
Q. Do you ever feel discouraged not having won a tournament lately? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: No, no, I don't think about that at all. I had already those
moments, so I don't think about that.  
 
Q. Gaby, unlike previous years, a few people are picking you to be one of the
semifinalists or finalists in this tournament; does that make you feel more comfortable
because you're playing as the underdog and not too many people are paying attention; did
you like that position better? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes, I do like it because I don't have that much pressure. They're
talking about other people and not so much me. So, I guess I feel more loose and I like to
come from under. I like that way.  
 
Q. How would you assess your chances the way you played today and the way you're
playing for winning the title? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I know I have a chance to win the tournament and I do know that, you
know, the key is to think about each match, but I know I have chances. So, if I just keep
playing the same way and being focused, I have a good chance.  
 
Q. Is Steffi's back problem something that the players are talking about or are you
talking about maybe she's a bit more vulnerable this year? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Not really. She had some loss -- loses, but that doesn't mean that,
you know, she's -- she's vulnerable. I don't see it that way. I don't know how bad is her
back. The players are not really talking about it. She seems to be playing the same way,
and she's having problems sometimes, so we don't really know how bad it is.  
 
Q. Do you still talk with other players about security at tennis matches? Are you
comfortable with the way security is now? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I'm more comfortable, yeah. I think it has been much better, they
put a lot of security a lot of tournaments. I think on this tournament it is a lot harder
because there are so many people and sometimes I think you need a little bit more, still,
security.  
 
Q. I remember from the Australian Open that some journalists asked you more about your
hair and the way you were dressed than about the way you played tennis; did it bother you?

 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: No, no, because it's still about me, so, I guess there's something
else besides tennis. It has nothing to do with tennis and it's me. It's my person and
that's the most important thing.  
 
Q. Do you appreciate those kinds of questions? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yes, I do appreciate that.  
 
Q. They're important to you too? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Of course.  
 
Q. Along those same lines, then, Gaby, are you still thinking of pursuing a singing
career; do you sing every week; do you sing every day? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, yeah, I sing sometimes in the shower.  
 
Q. How does it sound? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know, people say that it is not too bad. Yeah, I still have
that in my mind. That's something I love to do, to sing. I guess I feel very relaxed and
that's my hobby today, and probably in the future I would like to do some record, I don't
know, something.  
 
Q. Do you think there will be a women's senior tour like the men's senior tour that
Jimmy Connors is putting on? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: Seniors?  
 
Q. Over 35? 
 
 GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't really know much about that. I know they are doing some
things. I think Billie Jean King is organizing some things, but I don't know if it's going
to be exactly like that. We still don't think about that because we're not there yet. But
I don't really know much about it.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT