THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Gaby, what is it about Lindsay's game that troubles you
or --

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, she didn't make any mistakes today.
 It wasn't my day.  I didn't really -- a lot of shots didn't work
out today, but she played very well.  She didn't do any mistakes.
 She hits the ball hard and flat and, you know, she hits everything,
so.

 Q.  She is always - I mean, she beat you last year in Delray,
close match at the Open.  Why is it she is able to push you to
that extent?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, she is a tough player.  I think for
anybody she is a tough opponent, and you have to be playing 100%.
 Everything has to be working to beat her.

 Q.  Gaby, it is tough to stay out and bang with Lindsay? 
She hits well from both sides. What was your strategy coming in?
 Did you think you could stay and knock the balls back and keep
in the match with her, or did you want to come in?  Did you want
--

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I just tried to do different things; tried
to mix the game, but a lot of things didn't work out today.  Then
I just started to come in a little bit more to try something else,
and I won a few points, but still wasn't enough.

 Q.  Were you surprised that she played that well for two straight
sets?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I knew she was going to play well, you know,
I am not that surprised the way she played.

 Q.  What about your own performance; were you tired after
last night?  Was it tough getting up and playing again today?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I didn't feel physically tired.  I was
feeling good before I went to play, so I don't think it was related
to being tired.

 Q.  Having said that you expected her to play well, was there
any particular point where you said, I didn't think she was going
to play this well, where she kind of woke you up with something
that she did?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, not really.  I mean, nothing special
happened.  She just played a great match. She never slowed down
and she was tough today.

 Q.  You're so popular at this tournament, at a lot of them,
but especially this one.   Is it especially disappointing to lose
because of that?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, probably that is part of everything.
 It is a very special tournament for me, and I really like to
play here.  The crowd is always behind, and they like me a lot,
so it is a little bit disappointing for me, and I guess for them,
too.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT