THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 14, 1994
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Your second serve, it says here that you have scored on
65 percent of your second serve points, which is high for you;
seems like you are doing very well with your second serve.

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I wasn't putting too many first serves
in today. Second serve was good. It was good, but I wanted to
be a little bit more consistent on the first serve, but, I mean,
the second serve was good. I won a lot of points. She missed a
lot of returns and I tried to mix it up a little bit.

Q. That has chronically been one of the weaker parts of your
game, that second serve; people have been able to take advantage
of that. What have you done to improve it?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think these days I am feeling a lot more
confident and I am just trying to do the right thing, hit a deep
second serve and, you know, just hit it and go for it.

Q. Has there been a technique change with your coach on how
you hit it?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, a little bit to.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about that in some detail.

GABRIELA SABATINI: Just, you know, being aggressive. I think that
is the key, to be aggressive. To put a little more spin, just
hit it.

Q. Has this been your hardest test so far, this tournament?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I thought that Zina played a good match
today. It is tough to play against her because she is a very --
she likes to surprise the opponent and do different things. I
think she had a good strategy. She moved me very well and she
just tried to come in when she had the chance, and she was doing
it very well.

Q. Did she surprise you at all?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, a little bit. I was ready. I think I
was more ready, so it was different because I was prepared. 

Q. You were at the net a lot tonight, Gaby. Is this the new
Gaby?

GABRIELA SABATINI: No, I have been trying to do that and it is
nothing new that I am doing. I am just trying to be aggressive
and try to get to the net as soon as I can; especially if I play
against a player like Zina or people like, you know, who like
to come to the net.

Q. But you were there a lot tonight.

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I knew I had to do that. I had to be
very aggressive; otherwise she was going to come in.

Q. You have young Lindsay Davenport next who is a very difficult
player to play; hard hitter. Can you talk about how you play her
what your game plan is for her?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, she has been playing good. She hits the
ball very hard and you know, she basically plays from the baseline
and she has a strong serve, so again, I think I have to mix up
the game very much; try to do a lot of different things and try
not to let her take control of the match and not let her start
hitting the ball hard and you know, take control of the match.


Q. Do you think the way to attack her is to -- show is not
the fastest player on tour, although she hits very hard.

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, I don't think it is to hit it hard. It
is just to mix up the game very much to move her around and do
different things.

Q. Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT