VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1993
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Gabriela, did you feel any extra pressure going into this tournament since you hadn't won any tournaments this year; is there any extra pressure to win this? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, not really.  I mean I didn't have any reasons to put pressure on, you know, just tried to do my best and, you know, I was just going match by match.  
 

Q.  Gaby, did this loss sort of sum up your year, when you reached a lot of courts, a few semis and you haven't been able to break through the win, this kind of match and being here, the way you've done well before, does this sort of sum up the disappointment of the year for you? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  It's kind of hard to finish the year like this, you know.  I'm glad that the year is over, you know, I'm looking forward to next year. This has been a very-- I don't know, it was weird, the year.  A lot of things happened and I feel I didn't play my best tennis, you know, it is kind of tough, but I can't look back now and I just have to think about next year.  
 

Q.  Gaby, what do you feel you can do to turn things around again? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  You know, I just have to keep working on the things I need to keep working on.  I thought I played very good, you know, the few matches I played.  A few changes, I felt a few changes, you know, it is a matter of now winning some matches, that's all.  But I think I'm going in the right way.  
 

Q.  Gaby, you played very well in the first set; what happened in the second according to your point of view? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know, I was -- it was very close, she was 4-2, then, I tried to come back, I couldn't hold my serve a few times, but what I felt was I didn't play very well on the big moments.  I made too many errors.  
 

Q.  But we love you anyway. 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I know.  
 

Q.  Gaby, what was the difference between today and the Australian Open? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Today and what?  
 

Q.  Today and the Australian Open with Mary? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  That was a very close match.  I mean, she could have won the match too because she had a match point, you know, it was very, very close. Today, too, but the difference, I think it was-- I play much better on the big moments, today I didn't.  
 

Q.  Gaby, you said you got some things you got to do to turnaround, what sort of things are you working on? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  A little bit of everything, my baseline game, then my net game.  I will say probably a little bit of everything.  
 

Q.  Are you happy with Vitas as your coach? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Excuse me?  
 

Q.  Are you planning to continue with Vitas as your coach? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, we didn't really talk very much about it, but we might practice together before the Australian Open.  
 

Q.  Are you happy in the way the year is over with all the things that have happened? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, yeah.  I'm-- you know, I'm glad that the year is over, because a lot of things happened.  It was a very good year and, you know, it's good now, I can -- I have some time to prepare for next year and mentally, hopefully I'll be much better, you know.  I'm looking forward to start the next year.  
 

Q.  Gaby, your game has been over the years a game of finesse, a lot of a net player, good shots and good placement, now the girls the last year are really all starting to begin hitting the ball very hard; do you think you're going to have to start adjusting and begin hitting out on the ball from the baseline to keep up with these girls? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, sure, you know, most of the players are hitting the ball very hard.  I'm going to have to, you know, to have more confidence on the baseline, to start hitting the ball a little bit harder, you know, to do more things that could hurt them because sometimes I'm not doing anything and I'm just defending myself and I can't play like that, so I just need to be a little more aggressive and don't let them, you know, get -- take control of the match.  
 

Q.  As Guillermo told you he wants you to change your forehand? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, that was one of the things but basically, you know, shots, just hit them, you know, hard.  
 

Q.  You're the pride of Latin America, what needs to be done so there can be more female players competing on the tour? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  What's the question?  
 

Q.  You're one -- you're the pride in Latin America, what needs to be done in Latin America so there can be more female players competing on the tour? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I still don't understand.  
 

Q.  Can I ask it in Spanish? 
 
Few players from Latin America --  
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes, I think it is a little bit hard because you need money to travel and to play, I think they need to have good clinics, good, you know, to make a good base because I know there are a lot of players and I think the organizations have to get together and do something for all the players.  
 

Q.  What is your opinion about Ines? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Ines Gorrochategui, I like her very much, she has a very good game, she is very talented.  She can play very well.  She's very young so, you know, needs to keep playing and I like her game a lot.  
 

Q.  Gaby, how disappointing was it to end the match on that last point? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  To end the match --  
 

Q.  On that last point.  Obviously -- 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  It was -- I was very mad because I thought it was clearly out and, you know, you have no chance, the umpire said it was good and I couldn't do anything so I was a little bit disappointed.  
 

Q.  Does Mary Pierce seem like a different player to you, has Mary Pierce's game changed in your eyes? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, she seemed to be more consistent, you know, she's playing a lot better, she's hitting the ball very hard, that's her game. She's doing it very well, she's very consistent. That's what I think.  She has improved a lot mentally, she seems to be stronger.  
 

Q.  About making changes, Gaby, about the tour, what would you like to see changed? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know, I just want the best for women's tennis, I think a lot of things are happening right now and it is a matter of the top players to really get together and decide what we really want because, you know, that's what it's all about.  I think it's good that there are changes and I think for the better.  
 

Q.  What about soccer game, Argentina and Australia? 
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:  Argentina, 2-0.        
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT