U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1993
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel how do you feel?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Right now?


Q. Yes.

GABRIELA SABATINI:  A little bit tired.


Q. I mean, with the result.

GABRIELA SABATINI:  You know, it is good to put it away.  I didn't think I played good tennis today, so it is good to win a match when you are not playing that well, you know, to be able to win anyway.  So I am glad that it is over and that I won the match. That is how I feel.


Q. Which one was your mistakes?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think I should have put some more pressure on her because you know, I never played her before and she was trying to come in a lot, she was trying to put pressure all the time, so it was hard -- she was playing very deep.  It was hard to be able to have control of the match.  I felt I was defending myself many times and once I put a step into the court and I started to hit the ball, that is how I started to win the match.


Q. When you have a match where you are struggling like this in a big tournament, does it worry you at all?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not really.  I had two good matches the first two rounds and I know that everyday I am not going to play great tennis.  So that is why I say it is good to win the match, to win a match like that when you are not playing great tennis.  It is a lot of trying to just think about the next match and to be positive and give my best.  I know that when -- every time I go there I have the chance to lose the match.  I mean, today tennis is tough. All the rounds are very tough, so I know that.


Q. In a Grand Slam, would you rather not play somebody for the first time?  Is this kind of a bad time to check out a new game?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I never thought about that, not really. I never had any problems with that.  I usually know how the player -- how they play.  I try to watch her, my coach try to watch the match, so we have an idea of how to play against that player. But there are many players that I haven't played against, so maybe it is better to play in some other tournament.


Q. Can you tell us about Lindsay Davenport, your next opponent?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, Lindsay is a player who hits the ball very hard back in the corner, very, very hard.  I think she likes to play her level.  I think I am going to have to mix the game a lot.


Q. You haven't won a title in over a year now.  What do you have --

GABRIELA SABATINI:  What was the first thing?


Q. What do you think you have to do to repeat again like you did in 1990, how could you step up the pace?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Just try to -- I am not really concerned that I haven't won a tournament this year, so I am looking forward to you know, to do well in this tournament and it is a matter of trying to get consistency; to believe in myself and to try to do my best.


Q. Why doesn't it concern you that you haven't won a title this year?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Because I don't think I had a bad year. It was, I think the reasons were different.  The fact that I was sick at the beginning; then took me a long time to go back and play, play my level again so it was a tough year.


Q. One thing about the match Gaby, in the third set when you were winning 5-3 then you doublefaulted.  Did you lose your concentration there?  What make you doublefault there?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  5-4, I did a doublefault?


Q. Yes.

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No, I don't think -- I think it went out for very close.  It was very close, the serve.  I don't think I served bad.  I was just trying to hit the serve and just go for it, but you know, I was able to keep my concentration there and try to play point by point.


Q. Gaby, back to Lindsay Davenport for a second.  She is young and she is American, the crowd is going to be behind her.  I think she even has a victory over you.  Do you feel this is a dangerous position for yourself?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't think so.  Not at all.  I know she is a good player, but all the other things have nothing to do you know, with the way I am going to play her.


Q. When you are in a position, stadium court at night, it is a close match, can you feel where your experience would make a difference? Can you see where she would be nervous or don't you see that out there?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Many times I don't see that.  It is like -- many times, you know, I think about myself and not about the other player.  Sometimes you can tell if she is -- if something is different or she gets tired, I can tell that, but you know, I didn't think that she was going to be really nervous because she was playing on stadium this evening with so many people.


Q. Gaby, how much longer does your contract with Dennis have to run?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Until this tournament.


Q. A lot of people would say that you had your best success being aggressive and coming to the net; especially at the 90 Open.  Do you think you are doing that as much this year?  

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think the year I won this tournament I did it very often.  In the last two matches, semis and finals, that may -- give me very good results and then I tried to mix my game.  It is not that I am going to come in all the time, because I also feel very good playing from the baseline.  So when I have the chance, I try to come in, but I don't do it all the time.


Q. Thank you.       


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT