U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1993
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel now after this match?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, much better.  It was a good match.  I liked the way I played.  I had some very, very good moments during the match today and I felt very good.


Q. Gaby, you said "better."  Were you feeling a little uneasy before?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  It is just that you know, the first match I played very good and today, I think I played much better and I feel like match by match I am getting better and better.


Q. What have you and Dennis been working on specifically; are you still working on the serve?  

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah.  That is one of the things that we were working on, more than anything and I feel more confident.  I am serving very well.  I feel good, you know, we didn't make any big changes; just small things.  I feel very good about it.


Q. Is it the second serve in particular or just the serving motion?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think both.  Both are very important. I am trying to mix the serve a lot; not to play only one serve, you know, have two, three different kinds; try to mix them up and my second serve is getting much better too.


Q. Gaby, has Dennis worked with you on serving technique?  Has he worked with you on serving technique, the mechanics of the serve?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  A little bit, but not very much.  I didn't change anything really; just very small things, you know, they were easy to change, to adjust.


Q. How has he helped you with the serve? What kind of work has he given you to do on your serve?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Just as I say before, small things; nothing really specific.  Just try to change a few things; nothing really big that could be hard to change.


Q. At a Grand Slam tournament like this, does it in any way influence you that there is also a men's competition at the same moment?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I mean, it is good, I like it.


Q. Do you keep an eye on the others?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I like to watch them.  I learn a lot.  Every time I have a chance to see them I try to watch because I learn a lot of things from them.


Q. Do you think about so many seeds having lost already?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, a big surprise.  I was really surprised about; especially Jennifer yesterday.  I knew she had a tough match yesterday.  It wasn't going to be easy, but I didn't think she was going to lose.


Q. Gaby, when I asked you yesterday about the thing with Monica; very often when situations come up, people describe you as being different than the typical superstar.  It keeps coming up, this thing with Monica, somebody in a recent interview that you treat women in the lockerrooms  on the tour differently, like nicer.  Do you have an attitude about that, about not being an egotistical superstar; do you have conscious thoughts about it?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I mean, there is no reason to treat people bad.  That is how my parents teach me to be with people, and you know, I like to be nice, easy and I like to have friends, so you know, it is nothing really different.  I mean, that is the way I am and --


Q. Do you feel it a responsibility as being this superstar to show that side of an athlete?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not really.  Sometimes you can show it. Sometimes you don't.  I like to keep some privacy myself.  I think it is good to keep that and you know, and also I think it is good to meet people and to get to know people.


Q. Gaby, as a player, have you determined if you have a particular favorite Slam to play in or do you like them all in a different way?  Do you have a favorite Grand Slam event to play in?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Not really.  I don't have anyone in particular.  Probably this one is a tournament that is very special to me; probably because I won, so that is why it means a lot to me, and I like the atmosphere and I feel very much supported here.


Q. Were you a little upset maybe that you have to play two days in a row?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  I knew I was going to play two days in a row.  I was supposed to start on Monday, so was prepared for that.


Q. Thank you.       


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT