U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Gaby, lately you became a better player when you became
more aggressive.  You came to the net more and such.  Do you think
Mary Joe is doing the same thing now?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah.  I think that is the reason why she
is beating me sometimes.  She has been playing like that, trying
to come to the net and I tried to do that too, of course, she
didn't give me many chances.  She was playing very deep.  Especially
at the end in the last set.  I have few chances there and I was
a little disappointed, I couldn't make those games.  She was smarter
at the end.

 Q.   The way you reacted at the end, it looked like you have
a lot of respect for her, you have known each other a long time?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I mean, we are good friends.  I think
she is a great person.  Yeah, we have -- we are friends.

 Q.   Gaby, do you wish you had played more tournaments, looking
back now over the summer?  

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know.  I think, you know, both things
are good.  Probably to take some time off, and probably next time
I will try to play one more tournament or something.  But it is
good to try, and I mean, I am not regretting anything.

 Q.   Looking back at the match, what would you have liked
to do differently?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Probably I would try to change the beginning
of the match.  I didn't know what happened.  I felt I was there
mentally, I was eager to -- I was prepared and suddenly she was
5-Love and I didn't know what was happening.  So that is the thing
I would change.

 Q.   What did you do different in the second set?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't know, I guess I was -- I tried to
hit a little bit more my serve, my first serve and I tried to
come in a little bit more, but it was a strange match. I don't
know.

 Q.   How disappointing is it for you?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, it is disappointing, of course, you
know, this is a good tournament for me.  I like it very much,
and I wanted to do well here, you know, it is a big disappointment.


 Q.   How do you think she will do against Seles?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I guess Seles, she will probably be aggressive;
she is going to try to go for the shots.  I think she was very
close to beat Monica a few times, and if she take risk, she could
play a good match, she could win, yeah.

 Q.   She says she has used you as a model of being more aggressive,
coming in and trying to change her game because she feels like
what you did two years ago is a perfect example of what she needs
to do.  Have you two ever spoken about it?  How do you think she
is progressing?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  We don't talk about it.  It is not usual
to do this.  We never talk about it.  But I think she has improved
a lot, her game, she is coming more to the net and she knows that
she needs to do that against some players, against me.

 Q.   Thank you.      


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT