U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1992
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Gaby, was the wind any kind of a factor out there today?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  The wind?

 Q.   The wind.

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  A little bit, some moments, but not really
much.  I think it was more at the beginning, then, it was better
to play.

 Q.   Gaby, her serve was consistently twenty miles an hour
harder than yours.  Was that a problem for you?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  No.  I don't think so.  She serves pretty
well.  Very hard, and I just tried to put the first serve in and
make sure that it was -- hit the ball in play.  Just try to put
it in.

 Q.   She started playing much better in the second set.  Did
it take you a while to react to that, because she had such an
easy time in the first set?  

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, she changed a little bit, her game.
She started to beat the ball, just go for it.  In the first set
she was a little conservative, and in the second, she started
to do something different.  Sometimes it is hard to play someone
when just -- she just goes for the shots and, you know, it is
hard to do something.  But I think I kept fighting very much there,
hanging in there, and that is -- that is what happened.

 Q.   Gaby, you didn't seem to come in behind your shots for
volley as much as you did when you were winning a couple of years
ago.  Do you think you could have been more aggressive?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah.  In the second, I started to come to
the net a little bit more.  You know, I started to do that when
I need it.  In the second, I thought, you know, she had problems
making passing shots, so that is something I feel more comfortable,
sure, and probably I am going to have to do that a little bit
more the next matches.

 Q.   Where do you think your game is right now? Getting through
the first week without too much problem?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I am playing very good tennis.  I am hitting
the ball very well, and mentally I feel very good.  That I  --
that was my concern before the tournament, and I feel focusing
on the tournament and physically I feel very good too.  It is
good that I had some tough matches; especially the one before
this one.  I am ready to have big matches.

 Q.   Gaby, are you a better player now than when you won it
a couple of years ago; do you think?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I am a better player, completely. 
Not different, but I improve very much, especially mentally. 
I am like more mature on the court.  That makes a difference.


 Q.   You say you were concerned about your mental approach
before the tournament.

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes.

 Q.   Why would that be?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, because I think I played too many tournaments
before coming to the Open.  I only played one. It was in San Diego
and I lost the second round, so I didn't get to play too many
matches.  You know, I was playing good tennis.  I wasn't worried
about that, but mentally, I wasn't sure about that.  But after
the first two matches, I feel like I was in the tournament.

 Q.   With Jennifer out and Martina out, do you think you have
an easier road to the finals now?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, I didn't have to play them, not before
the semis.  I think I have a very tough round.  That has nothing
to do with the matches getting to the -- (pause) I think I have
to think about each match and the next one is going to be a tough
one.  That is how I want to do it.  It doesn't make any difference.


 Q.   Thank you.        


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT