U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1992
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Gaby, how do you explain ten straight wins and then losing
four in a row?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think I tried to finish the match there,
when I had the match in my hands.  She start getting more confident
and she start playing deeper.  She was not rushing so much and
I think she is a good player.  She has improved her tennis a lot.
 And she has a very good forehand.  She likes to hit hard, the
forehand, so, you know, you have to play deep to beat her.

 Q.   Gaby, when you play two tournaments in 53 days and you
see the schedule, it says you are playing two days in a row, is
that good, bad?  What do you--

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  It doesn't matter.  I think it is okay, yeah.
 You should be ready for anything.  So it is good.

 Q.   Any part of your game that you are happiest with?  

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  That I am not?

 Q.   That you are most happy with, the last two days.

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I have to say everything, pretty much.  More
mentally, I am very focused.  I am very concentrated, and that
is the best part and technically, I am playing very good.  My
serve is one of the things that is much better.

 Q.   All that time off you had, was that more like a vacation
or just a quiet way of preparing for this tournament or was it
some of each?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I had some days off for vacation and
then, after a few days, I tried to get ready for the tournament.


 Q.   You were saying, yesterday, you were a little surprised
about how well you played, being a first round match, and you
felt better after that match.  Are you surprised today that you
were dominant with a player like this?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yes.  After yesterday's match, I was more,
probably relieved, because I played a good match and I say, well,
yeah, now I am on the tournament, yeah, now I am back in and mentally,
that is the main thing to, to be prepared mentally.  I think I
am in the tournament now, yeah.

 Q.   Is there a difference emotionally being the defending
champion and not-- Is it easier for you now to just walk around
and be here?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it doesn't make any difference. 
Not at this moment.

 Q.   What part of your game would you like to improve as the
tournament goes on?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Probably try to come to the net a little
bit more, you know.  Today I should have gone to the net a little
bit more, when I was winning at 5-1.  That is what I think I have
to really do a little bit more.

 Q.   I have heard some players mention your second service
may be your only weakness.  Do you see it as a weakness or do
you try to improve it?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think it is much better.  I have been working
on that because I know it is something that I need to work on.
 Today was a little better.  Still, sometimes, it is not so powerful,
but I feel much better with the second serve as well.

 Q.   What is the way to work on it?  Is it like strength or
practice?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Well, yeah, practice.  I think it is a lot
of practice.  And also get the confidence too.  That is the way
to get the confidence.

 Q.   When you look back, you say your game is better, but
when you used to be here, you never had a complaint.  I mean,
when you look back, what was missing? What -- when you look at
how you used to play, what was the downside?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I don't think it was something missing. 
I just had to get more mature; that is, I think, -- that was the
reason.  Like two years ago, before I won this tournament, I was
-- I didn't know what was happening.  I was playing very good
tennis.  Everything was there.  I was working so hard.  And I
wasn't winning any big tournaments.  So, after that, I realized
that I wasn't, you know, it just didn't happen.  I just had to
wait, and mentally I feel more mature on the court.  I have a
better view.

 Q.   Last year, you said you changed your training too; right?
 Didn't you stop with weights or something?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah, I stopped.  Yeah, I stopped two years.


 Q.   You notice a significant difference between your present
Yamaha racket and the Prince that you were using before?

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  The difference?

 Q.   Yes.   

 GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think this -- the Yamaha is more powerful.
 I mean, I have very good control of the racket, which is the
most important thing, and it is very powerful.  I would say more
than the Prince.

 Q.   Thank you.   


 End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT