U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1996
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Gaby, you didn't really seem to be able to get into a rhythm out there today.

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah.  It was kind of strange. I mean, I was playing well.  I think I served pretty bad by the end of the first set.  I just didn't feel comfortable with my game.  I feel like I wasn't dictating; I feel like she was doing that.  I guess the rhythm was off, you know, just wasn't comfortable hitting the ball somehow, not having too much control with the ball.  At moments, I was really frustrated.  It was a little hard.


Q.  Do you think she raised her game from last week?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I think she was more consistent today, I thought.  She started to make errors at the end of the second set, but then overall, she was playing very well, very consistent.  She didn't seem to be bothered with a little particular shot.  She was attacking very well.  I was surprised how consistent she was. 


Q.  In San Diego you said you'd been bothered by headaches.  Are you still having them?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  On and off.  On and off, yeah. It's not a factor.


Q.  How disappointing is this?  A lot of people have been saying, "Gaby is on the way back, playing well."  You lost in the first week.  How much of a set back is this?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I guess I have to accept that I lost.  It's going to be a little hard.  This tournament is a big tournament for me.  I always did very well here.  This is where I really wanted to do well.  I'm still not feeling a hundred percent comfortable with my game.  I just need to keep playing more tournaments, just trying to look for all the things I've been looking for, really putting everything together.


Q.  Could you feel the crowd trying to pull you through the match?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Oh, definitely, yeah.  That was really good.  That felt great, to hear the crowd just supporting me all the time.  There were a couple points that were very good.  The crowd was really into it.  That was a very good feeling.


Q.  Do you feel you've had enough matches since you came back from the injury?  Was that a factor?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Probably not enough.  Probably  not enough.  Like I said before, I just need to play more tournaments, more matches.


Q.  Gaby, what is it about the serve that seems to be giving you so much trouble right now or has been for a long while?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  I guess a little bit technically, a lot mental, too.  You know, just not thinking about it too much.  I've probably been thinking about it too much.  That hasn't been helping me very much.  It's one of the areas that I know I have to improve on, one of the worst areas at this moment.  There are moments when I get tired that my serve just doesn't work very well.  I think mentally I need to overcome that.  I just need to keep working on that.


Q.  Those of us who are hackers, when we miss a first serve, we just get edgy that, "Oh, my God, I'm going to double-fault."  Is that what happens?

GABRIELA SABATINI:  Yeah.  Many times that happens.  I think I was doing very well the first couple matches with my serve.  Double-faults are going to come, you're going to have them.  You just have to know how to deal with them.  I still don't know very well how to deal with them.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT