U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Gabriela, how did you feel you played today?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think I had a better first set. I didn't really like well the
second set. I was playing a little bit short in that second set. It's very hard to play
Ann because she likes to play those high balls. It's pretty hard to return them, to do
something with them. I think the one ball that went very well was my backhand down the
line. That was the key shot in the match today. I'm not that satisfied with the way I
played today as I did the first day.

Q. What do you feel the main difference between coming out today and beating Ann as
opposed to when you lost to her the last time you played her? What was the big contrast
there?

GABRIELA SABATINI: When she beat me, she was just in control of the match the whole
time. She didn't take control of the match. If you don't play a good match, she can beat
you, no problem. She's a big fighter. That's why today I needed to start playing good
tennis from the beginning, you know, just try to be aggressive, not let her play her game,
not let her dictate.

Q. Gaby, is this a good match to prime you for later matches in this tournament?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I think it's a very good match. Ann gives
you so much rhythm. It's a match where you really need to play good tennis to win. I'm
glad I had a match like that today because that's what I need today. That's what I need,
to play a lot of matches, to play tough matches, so I can put everything really together.

Q. Are you going to see many more of those sky balls and moon balls this coming week?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't know, maybe. I mean, I just try to concentrate on my game,
just try to dictate every time I can. That's what I want to do. Today I really didn't do
that very much.

Q. Do you feel your serve helped you out today or got you in trouble once in a while?

GABRIELA SABATINI: It helped me a lot, yeah, in some important points. It kept me out
of that situation. I was glad that it was working well. I'm still trying to mix it up.
Little by little I'm taking more control of my serve.

Q. You seem to be adding a lot more variety to your game, under slice off your forehand
when you get in trouble. Have you been working on that?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I think that's what I have, the variety of different shots. I need
to use them. Probably there aren't that many players today that could do that. If I can do
so many things, I just have to put them in play.

Q. You seem to be using them more now than in the past. Do you feel that way?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Today I understand that's my weapon, you know, that's what I have,
and I need to use it. With all these hard hitting players, they don't like to see balls
up, down, different spins. That's what I'm working on.

Q. Are you having fun out there after a layoff?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Yeah, it's fun, especially this tournament. It's a lot of fun. Like
I said, it felt very strange not to be at Wimbledon and the French Open. Now at the US
Open, I'm here; I'm not watching it on TV. It feels good. I love New York. I love to come
here. It feels good to be playing on center court, very special.

Q. What was it like just to watch it on TV, though?

GABRIELA SABATINI: It was a little painful, it was a little hard, a little sad not to
be there. It felt very strange.

Q. Does it help you when you come back, though?

GABRIELA SABATINI: Definitely, definitely. I go back to those moments and say,
"Now I'm here."

Q. When you look at your game, is there a certain part of your game that you feel you
have to have at a certain level to make a run this year?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I need to be very aggressive. I mean, that's the main thing. When
I'm in control, it makes a big difference. That's my focus.

Q. Gaby, would you consider Steffi to be the best player of all time or would you put
Martina and Chris up there with her?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I don't try to compare one to the other, you know. They were playing
at different times. At one point they were playing together. At the moment, I think
Martina was a great player. At this moment, I think Steffi is a great player. There are
different times, so I can't compare.

Q. Who would you consider a tougher competitor for you, because you played all of them?
Who was tougher on you, Graf or Martina?

GABRIELA SABATINI: I mean, I think both in a different way. They were both very
determined. That's what I felt every time I had to play them, that they were mentally very
determined. Steffi from the baseline tries not to let you do too much. Martina coming into
the net. They're two very different games.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT