XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 27, 1996
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you feel you had some chances there in the second set that got away from you today?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, I felt I had a lot of chances, probably more in the first set.  I thought the match was really close.  I mean, the whole time, a lot of -- just very close, I felt.  For moments I felt like I was in control of the match.  You know, I just -- I wasn't very lucky on winning them.  I hit the top of the net a few times and -- but, you know, I think I was preparing the point very well, making her move quite a lot.  I mean, I am pretty satisfied.  This is my first tournament after a while, and I just -- I just need to play a little more.  But I am very happy with the way I am playing; the way I am hitting the ball, you know, this is, you know, what I wanted, so.....


Q. But it is probably not ideal to have to meet Monica this early in a tournament if you want to get some momentum going. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Ummm, yes and no, you know, I would have liked to have played Monica, sure, probably not too early.  But, you know, I wanted to play some top player, so,  you know, it doesn't matter that I had to play Monica right away. 


Q. How did you think her game was, Gaby, compared to the last time you played her?  The last time you played her was her first time back after a long layoff. 

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I only played once with her in Canada last year, and I thought she -- her ball was moving a lot faster and she was making more winners.  Today she seemed to have problems to finish the points.  You know, sometimes she wasn't moving that much as fast as she used to, and I guess she is having problems to move around a little bit too.


Q. How troubling to you was what happened last night; how upsetting and how distracting was it to have something like that happen at the Olympics?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Well, it is upsetting.  I mean, it affects you quite a lot because nobody feels secure anywhere, and those innocent people -- I mean, anybody can die today in planes, and you are just watching this special event, the Olympics, and I just can't believe that there are people that can do that.  So, you know, it changes a little bit how things are.  You know, people won't feel as free just to watch a game or to go to anyplace.


Q. Was there anything different in the way you got here today than other days?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   No, not really.  I mean, you  know, we are not too far away from here, so we just did the same thing as we planned.


Q. Gaby, did it at all make you feel like not playing or did it make you feel more like competing just to get out and show what the Olympics is really about; athletes competing and not terrorists hurting innocent people?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   So you mean because of what happened, it made me --


Q. Yeah. Did it make you say, you know, I am so upset, I don't feel like playing or did it make you --

GABRIELA SABATINI:   No, it didn't -- I didn't go to one way or the other.  I just went there and tried to play.  I mean, of course, I was thinking about it.  I kept thinking about it this morning, so, you know, to what point that bothered me, I don't know.


Q. Did you just find out when you woke up this morning or --

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, just when I woke up. 


Q. Will you stay a while for the Olympics or will you leave?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I don't know yet what I am going to do. 


Q. Did you talk to Monica at all about the explosion?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   No, no, we didn't.  We didn't talk about it. 


Q. Do you think it is harder on somebody like her to have this happen because of what she went through?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   I would think so.  Even harder for her because of what happened to her.  I would think so.  I mean, it affects just everybody, so I could imagine, you know, for her too.


Q. How would you say she is playing right now, Monica?  How would you rate her game; where it is; what level it is at?

GABRIELA SABATINI:   Well, like I said before, you know, her mind is always very determined, you know, that is what is so good about Monica.  Her game, I think she is having a little more problems, you know, compared to before to move around a little bit and, you know, I just felt like I was -- it was very close, I mean, I was -- I could have won that match.  I feel like I was in control of the match, you know, which is something that didn't happen the last time I played her. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT