XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 25, 1996
Gabriela Sabatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Do you like the format of this Olympic competition? And why do you think there are more top ranked women playing as opposed to the men?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:   Format is just the same as the tournament. 
 

Q. Would you like to see it maybe more of a team-oriented type format?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:   Yeah, probably like that a little more.  In a way it is a team, it is like we are playing as a team.  But I would probably like to, you know, to have more that feeling like we are playing as a team, like Federation Cup, because we are representing our countries.  It is not us individually, we are representing our country, so, you know, probably like to feel a little more like I am playing on a team.  And then why there are more women?  I don't know, I guess the Olympics starting to get a little more, you know, more popular.  Everybody knows that this is a very unique event, the Olympics.  And, you know, my reason why I wanted to play is because I experienced this once, and I really loved it.  I didn't play the last time because it didn't  really fit my schedule because we have certain rules that we have to play the Federation Cup for two years to be able to play in the Olympics and, you know, sometimes we have a lot of tournaments.  And I prefer to take some time off instead of doing that.  But this is -- I mean, this experience, it is just the only one.  I really love to, you know, to be around all these athletes, the best athletes, and get to watch other sports. 
 

Q. Looking ahead to your next match, Monica, do you think she is 100% back to where she was before she left?  What do you think about going back into the match?
 
GABRIELA SABATINI:   I only played once against her in Canada since she came back, and she played a good match. I was surprised the way she played, especially in that match.  Monica is always tough.  Her mind is always very determined, and it is always a very, very tough match.  I don't know if she is playing the same level right now as she used to; you know, probably not that consistent.  But it is always different match.  You have never know.  When I played her in Canada she just played great.  So just expect tomorrow to have a tough match. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT