ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Amandine Hesse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. HESSE/J. Brady   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  I imagine that it's a bit tough today, right?  
AMANDINE HESSE: Yes.  I think that the match went a bit too fast today, and I'm really disappointed not to have been able to impose my game.  My opponent was aggressive from the very beginning, and to defend her game, and I didn't manage to do it.  That's why I'm a bit disappointed that I wasn't able to unsettle her for at least a few seconds.   
I thought I was ready, but that's it for the final.   
 Q.  It's been three years in a row.  It's a bit disappointing, because today is Sunday, and I think that the singles, it's the end for you.  
AMANDINE HESSE: Yeah, well, you said it.   
 Q.  Maybe the draw was a bit difficult, and according to the statistics too few first balls, first points, first serves.  
AMANDINE HESSE: Yes, well, I know that it was a good player that plays with her forehand quite a bit.  She showed that she's a very good server.   
I wasn't able to take the break.  As you said, my serves weren't good enough, and I think that that would have made the difference, but today I didn't have enough first serves.  I wasn't able to be really strong on the first shots.  I wasn't able to turn the trend around.   
She was the one who really led the game and made me run all over the court, and it was frustrating.   
 Q.  You said that it's going to be hard to go to the small tournaments, to China.  What's your mindset?  Do you feel confident?  
AMANDINE HESSE: Well, in China I end up playing better than here.  Well, I will continue with my tournaments on the circuit, and it's like a reality check.   
But I played well in China.  I prepared myself well.  Last week in Strasbourg I managed to line up three sets against Collins, who is one of the top 50.   
Today, what can I say?  I don't really know what happened.  Her type of game wasn't the best for me, I'd say.   
But I think I'm the only one responsible, and I'm really disappointed that I didn't make it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT