ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Amandine Hesse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. TOWNSEND/A. Hesse
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. Must be tough.  I can see it's tough.  A lot of frustration.  What happened?
AMANDINE HESSE: I feel like I wasn't even on the court today.  It was tough.  She played a great match from the beginning to the end.  I started off very well, and once she had a break, that was it.  I just couldn't keep up.  I could never find the energy I had at the beginning and she gobbled me up.
Q. Is it her game?  Is it your game?  Is it the whole event?  What it is?
AMANDINE HESSE: She was very confident before coming here.  She won a lot of matches.  She played a great match.  I'm very disappointed I could not find solutions.  I felt like it went by so quickly.  There was nothing I could do.  It was over.
I'm so sorry I couldn't change the course of things.  I wish I could have bothered her a little more.
Q. Are you just going to clean forget the whole thing or is there anything you can learn?
AMANDINE HESSE: You always learn no matter what, so I will use this as learning.  Makes me realize that there is a lot missing, and maybe I need to approach the next match differently.
Maybe I was too excited to get on the court.  I was very eager to play.  I'm even more disappointed because of that, because I just couldn't do what I wanted to do, and here we are.  It's over.
Q. Did you approach this match differently than the previous Roland Garros editions?
AMANDINE HESSE: The difference with last year is that I made it through the first round.  Did I really approach the match differently?  I don't think so.  I guess last year I won once; this year I wanted to move on further, and that's why I'm so disappointed.
Q. I guess Roland Garros is something that you wait a year for and then didn't last an hour.  That must be rough.
AMANDINE HESSE: Exactly.  Exactly.  And I wanted to experience the same thing I had last year.  It's really tough.  It's really hard.
Q. You said you were excited.  You said you were a bit nervous.  But that's always what you do.  I talked with your dad yesterday.  What do you think it is that could maybe bring you the peace of mind, the serenity to perform better once you're on court?
AMANDINE HESSE: I think I need to focus more on my medium play.  I think my average play is a bit too low.  That translates into underperformance sometimes.  That's what I need to focus on:  I need to improve my average play.
Maybe I need to become a bit more calm.  I didn't really feel that nervous.  I almost felt like I had not enough energy right before I started the match.  There was something missing to actually boost me to make a difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT