ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Amandine Hesse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. HESSE/J. Gajdosova2-6, 6-3, 6-2THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. I saw you during the first set, and you were upset.  Things weren't going as you wanted.  Finally you won the match.  So what happened?AMANDINE HESSE: I was very tense during the first set.  I found it difficult to, you know, get the ball.  She was really forcing me.  She forced me to force myself. I tried to relax in the second set, stay focused on each point, be there.  I really fought hard on each point.  It paid off.Q. How did last year's match against Meusburger help you?AMANDINE HESSE: I think my last year's game really helped me for this year.  I tried not to get too much adrenaline, and then I had the public to support me.  I tried to stay focused.  I really did my best to manage the third set, especially compared to last year, once again.Q. I am getting the impression you have changed somewhat.  You're more focused and more patient.  You're really building your game.  Is this something you've worked on?AMANDINE HESSE: Yes, I have worked on this a lot.  I think she was more aggressive today than I was, so I had to adjust my game.  I tried to be patient.  First set I was playing along the lines and it didn't work, so I tried to adapt my game to hers and play more crosscourt. I really tried to play solid.Q. When you beat someone who is 50th seed, you can beat anyone, right?AMANDINE HESSE: I have no limits.  I will do my very best on each match, and we will see if it pays or not.Q. You were talking about the public.  There was a lot of noise.  People were cheering you up, supporting you.  Did you come with people?  Did you bring people?AMANDINE HESSE: Yes, I came with my family.  I have my sisters, my brother-in-law, my aunts, nephews, and I think they cheered me up indeed. But they were not the only ones.  I think the entire French public was there to support me.  Nonetheless, I tried to stay focused.Q. Will they be here for the second round?AMANDINE HESSE: Well, they may have to go to work.  We'll see.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT