ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2014
Amandine Hesse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. MEUSBURGER/A. Hesse
      3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   What a great match.   Strong emotions, I guess, and then 5‑2, 5‑4 you were close.   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Yeah.   Yeah, that's right.   When she was at 5‑2, I thought, Okay, give your all.   Make the most.   The crowd was behind me.   It was absolutely wonderful.  
    So it helped me coming back to 5‑4.   I was close to 5‑All, because I lost 30‑40.   So I fought hard.   Even if it's hard losing 6‑4 in the last set, I'm proud I fought until the end.   
   
 Q.   What would you say you lacked in order to win this match?   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   I wasn't calm enough, I think.   At the end of the first set I had an adrenaline rush.   Instead of calming down and refocusing, I wanted to do too much.  
    Well, you know, I knew she would not give me any point.   I would have to fight on each point.   I have looked at the statistics, and she only made five unforced errors versus far more than me.  
    She's 30, more experienced.   It's my first French Open.   So in terms of experience, we're not at the same level.   
   
 Q.   Well, you've progressed quite a lot between the end of last year and the beginning of this year.   You said this yourself.   You said you climbed up a step.   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Well, I hope I'm going to climb up another step and yet another one.   I was ranked 400 in September; now I'm playing at Roland Garros.   It's just great.   
   
 Q.   Do you often make your dad cry?   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   He's quite emotional, just like me.   I managed to make him cry when I won my 25,000 tournament, the first one I won.   That's it.   
    He was very emotional that I managed to play a match like that and to see the crowd doing the wave for me.   Lots of shivers for him and for me.  
   
 Q.   And for you there were tears, disappointment, but not just that, I guess.   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   A bit of everything.   Your relieved from pressure.   You see all the crowd coming for you.   I had never seen that, people shouting my name.   I was overwhelmed.   
   
 Q.   You've been working with your dad again for the last few months.   Why this choice?   Is it easier for you to choose your dad as a coach?   It was the case in the past, and then you had professional coaches.   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Well, I think my dad is the best person for me.   I can trust him.   I know he wants the best for me; I know he'll do everything for me; he lives for me; I think he's the best for me.   
    I think it paid off.   He's my daddy.   You can't have the same relationship with your daddy as with any other coach.   
   
 Q.   Mladenovic, you know her and you've played with her.   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Yes.   We've known each other since we were kids.   She's my best friend.   It's great practicing with her when she's in Paris.   It's great.   Everything goes real great, and I'm happy she can share this with us.  
   
 Q.   And now about the match:   Did you expect to have the right level to play a girl who's number 40 in the world?  
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Yes.   Everybody told me that she wouldn't let me play, so I felt no pressure.   I wanted to believe in it.   I really wanted to win the match.  
   
 Q.   Talking about Christina again, is it a way for you to find motivation?  
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Yes.   She's quite motivating, and I want to achieve the same or similar ranking so that we can play the same tournaments.   
   
 Q.   Do you have one objective for this season?   
    AMANDINE HESSE:   Coming back next year and win the tournament.   
    No, I want to achieve 150 as quickly as possible, and then the sky is the limit.   I'll give my best, and we'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT