U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Jaime Yzaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jaime, after last year did you expect Pete to come out and play like he did tonight,
to be extra motivated against you?

JAIME YZAGA: Well, he played pretty well. He served great and for me it was tough to
get in a rhythm with the lights and all that. It is hard when somebody starts serving that
big and the lights and all that, but I mean, he played a great match. He didn't make any
mistakes. Almost any mistakes. It was hard.

Q. Did he say anything to you afterwards or before?

JAIME YZAGA: No.

Q. Thanks? Bye? Congratulations?

JAIME YZAGA: No, there is no relation. No.

Q. How did last year's match -- did it carry-over for you at all or was it something
you forgot, you know, pretty quickly after --

JAIME YZAGA: Well, it is something that I remember all my life. It was a great match
that I play and I guess the No. 1 player in the world U.S. Open, you know, I mean, you
need to put it out of your mind and keep playing tennis and trying to improve. It is not
something that it is in my mind all the time. It is something that is past and it is over.

Q. Did you take anything from that match last year and bring it into this year? I mean,
he is obviously still a top-rated player. Did it give you more confidence coming in
tonight?

JAIME YZAGA: I expected to do a little bit better, I mean, to play better and, you
know, I am disappointed I played like that, but I mean, you have to give him credit. He
played great, you know, he didn't give me any chance at all. I didn't have any breakpoints
or anything, so I was always down and always struggling my serve and so it is hard. It was
hard.

Q. In other words, you are not happy with your performance tonight?

JAIME YZAGA: Well, of course, I mean, if you see the score, how am I going to be happy?
No way I am happy, but, you know, he played a great match and that is part of it. I mean,
that has something to do with it also. 

Q. What personally was the main reason, do you think because he was out --

JAIME YZAGA: I just said, he is hard -- I was coming all the time from behind and
struggling my serve and, you know, the way he served today, or the way he served, he
didn't give me any chances in his game, so, you know, if you don't have a little bit of
advantage somewhere in the match, it is tough to get confidence.

Q. When he is playing his best tennis, as it appeared he was tonight, does anybody beat
him?

JAIME YZAGA: Well, I am sure he played great against Agassi. I am sure he has played
great against -- he is not unbeatable. He has lost matches. I don't know, I mean, how can
I say, I mean, -- how -- what am I going to say to that question, I mean, I don't think
anybody is unbeatable even at his best.

Q. When you were down two sets to none, was there still part of you that -- getting
back to the other question, remembering last year when you mounted your comeback, was
there any part of you saying well, I did this last year, maybe I could start now?

JAIME YZAGA: This is a tournament where it is three out of five sets; until you don't
look to the last point, you haven't lost the match, so there has been many matches here
and in all the Grand Slams that these people are coming from behind, from two sets down, a
break down in the third, they still come back, so you play until the last point, and that
is what I did.

Q. Do you think the result tonight was more because of how much he has improved, rather
than you didn't play so well? The reason I asked that I noticed your ranking has dropped
appreciably.

JAIME YZAGA: Well, I had-I have been playing not great. I mean, not really good the
whole year; the whole year has been really bad. You know, I mean, last couple of days I
have been hitting the ball great, really, coming to the Open I always expect a lot here
and I always feel great playing here and my game raises a lot, you know, really, you know,
two weeks ago, I was hitting the ball terrible, I was really having a lot of trouble. But
coming in here and the few days after I arrived here, I was hitting the ball great and
yesterday, the day before, I mean, and even the match that I had in the first round, it
was a great match, so, you know, I don't think I hit the ball bad tonight. I mean,
probably, you know, like I said, I mean, he didn't give me any chance at all. He hit good
serves and every time I would go to his forehand, he would hit a winner, or things like
that. So he kept me out of my rhythm all the time. But anyway it has not been a great
year, so I didn't come with a lot of confidence, of course.

Q. Was your victory over him kind of the start of a decline for you?

JAIME YZAGA: No. You know, last year was a very tough schedule. I travelled a lot and I
played very, very much last year with Davis Cup and so, I think that was kind of the
problem and this year, you know, we kept on going and going and we really never took a
rest; never really took a rest and maybe a month off, and go back to the basic and start
again, so I think I made a mistake in doing that, but, you know, the year is almost over
and I have to give an another push.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT