U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1994
Jaime Yzaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Does there come a point when you -- it is too much and you played too much and you are too tired? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Well, it is just a little slow on your reactions.  You know the long points and my legs were really tired.  He has been playing a lot too and he got to a point that he was -- once he seemed to have it a little bit more than me.  
 

Q.  Did you have enough time to recover from the other day's match? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Well, it is hard to recover from two matches, five sets back-to-back and then play another five sets today.  It is hard, but I mean, it is a Grand Slam tournament.  It is three out of five.  You have to be prepared for everything.  Obviously, last two five sets took a lot out of me and I was sore yesterday.  I was sore today.  But I think he played great.  I think he played -- he is playing very well.  He served good at the very important points and, you know, he was aggressive when he had to and that was the whole thing.  He played a good match.  
 

Q.  What kind of feeling did you have about the match when the fifth set began? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Well, it was hard.  I mean, he won the first set easy, then I won the second one.  Then I had a very -- let down in the third and then he was -- he was the same for the fifth after I won the fourth, it was hard. I tried to push the first game of the fifth set.  He didn't come through and he broke me.  He was 3-Love up, I think, or he had a break early, but obviously I was a little bit more tired than him.  
 

Q.  What do you think this has done for tennis in Peru and South America, generally, your success here? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  I hope it has done a lot.  I hope they -- the authorities there have the sports, they look a little bit more for tennis and a little bit more for sports that are not -- don't have a program development.  It is sad that it is a sport that is doing so well in Peru, is tennis, and nobody is doing anything about it.  We have no support from the top guys of the sports in Peru.  So it is hard.  I mean, it is hard if they don't take advantage of these and of the whole thing that is happening with Davis Cup and that we are planning to go to the World Group next two weeks, it is going to be very sad.  I hope they do something about it.  
 

Q.  How will you remember this tournament? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Well, I always had great feelings about the Open, about the U.S. Open.  I always played good here and I like very much the City.  It just has something.  It is a great feeling to be here, and it is bad luck that I lost today, but you know, the Open is my favorite tournament.  It has always been.  It is good.  I will be back next year.  
 

Q.  Would you have liked a little bit more excitement right at the start; seemed like there wasn't much of a crowd and it took a lot for people to get into the match? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Well, it was second match of the day.  It was around 12 o'clock after women's doubles.  It really wasn't much, you know, going on in the stadium when we start.  But people start coming in and we almost finished with a full stadium.  You know, it is Thursday, I mean, I guess people have to work, I don't know.  
 

Q.  You talked about the physical toll of playing two five-setters, how tough is it to come back mentally after you have played maybe the best match of your life? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  No, I don't perceive it as the best match of my life.  I have been playing for a long time, so I mean it would be bad if I can't come from a win -- from beating a great player, so mean, it didn't affect me.  I went back to sleep perfectly.  I had no problems.  I knew that this match was going to be as tough as any other match, you know -- I know because I beat Pete not that I would beat Karel easily.  I have been playing a long time, so really, it was tough.  
 

Q.  What were the wind conditions like on the court?  Did that change your strategies at all? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  It was very hard.  I don't remember it being so windy here last year or the year before, but it was just very, very hard to get going at the beginning, especially, because I wasn't moving so well and the wind was changing all the time.  It was even more difficult to set up for the ball.  Probably if it wouldn't have been so windy, maybe I could take control of the point easy, but when there is wind, you have to be moving very good to be ready for every point.  
 

Q.  Novacek could be the lowest seeded or lowest ranked player left-- depending on what happens tonight, of course-- do you give him a decent shot at winning this or is he going to be coming out of his league a little bit come Saturday? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Obviously, whoever gets to semifinals of Grand Slam has a chance to win it.  It depends who wins the next match.  I mean, it is hard.  Probably his game affects the other guy's game, so it is very hard.  If he got to the semifinals, he must be playing very well.  
 

Q.  Did you do anything the other night or past couple of days to celebrate your win over Sampras or to enjoy it? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  Not at all.  
 

Q.  Any reaction from people? 
 
JAIME YZAGA:  I didn't celebrate it at all.  I mean, I just kept doing the same thing as I have been doing since the tournament started.  No time to celebrate.  That is very sad.  How are we going to get tennis in Peru or South America?  That is very sad.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT