U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1994
Jaime Yzaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just describe the moment to you, what it means, how you felt, and some of the match also --   In five words or less. 

JAIME YZAGA:  Well, it was very difficult, you know, very, very difficult match.  He didn't give up, you know, even though he was really tired, and he was -- he couldn't -- he couldn't -- he was showing it, and I really couldn't see it, but he was playing better and better, you know, as the match, you know, 5-3, 5-4, 5-5, you know, and it was really hard, but he did good.  I kept my cool, people were really in to it, and you know, at the moment I said, this is -- I mean, it was difficult to -- as the people were getting into it, you know, but I was a little lucky at the end, you know, broke him in the last game.  I played a great match, yeah, didn't serve that well, but, you know, overall, I think I played very much. 


Q.  When did you first notice that he might not be feeling well? 

JAIME YZAGA:  Well, you know, at the end of the third set I think when we start -- when he was up 3-Love, all of a sudden I broke him and he start walking little bit like that and he was showing it out there, so -- I congratulate him because he never really gave up, and obviously he wasn't feeling well, but that's what makes a champion, he kept fighting until the end. 


Q.  Was there a point, Jaime, when you realized in that fourth set that, "if I could keep the ball on the court, I'm going to win"? 

JAIME YZAGA:  When I came back, you know, 3-All or -- and, you know, I said if I can win this set, I had a great chance because I really saw that he was getting tired, more tired every time. 


Q.  Did you change anything you were doing because you saw he was tired; did you change your strategy, your strokes? 

JAIME YZAGA:  I came out to the match really trying to make him move, to try to move him as more as I could because he played three matches before, but he didn't play anybody that would play from the baseline and move him around.  So, that was my strategy, was to move him around as much as I could.  So I didn't change any. 


Q.  Before the tiebreak you went and picked up a new racket; what was that all about.  You changed your racket.  Before the tiebreak. 

JAIME YZAGA:  Did we play a tiebreaker here?  Jesus. Oh, in the fourth set, okay, okay.  I said, where was I playing.  I just got a tighter racket because probably we changed balls at that moment. So I just got a tighter racket. 


Q.  Did you think about dropshoting at all -- 

JAIME YZAGA:  I did a couple times, but it's really hard to do it on hardcourt.  You know, the ball might, you know, bounce a little higher, so, it's -- it wasn't really on my mind all the time, I just did it one or two times. 


Q.  When you were up 5-3 and then doublefaulted at 30-Love and he began coming back, did you feel that everything was unraveling at that point? 

JAIME YZAGA:  Well, you know, I knew the match wasn't over until it was over, till the last point.  So, I doublefaulted there, you know, and I was having trouble with my serve the whole match, doublefaulting and putting very, very low percent first serves in.  So, I just tried to keep cool and keep going as much as I could. 


Q.  Did you go in the match thinking that he was beatable -- 

JAIME YZAGA:  Yeah, of course.  Everybody was saying that he's unbeatable, whatever.  You know, that's really hard to say.  Everybody, I think, is beatable.  He's a great player, he's probably the best player in the world right now, and you have to play real, real well to beat him.  But I think everybody is beatable. 


Q.  You said earlier -- 

JAIME YZAGA:  I'm not feel that well, sorry -- can we stop it -- who's in charge here?  I'm not feeling well. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT