U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Jaime Yzaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. When you were down two sets, did you still feel you could come back and win the
match; did you feel you were playing well then? 

JAIME YZAGA: I was starting to play better at the -- second set I was up 4-1, so, I
figured out, if I could get an early start in the third set and win the third set, things
could change. Things could change. 

Q. How do you feel he was playing today? 

JAIME YZAGA: I think he played a good first set, and he played steady from the back,
really. I played with him last week, and he beat me really easy. So I knew what to expect,
and I knew if I could play inside the court and change the pace and try to confuse him a
little from the baseline. It was windy, so, it was difficult to play. I just hung in there
all the time, and I knew last week he got tired on the finals, so, you know, I tried to
move him around and just wait for the moment. Five sets is a long match. 

Q. Do you feel like you're in very good shape right now? 

JAIME YZAGA: Well, I don't know how I'm going to be tomorrow, but hopefully for the day
after tomorrow, I'll be okay. 

Q. Can you talk about playing Sampras? 

JAIME YZAGA: Well, you know, we all know that he's been playing great. He's the number
one player, for sure. You know, but, you know, it is a long match on Tuesday, so, the way
I played today at the end, I think -- if I can keep him running and make him play a lot of
balls, hit a lot of balls. I don't think he played anybody that really plays from the back
of the court; so we'll see what happens. 

Q. Jaime, you played a couple times, Pioline, before and you've lost. You started out
this match being fairly kind of dominated; what was the change in your attitude and
tactics to get back into the match today? 

JAIME YZAGA: Well, the first set was easy. The second set I was up 4-1, and -- 

Q. But then you were caught up again? 

JAIME YZAGA: Yeah, but it showed me that if I could play that game, I could be -- I
could win the match. 

Q. That game was what? 

JAIME YZAGA: The game I was up 4-1, I was playing the points, moving him around, that
really showed that me if I can keep my head and keep pushing, I could come through. 

Q. What was the difference, then, with the previous two matches with Pioline? 

JAIME YZAGA: Well, I mean, last week he played great. I changed rackets for a week, so,
I wasn't really playing with my racket, but that has nothing to do-- I think he played
great and the first time it was a year ago at Long Island in the tournament, he was
playing great. 

Q. Did you come into this match with a clear idea of what you would need to do against
him? 

JAIME YZAGA: Yeah, yeah, I did. 

Q. But at the beginning it wasn't working simply because he severed very well? 

JAIME YZAGA: Well, you know, five sets is a long match, things could change and the
good thing about it is you have time to change him. So that's what happened. 

Q. Do you think fatigue was a factor in this match? 

JAIME YZAGA: He got tired, I got tired, but he seemed a little more tired than me. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT