U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2019
Henry Shimp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
HENRY SHIMP: Kind of a funny round, really.  I feel like on these courses you just want to play really boring golf, maybe get after the easy holes and if you make bogeys on the harder ones, so be it.   
I did like the exact opposite.  Every time I was in a pretty easy spot I made a bogey or par or whatever and birdied some of the harder ones.  So it was kind of a strange round, but the score came out okay.   
 Q.  The eagle was 17?  
HENRY SHIMP: Correct.  Yeah, I hit it left -- perfect example -- I hit it left, had like 275 in, but had a good enough lie in that I was just trying to hit a low hook 2-iron in and I was just trying to chase it up and see if it would get on the green and it like rolled onto the back of the green and rolled to about eight inches, it almost went in.  So it was pretty cool.   
 Q.  Do you think some of your experience here playing in a few other U.S. Amateurs has helped you?  
HENRY SHIMP: Yeah, this is my third U.S. Amateur, so I have a good sense of what it's like now.  And then being from Charlotte I've played at Pinehurst quite a bit.  I played high school state championships out here, played a couple North South's.  So I've been around -- actually, the first time playing the new 4, which was a practice round, but probably played a dozen times around 2 in competition.   
So it doesn't really make it any easier, but knowing where you just can't miss and where you need to try to leave your ball certainly is helpful.  So just try to play smart tomorrow, maybe a little bit more boring golf like I was going for, but see if we can keep it rolling.   
 Q.  Anything you're going to try to change for tomorrow or just more of the same?  
HENRY SHIMP: Probably just the same stuff.  I might work on a couple things in my swing, maybe roll a couple putts, but other than that everything is going to be about the same.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT