NCAA MEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS REGIONALS: SPOKANE
March 17, 2007
Craig Bradshaw
Chris Gaynor
Michael Jenkins
Gregg Marshall
Torrell Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:  We have starting at your left Torrell Martin, Michael Jenkins, Chris Gaynor, Craig Bradshaw.  Let's go ahead and open it up to questions for student-athletes. 

 Q.  The three guards up here, this game is going to be predicated a lot on guard play, and what I would like to ask you guys about is dribble penetration.  How much do you expect that facet of the game to kind of influence tomorrow's outcome.  And when and when you guys penetrate are you more offensive minded thinking score first or thinking penetrate, draw the defense and kick? 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  We think that's what they're going to do.  They run a lot of ball screens.  A lot of pick and rolls.  A lot of things like that.  So we have to stick to our principles and get under the ball screens and focus on really not coming out to shoot it.  They like to draw the defense and kick the ball.  So part of us preparing for are what we have to do we have to really stick to our principles and if we do that we should be all right. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Yeah, the big part of the game is going to be stopping dribble penetration on our part.  Because if we don't contain their guards we're going to have a tough time winning.  Because that's basically what they do the whole game is try to penetrate, kick for threes or penetrate.  Get fouled or penetrate and get all the way to the basket.  And for our team, with us, we, if we penetrate, we look to kick the ball more than get all the way to the basket.  But if we're open, yeah, we'll go all the way.  But most of the time we penetrate to find the open man. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  To add on to what they're saying, yeah, I think that dribble penetration is going to be a big key to tomorrow.  They got primary four guards starting.  They got Brooks, Porter, Bryce Taylor, and Malik Hairston, and that's typically four guards right there.  So we'll have to be on our A game, especially on the defensive end and like they said, we got to do the same thing.  We got to dribble penetration and get it to Craig and the rest of the big men and just take advantage of that. 

 Q.  Guys, how do you feel, what do you think you've learned from last year to this year that is going to help you go further in this tournament? 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  I look at that every position counts.  Going to keep on being aggressive.  No matter if we're up 20 or whatever.  Just contain people and believe that we are, we belong here and that we can beat some of these teams. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  I think you see that people really want it more this year.  After making history time and time again this year, to be in here for the second round and have the chance to advance to the Sweet 16, you know, that's what we all dream about.  We really weren't picked high major like everybody else was in the country and for a little old Winthrop to be here, you know it's something special.  So you think that you could see in every's eyes that we really want this. 

 Q.  Question for Chris.  Did you go on the tour of New Zealand? 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Yeah, I went to New Zealand. 

 Q.  What was your impression of first of all the BBQ's at Craig's.  And largely, the whole tour of the nation of New Zealand? 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  It was a great place.  To see Craig's hometown, it was something wonderful.  We might not ever get a chance to go overseas again.  And the cookout all the hospitalities that the Bradshaws showed us was wonderful.  It felt like we were really back in the states. 

 Q.  Was the food like American food? 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  I mean, you know -- 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  Better. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Yeah, Craig said it's better.  So I'm going to have to go with Craig.  It was better. 
 (Laughter.). 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Don't want to upset my big man. 

 Q.  Chris, you guys played Oregon at Mac Court back in 2004.  You guys all played in that game.  Talk about what you remember about that game and particularly Aaron Brooks who you may have had to guard.  At that time he had 25. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Yeah, yeah.  Well, one of my worst games ever, you know.  Really I remember it being sold out in there.  Being a freshman.  It was something that to take in. 
 He had a heck of a game.  He was on fire.  It was like I said it was one of my worst games ever.  And he's a great player, give him all that, but I was talking to Rayshown Terry the other day and I told him we had a chance to play Oregon and he said I can't give him too much credit, he's not as good as everybody says he is, you know, I just got to go out there and play my game. 

 Q.  If you could all answer this.  I heard coach's style can be somewhat hard driving.  If you each could just address what his coaching style is in practice and in the games and maybe give some examples of how tough he is. 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  Hard driving?  That's an under statement.  Coach Marshall, he has a unique style.  But the thing about coach that you learn early is he's going to get his point across and we're going to do things his way and that's pretty much all there is to it.  And the thing that makes it so significant is when you do it his way it tends to work out.  So. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Yeah, well Coach Marshall, his method of coaching, as a freshman I didn't really buy into it, but I have now.  It's just like you have to -- he's going to get his point across.  And Coach Peele told me you can't listen to the tone of the message, you are have to listen to what the message is saying.  Just try to block out the yelling and the vulgar language or whatever language he's saying and just listen to what he's saying.  Torrell helped me with that too.  And that's it was just the way he coaches. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  I think that he's a great disciplinarian.  He's real tough.  And that's what we need.  We have been very successful for me and Mike three years in a row and the year before that with Craig and Torrell, they were pretty successful too.  But you think that's what we need and that's where we get all or energy and passion from him.  And that it carries on into the game. 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  I think it's more of a motivator.  He's a great coach.  But you think he gets the most out of players.  He knows how to push the buttons, of some players, and he gets -- he got the best out of me and we go to practice every day with the mindset that we're going to get better every day.  He makes you work.  He's a great coach. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Coach Marshall, he's gritty guy, a gritty coach.  So he gets gritty players and he gets us to play gritty.  So his coaching methods goes with the players. 

 Q.  Craig seems like kind of looking at the last 10, 12 games, you're kind of production has been going up more and more.  Have you kind of looked to be more aggressive or looked for your shot more of this time and maybe Chris could talk about Craig and how he's come on as the season has gone along? 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  Yeah, I had a shaky first half of the season.  I was injured.  I had other things on my mind.  I just relaxed and this is my senior year, I'm going to have fun.  And just go out there and play like I know how to play.  And it's worked.  Hopefully it continues tomorrow. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Playing with Craig these three years has been, he's made my job so easy.  I like it when he's aggressive, I think we play better when he's aggressive.  And the outcome is always great when he's aggressive.  These last couple games like you said he's really been playing aggressive and he's unstoppable, really, in my eyes, when he comes ready to play, I think he takes our team to a new level. 

 Q.  Kind of a follow-up to what I asked before, why do you guys think he's Coach Marshall has been as successful as he's been in his time at Winthrop? 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  I think the difference between us and a lot of programs is a lot of programs let their players play and they just rely on their talent.  And that gets teams real far.  But the difference is in our system that we run a system.  And we run that.  And then once that breaks down, then we let our players play.  And Coach Marshall I know stills that in us early so, that we don't just have to rely on our natural God given talents and that is what prevails often in games. 

 Q.  Chris I think you mentioned earlier about little old Winthrop being here, do you really refer to think of yourselves as still an underdog team with the winning streak and the fact that the only teams that have beaten you are still in the tournament or do you maybe use that to your advantage a little bit and also for the other players maybe to respond to that. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Last couple days everybody's been comparing to us George Mason.  And we're really we haven't did everything George Mason has done.  They made it to the Final Four.  We won one game in the NCAA tournament.  We can't come here and be satisfied just from one win.  We need to keep going, keep playing the way that we have been playing and then once we make it the to Final Four, then teams people can compare us to George Mason then. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Yeah, I still feel in our eyes that we are an underdog because people didn't respect us playing Notre Dame we got all the media attention, and everything else.  They still didn't respect us.  And we came out here and showed them that they need to respect us.  And like Chris said, we still people comparing us to George Mason, but we haven't done what they have done.  So in my eyes I hope in all my teammates eyes we do feel like an underdog and the more we feel like an underdog the more confident we're going to be to go out there and show everybody that we belong. 

 Q.  The rest of you could comment on that game a couple years ago about against Oregon.  Just your memories from the atmosphere and the guys you faced? 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Oh, well, that game, you know, it was a track meet.  Oregon just ran the ball up and down the court.  All I could remember is running down the offense next thing you know I'm running back down on defense and the ball hasn't even went back, got back in bounds yet and I'm running back down on defense.  So it was a real fast paced game.  It wasn't as high scoring as you would think it would be, being that fast paced.  But Oregon really pushes the ball up the court.  And we just didn't play, we played well, we played well, until the last couple minutes and then we had, I think we was only down like five with three or four minutes to go and then we had to foul and they took the lead about 15, I think. 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  I remember coach talking about the players individually and what type of players they were and the pro prospects and I remember looking at film and just thinking in my head I don't think these guys are going to be no better than us.  And then getting out there and realizing they were a step above us and I just remember that how fast paced the game was.  And realize that had we had to step our game up a little bit after that and I believe we did that.  I feel now we're on the level now that we can compete and we're just as athletic, just as fast and fundamentally sound as Oregon is. 

 Q.  Question for Torrell, but you others can respond too.  Tell us a little bit about the need that philosophy and also the junkyard dog? 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  I started it.  I started it. 
 (Laughter.) 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  Need that is a saying that I just kind of came up with.  I actually got it from one of my friend who played at UNC Charlotte.  Its basically when you're in dire need of something whether it be a steal, big block or shot.  Perfect scenario, Chris Gaynor yesterday we're up one and we in desperate need of a shot and he shoot it and I'm just looking like you know, need that.  And that's basically what it means.  It could be in anything.  Out of shoes, you need a new pair of shoes, you get them, you know, need that. 
 (Laughter.) 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  He always comes up with everything he's real creative.  Torrell is -- and the team just embraces it and we just use it all the time.  Especially the song that we have to sing after the game that he came up.  Craig really enjoys it too. 
 (Laughter.). 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Our phrase and saying coordinator, Torrell Martin.  You know. 
 (Laughter.) 

 Q.  Just to follow-up to that game a couple years ago you mentioned that game was real fast paced up tempo, do you expect tomorrow to be more the same and very similar to that? 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  Yes, definitely.  But thing about us is we like to get out and run too.  But we plan on slowing them down a little bit and controlling the tempo and if we do that the game will work in our favor. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  I think it's a mutual court game, that back then it was on at their place.  And we're more we're a smarter team now more veteran team now, more seasoned team.  So we're not going to just let them get out and just run up and down like they did when we were all just like freshmen and sophomores back then so it will be a more, more slow placed game probably tomorrow. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  And we played against the nation's leading scoring team.  And they run more than anybody.  And in the nation.  They get the ball out and maybe shooting it from half court.  And that's how fast paced the game is.  So I think we'll be ready.  Hopefully everybody will come out with fresh legs and it won't be the same outcome as it was at Oregon. 

 Q.  Craig, Miami gave them trouble kind of slowing it down they were obviously kind of frustrated with that.  Does that almost make you guys think that would be something that would work or do you stick with your own style? 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  We're going to try to do the same thing, like Torrell said.  Slow it down.  They like to play a fast paced game.  So we're just going to run our sets, try to exploit them there.  And yeah, basically that's our plan. 

 Q.  I can't let you off without telling us what the song is or saying it. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  Craig? 
 (Laughter.) 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  No. 

 Q.  You look ready to sing it. 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  Oh, no.  No.  My voice is a little sore. 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  Can't even breathe, I guess. 
 (Laughter.) 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  No, it's, we can't tell you that, that's a personal song, so we can't share it with you.  Hey, if we win we might sing it after the game. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  You have to come to the locker room for that. 

 Q.  You just remember thinking when you guys were playing Notre Dame you guys looked so confident you guys just seem to have a ton of fun together and seem like a very confident group.  How much do you think that factors into your success? 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  That's definitely important.  The thing we don't overlook any team.  We have much respect for everybody we play.  And the thing about us is we play a dire preseason or conference schedule, we play some of the top teams.  Once you play some of them and then you start playing everybody else and you get into a winning streak, then you your team naturally gets confident and the thing you must do as a program and a mature program is not let that go to your head but at the same time have fun with this game and we have so much camaraderie as a team and we just have fun with it on and off the court.  I think that's the big difference this year. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  We have been around each other for a long time now.  This group here.  It's all just come together.  We laugh all the time.  Joke around with each other.  We get mad at each other.  But still love them.  And that helps out there on the court too.  We play so many road games during the season and that builds us too.  Ready to take anything on.  We're road warriors and a very close group and it makes us very what's the word I'm looking for?  Makes us a very dangerous -- thanks, Chris -- makes us very dangerous in a tournament. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  I think that confidence comes from trust.  We were up 20 against Notre Dame and they made their run and they took the lead and then just we had a to trust that and Craig and because he was having a monster game him and Torrell, and Mike was doing other things, with all the assists, that we just weren't going to get rattled.  And we didn't.  And it came down to the next play down, got a bucket from Craig from Mike.  And so it's just a trust that we have in each other.  To me. 

 Q.  You guys mentioned you still feel a little bit like an underdog and disrespected a little bit.  But the last couple days have you felt a little different about yourselves having had that first win?  Do you feel -- there had to be a little bit of doubt as far as whether you really belonged and whatnot. 
 TORRELL MARTIN:  We know we belong in this tournament.  We still just adding on to the winning streak.  That's what it felt like yesterday.  I was excited extremely, but we are always going to be the underdogs, winning one game is not going to change it.  Maybe not winning two.  Two might give us a little bit to talk about.  We have to go all the way to Atlanta before we even get the respect that we need.  So we just got to keep pushing and do what we need to do to get there. 
 MICHAEL JENKINS:  There was never any doubt in our mind yesterday that we couldn't play with Notre Dame or we couldn't play with anybody in this tournament.  We're like we said, we're a very confident team.  We don't boast around and brag and stuff and do crazy stuff out there on the court, but if you look at our demeanor on the court, you can tell we're very confident and there's nothing that anybody could do to take that away from us. 
 CHRIS GAYNOR:  Well, yeah, I think that being the underdog is something that we need.  We really didn't win any big high major games this year.  We were always in the vicinity of winning them, never could get over that hump.  So until yesterday when we finally did get over that hump, we got a little respect that we needed, but I mean it was still going, we'll still be Winthrop, you know, the team who was 0-6 from Coach Marshall's era and the NCAA.  So but I mean it was just something that we need.  We need that. 
 (Laughter.)  Need that. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Craig, do you have any thoughts? 
 (Laughter.) 
 CRAIG BRADSHAW:  Yeah, I think we thrive on being the underdog.  I think teams really don't know too much about us.  Even though they say they do.  But I think they come into the game not as prepared as us.  We really do a thorough scouting report on everybody and we know so much about the team whereas I get the kind of, I don't know, sense, that maybe they just take us lightly.  And we just exploit that and take that and run with it sort of thing. 
 THE MODERATOR:  All right.  We'll excuse the Winthrop student-athletes for their vocal practice and we'll welcome Coach Marshall in just a moment.  All right.  Take questions for coach. 

 Q.  Could you talk about how dribble penetration is going to factor into this game.  Obviously Oregon really relies on that.  You're guys seemed a little bit it sounded like they don't really dribble penetrate as much and they were more focused on stopping Oregon in that aspect.  Can you just elaborate on that a little bit. 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Well our motion offense, we cut, screen, shoot a lot of jump shots.  We got some guys that can dribble penetrate, DeAndre Adams, one of our back up guards, Michael Jenkins has gotten really proficient at pulling up at the foul line after penetrating the perimeter.  But Oregon's guys, they really he are tremendous at it.  I think that Brooks and Porter, Bryce Taylor, even Hairston and Leunen can all dribble penetrate.  They can put it on the floor and the thing that they do so well is if you help, they want to penetrate and pitch to a wide open 3-point shooter and all five of those guys mention shoot 40 percent or better from the 3-point line.  So it's a very, very important aspect.  We cannot play looking at the backs of Oregon's jerseys.  We need to make sure we're all the time focusing and in front of them and looking at the front of the jersey. 

 Q.  The players talked about your demeanor as a coach and what you expect out of them just talk a little bit about what you expect out of your players and how you approach coaching these guys? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Well first of all they're great guys.  They're great young men that allow myself and my staff to coach them.  That's a key component for us because we do try to coach them, we try to develop them, as individuals, and as a team.  And we work hard.  There's no doubt about it.  Winthrop is not a program for every one.  It's a program for people that want to achieve and be excellent.  Not just really good. 
 And we work hard each and every day.  When we hit the court, whether it's for an hour or two hours, we're going to really work hard, we're going to demand perfection and if you work for perfection, often times you achieve excellence and that's what we, I thought the play that we ran late in the game when we went down one, that was perfect. 
 It gave us the one point lead back, when we laid it in with basically no hindrance to the basket.  And it got us to the lead back and gave us some confidence and we were able to go back and win the game after Notre Dame made their great run. 

 Q.  I've been lucky enough to be with you guys since March 6, when you, before the selection, and I really noticed that you have a great assistant coaches.  Can you talk a little about those guys. 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Yeah, they're really just a tremendous staff.  I'm very, very blessed to have Paul Molinari, Earl Grant, and Randy Peele.  Randy Peele's taken a team as ahead coach to this great tournament before.  Coach Molinari was a manager and graduate assistant.  So he's been with one of the guys that's went to the tournament.  And then Earl Grant is a young man that I recruited and have known him since he was in high school and just all three of these guys have tremendous work ethic, they really develop these young men, not just on the floor, but off the floor.  And they're great examples of how these young men should try to lead their lives. 

 Q.  Can you talk about how Bradshaw ended up at Winthrop and kind of how you heard about him or if that and then kind of the way he's playing right now in particular like the last month or so really coming on.  He mentioned there was an injury earlier in the year he got over a that and what was that injury? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Well, first of all, a gentleman by the name of John Watson, who had played basketball in the United States but is living in New Zealand, thought that Craig Bradshaw could develop into a good division one player.  And they sent us a videotape and then followed up with an e-mail.  And at that time I was just had gotten a computer and was learning how to work e-mail.  And I got this tape and it talked about this kid being X amount of centimeters all and X amount of kilograms heavy and I had no idea what that was.  So I got someone that's a lot smarter than me to translate that over to weight and heights that I could understand.  And he happened to be about six nine, 190.  And I popped the tape in after we got it formatted because it came on a format that would not work in our VCR, so we had to go to Charlotte and get it reformatted.  Once we got that done, I said, you know, if this same kid that's on this videotape gets off the plane then we have us something special because he was long, but you could tell that he was athletic, he could dunk with either hand, he could shoot the three at the international line.  And thank goodness when we went to the airport the same kid that was on the videotape got off the plane, and as a freshman he averaged two points and two rebounds, then he goes back to New Zealand after his freshman year, has opportunities to go pro, after making their Olympic team, and opportunities to transfer to high major programs.  Couple of people had seen him in the Olympics and gotten to him one way or the other.  And asked him to transfer.  And we almost lost him.  On both accounts.  But he stuck with us, then last year he played in the World Games, last summer, he's played against Carmelo Anthony and LeBron James and Yao Ming and those people so nothing phases him, he's played against the best in the world and this I think what happened of after the World Games this summer is then we did our 15 day tour of Australia and New Zealand, and then now that was first, then the World Games, and then he comes back and I couldn't get him to take time off.  He kept working out, he kept playing pick up ball in the fall.  And I think really he got worn down.  And then he strained a muscle in his calf and in the North Carolina game our second game of the year he dislocated his thumb on his shooting hand and didn't stop playing.  That's how tough he is.  And just played through all that though not well.  And he was actually in a little mini slump, and he came to me and he never does this, but he came to me and he was concerned.  He said, coach, I don't know what's going on or how I can fix it.  I said look, you just do your thing, you keep playing, and his mother came and he played so well in New Zealand and Australia because his mom and his dad were following us around.  And when his mom came right before the Big South tournament, last couple of games of the regular season, and then stayed through Senior Night and the Big South tournament, he dominated.  Much like he did yesterday.  And that's because of his mom when she's around, he plays great. 

 Q.  He seems to have a rugby mentality that he's brought to basketball.  He said that that was, that's his passion and his love.  Can you comment on that? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  He's a tough kid.  I don't know if you have seen much rugby, we watched it life and we watched it on television when we were down there, this past May, it's a physical game.  There's no pads, there's no face masks, I mean it's rough.  And these guys are big and strong and thick calves and thick thighs and they just maul each other but the bottom line is you got to be tough to play that game.  And he's a tough kid.  His dad has his own landscaping business and his dad's tough.  And they're just hard working people, and he's a combative warrior type kid.  He's not afraid of any situation.  I remember as a freshman two guys squared off in practice one day and one of them was him against our starting center and he's a little thin kid, but the guy had thrown an elbow and of course we quickly broke it up.  But he did didn't back down.  He did not back down as a 195 pound freshman. 

 Q.  Can you talk about that 24 hour period last year when you take the Charleston job what brought you back and kind of this week with this victory have you been thinking back to that at all and the decision to come back? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  I think I made the right decision, as I sit here today and you know it was a great offer from the College of Charleston.  And the hardest thing I ever had to do as a professional coach is tell that group of young men that team that I love coaching so much, that I was going to leave them.  Simply because I was going to get a bigger paycheck.  And I told them all that I would love to have them go with me, and it was a very intense anxious emotional 45 minute meeting that evening before I took the College of Charleston job.  But I went down there and my wife and I decided on the ride back that it just wasn't the right time.  To make that move.  And I think that back now and hope everyone's over it.  And can deal with it.  Bobby Cremmins had a great year there.  He's a great friend of mine.  And we got a lot of friends there.  But as you sit here today I feel good because I did what was in my heart and stayed with this particular group. 

 Q.  How do you see your two styles, your style and Oregon's style matching up and maybe on that note or maybe not as far as the 2004 game, does that even enter your thought at this time or is that so far back that that doesn't matter? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  That was an interesting game.  We played them pretty well.  It was a single digit game late in the game.  I think, I don't know what we lost by, but I know it was five or six points with a minute or two to go.  And as I recall I we had chances to win.  And that was when Brooks was just coming into his own and he was dynamite that night.  And Malik Hairston also played well.  But I just, we looked at the box score from that particular game and they did play some zone in that game as I recall.  So we have got an essentially the same team that we had out in Oregon. 
 And they have added some guys.  But I just know that their style, you better get back in transition.  You got to value your possessions and you got to -- I'm not saying we're going to play in the 50's like Miami did they did their thing and almost won yesterday.  That's not our style.  We like to get out and run and press a little bit. 
 So I hope it's not in the 80's or 90's, if it is, it's a problem for us.  But if we can keep it in the 60's or low 70's, I think we have a shot. 

 Q.  Can you run down the process last night after you get back from last night's game, who handled getting the scouting reports started and what the, what the difficulties are in the short turnaround like this? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Well the most important thing is we had already started on Miami and Oregon.  First time in seven trips that we had literally already broken down film of the next round's opponent.  And maybe I shouldn't have been doing that maybe I should have been doing that all along.  But we made sure when those players came in, we were going over Notre Dame, that they also saw on the big screens in our hotel meeting room some Miami over here and some Oregon over here just to send the message that we're looking to get to the next round and the next round.  So Earl Grant already had some all the Pac-10 tournament games, had broken those down.  And then last night we watched some Miami edits.  We had a nice a fair with Doctor DiGiorgio, our president, had a nice dinner and reception for the team and the fans that made the trip.  Then we broke down some film.  And then did it again this morning.  Went over a paper scouting report.  Did more film.  And then had the hour and a half practice that you're allowed. 

 Q.  I would imagine if I moved to New Zealand it would be a bit of a culture shock for me and I would think for Craig coming up here it's a culture shock for him can you talk about the other three guys about how they maybe brought him in and how Craig's personality kind of meshes with those guys and vice versa? 
 COACH GREGG MARSHALL:  Well his best friend was the only starter that was not allowed up here and I wish he had been.  Because he's a key component of our team Phillips Williams, and they're buddies, best friends.  Craig Bradshaw, the last three Thanksgivings prior to this past one, has come to my home for Thanksgiving dinner.  This year he chose to go with Phillip to his home.  So they're almost like brothers.  And it's interesting Torrell Martin was on the podium with me as a Big South preseason Player of the Year.  So he had to go to Charlotte for a meeting this past fall, and he was asked a question about how, he's a great player, but he also got a great teammate in Craig Bradshaw.  Can you tell me what that's like.  And Torrell's response was, well, when Craig first got here he didn't speak English.  And I had to -- but what's interesting is New Zealand, their native language is English, but Torrell just couldn't understand him.  I mean, he talked so fast and so soft and I had to explain well that's not exactly the case, they just, there was some language barrier, but it was more Torrell's English and Craig's English not jiving.  But the bottom line is he's matured beautifully as a young man, physically emotionally, spiritually, intellectually, he's just come a long way and I know that he like all of these guys that we're were sitting right here are going to be successes, because he's a hard worker, he is a very, very respectful young man and he just, he's a, he's a tremendous person. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you coach. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT