U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 1999
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, I hope so. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  It surprised myself because last year -- at the last round of the Tour Championship I have an injury on my neck, which is -- it took me almost five months to recover from that injury.  I was surprised myself in that way because, even that I wasn't feeling well, I still managed to have a good results.  Like, for example, in Naples which I finished second.  And the first week of April I start feeling much better. And from then on, I felt more with myself, and I managed to win Las Vegas.  But before that, I have good results also in Tradition and PGA and some other Top-10, which it make me get to that point. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Oh, yes, do I remember, because it was very good day for me.  I thought I did the best I could do, and then it wasn't on me to win the tournament.  It was on him to win or not to win.  He did it in a magic way; best way everybody can expect from a great player like he is.  Always -- I always remember that I start playing golf because I love the game.  I didn't start playing golf because for the money.  I start playing golf because of the game.  I love the game.  It become the way I make my living, which is I everyday thanks God for that.  I am considering myself very lucky that I am available to do what I love and make my living off it.  Still even that I am a professional and I make my living off it, I still take golf as a sport.  I like to see -- take in that way. 
 

Q.  Your thoughts on the crowd?  Yesterday a huge crowd. Today it is going to be another one.  Are you amazed at the turnout here in Des Moines?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  I was told it was going to be like that before we came over.  So I was aware of that.  But even then, it is very nice to see that and that the USGA decide to bring the  tournament over here, which I think -- correct me if I am wrong -- it is the biggest golf event that they have in Iowa, I mean, in Des Moines, but it is very nice to see.  We also have some pride in ourself, not only because we make our living off it, as I said before, but also because we love when some people can come to watch us.  It make us feel really important. 
 

Q.  Did you get a chance to play the course yesterday and, if you did, what was your initial impression of the course and the greens particularly?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, the conditions are fantastic. I only played nine holes yesterday, and I think the conditions are very, very good.  The course is -- I only saw nine.  The nine I saw, the greens are very undulating.  But I think if they keep the pace that they have yesterday, I think it is going to be a very testing golf tournament. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  The front nine. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Yes. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, tough in a way to get through, but nice in a way that they are asking you to sign autograph. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Oh, yeah.  Yesterday, that is why it took us almost three hours.  (laughs). 
 

Q.  Your thoughts on Jack Nicklaus not being here and around old Palmer apparently trying to give it a go today?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, it is sad not to see them two good players, and I think the crowd will miss them.  We will miss them too. 
 

Q.  Could you explain again about your neck injury and when that started bothering you and which tournament what was?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  It was the last tournament of last year.  I mean, Tour Championship in Myrtle Beach. 
 

Q.  Who do you like in this tournament and do you think you can be there again on Sunday?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, I think there are a lot of good players playing good at the moment.  The defending champion like somebody said that it was out of the question this year and every time they ask me about Hale being a little bit slow start this year, I always said that middle of the year is going to be -- he was taking a rest and I think he is ready again.  Gil Morgan, Bruce Fleisher who has, I mean, a wonderful year so far, and Allen Doyle, also.  So there are a lot of good players. I would say 25 players that they are playing very good. 
 

Q.  Vicente, you said it would be sad to not have Jack Nicklaus here and possibly not even Arnold.  Have you played with Jack much over the course of your career?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  I didn't play much.  But I play enough to meet a real gentleman.  I mean, golf is a sport that  shows you what kind of person you are when you play golf.  Every time I play with him he showed what kind of person he is - a very nice person.  Also like Palmer, I play also with him and really always been a pleasure.  Just to be lucky to be playing with them is an honor for me. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  I hope so.  I have been striking the ball -- tell you what, I have been striking the ball the best ever the last four weeks.  I couldn't take the full advantage of that, but I hope -- maybe it was somebody up there in heaven that is saying, well, you have something waiting for you. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Thank you very much. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT