U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 1998
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I have to tell you that I have to go back a little bit because this gentleman just asked me, you lose and you still happy, you look happy.  Yes, because you know, life is not always winning tournaments.  Life also depends for a lot of small things that it can happen in your life.  Ten weeks ago I had my hip -- and the diagnosis was I may not play in golf anymore.  So for the first time yesterday, I felt much better and today even better than yesterday.  So that is the reason I am really happy.  I can play again competitive golf again and that is the reason why I am happy.  And it shows today because I enjoyed it and I play well. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, to start with, yesterday I hit a lot of fairways which is very important on this course, also today.  Yesterday I wasn't happy.  I didn't hit too many iron shots which is the strong part of my game, the irons, but today I had a lot of birdie chances, especially the first eleven holes and I didn't take as many.  But I make up 15 which I missed the green and 16 and 17, I make up for those early misses. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Not really.  I was on the 18 -- behind the 18th TV tower was taller -- it was about 12 to 14 feet.  I got a feeling he was going to hole it. 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, I saw his reaction. (smiles) 
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I birdied the 1st, drive and 2-iron just short of the green and chip about three and a half feet.  I made it.  Then I birdied the 5th, I hit a driver, 7-iron about seven feet.  Then bogeyed 6.  I didn't hit a good shot, just come short of the green, about three inches short of the green and I 3-putted from there.  Then I have birdied 11.  Driver, 4-iron and sand wedge.  I hole the putt from about 15 to 17 feet.  And then 16, 7-iron about eight feet, ten feet from the hole. 
 

Q.  When you started the day, you were five strokes behind Raymond Floyd, five strokes off the lead.  Did you think going into this round that you had a chance to win.
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Yeah.  You know, when I went to the range today, my caddie told me if the wind blows a little bit, even if you shoot 70, 71, you still have a chance to win.  But wind didn't blow today, so I thought I may need 67 to win.  I felt that I could do it.  I felt that I have to play my best to do it.  And I played -- honestly, I played the first eleven holes to go maybe 4- or 5-under and I didn't take that chances.  But, yes, I felt I could do it.  I mean, because if he didn't play his game, anything be happen. 
 

Q.  Could you speak a little bit about your hip, what the injury was to your hip, how you did it?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I was at home.  I went home after Charlotte for three weeks off.  I was watching TV.  The phone rang.  I woke up.  I hit my -- hit with a sharp, thick, heavy wooden table on my hip.  That caused -- apparently, that caused fluid in my joint which the Dr. Jerosa (phonetic) looked after me and said from one to three months to cure to dry out the fluid I have there.  Yesterday, just like that, I start feeling much better, walking more comfortable -- even that in these conditions, even walking on the fairways was tough. 
 

Q.  Which hip?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: My right hip. 
 

Q.  What would this have meant to your career if you had been able to get into a playoff and win?
 
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I think that will be -- I hope I have the opportunity to answer that next year and winning it.  At the moment, I just finished second. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT