SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2008
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Under par, final day at a Major. What was going through your mind?
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I was playing very well. Every day I started really bad. First day 2-over after 3. And I finish bogey, bogey. 
 Second day, 3-over after four, finish bogey, bogey. 
 Yesterday, I started par and then I finished bogey, bogey. 
 And then today I was playing very steady and I putted much better. And I think that's the result of the better score. 

 Q. Talk about your scoring opportunities today. You were 2-under, had a tough bogey and then you made great par on 18 to stay at 1-under. How well did you feel the scoring was for you out there today?
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I was 2-under after 10. And I hit a very good shot at 11. I hit a very good shot on 11. 
 And then on 14 I have another very good birdie chance. I didn't make any of those. 
 And then I 3-putted 15. 
 But 18 it was really tee shot bad. Because it's a very tough hole. I just missed the fairway by maybe 10 inches, maybe less than 10 inches and I don't have a shot. I have to lay up and I hit a good third shot and then that putt from left-to-right, downhill was really tough.

 Q. I could tell from your reaction a little bit. 
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, I could keep dancing all day after that putt. Yeah, I think that was one of the toughest putts is on 18 from left-to-right, downhill from left to right and I hit it good and it went in. 

 Q. Do you have a different strategy for today? A lot of people talked about just hitting fairways or just making some putts. Did you have any specific strategy for the day?
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, as I said before, I was striking the ball well the first two days, but it was cold. And I felt that I could play really well. I mean, on this golf course you cannot miss the shot. Because it's a bogey. 
 So I felt that I can do that. I can do that. Just I felt that I could do that and if I did, I would shoot 67, 66. Because I felt my putting was better today, so it was close. It was very close. 

 Q. Would you break down your two birdies on the front nine. How you thought everything played out. 
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Very steady. Very steady. As I say, hitting fairways, hitting greens, and I hit it really close on No. 2, about four or five feet and I made that one. 
 Then I missed the green on number 3 and I make a good bogey, because I just miss on the short side. 
 And then I make a good putt on number 5 from about 12 feet. 
 And then a few pars. 
 And I had a good opportunity then on 11. And 14. And then 3-putt the next. But overall, I hit it pretty good. But everybody miss some shots here. And when I did I made bogeys. 

 Q. Is this the first time playing Oak Hill?
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: First time, yeah.

 Q. What are your overall thoughts? I know the week was very up-and-down?
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Oh, it's a great golf course. It's a beautiful golf course. It's very demanding, I don't think it's the golf course played par 70. I think it played at least par 72. And it's very demanding. It's a great golf course. It's in great shape. And it's, even it's a battle every day to get around to shoot 72, 73, 74, you know. It's a challenge. Very demanding. But it's a challenge. You have to be doing well, striking the ball well here. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT