U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETE KOWALSKI: Vicente Fernandez, at 3-under for the championship. 

 Q.  Talk about the playing conditions out there this afternoon? 


VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, it was tough. It was tough. I think it was at least a couple of three-shot difference than yesterday. 



 I didn't play well today.  I wasn't sharp with my distance.  And if you are not really sharp with the distance, you're in trouble every hole.  But even then I am pleased with the score.  It wasn't too bad. 

 Q.  How about the greens?  Were the greens starting to get quicker? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Quicker and firmer. So it was tougher. 



 Plus, it was tough to get the right distance because it was gusting, which is more difficult to get the right club. 
 And it was very small targets that you have to hit it on to. 

 Q.  What sort of expectations or game plan did you come out here with today? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I was striking the ball well, so I was very pleased with my game. But as the day had gone on, went on, it got more difficult. The wind, I think it picked up a lot and it gusted a lot and it was tougher. 

 Q.  Were you surprised that you're still in this tournament with only a couple of shots back? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Not really. I'm playing well, so maybe surprised that somebody else, but no, not to me, because I been striking the ball well lately. So I'm not surprised, really. 

 Q.  As far as like Watson and Roberts, they haven't really took off and ran away from everybody. 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: No, it was tough. It was tough. Especially in the middle of the back nine it started blowing harder and then the greens were getting firmer and tougher to get close. 



 And especially to get the right distance it was really tough to get it close. 

 Q.  Speak to the difficulty on 17 and 18 in particular. 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, it was playing today at least four- or five-club difference than yesterday and gusting. So it was tough to hit it on the green. Hitting to the pin was easier the last two days; it was tough to hit it on the green today. 

 Q.  What did you hit on 17? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I tried to hit a low 3-iron to get just on the front edge, but I hit a little bit too high and it didn't get there. But I got very good up-and-down the last two holes. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about that up-and-down on 18 here. 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: It was a tough lie but a good shot. The ball was hooking and it went right, kicked right, sharp right, went into the rough and a very tough lie. And I hit a good second shot, but that's the best I could do. And I got, again, a tough lie, tough shot, but I hit it again pretty close and I got up-and-down. 

 Q.  What was the club you used for your third shot? 
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  A lob wedge. 

 Q.  How important is it to end around on a high note? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: It's very important. Especially the last four or five holes into the wind, it was tough, and to make pars -- it's a good score today to make pars on the last four or five holes. 

 Q.  We talked yesterday about fitness.  How much of a factor was it for you today? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: It was. Because I was a little bit tired today. But even then, the back nine I kept more energy, so when you're in contention, you get some energy somewhere. It happens. 

 Q.  Subjective judging of sports, they talk about degree of difficulty.  What degree of difficulty rating did it have today, compared to with the wind, compared to the previous set-ups? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I think it was at least two or three shots more difficult today, yeah. And I think that the scores show that. The score shows that, I think. 

 Q.  What do you think about your position? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I'm pleased. I know I have to play really well tomorrow and the guys ahead of me are not too far ahead so I hope on the back nine I can get close to them and have fun. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT