U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2007
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I guess it's here. 

 Q.  5-under par, you're the first of those guys that got it in the afternoon.  Much tougher? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I think so because the greens here was getting firmer and firmer and it was tough to control it. 



 But I play really well.  One bad shot on No. 17 cost me the only trouble, which was double bogey. 
 Other than that I played pretty steady, like I did yesterday.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and pretty happy with it. 

 Q.  11 putts on your back nine.  Is that indicative of your putting or ball striking? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: No, like, for example, one single putt from number 4 in, but it was just off the green, that far off the green on 4. 



 5 was about a 10-footer. 
 6, 8-footer. 
 7, 8-footer. 
 8, just off the green. 
 And 9, also, almost on the green. 
 I'm not complaining, but it wasn't that I holed many putts, I save many putts.  Maybe the longest one to save was probably number 8 for about maybe 6 feet.  No -- no, what was it?  Number 7, that was the longest. 
 And I have a lot of chance at the beginning where the greens were a little bit softer and I get closer. 

 Q.  You're in such good shape.  Is there another run at a Senior Open title for you yet? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, I would like to. I mean, I've been trying for a Major for eleven years, I'm still hoping for one. And it was elusive for me a few times. 



 Few times I finished second in the Majors, but I'm still hoping to get one. 

 Q.  Just go down that alley a little bit more.  Does fitness play a large part in how well you're able to play golf in your early 60s? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I think so, because I work out three times, four times a week and that's keep me fit, which is also -- it also allows me to enjoy practicing, and what I have to do to be competitive, you know? 



 So that's the whole thing together, and I am able to perform or compete. 

 Q.  How about just one question about your brother.  I know you obviously all share in Argentina's success when either one of you does well, what about Angel? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: It wasn't a surprise for me. It was just a matter of time. Even I thought he could have won a Major earlier, maybe four or five years ago, but now that he know what to do to win, I think he may win some more. Hopefully, he will win some more, because he has the potential to do it. 

 Q.  Did you learn anything from his victory?  Do you carry any inspiration for you into the weekend? 
  VICENTE FERNANDEZ: My inspiration has been all my career. My inspiration has been that I love the game and I tried to do -- to keep in good shape to be able to perform, to compete. 



 Yeah, I think that was the key, at least the key for me to be able to play this level at my age.  (Chuckles.) 

 Q.  Well done. 
 VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Thank you very much. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT