U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2003
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Congratulations on your round today, tell us what it was like to have this one over with?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, to begin with I was very pleased I could play.  I didn't think I could play until I hit the first shot because I have a spasm in my lower back and thanks to the guys in the trailer, I mean they did a great job to help me out, to go on and hit my first shot and then I walked in and started feeling better which helped me to get around because I thought, even after I hit my first shot I didn't think I could finish, so I'm very happy to finish, and then I play well.  When I start feeling better, I play better. 

Q.  Talk about that a little bit more, to come here; not only to come here but to play as well as you did.  You were at the top of the leader board or at the top for four rounds?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Well, I mean, it was very exciting, unfortunately just feeling better, could make me happier.  No matter.  I could have shot higher if feeling well, make it more enjoyable.  I was little bit struggling the first few holes, but very happy overall.

Q.  There is a lot of talk about this venue may be a venue for the U.S. Open in the future; can you see that; does this live up to that?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  No, doubt, this is very demanding, very challenging.  I guess the wind is always here, so that makes a lot of difference.  It's very demanding. 

Q.  Did you have fun, too?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  Oh, yes, that's the main thing.  I didn't have fun on the first few holes because I was struggling but otherwise I had a lot of fun.  When I started feeling better I had fun.  It doesn't have nothing to do with the score; just with the way I felt.

Q.  Considering your expectations at the start of the week where are you right now?  Is this about where you expected to be or did you play better than you expected?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ:  No, I played well.  The only thing was that being the position I was in today, it was a pity that I didn't have the opportunity to feel well to go to try because at the beginning I was only trying to finish the round.  At the beginning of the week -- well, I expect to play well.  I never considered myself that good to be unhappy finishing third.  But I think I'm happy, especially the way I strike the ball. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT