U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2003
Vicente Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RAND JERRIS:  It's a pleasure to be joined in the interview area by Vincente Fernandez.  Vincente, a fine round of even par 71 today has you at 5-under par 208 after three rounds; maybe you can start off with some general comments about the playing conditions out of there and your play.
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Well, I think the playing conditions was about the same as it was yesterday.  And I didn't play the way I played yesterday; I missed a lot of fairways, and I was struggling at the beginning to make pars. 
So when you can hit fairways in this case it is very tough which I did for a long time today up to the 8th hole.  From there on I hit three or four very good shots and I make four birdies which is overall the score much better than the way I played.

Q.  You struggled a bit through the first seven holes and then your third shot on 8 really seemed to turn things around for you?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: That's right, I started hitting -- from then on I started hitting more fairways and more greens.  The holes that I hit the fairways, then my second shot I hit it really close and then I get those birdies.

Q.  Could you take a moment and walk us through your card, please?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Sure.  On the first hole I hit 2-iron, a 9-iron and I missed the green just to have green on the right and almost made it.  I putted up and almost made it. 
And then on the 2nd hole I hit a good tee shot but a very bad second shot with a 7-iron.  I put it into the bunker.  I have no chance to get out.  I get it on the green but far away and I 2-putted for bogey. 
Two putts on No. 3. 
And then on 4 again I hit my driver into the cross bunker.  And then I have to chip it out and make 5. 
Then on No.  5 again I hit a good driver but I hit a pulled second shot; the wind I thought was straight into us and it was coming from the right.  I missed a little left and I get a very good up-and-down.
Then on 6 I hit it in the bunker on the right-hand side and I get another very good-up-and-down there.
On 7 I pulled my driver in the rough on the left and I hit it just on the edge of the green and then 3-putted from there. 
And then on No. 8 I pulled my driver into the rough and then I chip it out and I hit a good 8-iron maybe about a foot from the hole. 
9, two good shots:  A driver, 9-iron about two and a half feet from the hole. 
10, two good shots with a pitching wedge; the second shot about maybe eight, ten feet from the hole; 2-putted. 
11, I hit two good shots about a foot and a half from the hole with a pitching wedge. 
And then on 12 I have two good shots because I was way left from the pin and 2-putted from there. 
13, I pulled my tee shot so I couldn't go for the green.  And then I chip it out.  Hit it on the green.  2-putt for par. 
And on 16 I pushed my driver into the right-hand side rough and then it just missed the green right but a very bad lie and I get it up-and-down there. 
17, I hit a 3-wood, 7-iron on the green and then 3-putted. 
18, 2-iron, lob wedge and I hit about two and a half feet for birdie. 
RAND JERRIS:  Thank you.  Some questions out here?
Q.  What's it going to take to catch Bruce?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: I don't know.  It depends on the weather and it depends how we play.  Because as I said before, this is a golf course that you can -- I mean slip away very easily.  If you miss a couple of fairways, if you don't have a good lie, then it becomes very difficult to hit it on the greens.  If you miss the greens recovery is very tough. 
So I don't have no idea.  I will see tomorrow.  I cannot anticipate at all especially on a course so tough like this one.

Q.  Coming in this morning with the lead do you feel like you lost an opportunity to take control of this event today?
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Not really, not really because I mean Bruce shoots 64.  So I wasn't kind of like I lost it; he got it more than anything else.  I played with Tom Watson and he played beautiful and he didn't make any putts because if he makes some putts he could shoot 66 again like he did on the first day.  But he had so many lip out.  He hit good putts but they never went in.  So he played really well, and I think it is going to be a good finish tomorrow.
RAND JERRIS:  Any other questions? Vicente, thank you for your time. We wish you luck tomorrow.
VICENTE FERNANDEZ: Thank you.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT