BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 11, 2013
David Marrero
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MARRERO‑VERDASCO/Bryan‑Bryan
  7‑5, 6‑7, 10‑7 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was obvious on court that this means a lot to both of you emotionally.   Could you talk a little bit about what it means to you in terms of your career.   Last year you won all on clay.   This year two indoors.   Fernando, you've been having a little bit of a hard time with singles.   What has the doubles success meant to you?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Like I said in the ceremony, it was a special victory, first is because the Masters.   No matter if it's in singles or doubles, is with the Grand Slams, the best that you can win, the best tournament you can fight and win.   
We've been fighting two years.   Last year no same way as this year because when we start playing last year, we didn't start thinking about making it to the Masters.   But winning four tournaments in clay and being top 10, without playing just one Grand Slam, of course we start thinking about it, to make it to the finals, but we didn't do it last year at the end.   
Then this year the mentality was different.   I start playing the Grand Slams.   The only one we didn't play was Wimbledon.   At the end we did it.   
Of course, when you fight for something for so long and you come here and you're in the finals and you are against the Bryan brothers and you have the chance to win, also win in the super tiebreak that is tight and pressure, and you know they won every match in the super tiebreaks, and we didn't even play once.   We won or we lost, but only in two sets.   
Of course, it was unbelievably great for us, like a dream.   We enjoyed so much.   
For me particularly in singles I been already the last two years around 24 to 30 in the world.   You know, like I always try, of course, to be as I was in 2009 and 2010, top 10, but is not easy with the players there are right now.   
I tried my best and I will keep trying my best next year.   Hopefully is going to be better in singles.   I will be able to go up in the rankings, try to fight to be a top 10 again in my career.   In doubles, just keep playing the same way we played this week and for sure we're going to reach many good results.   
   
 Q.   Fernando, the forehand in the second set, 117 miles an hour.   Was that the hardest one you've ever hit in a match?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, I don't know exactly the miles that I have been making during my whole career.   But I'm pretty sure that is one of the fastest.   Yeah, I mean, it was a great shot.   I hit it perfect.   
I've been hitting the ball so well the whole week, practicing, playing matches.   But, of course, having in doubles one ball in that perfect position and being able to hit it that hard is not easy because the game is so fast and normally the balls come low, no?   It is not possible to hit that hard.   
But, yeah, I'm happy of the way I hit that ball.   But, of course, nothing compares to finally winning the tournament.   That was the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   How are you going to celebrate?   How will you prepare in the off‑season after you take a break?   How are you going to balance the singles and doubles preparation during the off‑season?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Celebrate, we're going to go I think to the Spanish restaurant in South Kensington to enjoy with our family members and friends right after maybe the finals of Rafa.   We want to see it.   
Then, of course, we are going to go out and celebrate, no?   Maybe not till 7 in the morning, but, of course, we are going to go out and celebrate for a little bit.   You don't win one tournament like this every day.   
For me in my experience, I think that now that I'm almost 30, I'm going to make 30 next Friday, you know, you enjoy and you really know how difficult is to win one tournament like this, even in singles or doubles.   
I am really going to try to enjoy it.   Even more, having holidays right now right after.   So I think that we are going to just having the best holidays ever.   I think it's the best way to go on holidays.   
Then try to work hard for next season to be competitive and try to fight for the big tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT