NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Nick Megaludis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Nick Megaludis back in the finals, sophomore, 29‑3 on the year, just beat Alan Waters of Missouri.   
   
 Q.   Nick, all the way to the finals and this is a big win for your team?  
NICK MEGALUDIS:   Yeah, I mean, every match counts.   Now, hopefully we can get the two guys on board and keep winning.   They are the ones that score our team points.   
   
 Q.   You had the advantage there with your conditioning?   
NICK MEGALUDIS:   Yeah, definitely.   It was hard to work it.   The dude is good at slowing people down.   And, you know, I hate to say it, but I did.   I slowed down.   
He made me pace his match, but he wasn't getting as tired as I wanted him to.   That's something I've got to learn.   It's good to have a match that I'm not too happy about heading into tomorrow and hopefully it's just‑‑ you know, I would rather win 10‑9 or 10‑8 and put a lot of points on the board.   Not saying I want to give up a lot, but it's sometimes better to score more than win 1‑1.   
   
 Q.   Nick, after last night's match you were unhappy with yourself about how much riding time you gave up‑‑ I'm sorry, had trouble escaping the bottom in the third period.   Was that going through your head, where you made that escape there?   
NICK MEGALUDIS:   Yeah, I mean, I definitely‑‑ I really went out when I started down.   
I knew that it was going to come down to riding, because he's good on top.   I just knew I needed to use my bottom skills and not let him ride me and pretty much used my attitude, that's what bottom is.   
   
 Q.   What is your attitude going into some night's finals versus a year ago when you were a 10th seed and you're facing a guy that you pinned in Februarywhose whole season changed after that match?   How different of a wrestler is he?   
NICK MEGALUDIS:   I don't think he's any different.   He just wrestled a better match than me last week.   He was better than me that day.   That was one day, one week, and this is a different match.   I have to be offensive, but be aware of his quickness, but I need to get after it, you know?   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK MEGALUDIS:   Last year I expected to get in the finals, but this year I just really, really, really expect it, I guess.   I guess it's because I've been here already, you know, been at this stage, you know.   It's like every kid in here they want to win it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations.   Good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT