NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 6, 2019
Justin Turner
Russell Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dodgers - 10, Nationals - 4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Russell, it looked like a pretty good slider that you hit after you got behind on the plate for the go-ahead double. And just how about Ryu, especially after the first inning, how he kept you guys in the game and was it pretty typical of him in those innings?  
RUSSELL MARTIN: You want me to go over the at-bat first? Okay. He got ahead early, Corbin, got to see the slider first pitch. Threw a really good one, got down 0-1. I don't remember what the second pitch was, but I know I got down 0-2. And then I just remember in the back of my mind, we had a meeting and we went over Corbin. And with two strikes guys in scoring positions he doesn't really throw many strikes, he's going to try and make you chase a little bit. And I got to see kind of where the ball started, like the ball slider started. And the more pitches I saw the more I felt comfortable. And I had some pretty easy takes, got back in the count, and then he just left a breaking ball a little bit up. And didn't try to do too much and put a nice swing on it and scored some runs.   
 Q.  And then Ryu?  
RUSSELL MARTIN: Ryu, I mean Soto hit a mistake. Ryu doesn't really make too many, doesn't really throw too many pitches away from where he's trying to throw it. That was a fastball supposed to be in, pulled it across a little bit, and Soto didn't miss it. He's red hot up there across the zone. But for the rest of the game he just kept throwing strikes. Didn't necessarily have his best stuff, best command, but he throws strikes, keeps guys on their heels. He can mix speeds and mix locations, and our defense made some nice plays and he kept us in the game.   
 Q.  For both of you. Just the idea of a seven-run 6th inning like that and to be able to take control of the game, but also in what Russell was saying with Corbin, what's the key to kind of waiting him out, because he's not going to throw a whole lot of strikes.  
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, I thought we did a great job and it started with Belli. He hasn't had much success in the first two games, and he's in there grinding, trying to get locked in and he wants to be that MVP guy for us that he's been all year. And that at-bat kind of unlocked him. He got down 0-2 and then took some tough pitches, got the 3-2 count, fouled off a couple more tough pitches and found a way to get on there. And it just seemed like that kind of got the ball rolling. The whole inning, two-strike hits, I think every guy was down 0-2 at one point that came through and got a hit. So just the grind of the AB's, that inning was really nice to see and I thought we took really good at-bats from that point on the rest of the game.   
 Q.  It's been 10 years since you were last in a Dodger uniform in the postseason. What does this mean to you to be able to come through in this kind of a spot?  
RUSSELL MARTIN: Any time you're in the postseason it's great. The energy, everything's magnified. Yeah, it's just, 10 years, it flies by. It's just nice, it's a good feeling, we got a good group, and, yeah, I mean, I don't know what else to say except we're having fun.   
 Q.  You and Ryu developed the chemistry that you have, what were some of the things that you voiced to him when you first started working with him about what he should do and have you ever worked with a pitcher that kind of reminds you of him?  
RUSSELL MARTIN: The thing about Ryu is he's really well prepared. He studies the hitters and before every single start that he has he knows exactly how he wants to attack guys. He knows what he wants to do pitchers first pitch, he knows if he falls behind what he wants to do. He's really good at staying away from the middle part of the plate and that's what he does. He doesn't shy away, he doesn't really walk many guys. Today he didn't really necessarily have his best stuff, but normally he's always making close pitches, just working off the edges, and just making hitters fight for every single pitch and that's really what makes him who he is. And he puts the changeup on both side of the plate when he wants to, he can cut down and away, up and in, so he's making you fight on pitches, going different directions and different zones and it's really hard to cover. If you're trying to cover up and in and down and away with different pitches, it makes your job really, really hard at the plate and that's really what he does.   
 Q.  Justin, can you talk a little bit about just the fact that you're facing, you guys are facing Scherzer tomorrow, their season's on the line and what it would mean for you guys to wrap this thing up on the road.  
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, obviously we know we got our hands full with him, another one of their three horses and we'll enjoy this one tonight and then show up tomorrow and game plan and try to make him work for every single out he gets tomorrow night just like we have done all year long. And we show up with the mentality that we want to win one game that day every single day, that's how we have gone about it all year long and it's easy to talk about that and I've been on teams that talk about that, it's hard to actually do it and this team's really good about showing up and putting it all on the line and figuring out how to win one game at a time and that's how we'll go about it tomorrow.   
 Q.  The last time you homered for the Dodgers in a postseason game Manny homered in that game and Loney also homered in that game.  
RUSSELL MARTIN: Chicago.   
 Q.  Yeah, just wondering how much, how different again when it comes to like nerves and stuff and you taking the field, how different are you now than you were the kid back then?  
RUSSELL MARTIN: Oh, that's such a long time ago. A lot of foul tips ago. I don't know if I can remember. I'm definitely calmer now. I've always been an intense baseball player and just person in general, but I think now I just know how to take a deep breath. I had a lot of yoga classes in between those games and now.   
 Q.  When you got the two strikes there in that 6th inning what was your mindset it there; and then for Justin, did you kind of feel that that was kind of the opening of the flood gates there? I know it was kind of an offense obviously it's been kind of tough the first two games.  
RUSSELL MARTIN: I mean, after I got down two strikes I don't know it wasn't a good feeling, you know what I mean? Who likes being down 0-2? Nobody. I just pitch by pitch just kept fighting, was able to lay off some tough pitches, and I felt like every pitch the more I got deep into the at-bat the better I felt. And he just left a slider that was just, it's not working away from me, he's a lefty so it's working its way into me and I just kept my hand in and just lifted it and found an alley.   
 Q.  Justin, what about opening the flood gates?  
JUSTIN TURNER: It started with Bellinger and the good at-bat and then Freezer goes up and shoots the four hole, hits through the shift and we get first and third. Belli does a great job running the bases getting to third base. And then Russ comes up and gets down 0-2 and takes the big swing. And I felt like it took a lot of pressure off of guys and then it was quality at-bat after quality at-bat after that and next thing we know there's seven runs on the board. So offense is definitely contagious and I think we all caught it that inning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT