WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 9, 2009
Russell Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is this another kind of surreal moment? Were you in shock of what happened?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: This is a tough loss. We never really had a lead, never really had an opportunity to, you know, get that big inning. 
 And they just, they hung in there tough. They made some good pitches. Got to give credit to the opposing team. I mean, they swung the bats well today. They made some nice plays on defense. We just didn't come through though.

 Q. Do you think, I mean, from seeing Perkins, if he made that play, the first play of the game might have settled him down a little more, and he would have been able to get through that easier?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: I mean, you can probably look at a lot of things. I'm sure he would want to make that first play, but it's probably not the first time he's made a mistake, probably not the last time. He's been through that before. And, you know, he is a professional. And he just gave his best effort and didn't just quite have his best stuff today.

 Q. Remember how you felt when you lost in the playoffs last year, and how it compares to losing here for Team Canada?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: Both feelings I wish I could forget. But, you know, the game's over. We got beat fair and square, and I got nothing else to say. We just got beat.

 Q. (Indiscernible) to lose tonight, is there any sense of embarrassment?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: It's tough to lose at home, especially when you got all of your fans supporting you and the whole country's watching. There is no doubt, it's a tough loss. 
 You know, U.S.A. is definitely a better team than Italy, and we played a better game against them. And, you know, today we just didn't have it.

 Q. Did you think there might be fewer people here tonight?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: Wasn't really thinking about it. You know, wasn't as big a game as against the U.S.A., so I was expecting a lesser crowd. 

 Q. Ernie say anything to the guys or (indiscernible)?
 RUSSELL MARTIN: Ernie took the time to go to each guy just to wish them good luck, and that's it, you know. Not much else you can say when you are feeling the way we're feeling in there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT