ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2011
Geoffrey Mutai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How does it feel to have run the fastest time in the world and still not be called a world marathon record holder? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: For me, what I can say, I'm happy to be like to run faster, but although it was not organized, I'm happy too because it gives me another chance to attempt. So I have another chance. I cannot say that was the end of me and my career to run. 
 For me, I was not expecting it, but I was still fighting again to run more faster.

 Q. But I think you will not do it again in Boston. You will try it again on a flat course? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yeah, for sure, I'll try on a flat course.

 Q. You are saying because you're not the world record holder, that gives you a push to run faster? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yeah, it gives me a chance and a reason to do other things.

 Q. Does that mean you will not return to set your Boston title and perhaps run somewhere else in the spring? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: For now I don't know where I will go. Maybe I will know after New York.

 Q. What was your first race that you ever did?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: What? 

 Q. What was your first race?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: In the marathon? 

 Q. No, just your first race as a kid?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: As a kid? In Kenya, I ran many races in Kenya.

 Q. Do you remember your first one? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: It was in school. It was a school competition, so I was doing all the competition in school.

 Q. How did you do? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: For me I was in juniors, and I performed up to nationals where I was going to be a world junior, but I was not having identification, a birth certificate, so I left.

 Q. After Boston, you ran some fast, shorter races, and then we haven't seen you for a while?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yep.

 Q. Where have you been? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: I was in Kenya, I was doing my training. I was focusing to this race.

 Q. So have you been healthy the whole time? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yes, I was.

 Q. Did your training change in preparation from Boston to preparation of New York? Did you do something new or was it basically the same? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: No, no, I never changed anything. I normally was my own program.

 Q. So you train on your own or do you train in a group? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: I have my own group.

 Q. How many runners are in this group? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Almost like 60.

 Q. 60 runners? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yeah, because my performance, you see the guys which were together, the guys which were running. I ran 2:05, so I was training with those guys.

 Q. So you're your own coach? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yes.

 Q. It's a difficult thing to be your own coach and running the way you do? It seems like a great thing?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: You know, it's good, because I know how much I'm training. I know how to control myself, I know to control myself alone without a coach. I don't know how to be coached.

 Q. This is your first New York Marathon. Do you know much about the course? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: For me, I don't know much, but I have watched the New York Marathon all the time. My target was to run this race all my life.

 Q. It's a dream to run this race? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yeah, yeah.

 Q. Do you have a clear understanding of what it will take to be selected to the Kenyan Olympic marathon team? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: No, I don't know anything. For me, I just came here to fight myself. 
 So those other things, maybe they'll come later after New York.

 Q. So the Kenyan Federation has not said if you run such and such time, then we'll pick you, or do you hear from them at all? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: No, no, I have not heard anything about the time. That was, for me, I cannot force myself to be on the team. I'll try my best to run in New York.

 Q. How do you consider -- I mean, we know already why the record was not legalized, et cetera, et cetera. But it seems for somebody who is not really technical, it seems Boston is the toughest course, maybe New York will be the second. So what do you think? Do you think that the time you did is really as we consider like a moral record to do? To do it in Boston, it seems like it's nothing flat?
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: To me, all I can say is it's difficult. But the first thing they must consider is even though this race is run faster, and we don't have pace makers, that is another thing. In Boston it was for two kilometers, we don't have pace makers, and then we run faster. And it seems that we were not running for the 2 kilometer. 
 So it gives us a challenge because they must say you must run in this.

 Q. Did you know before you ran Boston that you couldn't run a record there, only a course record? Did you know that it was not eligible for being a world record course? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: When I finished I was thinking maybe I have the world record, but later I heard that it was not organized -- it cannot be recognized.

 Q. So before you didn't know? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: I didn't know. So it's good when athletes who want to run, they must say this course cannot be run for a world record. So when you're running, you know in your mind, if you win, you run faster, and you know it in your mind, not later after running. Yeah, that's good to know.

 Q. So in your mind, you are the world record holder? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: I'm still fighting to be.

 Q. You are still fighting to be? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: Yeah.

 Q. In a race with no pace makers, how does that affect your strategy? 
 GEOFFREY MUTAI: It's not easy, because everyone is with each other. And everyone is -- together we not cooperate, we cannot run any time. But if we cooperate, I know we can run even faster. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT