ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 22, 2020
Stafanie Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Indies - 80/3, Thailand - 78/9
Q. Stafanie, how is Shakera, and is the knock she took in the warmup game one of the reasons why she wasn't playing today?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Shakera is fine. We have her still under observation. She's been bowling and stuff a lot, but yeah, other than that, she's fine.
Q. Today with the bat at that stage where you were three wickets down, maybe almost four wickets down, in your mind do you think that you have enough backing depth to counter those kind of situations against other teams?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, we do have the batting there, no doubt about that. I think today is definitely tricky. We played against Thailand. We have never played them before, so it's more like you have to spend time at the crease and get used to their bowlers, which I don't think we did that properly. But yeah, it's something that we go back to the drawing board and look at going forward.
Q. Stafanie, it was probably most people's first chance to have a look at Thailand. What did you make of them, because they certainly probably gave you some nervous moments.
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, it was a bit of a nervous moment. I think they're really good bowlers. I reckon in a few years' time, they'll definitely give teams challenges. Yeah, and I'm really pleased that we get to go over that hurdle today. Yeah, it wasn't great being at the non-strike and seeing wickets falling, so I'm really happy. I can smile now.
Q. You talk about in a few years' time. Do you think they could upset a team in this World Cup?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I think the way they're playing, their bowling attack could definitely cause some trouble. I think they play consistently, bowl consistently. Yeah, I think they might cause an upset or give teams a scare or scares, yeah.
Q. Of course with the West Indies they've improved a lot over the last two ICC women's championship cycles, and part of the reason has been the ICC women's championship, that you get more games. Considering that, how important do you think it is that the women's championship cycle expands beyond eight teams so other teams also can improve with more games, and do you think there's a case for a similar championship cycle in T20?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Possibly. I don't think it would hurt to see having a T20 championship. You can see how it has improved teams in the 50-over game, and definitely teams want to improve in the T20, as well. A lot of -- you see a lot more competitions coming around. You have IPL and Kia Super League now turned into a hundred. So yeah, I wouldn't mind seeing something like that so other teams could improve in that year, as well.
Q. You could easily have been 27 for 4 today were it not for the decision review system. Have you talked as a team about the best way to use that because obviously it's not been used very much in women's cricket, and was it quite apparent to you that you wanted that decision reviewed today?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: That was tricky, to be honest, because even myself don't really understand the review system, and yeah, we talk as a team about trying -- when you're backing up on a non-striker and try and stay as close to the wicket and have a better angle as a better view to help your partner out. But somehow I didn't see because -- I didn't see what happened really, and I was talking to Campbelle, and she was like telling me, Skip, I think we should go for it, and I said, if you're positive, then yeah, go for it, and she got the better of it.
Q. Staying with that question on the use of the DRS, are there processes in place back home which helps you perhaps practice the way you would utilise such systems in world tournaments?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: No, I don't think so. No.
Q. The franchise tournament that you had in December, which was something that has given you a few more players option, Lee-Ann Kirby came out through that tournament is coming to your side now, how important do you think is having these kind of almost semi-private T20 tournaments and maybe in the future expanding them with foreign players, as well, as preparation for world tournaments?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, it's very much important. It was really nice to have a franchise back home. We talk about expanding it. So even having foreign players, not even just for the one in Trinidad, but we had a mini CPL for women, and we talk about trying to expand that and have international players coming and boosting it just like other T20 tournaments around the world. It's going to be a bit slow, but once it gets going, I think it would definitely expand, and having more international integrating with the people in the Caribbean, you get the crowds to come out and support and grow the cricket, not just international but for us in the Caribbean.
Q. India have been fairly slow with their introduction of women's IPL, as well. Do you see an opportunity for the West Indies to become the third league essentially to expand with the women's tournament rather than the IPL?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, I'm not sure the IPL side of it, but I know for the T20 back home, there's talk about it, and just like IPL, there's a trial and stuff. It's pretty much the same that we did, and there are talks that they want to improve it and are going to improve it, so I reckon going forward it's going to get better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT