ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 22, 2018
Stafanie Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 142/5, West Indies - 71/all-out
Q. Do you think the team read the conditions wrong?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: No.  I'm not sure.
Q. Where would you say the match was lost?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I think the first half, probably in the last six they got too much runs, and we just -- I just believe we didn't bat well.  We just didn't bat well.
Q. You were the defending champions,how would you assess the West Indies performance?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Our performance was fantastic.  Our bowling, have ever seen such bowling.  And the fielding was really good.  I haven't seen anything like it.  So I thought our own performance was good.  Just today we were a bit off in the batting.
Q. Your bowling yourself, you developed a few pace variations in the last few months over the last year -- you've developed some pace variations in your bowling in the last year?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: We developed --
Q. You yourself, have you developed some pace variations in your bowling, base variations in your bowling?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I'm not -- oh, sorry.  Yes, I've been working really hard in variation, especially to right- and left-handers.  Seeing that the pitch was a little bit slow today, it was really good for variations, the variations that were coming.
Q. And considering the pitch was slow, do you think you missed a trick not having any (indiscernible) in the 11?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I know that question was coming.  We thought our team was the best team.  And we didn't believe in changing the team.  Yeah, it's a could have -- it didn't happen.  But at the end of the day we just believe that the team that we put out was the best team.
Q. What's your message to the fans who have turned up over the entire tournament?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: You know, I would like to thank the guys for coming out in Guyana and St. Lucia and here.  I thought that was fantastic coming out and supporting women's cricket.  It's the first time we've ever gotten this big crowd and I just want to thank everybody for coming out.
Q. Why in your opinion with the batting that it never came up really for the whole tournament?  It was just a couple of individual scores there, but it really didn't find anybody, the top six in your opinion why it didn't come off?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: In my opinion, I just believe that we didn't give ourselves a chance.  Spent some time at the wicket.  I believe that this wicket was the -- a great opportunity to do that, spend some time on the wicket; it was a bit slow.  But I find that in the second half I find the ball was coming out a bit better.  So I believe if we spent time on the wicket it would have been different.
Q. And was there any reason that Dottin didn't bowl the 17th over?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: No, there's no reason.
Q. Despite losing the tournament, what are some of the positives that you would take from the tournament?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, the crowd support was good.  I thought that we've come a long way.  I don't think anyone expected us to come this far and that's a big plus.  I thought we played some good game of cricket.
Q. What is next for West Indies cricket team?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: We have a few tours coming up next year and then you have World T20 in Australia.  So that's something to look forward to.
Q. You had two very senior players on the bench today.  Is this the end of the road for them?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: No, I don't believe so.
Q. I know you were part of Mothers and Daughters programme, several of the outreach programmes for this tournament.  What would be your message to young ladies in the West Indies who have seen you play now with their cheering?  Before they were silent, they didn't know what women's cricket was about.  What's your message for the ladies in the West Indies now as they look on and see the overwhelming success of the tournament?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Seeing that the game was exciting, I encourage young girls to come out.  I'm sure there was -- there's been a lot of young girls who came out this evening to watch our game.  We need more young girls coming through.  So if you're out there playing, just come out and punch in and play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT