ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 2, 2018
Stafanie Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I interviewed a few of the members of the team a month ago. So one thing that stood out to me was the focus and determination. Would you say that is going right through the sport?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Oh, yeah, definitely. You know playing at home with the pressure, the expectation, I think having that focus is very much important. And we definitely as a group want to stay focused and have that determination.
Q. How is the squad looking?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: The squad is looking really good. We had a camp for the last five months back and forth, in and out. I think one thing that stood out for me is how improved the fitness was -- I thought that was really good. It's been tremendous. And looking at even last night's game, it showed as well.
Q. And you seem to me that you've been building up for this over the last two years since your last success. How much would it mean to the ladies to lift the trophy on home soil?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I think for any team winning at home is a big deal.
You always want to win with the support of your fans, your families, coming to see you. And I think for us it's a great deal and to win -- to regain the title here and not just that, but the first-ever stand-alone T20, that would be history. We definitely would want to create history again.
Q. The main opposition that you see at the moment?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Sorry?
Q. The main opposition that you see at the moment?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, we don't have anyone as the main opposition. I think everyone here is here to compete and they want that silverware. And we're going to take every game step by step and every game serious. Not going to take anyone for granted.
Q. The mood (indiscernible) was excellent. What did it mean playing in front of that kind of crowd?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, one of the players actually said to me, it's the first she's ever played in front of a crowd like that. So I think that was fantastic. It was good to see people come out and support, even though it was their independence and a food fest [phonetic]. But it was good to see that people stayed back and watched the game. And that's what we want for the upcoming tournament. Would love to see more of that.
Q. Do you think it's a sign of how the game has grown in the West Indies as well to see that kind of crowd and that kind of support?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, I said that women's cricket is evolving and people knowing more and more about women's cricket, even when driving around on the road people will be like Britney Cooper or Hayley Matthews, and it's good that people are recognizing we as female cricketeers.
Q. What does it mean for pressure?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Pressure is how you perceive it. Everyone is different. Everyone takes pressure a different way. I think for me like I just go about my business-like it's nobody's really -- everyone is different and we really don't want to have that high expectations over our head because we're here to play cricket. And we really want to focus on that by playing each game at a time.
Q. You pulled this out of the bag last night. You didn't bat, Merissa didn't bat and Deandra, she batted a few innings and won the game. Can we expect more of that in the tournament, that Deandra will win the games and you wouldn't have to bat?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, I would love that to happen. We know what Deandra can do. And even -- she wasn't batting in the middle, but she showed some level of maturity last night where she batted through the innings and see us home. And I think that's what I would love to see more not just from Deandra but see more from other girls.
Q. Will we see her opening the tournament, or are you not going to commit to that?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: No, I won't commit to that as yet.
Q. Do you see anyone else, say, coming out and making 100?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, I do. I believe Hayley Matthews and Deandra might pull one off.
Q. The DRS, how are you guys preparing for the system? Do you have some experience using DRS during a game?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: We haven't had much experience with the DRS system, but I have said to previous workup that we had, if we could maybe stand closer to the stumps where it gives us an idea for LBW, especially, we could relay some message if that comes along. But from a feelings perspective, it would be collective. So as a bowler myself, and even Merissa, we keep maybe collectively deciding whether or not we decide.
Q. Coach Springer has been saying that fitness has been a major improvement and that's what's led to the amazing improvement in performances. Do you agree with that, that fitness levels are really getting better and that's leading to more confidence and more progress among some of the other players in your ranks?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely. The way we went about fitness, I think in about two of the camps we're focused on fitness and it has improved, and I can see where players' concentration has gotten better. And I believe that's a contribution, their fitness is concerned and skill level, too. I think players have really tried to improvise because that's where T20 is going where improvization is coming.
Q. Want to ask you a bit about Afy Fletcher. We've seen the men's game, spinners are the trump card. And two years ago when you won, she really didn't get into the starting 11. Now, two years later, she's key to your bowling as you saw last night. Tell us a little bit about her, how she's really made that leap from a fringe player to a key player?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Well, I knew from way before that Afy is an asset. And I believe with, like, a spinner is an asset to any team. And I've seen the way how she has progressed throughout the years has passed she has improved and keep improving and doing so well and, yes, she's definitely a trump card for me. Someone I love having around.
I would speak to -- I feel a lot about her game and I would tell her to speak to the bowling coach because he's very knowledgeable when it comes down to bowling, get inside his head. If you don't understand anything about field placement, ask him and you definitely will get the answer you need from him.
Q. And a lot of legends attending the tournament. Yesterday, joining the U.S. West Indies wave. And you've got in your camp huge experience, legend of the industry, Gus Logie, what has he meant to you?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: Gus is very special. He's motivational. He's always coming up with some quotes and even reading his book is really inspiring. He's one of those -- he's a coach that when it comes down to numbers, he's very good at that. And I think he has helped a lot of the players to calculate and know where you are at at a certain position and where you should be. So he's very good when it comes down to that.
Q. We saw what the ODI World Cup did for cricket and England and Wales last year. What do you think it can deliver for women's cricket in the Caribbean?
STAFANIE TAYLOR: I believe the same. People here in the Caribbean are very passionate about cricket. And I do believe that people will come out and support.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT