AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ROYALS v ORIOLES
October 14, 2014
Miguel Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You haven't pitched in a while.   How much of a challenge is that going out after about 16 days?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   It's been two weeks, but I've been preparing myself to stay focused and I've had a couple of bullpens and a live BP.   So I'm excited.   I'm excited to go out there and give my team a chance to win a ballgame. 

Q.   You've always pitched so well on a bigger stage.   Do you feel any more pressure with you guys being down 2‑0 and obviously the potential, depending on tonight, to be down three games?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   We've still got to play our game, no matter what.   We've been playing good, just a little ‑‑ at times we had some rough base hits off of us.   And those two games were tough to swallow. 
But we're in a good position.   We're going to try to do as much as we've been doing the whole season.

Q.   When was the last time you actually did throw or it was a live BP, and what was that process like?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   It was Monday, last Monday.   So I mean, I went out there and threw three innings, 50 pitches, felt good.   And then I threw a bullpen two days ago.   I'm pretty much ready to go. 

Q.   You and Vargas hooked up with two really good games.   Are you aware of the two games that you matched up against last year?   He got you 3‑0, you got him 3‑2.   What do you remember about those?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   Yeah, of course.   He's going to challenge our hitters, and I'm going to do the same thing against them.   All we've got to do is just try to give our team a chance to win a ballgame and do the fundamentals.   I think I feel good about myself right now.   I'm going to try to do as best as possible to give our team a chance to win the ballgame. 

Q.   You pitched really well down the stretch this year, really good numbers after the All‑Star break.   What do you think was the key to the way you pitched?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   Confidence.   I moved towards the middle of the pitcher's plate and I felt a lot more comfortable there.   I worked out, my first couple of games out of the season weren't great, but I felt a lot better the second half.

Q.   How much do you remember that game you pitched against the Yankees in the playoffs two years ago?   How much do you think that experience kind of helps you going into tomorrow?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   Yeah, 2012, it was a great game.   It went 7 innings, gave up one run.   And I felt good coming out of that game.   But fortunately ‑‑ unfortunately, we didn't win that game. 
But it's definitely exciting again to be in this position and be able to play in the ALCS.   I'm excited to go. 

Q.   Chen mentioned it's tough for him sometimes to stay in his rhythm when there's a Royals' baserunner on that's a threat to steal.   How do you stay in your rhythm if you're facing batters tomorrow like Jarrod Dyson or Terrance Gore on first base?
MIGUEL GONZALEZ:   I've got to keep doing what I'm doing.   I've got to keep changing speeds and my timing, as well, when there's runners on.   I think that's really important.   But I'm not going to try to do anything different than what I've been doing the whole year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT