THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Give us a quick overview of your round today.  Obviously you backed up a 67 with another 67.  
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, I've been playing really good the last two days.  I had, I was driving very well.  The bunker shots, everything when I was in trouble I made up-and-downs.  I'm feeling well.  And overall, my game was pretty solid the last two days and I'm pretty happy with the position I am right now at THE PLAYERS on a Friday afternoon and we'll see what happens the next couple days.   
 Q.  This is a course that obviously you've been in contention in before and played well the few times here in the past.  How comfortable are you at this course?  Why does it seem, you can seem to turn it on here?  
ALEX CEJKA: It's tough to say.  I'm just enjoying it when I come here, this is our home of golf, it's our headquarters, I like the golf course and I'm really just trying to play good here and do my best.   
So, in the past I had a couple good rounds, but I have to finish it.  So hopefully the next couple days I can do that.   
 Q.  Is that that one time you were in contention, do you feel like you're trying to make up for that a little bit?  
ALEX CEJKA: No, no, I'm not trying to make up for that.  I'm not trying to make up for this.  It's in the past, I got two rounds to go, and it's, it's just here, but we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  How easy is the course playing?  Do you feel like it's playing that easy?  
ALEX CEJKA: Yes, the last two, two days it was playing a little bit easier than what I remember in the past.  But they will change it, it will turn the water off and they will make it much, much tougher on the weekend.  That's for sure.   
 Q.  Do you think that that will play to your strengths to a certain degree, do you think if you make it tougher it will make it harder for people to catch you?  
ALEX CEJKA: It's hard for everybody.  So right now I'm feeling well with the setup, it was a Thursday, Friday, we'll see when we get here tomorrow and start chipping and putting how it feels like.   
 Q.  Did you feel comfortable coming?  
ALEX CEJKA: Yes.  Yes.  I played really good tee to green yesterday or last week.  Made the cut.  But I couldn't make a single putt.  But my game was well, my head is perfectly clear, and it was just a matter of making putts and if you make mistakes, you make just small mistakes and that's what I've been doing the last couple days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT