SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 24, 2015
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alex, a slowish start to your day but something clicked at 7.  What happened?
ALEX CEJKA: You know, I know the golf course.  I've played here quite a bit.  I feel comfortable out here.  You know, I played good from the beginning, I just three-putted two holes.  That was stupid, to be suddenly 2-over par instead of 1-under, and you know, just plugging along and trying to make good shots, give me a couple chances, and then suddenly make a nice putt on 7, hit it pretty close on 8, and then I kind of felt pretty comfortable, birdied 9, and then obviously the back nine was really strong.
Q. Four birdies in five holes and you come to 16, 17, 18, obviously a birdie at the gettable par-5, 16th, fair enough, but then you get on 17, the hole-in-one, talk us through the shot, what club, and then did you go and have a look at the plaque of Jonathan Byrd's afterwards?
ALEX CEJKA: Well, I know the plaque.  I actually played the first two rounds with him when he won here.  He was playing really well, and obviously I saw his hole-in-one on TV, and it was a good 6-iron for me, perfect yardage.  I tried to hit it a little bit right, and I struck it well, and I pitched pretty good and was rolling towards the pin and then suddenly disappeared.  It's a great bonus, especially in front of the home crowd here, and then to top it off with a birdie on 18, that's fabulous.
Q. How many aces is that for you in your career now?
ALEX CEJKA: You know, I think that was No. 7.
Q. Lucky No. 7, perfect in Vegas, isn't it?  I like that.  5-under 66, more importantly, you're now 10-under par and very much in the thick of this tournament.  You've got your eyes on winning, I know that, but how are you feeling going into Sunday?
ALEX CEJKA: Again, you know, if I play like today, good tee balls, you keep giving yourself good chances and it all depends who's going to have a hot putter.  It's always low scoring here.  Normally it's like 20-under.  This year is a little bit higher, but it depends.  18 holes, I feel pretty comfortable.  I'm going to play my normal game tomorrow hopefully, and we'll see if I make putts and can be up there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT