HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the first two days here?
ALEX CEJKA:   Overall I'm pleased.   I didn't really play that well yesterday but my short game was excellent.   Today was a little bit tricky with the wind.   I hit much better shots.   I was grinding towards coming in the last couple holes.   The wind is swirling. 
I had some bad club choices, but you know, I see myself up there on the leaderboard, so I take it no matter what. 

Q.   That's lovely to see, because at the moment, you're right at the top of that board. 
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, it's a good feeling.   I had a couple months off now, so it's nice to come back and kind of grind it out. 

Q.   What have you been doing over these couple of months? 
ALEX CEJKA:   Well, I finished the Web.com two months ago, and I was a little bit sick at home and it was too cold to practise, too. 
So I got a late call here to this tournament, so I wish I would have practised a little bit more at home.   But you know, I guess it's working what I'm doing right now. 

Q.   One of those tournaments that when you got that late call, you thought, nice bit of sunshine, Hong Kong, that will do for me?
ALEX CEJKA:   That will do.   It's a long trip, but so far, it's worth it. 

Q.   Do you like this track?   It's one of those that a lot of players do, traditional style?
ALEX CEJKA:   It's pretty tricky.   It's pretty narrow.   You're off the fairway, you're facing these trees.   There's a lot of trees out here, and you know, you get stymied quite a bit.   You've got to drive it well and the greens are really fast and slick.   I think to play here or to win here, you've got to have everything in the bag plus luck. 

Q.   After two months out, what are your expectations and have they changed, now you consider yourself at the halfway stage? 
ALEX CEJKA:   Got to do what I've been doing the last two days.   If I make a couple putts, have a couple‑‑ two more good rounds, then I'll take it, and I've got to take it as it comes tomorrow first. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT