SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2017
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alex, 33 out, 30 in, eight birdies in your last 12 holes.  My goodness, if this goes on, your thoughts?
ALEX CEJKA: You know, I gave it all.  I knew I had to go low today to have a chance, but luckily we had no wind so far.  So I took advantage of it, and I played pretty solid.  Made a lot of good putts.  I probably wish for another one or two, but, you know, but it is what it is.  I'm close up there.  You never know what happens.  But a solid performance.  The last couple days in the wind, I left a couple unnecessary shots out there, stupid, double bogeys.  That always is a killer.  But I made up for it today, and I'm very pleased today.
Q. Speak to me about how one bounces back because you were part of the mix day one, and you struggled in rounds two and three, but I think you turned around to a 63.  What is the mindset?
ALEX CEJKA: I'm at home here.  I like it here.  It's the vibe here.  The family is watching.  I've played here so many rounds.  I know how the balls break.  But you still have to execute the shots.  You know if it's a couple outside, you still have to hit it with the right pace.  So the last couple days in the wind, it was a little bit tricky, a little bit challenging.  I made stupid mistakes.  But today, I said no pressure.  Just go out there, no fear.  You've played here so many times.  Give yourself chances, and then we'll see what happens, and that's what I did.
Q. So now we're going to wait to see if the wind picks up a little bit?
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, you know, the guys have the last couple holes have birdie chances.  So it would be nice to be up there.  But you never know.
Q. Talk about finishing strong here in your hometown?
ALEX CEJKA: Yes, in the past I've always had a good, strong finish in the last couple years, and I like the back nine.  I like the finishing holes.  If you hit good shots and you get rewarded, and I putted well.  I made a lot of good putts, and I'm very pleased with today's performance.  Kind of made up a little bit for the mess in the second and third round where I hit a couple unnecessary bogeys, even double bogeys.  That hurts.
But today was flawless.  I just wanted to play aggressive and good golf and make a move forward.  So, so far I did it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT