HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2012
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Alex, 5‑under today, great start to the tournament.   If we can get some comments on your day?   
ALEX CEJKA:   I played pretty solid, kept the ball in the fairways, and gave myself a lot of chances.   I had actually a good back nine, where I made a couple of good birdies, so I'm pleased with the start.   
   
 Q.   Tough one out there ‑‑ not taking away from a great round but tough one on 18.   
ALEX CEJKA:   You know, I had bad experience in the past on 18, so I laid up short of the water, a 5‑wood, which gives you a longer shot.   You want to come into that pin with a wedge, but, you know, there is nothing you can do.   I was just taking my medicine there.   
Pretty much it was a solid round, solid playing, chipping, putting, I even kept the drives‑‑ I think I missed just one fairway, and that's a key on this course.   
   
 Q.   After only one round, how challenging is this course?   There are a lot of guys bunched up at the top.   
ALEX CEJKA:   It's challenging.   We had a great day today with not so much wind, it is just with very little breeze.   If it's blowing at 30 miles an hour, we saw it last year, the scores go up.   So hopefully we are going to have another three good days and we see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Alex, this is your last event I think to keep your medical exemption, is that correct?   
ALEX CEJKA:   That's my last on the medical, yes.   
   
 Q.   Is that in your mind at all?   
ALEX CEJKA:   No, not really.   I made a good move in New Orleans to jump in that 126 to 150.   That was pressure.   Now, you know, it's a difference if I play eight tournaments or ten tournaments, and obviously I like to do it, but I'm‑‑ the pressure is gone really, just trying to play great golf, you know?   
   
 Q.   Birdies that stand out today?   
ALEX CEJKA:   I think the one on 15, you know, that's a tough hole, into the wind a little bit.   I hit a 5‑wood in and then I holed a 30‑footer, so there was one good putt today.   The rest was‑‑ good shots were where I made 10‑footers, but that particular one on 15 was a great birdie.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Alex, appreciate it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT