TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2010
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ADAM WALLACE: Alex, another great round today, you got to 10-under, can you talk a little bit about your round and then we'll take some questions. 
 ALEX CEJKA: I didn't play as good today as yesterday. Obviously it was a little bit easier yesterday, no wind. Today, the 30-mile-an-hour gusts, it was tricky. But I hung in there. I shot even par my front nine and then 4-under on my back. So I'm very pleased to be in this position. 
 ADAM WALLACE: How much was the wind a factor as the round progressed? 
 ALEX CEJKA: It was strong from hole No. 1. I mean, maybe not as strong as it is right now, but you know, I played the first couple of holes also in the wind and just the last at least 14 holes it was really windy. 

 Q. How about the effect on the greens; did the wind dry out the greens and make them tougher? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, they are still soft. I had a couple 7-irons in, or even 6-irons, where the ball pitched and stopped really quickly. 
 It's going to take probably a couple days even to firm them up really hard, but they are nice, they roll nicely, if you have a good stroke and roll it well, you can putt them really well. The wind, there's a couple tricky holes, especially the water holes, you have to be careful a little bit, especially when it's 30-miles-an-hour crosswind. 
 You know, we all are good golfers, so we should judge that most of the time pretty good. 

 Q. Could you just talk about your thoughts now going into the weekend, you got yourself -- right now, it's still early, but you're a shot off the lead. Do you feel good about going into Saturday, Sunday? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, I've been playing really well the last two months. I was struggling a little bit the last two weeks. I missed the cut, I was a little bit hurt, but I came here, I like the course. I've been coming here I think every year. And I in the past have really played well; I didn't maybe score as well as I wanted to, but I played well. 
 And, you know, two rounds to go, a lot of things can happen but I'm playing well. We'll see what happens. If I keep playing like the last two days, I'll be very pleased. 

 Q. I know a lot of the biographical information is in the book or whatever, you about you came over and started playing the PGA TOUR, when? You didn't play college golf, did you? 
 ALEX CEJKA: No, no. I came and I qualified in '02 through TOUR School. 

 Q. I believe yesterday you got off to a really quick start on the back side, you birdied the first three holes on the back side today, too. You must like those first few holes there. 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yesterday, I really played well. I think I hit every green, and I was inside 15 feet almost on every hole. 
 I misread maybe two or three putts, but I really played well. It should actually have been much lower than it was in the wind. You take it; sometimes you make it, sometimes you don't. Today is a different story. Okay, I shot only 4-under, but it was much tougher with the wind. 
 But it's tough to say, I like the back nine better or the front nine. I just take it where I can. 

 Q. Following up what I asked previously, how much golf is there in the Czech Republic and how did you get started playing golf? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Well, back then it wasn't really popular at all. I started through my grandparents and my parents. They were kind of members at a small club, but back then, I think everybody in the village was a member. You know, it's just Marienbad is very close to the German border. Back then it only had 10,000 people; it was a hang-out place. When it was bad weather everybody got together, and when it was bad weather everybody was playing chess, pool, especially the older generation when it was nice, everybody was out there, chipping, putting. So that's how I got started. 
 ADAM WALLACE: Thanks a lot, Alex.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT