U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2010
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. There were comments on television about your head gear. Is it for style or warmth?
 ALEX CEJKA: Oh, it's for warmth. It was pretty chilly this morning until about the first nine holes. And then I just kept it on. 
 But it was, compared to yesterday, much colder. 

 Q. Given your score right now, assess where unfortunately you've got a shot at this, you're not way off, three shots back or five shots back, but still in the chase?
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, everything around par is great. Just I didn't really watch much of the leaderboard, but you really don't need to, you just are grinding yourself and everything around par is great, even if the lead should be just a couple under today, it's a long way to go. 

 Q. Compare the course conditions from yesterday to today. 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, yesterday the greens were really firm and really bouncy. So it was tricky to make your 3-, 4-footers on bouncy greens like this. Today it was a little bit smoother, the greens were holding a little bit better, so you can approach the greens and kind of one hop and then kind of it stops. 

 Q. Is that the difference between morning and afternoon, or do you think it's more the water on the course?
 ALEX CEJKA: It's, well, yesterday in the afternoon it was, I think, a little bit tougher. As I said, you can hit the greens and hold the ball, and the greens were running pretty smoothly compared to yesterday. 

 Q. Did you play more aggressively today than yesterday?
 ALEX CEJKA: No, I played the same shots off the tee, kind of same lines. Occasionally I just got to take the medicine and just go for the middle of a green and instead of being too cute and just short side yourself in the rough and then you got a lot of work to do. 
 But I'm -- overall I'm pleased with the game so far. 

 Q. You struggled a bit coming in. What caused you to have the -- to hit the speed bump?
 ALEX CEJKA: Well, 17 is a tough hole when you're standing there you have 210 yards, it's into the wind. I hit it a little bit short yesterday and into the bunker. I took one club more, and I hooked it a little bit. I missed the green and I didn't get up-and-down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT