SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2017
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alex, you had a chance in the playoff, but two hours ago you finished and probably weren't sure you'd have that chance?
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, it was looking very slim, and then the wind picked up.  Luckily the guys were dropping shots and I had the chance.  But, you know, it's a tough hole here.  You've got to win with a par.  So I made two bogeys in the playoff, so that's a little bit disappointing.
But, congrats to Patrick for his win.  It's been a great week anyway.
Q. You live in Vegas; you've got to be happy that you're in contention?
ALEX CEJKA: Oh, yeah, always happy.  It's tough to play at home.  There is a lot of pressure, and people expect good things from you.  It was just tough, but I'm happy overall.
Q. You've tasted success on TOUR before a lot of these guys were vying for their first title, and obviously it didn't go so well for some of them.  What's that pressure like to wrap up your first title?
ALEX CEJKA: It's special.  Every time you play out there for your victory, it doesn't matter if it's the first or fifth, you want to win.  You know, you're nervous.  Everybody's nervous.  You're nervous on Thursday on the first hole.  The adrenaline is kicking in.  This is normal.  Everybody feels it, you know.  But especially here coming in the playoffs down the stretch.  I was nervous.  I knew what I had to do.  I just didn't quite pull it off.  If you don't make pars, you really don't deserve to win.
Q. Kind of a crazy day for you, Alex.  You had to hang around for a few hours.  We didn't even think that 9-under would necessarily get in the playoffs.  Take me through the playoff.
ALEX CEJKA: It was still tricky.  It was still into the wind, you know, the first hole, and I hit two good shots.  I was playing safe a little bit the second shot I was in the rough.  Didn't make up-and-down.  I had the chance.  I couldn't see with the up-and-down on the front of the hole.
The second, you know, the second time it just -- you know, you've got to make par.  You cannot win a playoff with a bogey.  So I hit a great chip.  The flight wasn't as great, but it tripped pretty quickly, and just missed the putt.  So overall I'm happy, but that's the way the Cookie crumbles, sometimes.
Q. The first playoff hole, the par-5 off the blade, did you think it was tracking?
ALEX CEJKA: It was really good.  It was really good.  It just broke towards the end a little bit more than I thought.  You know, there was -- I knew I'm going to make it.  It's just the speed just a little bit firmer, and it's in.  But that's the way it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT