THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2010
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How cold was it when you guys got started this morning? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, it was a little bit chilly, but I played yesterday before the Pro-Am, and it was really, really cold. Today was a little bit warmer. I was a little bit surprised. The ball didn't go anywhere. It was windy. It started to get windy a little bit early. 
 So, you know, I played well, and so I'm happy. 

 Q. Less windy than yesterday when you played? 
 ALEX CEJKA: A little bit less windy, yeah. I remember I hit a 3-wood into the green on 11 and today it was only a 4-iron. You know, you're always in a tournament, you're a little bit pumped up, you hit it a little bit further. It's tricky with the wind. It not an easy course.

 Q. Looked like you found something at Pebble Beach, maybe you forgot it in Phoenix but at least did you find it again?
 ALEX CEJKA: I actually played well in Phoenix. I could not make a single putt. I think I made one 4-footer in two rounds. If you don't make the putts, you can't play well. But I striked it well. I striked it well in Pebble. 
 Same today, I hit a lot of good shots and gave myself chances. It's not so easy here. You have only a certain -- if you have five, six, seven chances out there, you've been playing well. 

 Q. How were the greens?
 ALEX CEJKA: For me it's a little bit tricky with the downgrain, crossgrain, into the grain. I'm struggling with the pace on some putts, but you know, it's the same for everybody. 

 Q. Did the course come as advertised with the wind up? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yes, most of the time it's windy here. I played here quite a bit in the 90s, just practicing, it was always windy. Even the last two years when you see the results, you know, it's not so much under par. Every tournament is 14, 16-under and here it's 3- , 4-under par. The course is tricky and with the wind, it's tough.

 Q. You have to be happy with what you came out with?
 ALEX CEJKA: I'm happy. I unfortunately 3-putted my second to last hole from a birdie chance but that happens. Overall I played pretty well. I had a couple of chances. I took them. When I was in a bad lie I was just trying to hit the middle of a green, trying to avoid like really big numbers. That's the key, you get a little bit lucky sometimes, but it's definitely tricky out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT