AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2010
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Alex Cejka, thanks for joining us here. 10-under through two rounds here at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. Obviously a great start for you. Nice day today. Maybe some opening thoughts on a good start to the week.
 ALEX CEJKA: Yes, my form wasn't really well coming to this tournament. I missed the last couple cuts. But I've been working hard. It's getting there. The ball-striking is getting better and the putts this week are great. 
 I've been holing a lot of putts, and that's the key. Made a lot of birdies when I had a chance, and that's the difference to be 10-under or just 1-under.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Comments about your round in particular today. 
 ALEX CEJKA: I was a little bit lucky. I was first off. We had good weather. No wind actually I think the first nine holes, so it got a little bit slow on the back nine. We had to wait a little bit, but much better than in the past.
 So I played with Todd Hamilton, and he had a couple under par today, too, so we had good amateurs. We had a good time.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Questions. 

 Q. Much thought about playing here with the U.S. Open coming in June? What do you think you'll get out of getting the preview?
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, I'm not qualified yet, but I always come here. I played I think every single year I'm on tour I played here. It's just great courses. You know, the scenery is beautiful. Pebble Beach is one of a kind.
 And obviously it's a good preparation. Even if I should make it during the summer, it's gonna be a different course. It's gonna be firmer, the weather is gonna be warmer, the greens gonna be hard. So it's a little bit different, but you get the feel for it. 

 Q. A lot guys are tearing up at Spy today. Supposed to be one of the most challenging courses. What was it over there, just the weather being so beautiful that inspired you guys?
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, well, I played the practice round on Tuesday when it was raining and cold, so it was playing really, really long. Today, you know, the adrenaline is flowing and we had better weather, so I hit it further. I could reach the par-5s, so it was different.
 As I said earlier, the putts, you know, are the key. For everybody, not only for me. If you make the putts, you can score well. I think 5-under is a good score. I think it's my best on Spy. 

 Q. They've cut the field down a little bit this year since you played in the past. Is the pace of play picking up a little bit? 
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, I can see it definitely. You know, in the past there used to be like I think even here on Spy it was like three or four groups on the 12th hole, the par-5. So on the par-5s there were a couple groups always. There was a long wait. 
 This year it's much better. You, know, it's still playing a little bit slower than what we normally have the timeframe. But, you know, some people like it, you know, some don't. I have no problem with it to play a little bit slower. I mean, I'm a fast player on the ball, but to take a little bit more time because you know there is somebody teeing off, so you look at the line, one, two more times. So I like it. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, at the Hope it's kind of similar. I mean, don't forget it's gonna be a little bit slower. It's normally -- the weather is worse here than it's normally at the Bob Hope. At the Bob Hope it's sunny and it's easy courses and the amateurs don't have that much problem. 
 But here, you know, tough track, you're holding the umbrella, it's cold, so, you know, the courses are trickier so the pace of play is gonna be slower.
 But, you know, for me it doesn't matter. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Alex, thank you very much. Good luck the rest of the week. 
 ALEX CEJKA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT