SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alex, you came in 5-under par.  We didn't exactly see a lot of guys attack the course in the afternoon as the wind picked up.  How would you characterize your round?
ALEX CEJKA: I tell you, it was a little bit tricky.  I've played here a bunch, and that was the trickiest I've ever played here in a tournament.  So we normally have good weather or calm weather.  It was a little bit tricky.  I was a little bit worried, but I hit good shots.  I know kind of where to miss it and not to miss it on the course.
So at some point I was playing a little bit like defense, but I had a lot of good drives that gave me a lot of opportunities to go for the flag a little bit better than like in the first cut and in the rough.  But I made a lot of good putts.  That's the key.  If you make some 10, 15, 20 footers, that always helps.
Q. How did you get in with the par?
ALEX CEJKA: You know, the tee shot was actually pretty good, it just hit the mound on the right, and kicked right.  So I was like, oh, I really don't deserve to make bogey here.  You know, so I was playing good, I just played it smart.  Chipped it out, and I said if I hit it close and give me a chance to make 4 -- I hit it to one-and-a-half feet, so that was pretty handy.  It was a good shot.
Q. First of all, talk about today's round.  Obviously, 18 that shot was beautiful and tied for the lead.
ALEX CEJKA: It was a great save on the last.  But overall I played pretty solid and I didn't make any stupid mistakes.  It's easily done here when it's a little bit breezy and you don't make good shots.  But today I hit a lot of good shots and I played smart.  I made a lot of good putts, and, you know, that save obviously on the last gives me a little bit better confidence going into tomorrow's round.  It makes dinner taste a little bit better.
So, overall, first great round.  We still have three rounds to go.  I'm in good position, and I'm kind of happy today.
Q. Your city, Las Vegas?
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, yeah, of course.  We have a lot of friends and a couple of the families walking with us, so it's always nice.  It's sometimes challenging to play at home because you want to play extra good.  But in the past I've been playing pretty good here.  I like the course, and so far I'm in good spirits and hopefully I can keep it up for a couple more rounds.
Q. Has this week felt different?  Of all the times you've played here, I know it's only one day, but has it felt different this time around?
ALEX CEJKA: No, no, not really.  We play in different cities every week somewhere else, and it's nice to be home.  It's nice to sleep in your home territory.  Even in like local restaurants that you know and friends supporting you.  So it was a little bit tricky with the wind, but, you know, I have good vibes here, and I'm going to soak it in the next couple days.
Q. Sometimes players feel like there is a hindrance when you play at home.  Because you expect to play and you kind of overplay.  (Inaudible) do you contain that?
ALEX CEJKA: I don't know if it's the weather here.  But I've been playing here pretty well over the past 10, 12 years, I don't know, 14 years.  So I had a couple good finishes, and you know, I like the track.  I like the track, and I'm playing good, but you still have to execute the shots.  No matter if you play the hole 10,000 times or for the first time, if you have the yardage and you've got to still pull it off.  I did it today, and I'm excited about it.
Q. There have been some locals that have won here, Ryan Moore, Kevin Na; what would it be like to be in contention here as a Las Vegas resident?
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, as you said, a couple older guys winning here.  I hear it always in the last couple weeks like, come on, W, W.  It's tough.  It puts a little bit of pressure on you, but I've got to block it out of my system and just play my game.  Hopefully I'll be in contention on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT