VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 21, 2006
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you Alex for joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center.  Nice round today, six birdies, no bogies.

What did you do well out there?
ALEX CEJKA:  You know, I played well overall from tee to green and had some good putts, you know.  I was always almost on every hole for a birdie chance so it's a little bit easy if you hit good drive, straight drives.  I hit good iron shots and have lot of chances.

Then have a    it was not very often I have a bogey free round.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Questions, please?
Q.  There's a lot made this morning about the wind picking up and the conditions changing.  Did you find it more difficult as the round went on?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes, but I'm from Europe.  To me it was a calm breeze.  I'm just kidding.  No, it was blowing, you know, occasionally like at least 20 miles an hour so even my drive from the first hole was probably a hundred yards shorter than in the previous day.

So, it was tougher but, you know, I said to myself I just want to hit fairways and easier from there then from the rough.

So I really wasn't forcing the ball and, you know, just try to hit the fairways.  It's the main goal.  But it was tough.

It was tough to hit    we have 110 yards and hit an 8 iron, you know, I'm spoiled here playing couple years in America always in this nice weather and we come where it's windy, and it's not easy but it's over.
Q.  Your birdies, I don't think, were five, six, seven, eight feet.  You hit it pretty tight.
ALEX CEJKA:  I hit some good shots.  I think my first birdie on the third hole, long par 3 I hit a 6 iron to ten feet.  I think the longest birdie putt I made was I think on 11, par 4 down the hill where I hit it to about I don't know, 25 feet, but the rest I hit it, you know, pretty close.
Q.  Coming in here being I think on the money list you're like 135, you're in a position now where you could vault up a little bit.

Has it been on your mind at all?  Is it on your mind now?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes.  It's long on your mind.  It's just, you know, I've been playing well the last couple weeks.  I'm actually playing better than my results has been shown so, you know, it's just a question of time where everything comes together.  It might be this week, next week.  You never know.

We have like six, seven tournaments to go.  I'm going to play everyone, unfortunately or fortunately.  So, I always played a lot of tournaments.

So, you know, even when I was safe with a cut like in June, I always played lot of tournaments.  So, you know, as I said, I got to make a good move in the next couple tournaments.  Of course, it's on my mind and playing well it helps.

You know, you play well, you have 7, 8 tournaments to go, you can do it, you know.
Q.  Recently you had some good finishes in Reno so you kind of
ALEX CEJKA:  Reno was good.  I think the John Deere was good, also.  It's coming along.
Q.  You had an accident that injured your back.  Was it last year?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes, last year.
Q.  You feel now that you are pretty much over that?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes.  Yes.  It took me a couple months last year, basically the second half of the year, but I must say I was pretty ready for this season.

In January, February, I didn't have anymore problems so I kind of did it myself there.  Last year, I mean lot of tournaments end of last year there was    I should have taken more time off.  I was playing with the injury, which is not good.

But I was in a similar situation.  I was outside    outside the number so I had to play and, you know, if you're not healthy and you force it, it's difficult.
Q.  How much were you watching?  I'm sure you saw Justin's score earlier I guess before you teed off.  You knew where you were?
ALEX CEJKA:  Not really.  I think the first time I looked on the leaderboard was on the 7th hole, 8th hole.  I don't know.  I can't remember.

Anyway, I didn't    I was just playing my golf, you know.  Then I was 1, 2, 3 under and I had a quick look.

I saw 6 under, 5 under, couple 4 unders. I thought with this wind put myself on the leaderboard, it's good.  I had a couple more so, you know.  But one round, three to go, it's a long way.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Anymore questions?  Y'all want him to go through that, 5, 17, 14, 18 on his round?  You took care of 3.  5.  What did you do on No. 5?
ALEX CEJKA:  Which shot is that one, No. 5?
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  It's 493 yards long.
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes.  I hit a good drive and I hit 8 iron to about, I don't know, maybe ten feet.  Holed the putt.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  7?
ALEX CEJKA:  Actually 7 I just laid up past the bunkers, had 90 yards, 80 yards to go.  Hit also to ten feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  14?  Par 5.
ALEX CEJKA:  I hit a second shot, 4 iron in the middle of the green and two putted there from I don't know.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  18?
ALEX CEJKA:  I hit a sand wedge to about three feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Okay.  Thank you.
ALEX CEJKA:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT