NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2017
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel you did out there today.  Obviously it looked pretty good?  
ALEX CEJKA: I feel great.  This is a tough course.  I think it was a bogey-free round.  So it's like fabulous.  You know what I mean?  I played good.  I had a lot of chances.  It's tough to get the ball close on the back nine with the wind a little bit.  Front green, you really gotta hit good tee shots and hit great shots in.   
I was lucky.  I missed like, I think, four greens.  I made good up and downs which could have easily been bogeys, you know.  Nothing easy up and down, but today was a good day.  It's the start of a full week of playoff.  So it's a great start, you know.  But it's a tough tract.  You gotta grind out here this week especially.  And so many great players out here.  So I'm happy that I have a good start, and we'll see how we go the next couple of days.   
 Q.  I saw somebody on the TV broadcast said you're donating money for each birdie you have?  
ALEX CEJKA: Yes.  To Houston.  We have a deal, I have a couple of friends that are going to chip in.  I have $100 for each birdie I make, and I have a couple friends they're going to chip in to match what I do.  And you know, at least we could make four birdies today and contribute a little bit, you know.   
 Q.  Where did that idea come from?  
ALEX CEJKA: You know, you want to help.  You want to help, and a disaster like this happens, and people are just in a bad place and unlucky.  And my wife likes to help, and when we can, luckily our home in Vegas is safe.  So you want to help people.  They are not so lucky, so we decided during the playoffs, all four weeks, every birdie I make we're going to donate a little bit, and I needed to add a couple buddies.  They want to match that.  Hopefully I'm going to make a lot of birdies.  I think Boise next week is a little bit easier course.  So there might be a little more birdies.  These birdies here are hard to come by.   
 Q.  It seems like the players on this tour always like to donate, whether it's disaster or whatever.  
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah.  It's part of us.  We are blessed to have a job like this.  Most of us make -- it's a great job, make decent money, and if you can help, why not?  You know, it's a good cause, and we are happy to do this.   
 Q.  Do you have any ties to the Houston area?  
ALEX CEJKA: Well, my wife used to have.  She used to work a little bit down there.  But I don't think it would have mattered for me if it would be Houston or Utah.  You know what I mean?  It's just -- it's a disaster.  It happens here in the States like regular, like every three or four years.  So you know, it's a shame.  But we're going to fix it, and even if it's a couple bucks, we're just trying to help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT