MCI HERITAGE
April 16, 2005
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX CEJKA:  This ball is not --
Q.  It's not on the conforming list?
ALEX CEJKA:  Apparently.  They showed me this ball is not on the list, but nobody really knows where it's coming from.  It's a pity because it happened on the 9th hole.  (Inaudible) -- I just reached in my pocket.
Q.  It's something that was discovered in the middle of your round then?
ALEX CEJKA:  I hit my second shot into the green and marked the ball and saw the two dots instead of the two arrows.  I called an official over and said is this a two-shot penalty because it's the wrong ball, but then it's a DQ.
Q.  You said you had no idea where the ball came from?
ALEX CEJKA:  No.
Q.  What kind of ball was it?
ALEX CEJKA:  A UR-X, a regular Srixon UR-X but with two dots instead of two arrows.
Q.  It might have been mispackaged or something?
ALEX CEJKA:  That's the only connection.  I just came out from my locker, and it must have been in its place.
Q.  Who is responsible for getting those balls?  Do you do that or does your caddie handle that?
ALEX CEJKA:  What do you mean who?  Srixon gives me the balls in my locker, and I just take them from the locker and put them in the bag.  The caddie has nothing to do with it.

It's nobody's fault.  They give me four dozen, and it's actually my responsibility to check if I have 14 clubs, if I have the right balls and all these things, so that was sort of a shot in my own leg basically.
Q.  How were you playing to that point?
ALEX CEJKA:  A couple over, not really playing well, but it doesn't matter.  When you skip tomorrow, you don't get paid.
Q.  All you know is that it's on not the list, not necessarily that it's an illegal ball but it's just not on the list?
ALEX CEJKA:  It's not on the conforming list, so it means it's an illegal ball.
Q.  You said you came off the course after 9 or did you make it to the 10th tee box?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, I was going to continue.  I thought it was a two-shot penalty, turned a birdie into a bogey.
Q.  (Inaudible).
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, when we finished 18 and two guys were waiting for me like, "Hey, something is wrong here."


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT