BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 26, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome.  Alex Cejka, 4-under for the first round in the afternoon, a lot of wind.  Are you happy with the round today?
ALEX CEJKA:  I'm very happy with the round today.  4-under is a good start.  It could have been maybe two shots better, but that's golf.  But still, it's nice to see my name on the leaderboard again, and it's a good start.  We'll see what the next three days will bring.
Q.  Do you think that you nearly got quite a few birdies when you didn't -- when you almost sunk those putts,  how did that affect your confidence during the round?  Do you sort of think that, oh, you could have actually hit maybe six or seven others today?  Do you get angry with yourself when the putts don't go in?
ALEX CEJKA:  No, I'm not angry.  You can't make every putt.  I hit good putts.  I had two lip-outs.  Sometimes they go and sometimes not.  There's nothing I can do.  I'm trying 100%.  As I said, it would be of course lovely if I would finish 6- or 7-under, but that's the way it is.  I'm still pleased with 4-under par.
Q.  How aware are you, you must be aware to some extent of the situation you're in, trying to catch Bernhard's eye.  Does it occur to you at all on the golf course?
ALEX CEJKA:  Not really.  I'm just, you know, trying to play the best I can here.  I think there has never been a German winner here.  I think would be almost more important for me to win here than making the team.

You know, it's maybe in the back of my mind, but I still go out and focus on the round.
Q.  Something very similar, Alex.  You must have known what Monty's score and Luke Donald's score were for the morning round.  Were you conscious of that when you went out on your round, because obviously you're being touted as one of the wild-card chances.
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, the first thing I saw when I came on the golf course, Monty and Luke on the leaderboard.

But as I said, I'm just -- you know, I went out there and tried my best, and it was a good day for me.  We'll see.  There's a lot of guys right on the fringe on the bubble, so it's going to be a tough decision anyway.  I have three rounds to go and just try to do the best I can.
Q.  The fact that it's a German captain, do you think that improves your chances or lessens them?
ALEX CEJKA:  Don't know.  I really don't know.
Q.  But you're pretty close to him; I presume you've been talking to him all year.
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes, I've been talking to him and I've been around him quite a bit, but I don't know if it's, you know, a positive effect or really counter.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT