BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 25, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Alex, last year you finished second and I think this year, you want to be one place better.
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, that would be nice.  I'm playing very well lately, and, you know, it's my second trip to Germany this year.  I did almost well at the SAP Open and I'd like to do it a little bit better this time.
Q.  We know that Bernhard Langer has spoken to quite a few people who are on the fringe of the team.  Has he spoken to you at all?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, we spoke a little bit but not in particular.  We practiced together a couple of weeks ago and he just told me, you know, I've got to play well in the next couple of weeks, and then the week after was The INTERNATIONAL where I almost made it.  So I'm starting to perform well.
Q.  What's your personal impression, do you still have a chance to get a pick?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yeah, it depends how I play this week.  I think if I win or maybe finish second, then I have a chance.  But, you know, there's couple of guys.  We are right on the bubble, but it's going to be a tough decision, anyway, for him.  But I think it doesn't matter who gets picked; it's still going to be a strong team this time.
Q.  If you were in Bernhard's place at the moment, what would you be picking?
ALEX CEJKA:  I think if I would be in his place, I think Monty is definitely.  He's playing very well this year.  He won already.  He's an experienced guy.  He played the Ryder Cup many times.

Then I would pick Alex Cejka.  (Laughter.)

Been, I mean, Luke Donald and Fredrik Jacobsen are very hot candidates.  But it's tough.  I think Monty, definitely.
Q.  Even if you play in the United States?
ALEX CEJKA:  Myself, no.
Q.  For Monty.
ALEX CEJKA:  I think, yeah, you know, he's maybe not that well-liked in America as we've seen in the past, but still he's a strong link in the team and I think he's experienced enough, as I said.  I think he changed from a couple of years ago.  I think he's much freer now, much easier.
Q.  The way the team is panning out, what chances do you give the Europeans?
ALEX CEJKA:  Good chances.  I think the Americans always were stronger on paper in the past years, and it was always close.  So, it's not like the Europeans or the Americans are winning by big points always.  It's coming down to the last match.  It's always half a point or one point.  It's been over past years like this and I think it's going to be the same this year.  It's going to be very close, but we have a good chance.
Q.  Do you see any weaknesses in the American setup, the American team?
ALEX CEJKA:  No, no weaknesses there.  They are all good players.  They maybe have a little advantage that it's in America, so, you know, I think we are -- the friendship on the European team I think is a little bit better than the American team.
Q.  Having played in America for a couple of years, The Matches being in America on a fairly typical American golf course, will that play in Bernhard's thinking at all, do you think?
ALEX CEJKA:  I don't know how the course is set up.  I haven't been there.  He said he's been there or he knows how the course is set up.  And we had a meeting last weekend at NEC and he said, "It's a great setup for us, guys."  So he's very pleased with what he's seen and what he's heard. []

Most of the guys on our side play in America many times through the years, so I don't think they should be, you know, that much disadvantaged that it's in America on a specially set up course.
Q.  Would you have liked to seen Bernhard here a little earlier than when he's coming on the weekend?
ALEX CEJKA:  It's a shame that he's missing the BMW anyway, but it's a personal thing.  I think his daughter is going to college or somewhere.  So it's an important thing for him.  We've all got to understand.  He has said when he's done over there he's coming.  It's nice he's coming at all, so you know, he's going to be a spectator for the weekend.  That's unusual.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT