THE INTERNATIONAL
August 8, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Alex, I know you're a little bit disappointed.  You were hoping for that first one this week.  It was kind of a crazy day out there.
ALEX CEJKA:  It was a crazy day.  Nobody really made a big move in the beginning.  We all stayed there and then I took the lead somewhere on the back nine a little bit and I thought I threw it away on No. 16, where I had minus 3 points, but I birdied 17 and looked at the score board and was still up.  It looked pretty good, but I was beaten by a great eagle.  Crazy things happen in this tournament.
Q.  After a rough 16, what's your mental approach?
ALEX CEJKA:  I wanted to birdie of course 17 and have a birdie putt of course on 18 to make some points.  What I did on 17 I hit it on and 2-putted for birdie.  And 18, I tried to hit it and give me a chance for birdie.  When we came up to the green, they changed the board, so I knew I had to make it.  I had a good aggressive putt, it just didn't break as much as I thought.
Q.  CBS said near the end of the coverage the field was averaging over 74, where the field average was below 73 the first three rounds.  Anything in your mind that caused everybody to go higher?
ALEX CEJKA:  I think there were a few pin positions in some corners and behind the bunkers, it was not that easy to get close to the flags in the beginning.  But I don't know, it's Sunday and normally it's just one or two guys who make a run on Sunday, and today nobody did it.  I think because the pin positions, and it was a little bit windy, it was swirling a little bit.
Q.  Any particular holes when you talk about difficult pin positions?
ALEX CEJKA:  I think the second hole was just past the bunker.  Then you have a thing on the 12th, right in the corner on the left.  13, again short, some tricky pin positions.  It was actually not that tough.
Q.  You seem to have had a lot of difficulty on the par 3s. What happened really on 16?
ALEX CEJKA:  We had a little bit into the wind and I was standing there with a 6-iron and I tried to hit it a little bit lower and just got ahead of it and it went way right.
Q.  You had no shot?
ALEX CEJKA:  No, I just tried to hit it on the green and 2-putt, what I almost did, but I three-putted there.
Q.  What do you take out of your performance here this week?
ALEX CEJKA:  I've been playing actually very well the last couple of weeks, but I just didn't score that well.  And especially this week, I was scoring well.  Even when I hit bad shots, I had great recoveries and that's what I was waiting for.  That's why I practice my short game quite a lot now, and it's paying off a little bit.  Just play well and try to score somehow.
Q.  Did you have a feeling it might come down to 17, the tournament?
ALEX CEJKA:  I was actually not following the leaderboard that much, just on 17 I had a quick look and it looked actually pretty good.  It was just a great eagle.  It's a lot of points and it was not meant to be for me.  That's the way it goes.
Q.  Did you feel with 6 or 7 guys going for the lead, one of them is going to make an eagle?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes, yes, I've seen it in the past where 17 was almost the decider.  But everybody had a chance.  We all were putting for eagles.  It's just who makes the putt.  And he did it at the right time and he deserves it.
Q.  Do you think if you had won it would have made a difference in terms of the Ryder Cup selection?
ALEX CEJKA:  I think I would be a step closer, but I was not really thinking of it when I was on the course.  I think if I would have won here, it would have gotten me a little bit closer.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Alex


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT