THE INTERNATIONAL
August 7, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX CEJKA:  Slowly I'm getting better and better and I can score a little bit.  Hopefully there is a week where I can score.  It's a good start so far, so we'll see.
Q.  Talk about how this sets up for tomorrow with many people within 10 points of the lead.
ALEX CEJKA:  Of course with this point system, it's not so easy.  A lot of guys can come up from behind, as we've seen with Steve Lowery and Rich Beem.

18 holes to go for everybody.  You just have to play as hard as you can, get a lot of birdies and hopefully an eagle.  In this game everything is possible tomorrow.
Q.  I noticed you pulled out after three rounds last week.  Why was that?
ALEX CEJKA:  I had an injury that was a couple of weeks ago.  I had an injury in my wrist that I've been struggling with for the last couple of weeks and it was very bad and I couldn't play anymore.  I didn't want to force it.  I have big tournaments coming up, the PGA next week, and I'm going to Europe for a couple of weeks for a big tournament for me, so I didn't want to force it.
Q.  Is it better this week?
ALEX CEJKA:  It's a little bit better.  I still have a little bit of pain, especially when I warm up, the first couple of shots, but I'm getting treatment and getting cremes and massage, and so it's getting better.
Q.  Talk about your decision to play the U.S. Tour and what went into it and how you feel you've been developed over the years as a player.
ALEX CEJKA:  This is my second year on the PGA TOUR.  I had a good year last year.  I was very happy with my performance.  This year I committed to 11 tournaments in Europe so it's going to be tricky going back and forth.  I've played six already, counting the European Tour and I have a few more to go.  It's a little bit back and forth.  I didn't do it last year as much, but I like it here in America and people treat me nice, nice courses.
Q.  You had a very successful career in Europe.  I think you won several tournaments.  Why did you decide to leave that to come play on this Tour?
ALEX CEJKA:  I played I think 8 years in Europe, and it's a great place to be here.  That's where the best golfers are.  I said I would give it a go.  I tried three times at the Tour School and I done it my second time, so it was a good way for me.  So I'm in a position where I can play in Europe and America.  It's a great position to be.
Q.  If you don't qualify automatically for the Ryder Cup team, what do you think you need to do in the next few weeks to impress Bernhard enough to get a Captain's pick?
ALEX CEJKA:  I think I have to win a tournament to have a chance.  We'll see.  There's no guarantee.  Of course he's German, but I think there's no guarantee.  And I want to qualify through my playing and not because of a German passport or because I'm friends with him.  I want our team to be the best team.  And if I want to qualify, I really have to play well the next couple of weeks and maybe win the tournament and then maybe have a chance.
Q.  Has he spoken to you about it this week?
ALEX CEJKA:  Sort of.  He's a little bit    he mentioned something, but that's between him and me.
Q.  Do you have a number for tomorrow that you think might be worth the final point total for the winner?
ALEX CEJKA:  No, I don't have a number.  I'm just going to go out and try to do my best and we'll see, but I'm pretty sure I have to make at least maybe 10 points in order to
Q.  Will you watch the score board a little bit more tomorrow than you did the rest of the week?
ALEX CEJKA:  I hope not.  Not in the beginning, maybe toward the end of the round, but like in the last three rounds I was just playing and trying to do my business.
Q.  Are you surprised that Chris kind of backed up in the field today?
ALEX CEJKA:  Yes, I am surprised.  After the two good rounds, two good points there, it surprised me a little bit.  But that's golf.
Q.  How important is it for you to get a victory on this Tour?
ALEX CEJKA:  It's important.  I think any victory is big and important, especially the first one is a special one.  I won on the European Tour, but I came also here to America to win and I've been close a few times and I think the first one is always the toughest.  Maybe I can do it tomorrow.  We'll see.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your card.  The birdie on No. 1?
ALEX CEJKA:  Hit it short of the green and made two putts there.
TODD BUDNICK:  Bogey on 4.
ALEX CEJKA:   Left trap and didn't make up and down, hit it to about 35 feet and missed it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Birdie on 5.
ALEX CEJKA:  I hit an 8 iron to about 15 feet and holed the putt.

No. 8, I hit a 4 wood onto the green and 2 putted.

And then we have 12, I don't remember 12.  I hit a pitching wedge to about 10 feet and holed the putt.

And 14 is the par 5.  I laid up with my second shot and then hit it from 80 yards to about 3 feet and holed the putt.

And the last one I holed from the bunker.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far?
ALEX CEJKA:  The right green side bunker, 10 yards or so.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT