DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 21, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Alex, if you could start off, reflect today on your round of 64, your second one here, as you say.
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, that's the second 64.  It's been the second 64 I've had here.  I think I had one two years ago in the first round, and I'm very delighted today.  We had an early tee time.  It was still pretty calm.  The first nine holes I had a great start again.  I had two eagles; it always helps.  But towards the end, the wind got up, it was a little bit challenging.  I had to punch some shots and hit a few up and downs.  It's nice to be on the leader board again.
GORDON SIMPSON:  As you say, the eagles, tell us about the two of them on the front nine.
ALEX CEJKA:   I think the first one was on 12.  I hit a 5 wood to about 20 feet and holed the putt.  And the second one was a couple holes later where I hit     on 17, actually where I hit a 3 wood.  I don't think I could really reach the green, and I killed it, and, you know, I had a good bounce and just got up there and another five meter putt and I holed it for eagle.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How is your health?  You seem to be having difficulties.
ALEX CEJKA:   I was struggling yesterday a little bit with my legs.  It was hurting me while I was walking.  Today, it was much better.  I had a lot of treatment yesterday and this morning it's still a little bit in pain when I walk but it's not affecting the swing.  The hamstring is a little bit tight and short.
Q.  What happened that caused
ALEX CEJKA:   I had a back problem, there.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Which leg?
ALEX CEJKA:   Right one.
Q.  When did this start and how bad was it?
ALEX CEJKA:   It started actually Monday.  I was in China, I finished on Sunday, and the flight was pretty late.  And I went into the health club and I was running a little bit and I put weights on my legs and I was running.  I probably hurt it there a little bit.

And then when I arrived here, I was struggling.  It got worse and worse.  I had treatment and they were really rubbing the muscle and it just probably     that's why it hurts so bad.
Q.  And were you concerned about whether you would be able to play?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes, yes, I was concerned.  I would say if we would not be here in Germany, I don't think I would have played on Thursday.  But, I'm a fighter and I was trying to forget the pain and just try as hard as I can.
GORDON SIMPSON:  But today it feels much better?
ALEX CEJKA:   It's a little bit better.  It's not much better, but it's a little bit better.
GORDON SIMPSON:  I don't think you'll be pulling out, though.
ALEX CEJKA:   I hope not.  (Laughs).
Q.  How many European Tour events do you think you'll be playing?  You've committed to 12, but is it going to be more than that?
ALEX CEJKA:   No, I think it's just going to be just on the line, 11 or 12.
Q.  And was that an easy decision in the end when you looked at the schedule to commit to the Ryder Cup?
ALEX CEJKA:   You know, the good thing is that these special events, that they count on both tours, so it's a little bit easier.  You know, you have six or seven tournaments that count, and then I played last week in China and here, I have BMW, Switzerland, so I have a couple more.  But the priority is to secure the card in America first and when it's done, I come back to Europe and am going to play hopefully more, we'll see.
Q.  Do you agree with the rule to play?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, I think it's pretty fair.  As I said, these tournaments count double, so it's not that tough.  If that wouldn't be the case, then it's a little bit dodgy, but I don't think it's that difficult to do that.
Q.  Do you sympathize with Jesper and Luke Donald's situation?
ALEX CEJKA:   What's the situation?
Q.  Well, they are not going to     they are not in the World events.
ALEX CEJKA:   It's their opinion, so it's individual.  I'm fortunate that I'm in the situation that I can play these tournaments, so it's a little bit easier.
Q.  Can you just remind us where you are in the U.S. Money List, what it's going to take to keep your card and how you feel your season is going?
ALEX CEJKA:   Well, first of all, my season is pretty good, actually.  I'm playing good golf.  I haven't shown that     I've played much better than I've shown in the results, but I think lat year, the last guy who made the cut was I think $550,000; it's going a little bit up.  The way I'm playing and the way I feel, there's plenty of tournaments to go.  I think I should make it soon hopefully.
Q.  How much have you got now?
ALEX CEJKA:   400,000.
Q.  And you need about 600,000?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, 600,000 is safe, I think.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT