MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2004
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RONALD TOWNSEND:  Good afternoon.  We are pleased to have Alex Cejka.  He shot 2 under par today and is 4 under par for two days.
Q.  How was the golf course different today than yesterday?
ALEX CEJKA:   I think the greens were a little bit quicker today, especially after the rain yesterday afternoon.  I played, I think, five holes, and they were a little bit slower.

It's firm out there and very quick, so it's very tricky, and especially with these pin positions, you've got to be careful.
Q.  Did you play carefully or aggressive?
ALEX CEJKA:   No, some holes, I really went for the safe place and I just tried to make a par.  There's only a few holes where you can really attack the flag and attack the birdies.

I think I've done a good job today.  I'm very pleased with 70 today, so 4 under par is a good position to be for the weekend.
Q.  We're seeing some crazy colors out there on some of the other Europeans this week with Ian Poulter and Darren Clarke, and you show up today wearing all white.
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes.  I like to wear funky colors, also.  You know, it's not pink, but white I think is a good color.  (Laughter.)  We'll see what I'm going to wear tomorrow.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Can you talk about all of the international players?  We have a record number here, and we have a great many on top of the leaderboard.  What are your thoughts on that?  Is there something about this course that fits the Internationals better than the Americans?
ALEX CEJKA:   Well, not only the course.  You've seen in the past, even on the PGA Tour, there have been many, many more international players.  It's growing.  Everybody likes to play in America, and especially here in Augusta when you get the invite, there's a lot of Europeans here.  We've seen in the past a lot of European champions here.

So, I don't know, it may be around the greens, the Europeans use maybe more technique because we have different courses a little bit.  I don't know, there's been many European champions here.
Q.  Why does everybody like to play in America?  Is it the money, the golf courses?
ALEX CEJKA:   Not only the money, but the golf courses are great.  The weather is always good.  The service, a little bit easier than in Europe.  And, of course, the best players, you want to be where the best players are, where the most World Ranking points are if you want to stay up there.  So it's all combined together.  It's not only the money.
Q.  I know you've probably talked about this many times, but for us, we've never heard you tell it, can you tell us about when you left Czechoslovakia and swam the river?
ALEX CEJKA:   It's been quite a while.  I was actually too young to understand what was going on.  I was on holiday with my father, and he just took me on a trip.  I really didn't know where we were going, what was happening, and suddenly, he hugged me and said, "We did it," and we were in Germany.

For me, it was just a vacation.  I didn't know the risks.  I didn't know what could happen if they catch us.  But it all turned out very good.  We did it.  I'm very proud of my dad, that he made this decision, and tried to do it instead of staying in the Communism.

I think it was in 1980, so it's been a couple of years back.
Q.  Was it a river that you had to swim across?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, I can't remember which one, but I know we swam across the river.
Q.  How wide was it?  You were nine years old.
ALEX CEJKA:   When you're young, everything looks so big.  (Laughter.)  I really don't know.
Q.  Was it at night?
ALEX CEJKA:   It was almost at night, yeah.  You could see but it was very     yeah.
Q.  Just you and your father?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes.
Q.  What did your father do in Czechoslovakia before you guys left ?  What was his job?
ALEX CEJKA:   His job, he was an engineer for machines and a little bit of a musician.  He had a band and he was playing in it, trying to make some extra money.
Q.  What were the risks involved with that?  Were there any sort of risks, and how does golf fit into that childhood?
ALEX CEJKA:   Risks?  In the escape?
Q.  Yes.
ALEX CEJKA:   I think they would shoot us if they catch us, but I don't know.  I was too young.  I really don't know.  It was Communism.  Nobody was allowed to get out.  I don't know, really.  The risk, I guess it was a risk, but I don't know.  I was too young.
Q.  You left Czechoslovakia, and was Germany on the other side?
ALEX CEJKA:   We went to Yugoslavia for holiday.
Q.  Where were you when you got to the other side of the river?
ALEX CEJKA:   I don't know.  I was too young.
Q.  When was the first time you were aware of the Masters?  And you actually played golf in the Czech Republic, didn't you?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes, I started in the Czech Republic.  I just hit some balls because all of my family was playing golf, but I didn't have any teacher.  I think the first teacher, the first lesson I had was in Germany in the Frankfurt area.
Q.  When people ask you, do you consider yourself now more German or more Czech?  When they say, "where are you from," what do you answer?
ALEX CEJKA:   I have a German passport and I used to live many years in Germany, so I consider myself as German.  I was just born in the Czech Republic.
Q.  What's your dad's name?
ALEX CEJKA:   Same as me.
Q.  Is he still alive?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes.
Q.  Did your mother stay in the Czech Republic?
ALEX CEJKA:   No.  My parents divorced when I was two years old.
Q.  Do you have any brothers or sisters?
ALEX CEJKA:   Now, yes, stepbrother, stepsister.
Q.  Given that background, how does it make you look at what you do for a living now?  How does it make you look at your life the way it is now?
ALEX CEJKA:   Of course, it gave me a better opportunity in Germany, because that's where the teachers were, where the opportunities, where the great golf courses were.

I think I wouldn't achieve anything if I would still be in the Czech Republic.  We have a lot of courses still now in the Czech Republic, but, as you see, no real players coming through.  There are no sponsors, no real professionals that can teach you how to play.  Germany was just a great opportunity for me.  I had good teachers in the beginning and great practice facilities.  That's how I got hooked.
Q.  Do you find yourself telling yourself that you feel lucky?
ALEX CEJKA:   Lucky that I got the chance through my father, yes.  Because if I would stay in the Czech Republic, who knows, I may end up working in a factory or like everybody else for $200 a month like it is now.
Q.  Where is your father now?
ALEX CEJKA:   He moved back to the Czech Republic.
Q.  It's been eight years since your last trip here to the Masters.  How has your game and this course different in that time span from your last visit?
ALEX CEJKA:   The game has improved a little bit, I think mentally, especially.  I've got more experience.  '96 was the first tournament in America, first major.  I was young.  I was wild.  Then I played with great players all week long, even on practice days, till Sunday.

So it was a great experience for me.  And, of course, playing the last eight years in Europe and one and a half here in America helped me a lot.  You get to know the players.  You watch, your game improves automatically.  But it's more mentally, I think, I'm ready.
Q.  I haven't looked at the European standings.  Where are you in the Ryder Cup list right now, and is that a big goal for you this year?
ALEX CEJKA:   I think on the list, I'm very, very far back.  (Laughs).

I was collecting points last year, but they didn't count because I was not a member of the European Tour.  I joined the Tour again, so I'm collecting points now, but, I am, of course, far behind.

You know, it's a goal in my career, definitely, but I am many, many points behind, so it's going to be tough.  I just want to play well.
Q.  Are you going to play the 11 this season because of the new stipulation?
ALEX CEJKA:   I think so.  I'm not sure but I'll try.  I think so, yeah.
Q.  Would you still be eligible for a captain's choice for Europe?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes.
Q.  Does it have to be 11?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes, you have to have the chance to finish 11 tournaments.
Q.  Over there?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes.
Q.  Can you talk about playing with Jack Nicklaus?  They just showed you; did you say anything to him in particular when the round was over?
ALEX CEJKA:   Yes, it was a pleasure, again.  I played in '96 with him here on Saturday.  Then I played a couple of times with him in Germany.  He has a few courses there.  So when he opened his courses, I know him a little bit.  I know his son, Gary Nicklaus, very well.  He used to play in Europe and on the Nationwide Tour.  Sometimes we go fishing.

I was not so noticed in '96.  When you know somebody a little bit better, it's easier.
Q.  When you finished your practice round on Wednesday, I think your last shot you chipped in on 9.  Did you feel your preparation this week was good, and were you expecting to do this well during the tournament?
ALEX CEJKA:   Did I chip in on 9?  I really don't know.  (Laughter.)

I had a good preparation.  I was here on the weekend already.  I played the course a few times.  I played every wind, I played in the morning, in the afternoon.  I was ready.  My game is ready.  I'm playing well.  I'm feeling well, mentally, also.  It's nice to be in the position and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Can you tell us what you and Jack said?  I know you paused for a minute and said something there on 18 when you finished.
ALEX CEJKA:   I just told him, it was my pleasure, again.  It's always nice to see you play this way.
Q.  What do you think about     I know he's been saying this might be his last time or probably his last time at Augusta?
ALEX CEJKA:   I don't think it's his last time.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Why do you say that?  Do you think he'll be back?
ALEX CEJKA:   You never know.  But I personally think it's not his last time.
Q.  You don't think that through something he said?
ALEX CEJKA:   No, he didn't say anything.  (Laughter.)
RONALD TOWNSEND:  Thank you very much.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT