ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
Soren Kjeldsen
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about today's round.  
ALEX CEJKA: It feels great.  I think we both played great golf today.  We gave ourselves a lot of chances, and that was the key.  We wanted to give ourselves chances.  We made a couple of other ones.  We see a lot of birdies out there, and we (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Talking to your caddies, they said he was on fire.  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Absolutely.  I think Alex birdied eight of the last 12, so that's the partner you want.  He's not just a pretty face.   
 Q.  How come you two are playing together?  
ALEX CEJKA: I asked Soren a couple months ago if he wants to play, and we've known each other for so many years.  Every time I came over to play in Germany, actually one tournament a year, we always somehow got paired together the first two rounds.  You know, we played some golf together, and while we were here, we said, why don't we try it, and so far it's worked well.   
 Q.  What is it about it that's working well?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, I really enjoy the team format, and obviously (indiscernible) but I think you just have lot of fun.  You need to gel well, and as Alex said, we've known each other for a long time, we get on really well, and I think that's an important part of this format.   
 Q.  I saw the names Cejka and Kjeldsen.  I thought, well, they've got got a J in the second initial of their surnames.  Maybe that's a connection.  But you're European, you played World Cup golf together.  Did this seem like a natural fit for you two out of the blocks?  
ALEX CEJKA: I think so.  I think we are used to playing those tournaments, as you mentioned, like the World Cup and Dunhill Cup and other formats like this.  You know, we're both experienced players.  We both like each other.  So we teamed up, and so far, so good.   
 Q.  Soren, you were coming off the World Cup victory down there at beautiful Kingston Heath in Australia.  Was there any of that experience you brought to the table and thought, this is how we should go about things this week?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: I think it's really important to gel well, and therefore I was very happy to pair up with Alex.  We've known each other for a long time.  We get on really well, and I really enjoyed it.  Alex is sort of a grinder, and I like that.  I see myself like that, as well, so we don't give an inch, and I like that mentality.  I think that's one of the reasons why we gel so well.   
 Q.  Gee, he played well today, didn't he?  
SOREN KJELDSEN: Yeah, incredible.  I think he birdied eight of the last 12.  It was fun to watch.   
ALEX CEJKA: It's a team event, so one day you putt better, you make a couple more birdies, the next day it's your partner.  We just grind for four days, and we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT