RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2016
Alex Cejka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A round with six birdies, how pleased are you with the way you played today?
ALEX CEJKA: I'm very pleased.  It was tricky ^  the last two days.  I knew it was going to be tough.  It always is, Saturday, moving day, windy conditions.  I thought just play the same golf as the last couple days.  Don't make any stupid mistakes.  Sometimes 3-wood off the tee and just keep it in the fairway and give myself a couple good looks at birdies.  You know, I putted pretty good today.
Q. Talk me through this putt at the last, the last birdie on the card, 84 feet across the 18th green.
ALEX CEJKA: I hit a bad drive to the right.  I had to lay up and then it was impossible to stop it, and it was a huge break.  I was just going to judge the pace right (laughter).  Obviously it's a great bonus to finish a hole like this.
Q. 7-under, you're in great shape?
ALEX CEJKA: I'm feeling comfortable.  Again, the wind makes this course pretty tricky.  You drive it far, because it's pretty firm, but it makes the approach shots a little bit tricky, because if you're in the bunker, downwind, on firm greens, it's tough to stop.  You've got to play -- a little bit tricky out there, and if you make the putts, it's rewarding.
Q. Looking forward to having a run at this tomorrow?
ALEX CEJKA: Definitely.  It's been awhile since I've been going for it, so I've got to be excited to go.  Going to try to do my best tomorrow.
I think it's my longest putt I've holed in two, three, four decades probably.  No, it's a great bonus.  I played pretty solid all day.  Obviously 18, if you hit a good one drive, it's a birdie hole and a lot of guys make birdies, even sometimes eagle.
After hitting a bad drive and a bad lay up and a bad third, it's a great feeling to see that go in, yeah.
Q. You're going to be in touch with the leaders going off late on Sunday.
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, it will be great.  I want to sleep in.  Old bones, I need a lot of sleep.  It's going to be nice.  The weather is nice.  I like it here.  I've been coming here for so many years to play this Open.  It's nice to play for the championship.
Q. Were you playing to tomorrow's pin placement on 18?
ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, I saw the dot on the back right.
Left me a tough approach.  The greens being firm, downwind, the pin was four paces on, it was tough.  I was at least trying to get it middle of the green.  Obviously I ended up all the way in the back fringe.  My goal was just let's do a nice 2-putt and finish it off.  Obviously that was a big, big bonus, unexpected.  That's perfect.  Sometimes comes out of nowhere.
Q. Can you describe how this golf course is playing?
ALEX CEJKA: It's difficult.  The wind, I mean, it's playing firm, first of all.  So you hit a lot of long drives.  But then the pins are four paces past the bunker on firm greens.  It's 20 miles an hour downwind so it's tough to stop it.  Sometimes you have to play -- like four times today, I didn't go for the pin.  I had to go for the safe side and 2-putt it.  It's just tricky.  It all depends on what the wind is doing.  I know it's going to be warm and hot again.  Just got to play good golf and just hang in there.
Q. With the golf course playing so difficult, you have a lot of experience.  I'm assuming experience and knowing how to play and knowing how to win is going to be a big difference here.
ALEX CEJKA: Well, I think everybody in the field has a lot of experience.  Everybody who is playing here is a great player.  They all know how to play good golf.  But it's nice to play up there again in the last couple groups.  It's been awhile.  I've been playing great the last couple months, but never kind of like finished it off.  I've put like really three good rounds together and I'm really looking forward to play tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT