VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Joey Slye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Virginia Tech - 23, Boston College - 10
Q. Is it nice to get it out of the way?
JOEY SLYE: Yeah, yeah, honestly there's just been a lot of talk about it, and honestly for me, it's just something that's just been there.  If I do my job, it's going to come anyway, so I've really just been focused on what I can do to help the team and kind of those victories will come with everything.  But it is just kind of nice to kind of get away from talking about it pretty much.
Q. How do you sort of evaluate this season?  You're only halfway through.  It's been interesting because you're chasing all these records and all that stuff, but you've also had some frustrations that you haven't had to deal with at other points in your career.  You came in like 8 of 13 I think it was.  How do you sort of evaluate so far?
JOEY SLYE: Honestly with myself, I've been pretty disappointed, just in the opportunities that I'm working my butt off for the last five, six years that I've been starting kicking, and like I said, I've really been working my butt off to be as efficient as I can be for the team, not just myself but for the team.  When they send me out there, I've got to make the kicks, because a lot of times let's say we sputter on the first series and we need to kick a field goal.  Like points matter in the game, of course, and finishing the drive with something positive can help our offense just look forward to something, gets our kickoff team unit on there, and my kickoffs have been pretty good this year.  So giving our defense good starting position and all that stuff has been important.  Just like being able to do that for my team is more important than accumulating points or accumulating field goals over the years.  The fact that Coach Fuente sent me out there for those short chip shots that I feel like I should have made and I walk off the field not making them is disappointing for myself, and then also the harder part is like kind of having my defense go out there like realizing like my kicker just missed from really short.  It's been frustrating.  I've been very consistent inside of 40 since I've gotten here, so having these inconsistencies this year, like I said, it's just been really disappointing.  But it's also kind of like a silver lining where I'm dealing with some adversity that I've never had to deal with since I've gotten here, so it's been good to work through, but it's something that I don't feel like working through anymore.  I definitely feel like I've got my head on back straight and feel confident in my kicking.
Q. What was the reaction from your teammates when you set the record on the sideline?
JOEY SLYE: They informed me again.  As soon as the game starts, I just -- I don't really even focus on how many points I'm making.  Like a field goal is a field goal, a PAT is the same thing.  I'm just trying to go out there and make my kicks.  I came over to the sideline, and one of our recruiting guys, he actually came up to me and said, congratulations, and I was like, appreciate it.  I thought he was just saying good job for the field goal.  And he's like, you know you just broke the record.  I was like, no, I didn't, but appreciate it.  Yeah, I just kind of lost focus of it just because it's important to me because it's like an accumulation of my work, but at the same time, I'm just trying to help our team win.
Q. I know you're in the middle of a season and Shane is in the middle of a season, but have you communicated with him at all?
JOEY SLYE: Yeah, we text every week.  He's not just like an alumni at Virginia Tech to me or a kicking coach to talk to.  He's like a true friend.  Like we'll talk about whatever.  It's definitely cool to build a relationship with him, especially with all the stuff that's been happening this year.  But honestly I'm just really thankful for the friendship he's given me for the past couple years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT