THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2010
James Nitties
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've been through this already, but comment on being at THE PLAYERS for the first time?   
 JAMES NITTIES: It's awesome. It's kind of like a dream come true. You know, last year I was third alternate and spent a week here wondering if I was going to get in the tournament. You see the hype of the tournament building up and everyone talking about it. It's kind of disappointing.   
 Then when I got my card at the end of last year and I knew I was going to be playing THE PLAYERS, it's unbelievable. It's the biggest purse I've ever played in my whole life. I've come from two years ago playing the Hooters Tour for a $200,000 purse, and now I'm playing for $9.5 million. So $200,000 is probably like a Top 15 place here.   
 So, it's one of those things where I looked forward to it all year, and now I'm finally here. It's exciting, and I'm ready to get out there and see what it's all about all the hype's about.  
  
  Q. When did you play 17 for the first time?   
 JAMES NITTIES: I haven't really played it yet (laughing). I'm going to go out there. I've driven around and sort of walked it a couple of times. So you get that feeling. But it's going to be fun. Obviously, they've got the caddies getting the shots today and they get a prize.   
 So I'm going to be trying to get some feedback, but I'm also going to have a group out there. So it will be good how it plays under tournament conditions. And Sunday when you have 30,000 people around the hole, it makes it a little bit more daunting. I'm the type of guy that I find that one fun, so I look forward to it.   
  
  Q. Just discuss the state of your game coming into this week?   
 JAMES NITTIES: My results wouldn't lean towards me playing really well this year, but I'm actually playing some of the best golf I've played in a long time. So it's just one of those things I'll get a little bit of confidence. I can go from missing the cut to being at the top of the leaderboard.   
 My game's really good at the moment. I've just got to put it all together and hopefully this I will.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT