BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
James Nitties
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. James, great round. Just talk about what you had going good out there today. 
 JAMES NITTIES: Yeah. It was a little surprising. I had three weeks off and had an injury problem with my neck, and I've literally done absolutely nothing for three weeks. I haven't hit any golf shots. 
 So my goal this week was just to come out and maybe finish top 30, top 20 and sort of feel things out and try and get something going. 
 Yeah, I played great. I've slowed my swing down because I've been tentative because of my injury, and I hit it really well. I slowed the swing down and actually threw out some good shots and holed a couple of putts that you should hole there and had a lot of good birdie opportunities. 

 Q. When did you first pick up the club this week? Tuesday, Wednesday?
 JAMES NITTIES: Well, I did pick up the club on Saturday. It was sort of, I played nine holes with my physio actually, and that was the test. And then we played 18. So we played 18 on Sunday. 
 And that was fun. And then I had a day off Monday. I was traveling, and then Tuesday I played 18 and got a little bit of practice yesterday, so sort of easing my way into it, but it's just -- the way it went, I pulled it, and it was really painful and sort of scared of that happening again. And we've been working on a bunch of stuff to prevent it, not just giving me short time away. 

 Q. Any pain out there at all?
 JAMES NITTIES: No. I'm just stiff because I haven't been moving my neck much, so I think it's just muscular. 
 If you don't move your neck sideways for three weeks, you're obviously going to get stiff. No. It's not an excuse. It didn't affect my golf swing.

 Q. Back at 18, I didn't see the score change. Was that a birdie at 18?
 JAMES NITTIES: No. It was par. I hit a par chip down.

 Q. So the way you were thinking top 30, top 20. Now you've put yourself in contention. How does that change the way you're going to think tomorrow?
 JAMES NITTIES: Well, I'll reassess my goals. I give myself realistic goals and then I reassess them. So now obviously it's Top 10, Top 5, and obviously if I'm leading tomorrow or next day, I won't need it. 
 So I give myself realistic goals, and it doesn't give you too much of bad thoughts if you don't make your goals straightaway. So I give myself slow goals this week.

 Q. Do you aim right at the pins with the greens as soft as they are or how are they playing?
 JAMES NITTIES: Yeah. There's about six pretty easy birdie opportunities. The par-5s you're playing smart. You're always going to be around the green or on the green and having that short putt for birdie. And the two par-4s you can pretty much drive it up on the green. 
 So if you play the holes aggressive and the short and easy holes, they're the type of holes you play smart in. The greens are a little soft now, but they're quick downhill, so I'm sure they're going to get a lot quicker and a little bit firmer as the week goes on.

 Q. I heard you talking about your countrymen over there. You guys are playing great today. 
 JAMES NITTIES: Yeah. No, it was fun to play with Greg. He's another guy I sort of looked up to growing up and learned a lot from him out there today. He's been a bit of a veteran out here on the Tour. 
 And Green, last week, won the Canadian Open. I grew up with him in Newcastle, and used to look up to him as well, so it's been good positive stuff coming from the Australia. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT