U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Cameron Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was an epic battle; there was never more than a hole lead the whole way.
CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah.  I don't think I had a lead until -- I had a lead early and then it was a while.  We were all square, he was 1-up for a long time.  It was one of those you expect to go right down to the end from the very beginning.  I made a 12-footer on the very first hole to tie the hole, and from that point forward, it was just kind of knowing it was going to be a long match.  It's one of those you just have to hang in there.  I couldn't have asked myself to do much more than I did the last five holes down the end, and it just came out the right way today.
Q. You're no stranger to extra-hole matches.  Does that help you in these situations?
CAMERON YOUNG: Absolutely, yeah.  You know, I played a really long one once, went 24 holes.  I played a couple 19-hole ones in the past couple years.  But yeah, I think Stephen played unbelievably well down the end.  I had three or four putts to win the match the last six or seven holes, and he kept making them before me or forced me to make some, and he never really made a mistake.  Hit a great shot there, unfortunate that he had that difficult of a putt, but he seemed like he made a lot of -- almost everything he looked at the whole day.
Q. Pretty good two-putt here on the last hole.
CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, my mom told me that I was going to make it.  I had a feeling I might, and I thought I did about halfway there, but just barely missed on the right.  But yeah, hanging in there and two-putting a couple of those long runs really helps out here.  You get some tough two-putts over bridges and downslopes and all that.
Q. If you remember, how did the birdie the 12th to make it all square?
CAMERON YOUNG: I hit it about 60 yards right of the fairway and then hit like a low hook 6-iron around some trees into the right rough and took a full swing at that from 60 yards and happened to go the right distance and made like a 12-footer down the hill.
Q. And then you won 13 to get the lead?
CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, 13, he hit a bad chip on 13, and I just two-putted from down below the slope.
Q. 18, that was a long, about a 60-footer you had where you almost had to take it up into the rough.
CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, yeah, I actually hit it into the fringe and it still didn't get within 12 feet of the hole.  It was just a bad second shot.  I kind of knew that slope was there and I knew if I was long it was going to be hard, and just a little bit of adrenaline and hit it a little bit too hard, and left myself in a tough spot there.  But happy with how I handled the next two holes after that.
Q. Last one on that fourth hole here, what did you think when you hit it off the tee and it went left?
CAMERON YOUNG: Believe it or not, I was almost in my own divot from stroke play, so I kind of had a feeling it might be all right, but I was really lucky to have that nice of a shot, and actually had a really nice look at about 105 yards, so that was a good break, which you need to win a match like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT