U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Cameron Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI: We welcome Cameron Young from Scarborough, New York, defeated Kyle Jones 2 & 1.  What as the key to your match today?   CAMERON YOUNG: Coming into it, I've been playing well and just really happy with how I've been hitting the ball.  The first couple days I played solid and then I got a little lucky, a couple good breaks here and there the last couple days.  I just put myself right there and made a couple putts when I needed to. He made a bogey on 16, and I 2-putted from about 35 feet for par to keep me 1-up through 16.  That helped a lot knowing that I had one hole -- actually that put me back to 2-up.  So I was dormie and just had to play for some pars, just hoping he wouldn't make a birdie coming down the stretch.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CAMERON YOUNG: Definitely the putt on the last hole 25-,  20-footer downhill after he made his putt for birdie.  To make that one was pretty special.   Q.  What did you feel when you made that?  CAMERON YOUNG: Complete relief.  I'd been up and then I gave it back a little bit and to make that last putt was really key.   Q.  It's probably unfair to ask you about historical perspectives at your age, but do you have a sense of the accomplishment to be as young as you are and to be where you are?  CAMERON YOUNG: Not really honestly.  I grew up, there's been a lot of really good college players right around where I live, so I've grown up the last few years playing against people that were a little older than me and I've always put myself right with them and just kind of tried to be the same age I guess. One of them, Cameron Wilson, who would be in the NCAAs this year, lives right around me and we play the same tournaments.  Max Buckley, who I think missed the match play by one; and Mike Miller who recently turned pro, I think last year, who was close to medalist in this last year, they are all right by me and were five and six years older.  I think that really helped, and just making me feel like I belong here and like I should be playing here.   PETE KOWALSKI: As someone who has had a very successful junior career, where does playing at the U.S. Amateur rank?   CAMERON YOUNG: It's definitely one of my top achievements.  I missed the match play by one and was so happy with how I played, and then to come back and qualify for match play and win a few matches has definitely been one of the best things I've done.   Q.  Do you see the maturation process in yourself?  CAMERON YOUNG: Definitely, just being a year older and knowing my own game a little better, and just feeling more and more like I belong here and like I can play with anybody here.   Q.  As a young man, how does the two matches in one day -- are you feeling well or are you tired?  CAMERON YOUNG: I really feel fine.  I've done it so much in junior golf and in amateur golf at home, that it's not out of the ordinary to play 36 holes in a day.  I feel fine going into tomorrow.   Q.  Did you have to change your mind-set at all?  CAMERON YOUNG: Not a whole lot.  I've kept the same game plan from the first tee on every match, even in stroke play.  I really stuck to the same plan, trying to hit to the same spots.  I don't think that will change tomorrow. I've played a lot, because a lot of the Junior tournaments, the U.S. Junior, AJGA Invitationals, a lot of them are match play and I've played a lot of it.  I've got a lot of experience and played it a whole bunch.   Q.  Do you think that might be an advantage over the college guys who really don't play match play other than the NCAAs?  CAMERON YOUNG: Could be a little bit.  They are all really good players but definitely helps us having that mind-set and having done it a lot.  I'm sure they all did in junior golf, too.  Yeah, it could be a little advantage, just having more recent than a lot of them have.   Q.  Are you finding this golf course allows you to be aggressive in spots?  CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, it does.  I mean, you have the first four holes are really tough.  You get out of those with four pars and you're doing really well and then you have a really tough finish starting at 15. But those holes in the middle, there's a lot of holes where if you get it in play, you have short irons, and you can make some birdies.  But you just have to pick your spots in there and be careful when you need to.   PETE KOWALSKI: Congratulations.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT