U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2014
Cameron Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Cameron, crazy match, going back and forth.  You had a lead going to 17.  What were you thinking when you lost the lead?  CAMERON YOUNG: I was frustrated because it wasn't that hard of a shot on 17.  It was a pretty good yardage.  Just a half a 6-iron.  I just kind of blocked it.  And then the chips were tougher.  I didn't hit one -- I didn't have a chip since the front nine, so the greens got a lot firmer between the last time I hit it.  So I hit two in a row a little too hard. But then I just thought, 18 is a par 5.  I hit it -- if I hit a good drive, I would get there in two very easily.  So it was just all gone by the time I got to the tee on 18.  I was really focused on hitting that drive there.   Q.  Tyler had about a 9-footer to win the match on 18.  What was going through your mind when he was over the putt?  CAMERON YOUNG: That's not the fun part at all, having a match in someone else's hands.  I thought he was going to make it honestly because he had not made a putt in a while.  He had missed a couple short ones and I really thought he was going to make that one.  Got lucky there.   Q.  And obviously you played a pretty good 19th hole here.  When you looked at that 35-footer, what did you see?  Because you got up to it pretty quickly, like you knew you would have a chance to make it.  CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, it was a really constant slope, so it wasn't too hard to read.  I probably played about two feet out left.  And then I was just really focused on getting speed because I had hit so many putts that rolled real close to the hole and the speed was a little off, a little short, a little long.  So if I got the speed right, I knew I was going to have a chance.  It was just a really good putt.   Q.  And then the feeling when you see that go in the hole?  CAMERON YOUNG: Yeah, a little surprised obviously, from that far away, those don't go in all the time but I hit it right where I wanted to, good speed.  So I was about due to make one.   Q.  Obviously you move on and you're going to play eyes I can't low tomorrow.  He beat Same Horsfield.  Do you know much about him?  CAMERON YOUNG: I've heard the name but I don't know him well.  But Sam's a good player, so I'm sure he played well to beat him, and it will be a fun match tomorrow.   Q.  Now that you've advanced one, and you've been through some many the USGA events, what is your mind-set going into that next round now?  CAMERON YOUNG: It's the same, really, same game plan, same everything pretty much.  Just try to play my own game and not worry too much about what everybody else is doing because it's just me beating another guy.  It's just taking the same plan and the same golf course tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT