MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 23, 2015
Eric Bovaird
Rohndell Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 123  Chaminade - 72
THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Coach Eric Bovaird and Rohndell Goodwin to the media room.  Opening statement, Coach?
COACH BOVAIRD: Yeah, we'll just forget about that game, and let's tip it up and play another one (laughing).
They were what we expected.  They were big, strong, and they come at you in waves, and we were hoping that they would not shoot the ball from the perimeter as well as they did.  Our whole goal was to try to help our guys on the inside as much as possible.  We knew they were going to try to high-low us to death, and you just kind of hope that they don't knock down outside shots, and they did.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Rohndell now.
Q. You guys took, I think it was, 33 threes.  You were talking about, I guess for Rohndell, talking about the size they have, was that sort of a product of the number of threes that you guys took?
ROHNDELL GOODWIN: No, size didn't have anything to do with it.  We have great shooters on our team.  Tonight they just weren't falling the way we usually shoot the ball.  Next time we go, they have to start falling.
Q. What was the toughest part about defending those guys?
ROHNDELL GOODWIN: Just say the big guys.  We were going over film all week, trying to clear us out on the weak side, stealing them.  They were trying to seal us the whole game, the high-low offense.  I said that was the toughest part.  They just made good shots when it was open, and we've just got to work on our defense.
Q. With your zone, were you trying to force them to make outside shots?
COACH BOVAIRD: Yeah, without a doubt.  The zone has been successful for us in years past against teams that had great big guys like Baylor, and Pittsburgh last year.  You've got to pick your poison when you're playing a team like Kansas.
Most of my team is 6'5" and under.  They're good at every position, don't get me wrong, but it's a heck of a lot easier to make a lay-up than it is to make a three-point shot.  So our goal was to try to take away scoring from two, three feet from the basket and hope that they get cold outside and they would start panicking a little bit and things could have been different.  But, yeah, I knew they were going to get open perimeter shots, and you just kind of count on them hopefully having a cold night.
Q. First few minutes, Coach, it was kind of ugly both ways.  No one really had a rhythm.  Do you think that played into your favor at that point?  Could you keep that going?
COACH BOVAIRD: Yeah, a lot of times whenever, if you watch us play outside of maybe like tonight and maybe in the Maui Invitational, but a lot of our games are very up-tempo, very chaotic, and a lot of fast pace.  We try to get really good at transition basketball and force other teams to play that.
But it was ugly at the start.  We finished at the half, 4 for 18 from the three-point line, and I thought about eight of them were wide open shots that we normally knock down.  I think things could have been differently if we even shot our normal percentage from wide open threes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT