EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 20, 2012
Eric Bovaird
DeAndre Haskins
Bennie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach Bovaird, some opening comments? 
COACH BOVAIRD:   Illinois is a tough team that can really shoot the basketball.   We knew that coming into it, obviously, if you watched the USTA game last night.   I watched the first half, and I thought there was no way they could shoot the ball like that on back‑to‑back nights.   But they're a really good team.

Q.   Were you concerned about a possible letdown after last night's big win? 
COACH BOVAIRD:   I don't think so.   I think these guys were amped up to play this game also.   We just came across a really good team.   They know how to play defense, too.   We had a harder time than we've ever had getting into the paint and creating things.   We had ten turnovers in the first half, and a lot of it was from penetrating.   Sometimes we'd lose our balance or just lose the ball. 
He's a good coach.   That's why he is where he is.   They can get after it defensively, and on the other end, they're like instant offense.

Q.   What are your thoughts on NorthCarolina tomorrow after they go down to defeat tonight? 
COACH BOVAIRD:   Well, I've always wanted to play NorthCarolina.   I was hoping it would be in the championship game, but I'm looking forward to it.   It's a program that I think we've all looked up to for a long time.   To have the opportunity to play against some of the best recruits in the country, one of the best coaches in the country.   It's going to be fun.   We're hoping we can get after it and be right there at the end of the game.

Q.   Probably going to have an angry NorthCarolina team tomorrow, but you guys played down to the final second tonight.   There was no letdown on your team at all.   How do you get up for tomorrow? 
COACH BOVAIRD:   Whenever you see who you're playing, when you realize you're playing NorthCarolina, you better get up and be ready.   I know they will be.   I'm not worried about that at all.   These kids have been practicing all their life for the opportunity to play against NorthCarolina.   We'll come out and get after it.   I'm sure they will.   So I'm hoping it's a really good game.

Q.   Can any of you players talk about the defensive pressure that Illinois put on you and how you guys kind of reacted to that? 
DeANDRE HASKINS:   They're a good defensive team.   They played together, but, honestly, I felt like we could have‑‑ personally, I need to look for my teammates more.   Especially when I dribble drive, they were open.   They were open a lot of times because they were keying in on me because of what happened yesterday.   I've got to do a better job of driving and kicking and looking for my teammates.   That's all around.   But that's for me personally.   But they're a good defensive team.   You saw the outcome.

Q.   Can you guys talk about the excitement or the anticipation of playing NorthCarolina tomorrow? 
BENNIE MURRAY:   It's very exciting, but we can't just look at it like that.   We've got to look at it like another game.   I say it all the time.   These guys put their shorts and their jerseys on just like us.   So we're coming out not to ask for autographs and to look up to these guys.   We're coming out to beat them.   So that's what's on our minds.   I know that's what's on his mind and everybody else in the locker room.   We're coming out to win.
DeANDRE HASKINS:   I played NorthCarolina before, my freshman year.   So I'm trying to get a little revenge right now, Tyler Hansbrough.   Everybody knows that.
BENNIE MURRAY:   I think that was a 56‑point loss.
DeANDRE HASKINS:   Which one?   At Valpo? 

Q.   I think Coach told me it was a 56‑point loss.   I thought that was the one you're trying to avenge? 
DeANDRE HASKINS:   No, I played against Valpo my freshman year, and they beat us by‑‑ I'm not even going to comment.   Hopefully we'll play hard and at least compete as hard as we can against these guys.   We're all human at the end of the day.

Q.   Can you speak to the excitement and the buzz surrounding the whole state?   Everyone usually identified with Chaminade being their team.   But today you were Hawaii's team as well, and you had a lot of supports in the stands as well. 
COACH BOVAIRD:   Yeah, we were really excited to get our student body over here.   They were pumped up and ready to go.   The excitement throughout the state, I never realized until I woke up this morning that I had more than three friends.   I had like 80 text messages.   It was pretty wild.   It was pretty good for the whole Chaminade Ohana.   Hopefully we can give them something to be proud about too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT