BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2019
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Can you tell us about your win today?
HA NA JANG: I think that I played to the level of this game which is the best, and I'm also happy that I went into Playoffs with one of my closest friends, Danielle Kang.
Q. So it was a very close game throughout, however, toward the end, you really managed to set the pace of the game. Was it your mind-set? What did you do?
HA NA JANG: I think that this were two very big risks during my game. The first came at No. 14, and the second at No. 16, but after making a very difficult par putt at 16, and then on 17, my ball hit the tree and it went into the fairway. I thought that perhaps luck was on my side, and I think making an eagle during this round was very big.
Q. How is your ankle doing right now? And now you've earned your LPGA card again. What are your plans and thoughts? You won over one of your closest friends. Did you feel sorry at all?
HA NA JANG: First of all, my ankle is not so good at the moment, and perhaps because I have been playing with my ankle not being so well, I was able to manage today. Next week, I'm not going to be playing.
As for going back to the LPGA, there's a lot to discuss. My mother is not quite well yet. I think I would have an answer for you regarding returning to the LPGA later on. I can't say right now.
As far Danielle, she's a really good friend but out on the course, we're really good rivals. She's really good competition, and we've had this relationship for 15 years. I don't really feel sorry for her. I'm just really happy that we managed to make a really good memory on this course.
Q. What did you say to Danielle Kang after the game?
HA NA JANG: I've been playing golf professionally for 17, 18 years and I think there's really nothing that you can say to that player at that moment. You can just say that they did a good job and thank them and they can play better next time. For Danielle and me, we're so close friends, I don't think we really needed to say anything to be able to know what we were thinking.
Q. How did you feel your chances of victory were before the tournament, and how do you look to build on this victory for the future?
HA NA JANG: As for just this round, after the 11th hole, I kind of felt that I could really win this event. So I eagle-putted that hole and I knew that I could turn things around to my advantage, so that's when I really felt like I could win.
As for the second part of your question, nobody really knows what the future holds, and I just hope that through this experience, I can grow, and so I don't really have any grandiose goals or anything that I want particularly, but I just hope to grow as a player.
Q. You have won two major tournaments in the second half of this year, and then in the first half of this year, you came runner-up three times and you were in the Top-1012 times. So was there anything that you did differently or did something change coming from the first half to the second half?
HA NA JANG: This year, of course, winning was one of my goals, but a bigger goal was to play consistently. Last year, I did really well in the first half and I didn't do so well in the second half. I felt that I really wanted to play consistently, and I think that having struggled in the last half of last year, actually made a foundation for me to do well because it enabled me to build experience.
So I think the second half of last year helped me win two big events this season.
Q. So you said that you are going to take next week off. You're now on top of the money ranking, and there are a lot of titles to be won. Do you want to win any of those, and what are your plans for the remaining year?
HA NA JANG: I did not know I was on top of the money ranking and I think that if I wanted to win all these accolades and titles, I would definitely be playing next week.
I think right now, instead of winning all these different titles, is to be a really happy and fulfilled golfer. In fact, my injury is pretty bad, so I'm going to take some time off and then I'm going to take part in the last event, the ADT event.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT