BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2019
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HA NA JANG: The doctors actually recommended that I skip the remaining events. So I've been very careful, not practicing as much. But I did walk for the Pro-am event and practice rounds so it is a bit tired but I am being careful refraining from practicing after my rounds. The pain has definitely gotten better compared to Blue Heron.
Q. How did you manage to score so well today with such pain?
HA NA JANG. I got injured when I felt I was hitting well. So that was really disheartening. But I decided to change my attitude. An athlete can't always be physically fit and perfect so I tried to look for ways I can improve my performance despite the pain/injury and that has led to good results.
Q. You missed one event, withdrew from another… and yet you are playing so well today some may think you are faking it(laughs)?
HA NA JANG: I went to the hospital the day after the Blue Heron event. They told me I had a fatigue-induced fracture, when you use your feet a lot you can get hairline fractures. So I stayed home to the point where my mom got worried. But ultimately I think taking care of myself and taking that break will help my game in the long run.
Q: It's been a while since you played at an LPGA event, I know you hold the LPGA events held in Korea close to your heart. Do you come in with a different mindset when it comes to these events?
HA NA JANG: For me, the LPGA event held here during this time of year is an annual event. So it's an event I’m honored to take part in and cannot miss. So it feels more like a festival rather than a competition so I really try to have fun.
Q: You get to meet friends…
HA NA JANG: Yeah. Sure. I'm actually close with Danielle and she is really happy to see me. And also the members of the press are really welcoming as well. So it really feels like home. Everybody is really welcoming and warm. So here I can really forget what's been troubling me for the year, it's like a breath of fresh air.
Q: What about your round today?
HA NA JANG: I made some mistakes early on, but they aren't the type that will carry over to the remaining two rounds. So that's good. I think I finished strong. I was thinking "Hey I'm not doing too bad considering I haven’t been able to practice as much."
Q: You were hitting so well…
HA NA JANG: I have been doing a lot of work that can make up for my right foot and I think that is paying off.
Q: What were the greens like and how would you assess your performance on the green today?
HA NA JANG: Green condition is good but a little sandy. It is difficult to read the putting lines and speed on these greens. I would give myself a 90 out of 100. Of course, there are parts of my game I am not fully satisfied with but that can help me focus more tomorrow.
Q: Game plan for tomorrow and Sunday.
HA NA JANG: There is more wind in the forecast for the next two rounds but then again this course is known to be windy. I think I won't disappoint myself as long as I don't get too greedy out there. I played here 6 years ago once. I always tend to play well in Busan. So I feel comfortable. I get along great with the gallery here!
Q: Goals?
HA NA JANG: Of course I would like to win. But the conditions on this course change every day. So it's really too early to set goals. Based just on my performance today I hope to come in the top 5 or top 3. Of course, winning is the best wherever you are… Korea…. Japan… I have so many good memories on Tour… and frankly sometimes I feel maybe I am forgotten on the LPGA scene but as I said earlier everybody still remembers me and welcomes me.
Q: If you win will you go back and play in the US?
HA NA JANG: I can't really say but I think not. My mom she has back problems but it's gotten a lot better and my dad isn't getting any younger. Also I enjoy playing here there is not much for want. I also want to get married.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT