BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Brandon Sebastian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 35, Virginia Tech - 28   
 Q.  Walk us through the first pick. I mean, five of them in one game for a defense that was labeled at inexperienced. What does that say about what you were able to do as a defense?  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: It gave us a lot of confidence, especially in the back end. We had a little bit of inexperience, but now we started off with Virginia Tech, and that's a great game to start off with. Now we can be more prepared to play more ACC opponents. We have that experience now. We've just got to get better each day.   
 Q.  Tell us about your pick.  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: About my pick? I was in zone coverage, and I seen him staring at the receiver. That just gave me an indicator that he's about to release it. His front hand come off the ball, and I just had to attack it and finish the play.   
 Q.  Brandon, Coach was mentioning that this was kind of like a statement game. Usually your first game opponents aren't as strong. Just talk about what it means to beat a team like Virginia Tech in the opener.  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: It means a lot to us, especially the whole team. They're a tough ACC opponent every year. We just had to go out there and play our best ball, especially on our defensive side. We hold everyone accountable to just do their job at a high level, and that's what we did, despite we have younger guys on the team, and that's fine, and we did our job.   
 Q.  What does it mean, Brandon, for this defense on the younger side to come in and beat a team like Virginia Tech and have a couple of big defensive holes and create turnovers? What does that do for a young defensive team?  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: It gives us a lot of confidence going into the next game. Weeks after that, it gives us a lot of confidence, especially from a young team. I know when I was a young player and I would make plays, it give me a confidence boost. So I feel like we hold everyone accountable of doing their job. This is a great team win for us. Just hold everyone accountable doing their job and give them the confidence.   
 Q.  What does it say about the way you played defense, specifically in the red zone? You guys stopped a lot near the goal line and things like that. A lot of big plays?  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: Huge plays. That's what we talk about most. When we get in the red zone, we kind of have to stop. When we get stops in the red zone, we're high fiving each other. The more red zone stops, we take it as a win for the defense.   
 Q.  Coming into the year, the defense was underrated. Did you guys use that as a chip on your shoulder? How did you guys prepare for Game 1?  
BRANDON SEBASTIAN: Definitely. We used that as a chip on our shoulder. Coming in, we don't really pay attention to the media, but I'm sure they were talking about the defensive line and the DBs, especially with a bunch of guys leaving. We've showcased our talent today, and if we just keep doing our job at a high level, we'll be fine throughout the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT