CHAMP CAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 19, 2006
John Brunner
Peter Davies
John Edwards
Robert Wickens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: Thank you for having me.   
  
  
  
PETER  DAVIES: Thank you, Merrill.   
  
  
  
  
  
PETER  DAVIES: First of all, on behalf of  Forsythe Racing, we'll very proud to partner with Red Bull. They are an extraordinary company. They've become deeply entrenched in some of  the world's most exciting sports. We're  very excited that they've chosen Champ Car World Series and the Atlantic  program in which to become involved in the premiere open-wheel racing.   
  
That was a  relationship which really came out of their involvement in Formula One and  their relationship formally with Cosworth, which of course Mr. Forsythe and Mr.  Kalkhoven have an interest in. They've  met the principals. They were able to  share their vision of the Champ Car and the Atlantic programs with them. Happily Red Bull thought this was a very good  place to bring themselves as a brand, as far as regards to Atlantic goes, to  bring Robert and John to Forsythe.   
  
  
  
PETER  DAVIES: As far as the drivers go, that  would be an interesting question to ask Robert and John as to why they felt  they'd been picked. But certainly their  results speak for themselves. All of the  teams that are in Atlantic and Champ Car are interested in the young drivers, the talents coming  up through the various championships. These  two young men have proved themselves at the stages they've been in.   
  
Clearly an  organization with the resources and the vision that Red Bull has to secure for  themselves both personalities and talents has identified them both and taken  them through the Formula BMW USA and the European programs. They felt the next logical step for them was  to come to the Atlantic Series, deep fields of talented individuals. Having developed the relationship with Kevin  Kalkhoven and Gerry Forsythe, we at Forsythe had a recently reestablished  Atlantic program, and this would be a good place for them not only in terms of  I hope our reputation for good equipment, John can talk to that, but also  providing a mentoring environment for these younger drivers to mature and  develop as they hone their skills on the track.   
  
  
  
  
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: The drivers, both Robert and  John, have done an excellent job so far.  They've completed four of their six off-season test days. All four have went very well for both of  them. We're quite impressed with their  maturity in the car. They are  young. That doesn't show through in  their abilities inside of the car at all.  We've been really impressed with the work they've done so far.   
  
They've  given outstanding feedback. They're very  accomplished in the car. It's amazing  for the age. Quite unbelievable.   
  
  
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: We were a four-car program last  year. With us returning to the series,  all the new excitement surrounding the series last year, when we decided to put  a program in place to join with the new car, the Mazda motor, the $2 million  prize, all of it really came into play. When  we decided to jump back in, we wanted to go all in basically. We did come out as a four-car team.   
  
With the  2006 season over, we had a good season. We  ran up front all year, which was our focus.  Going into this year, though, we felt that it was important to focus  more on the two cars, work with John and Robert. The series is very strong on its own. We weren't just positive at the beginning of  last year. When we made our plans, Gerry  wanted to be very active in that new program.  And obviously the new series is stronger than ever, stronger than it's  been in a long, long time. So this year  we will focus on our two cars. The  series is in fine shape otherwise.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: Obviously, being a Canadian,  getting the opportunity to be a part of Forsythe, really it's an honor. In Denver when I was fortunate enough to sign  the contract with Forsythe and Red Bull, I was speechless just being on the  same table with Gerry Forsythe. Everything  has just pretty much a dream come true.  I find myself pinching myself making sure I'm not sleeping.   
  
Hopefully  next year will go pretty well. Obviously  every driver hopes to win the championship.  I think with the consistent finishes, you can get a decent result.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: The past couple years have had  a lot of unexpected turns. I was  supposed to be karting in Europe, and then one driver got released so I moved up to replace him at a  very young age. I was the youngest  driver in the series by a couple of years.  It was a pretty steep learning curve.  I started off at the back, worked my way forward. By the end, I won a race in the North  European Championship. I was honestly  expecting to be in another year of Formula Renault just because of my age,  where I had been so far.   
  
I was  really ecstatic to hear that I was going to be with Forsythe because obviously  driving the same car for two years, you're not going to learn much about the  car in the third year. To hop into a car  that has so much downforce, with a team that teaches you everything you need to  know, it's great because, again, it's another really steep learning curve. In only four days I've learned really just so  much. The Forsythe program has really  helped us both.   
  
  
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: No. I mean, it doesn't really matter if I'm 15 or  18 or something. There are still going  to be veteran guys that have had more experience in the car. That's always going to happen no matter how  old you are. We're just going to have to  work to overcome that.   
  
I think  we've got a great package for next year.  Obviously the team has a lot of experience. Even already just in the first test, we had  the new Cooper tires. They didn't know  anything about that. They're systematic  about working, figuring out what works on the new tire. I can tell that they know how to evaluate  everything. I know they're helping me a  lot to make my driving better, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  
 Q. John  Brunner, you sort of touched on it a bit.  Obviously these are two very, in the big scheme of things, young  guys. Last year you had a very young guy  in Richard Philippe on the Atlantic team.  Is there anything special about the approach you take with "young  drivers" or do you treat them as racing drivers and expect them to behave  accordingly?   
   
JOHN  BRUNNER: I think with Richard, and with  John and Robert, we have the same thing.  Yes, they're young, but you approach them the exact same way that you  would a veteran in the car. These guys  are young in age, like I said, but they're not young in experience in the race  car.   
  
On track,  it's really no different than dealing with any other driver. Outside of the car, sometimes it can get  interesting. But that's what makes it  fun. I know what to expect with these two  this year from working with Richard last year.  We'll see if it's similar, but I expect it to be similar.   
  
There's no  issues when it comes to the actual job performance. Your issues turn out to be things like  they're not old enough to rent cars, they have trouble checking into hotel  rooms and things like that. Those are  the issues that are different than having some of the older drivers.   
  
 Q. John,  obviously you've been racing in  Europe  for a couple of years. Robert,  you've had experience at least in the Formula BMW World Run-Offs. It's long been observed that there's  different standards of racing in  Europe  versus  North America . Traditionally people see the  European style of racing much more aggressive than what happens in  North America . At the same time last year Atlantics saw  quite a few sort of international drivers in the series from beyond  North America . How do you think your experience in  Europe  is going to help you racing in 2007  in Atlantics?   
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: Obviously you're right. Europe is perceived as being a lot more  aggressive. I think it is. I think they sort of allow more aggressive  blocking rules, et cetera. That doesn't  in any way take away from the competition.   
  
Obviously  the Atlantic Series has incredible competition.  It's a great car, a great series.  The series organizers are just doing their job, trying to make sure it's  as safe and fair as possible. That's  really the only difference, is that they probably have more strict rules about  things such as blocking or aggressive styles.   
  
 Q.  Robert?   
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: For me, because I've been  racing in North   America  all my life, I really have limited European driving experience, to say the  least. But from what I've gathered from  the European driving, it's pretty much what John said. When it comes to overtaking, everyone does it  exactly the same. In the end, the goal  is just to get by the guy. In European  driving, they seem to make it a lot harder to get by them because with the  blocking rules they have in Europe, seems like they don't even have a rule of no  blocking in Europe (laughter).   
  
Coming from  the BMW Championship, the blocking rules are sort of similar to the Atlantic:  you're not allowed to. The only  difference is in BMW, with the USA Championship, you're allowed to change your  line down the straightaway where with the Atlantics, I'm pretty sure you're not  allowed to.   
  
It's going  to be a little bit of an adjustment. I  think like any driver, it's very easy to adapt to anything.   
  
 Q. Peter,  Red Bull made such an impact in  Europe . Now all of a sudden it's  starting to make an impact in the  U.S.  They're in NASCAR, now they're very strong in  Champ Car. Can you tell me what you  think their strategy is here in the  U.S.  that we're going to  see more and more drivers both in open-wheel racing carrying the Red Bull  banner?   
  
PETER  DAVIES: Well, they're certainly one of  the most dynamic marketing and branding companies that are involved in sports,  across a range of sports. As you say, I  believe they hold in the order of 80% market share for the energy drink  products in North   America. They are taking an approach which is to  ensure that their product is in top of mind.  They're very aggressive in their marketing, in getting their product  into the right places. NASCAR clearly  has eyeballs from the television package.  Champ Car delivers the fastest, the most exciting, the most competitive  open-wheel racing in North America through its festivals of speed, through all the activities that happen  around the races.   
  
Combined  with their interest in develop driver talent, to give young drivers the  opportunity through the Red Bull Junior Team program in various series, you  know, it's really the kind of implementation and activation that we all love to  see sponsors applying in sports.   
  
We're very  excited within the Champ Car community, both in Champ Car and in Atlantics, to  see Red Bull getting involved. They  spend a lot of money and have a lot of bright minds and employ a lot of  resources to maximize their investment. I  think that working together, both Forsythe and Atlantic, the program that's going to be  operating with another team in the Champ Car World Series, I think we're going  to see a great marriage. I think we're  going to see Champ Car get a lot of benefit from that. The fans get a lot of benefit. The television package, which we've seen for  Champ Car and Atlantic, being enhanced and improved this year, partners like  Red Bull are going to be a huge asset for the series.   
  
 Q. John,  you hail from  Little Rock ,  Arkansas . It's a dirt track state, Sprint  car state. You're probably one of the  first to drive an open-wheel car outside the  United States  and probably the first from  Arkansas  to drive in Champ  Car. How did you come from dirt to find  the open-wheel and road course racing?   
   
JOHN  EDWARDS: Yeah, actually when I tell  people I'm a race car driver, they always ask me if I'm ever driving out at  I-40 Speedway. That's not the case. I was actually born in Louisville, Kentucky.  I've only lived in Little Rock for a couple of years.   
  
I got into  racing because my dad was racing the Skip Barber Masters Series. He was just doing that for fun. I loved going to the races. I kept asking him if I could get  started. Eventually he got me a  go-kart.   
  
I started  out in karts, just like most Champ Car or Formula One drivers, just driving for  fun. I started moving up to cars. Actually when I was 12, I got my license with  Skip Barber. Then the following year I  won the shootout with Red Bull.   
  
It was  really unexpected and really soon. I had  always kind of thought I would go to Europe eventually, but I never expected to move over  there when I was 13. Red Bull helped me  with that. I actually never started or  have never been to a dirt track race. I  always have been driving on road courses, on pavement.   
  
 Q. When  you said you're not from  Arkansas  originally, but from  Kentucky ,  tongue-in-cheek. That's a big road  racing state as well.   
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: Well, I actually started karting,  I would drive -- my dad and I would drive from Louisville up to Indianapolis, which was just about an hour  away. They have a couple go-kart tracks  up there I would race at.   
  
 Q. John  Brunner, obviously one of the big things about the kids is their talent  level. Are there some maybe intangibles  that you and Red Bull have noticed about these two young men that added to  their attraction, enhanced their opportunity to drive for you?   
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: I obviously can't speak for Red  Bull. These kids have been in their  program for a few years now. For us,  when I found out who I was getting in the cars, you immediately start doing as  much research on the drivers as you can to find out what you've got  coming. When they're this young, there's  not a whole lot of history there. You  get a little bit. It's like, Okay, yeah,  they've obviously done well where they have been. I had seen Robert at a couple races  before. He's a close friend of James  Hinchcliffe's that drove for us last year.  Robert had been around our team a little bit before. They've done a few races with us, with the  Champ Car Atlantic Series. I was able to  watch a couple races there at the end. With  John, I had not been able to see him, had never met him before. It was just get the information you  could.   
  
We went and  did the first test with the two of them.  It's amazing. I mean, that's the  thing, age really doesn't come into this, doesn't play a big factor at  all. The experience that they have  doesn't go along with the age level at all.  These kids are experienced race car drivers. We've got two young professional  drivers. We haven't seen anything at all  out of either one of them to believe anything other than that. They've both been doing a wonderful job with  the team.   
  
 Q.  Robert, both of you on this call have exhibited a maturity that a lot of  youngsters, like you are, don't. You're  handling yourselves well on the calls.  Have you taken some media training?  Is this an influence from Red Bull that helps prepare you to meet and  talk to the media? What kind of  preparations have you gone through?   
   
ROBERT  WICKENS: For me, I haven't really done  that much media training. I know the  only real media training I've actually done is in the form of BMW  Championships, they have this program that's called the Education and Coaching  Program. It's for a scholarship driver  like I was, both years at BMW, it's free.  For anyone else, I think it's like $3,000.   
  
Anyway,  what it does, it gives you a training program, gives you how to find  sponsorship, teaches you a little bit of media, like the baseline stuff. Then also just driver coaches throughout the  whole weekend, everything that you need to be a better driver.   
  
You learn  the most from just experience. It's  always getting in front of press people and just talking. Eventually you have to get it right  (laughter).   
  
Really when  I got into BMW, I didn't learn any more than I already knew, like when I  started with the media stuff. I mean, I  guess, yes, I have had a little bit of media training, but it's just really  experience that makes us as well-spoken as we are.   
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: I agree. I haven't had any formal training with media  or anything like that. But I agree with  Robert, it's just an experience thing. You  go through interviews. Being a young  driver, going to a race weekend with people who are mostly older, you kind of  have to adapt maturity, you know, kind of figure out how to get by in that  situation. That goes right along with  keeping maturity in front of the media.   
  
Yeah, I  agree with Robert, it's mostly just a thing that involves experience.   
  
 Q.  Robert, the Atlantic Series has always had a great reputation for  talented drivers. It's even more so now  with the new program, new car, more horsepower.  Is there any feeling of intimidation or is your confidence level such  that doesn't bother you at all and you're ready for these guys?   
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: Honestly, I don't really feel  any intimidation. Then again, I've only  tested with John (laughter). I haven't  really actually seen how we're actually doing.  I feel like I'm doing pretty good.   
  
Coming from  the Formula BMW USA Championship, getting an opportunity to win the  championship in 2006, it's pretty much given me the most confidence I could  have going into the 2007 season. It  seems like Formula BMW is like -- like the Champ Car Atlantic Series is the  next jump from the Formula BMW series. Being  able to be the champion, going up into the Atlantics, it does give me  confidence knowing I was the best of people from BMW, and there are quite a few  people from BMW moving into Atlantics.   
  
I think  we'll see how we all play out in the first official test.   
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: I don't feel very much  intimidation because I've only tested with Robert (laughter).   
  
But, no,  it's great because I think we have one of the best packages in the paddock,  just from being with Forsythe. You know,  obviously Robert and I are very close in times at each test. We're both good in different places. I think that's going to help us regardless of  if we have a veteran driver, if we're both rookies.   
  
I think we  both push each other well. We help each  other go to the front as far as our driving.  Then the engineers and the team management on Forsythe is I think the  best in the paddock.   
  
It's hard  to be intimidated when you're on one of the best teams and you've got some of  the best guys working for you.   
  
 Q.  You're both making a transition up to significantly more powerful, more  advanced cars. Tell me a little bit  about how the transition has gone so far and what the steepest part of the  learning curve thus far has been?    
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: The biggest part about moving  into Atlantics is the downforce. The  hardest part is that the downforce creates such a pull to the ground that in  the braking zone you can hit the pedal harder than I've ever hit it before, and  the car will actually respond and stop as opposed to locking up the tires. In other cars with less downforce, you hit  the brake that hard, you'll immediately lock up the tires.   
  
With this,  since it grips so well to the ground, you can really stop the car, as well as  in high-speed corners, you just have to trust the car. That's one of the harder things to get used  to, but I think both Robby and I are doing very well with that.   
  
 Q.  Robert?   
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: John pretty much wrapped it  up. I mean, the biggest part is the  downforce. Your car is basically acts  like a vacuum. For me it's been a  problem for the BMW, especially with like a flat-bottom car, that it doesn't  really matter how you hit the gas or anything like that, as long as you can  keep up the speed through the corner, you're fine. With this, the car is much more pitch  sensitive. If you hit the gas, you're  not getting as much downforce in the front, you get an understeer. There's a lot you can do from inside the car  to change the handling. They have the  front roll bar you can adjust in the car, which is new to both John and I.   
  
It's a big  learning curve, but I think over the four days that we've already done, I know  me as a driver, I've improved a lot. I  actually did a test in the Atlantic before the Formula BMW World Finals in Valencia.  Like John was saying about the brakes, you can put so much pressure on  the pedal. I went into Valencia, go into corner two, I hit the  brakes, I actually locked up all four tires.  Oh, can't do that.   
  
I found the  best thing about the car is, coming from the BMW tire, it's cool. Hit the gas, seems like you're moving, where  the BMW is actually pretty slow. The  braking is the best part. You can get on  the pedal. It's just a great  feeling. Almost feels coming from the  BMW you're driving a Formula One car. I'm  wondering what a Formula One car feels like.   
  
 Q. You  both are pretty new to the cars. You're  learning stuff each time out. John said  you seem to be different in different parts of the track. Do you have similar driving styles or  different driving styles but you're sharing information and learning from each  other a lot?   
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: I would say we definitely have  different driving styles, but we can adapt to each other's. For example, what I think about the test so  far, John may think about something else.  Seems like John is faster in the high-speed corners, I'm faster in the  lower-speed corners. We're kind of  complete opposites, but as teammates it's basically perfect because we can  learn from each other and make each other stronger in each section.   
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: I agree with Robby. He's done very well in the technical  sections. I've been a little better in  the high-speed stuff. I think that's  great. We have a balance. If we can adapt to each other and kind of get  better in the areas where the other one is better, we're both going to move  forward to the front. So far in the  tests we've done that. We've been very  close in times.   
  
Although we  have a little bit different driving styles, Robby is right, we can adapt to  each other's styles in a certain corner.  I think that's really good, that we can learn that off each other.   
  
 Q. John  Brunner, I caught a few minutes of you testing yesterday. When you come to a track like Moroso with two  young drivers, is this trying to get seat time for your drivers or are you  actually doing some serious testing trying to get some information? If you are, how much information can you get  from a track you'll be able to use at another track because you won't be racing  here?   
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: So far testing with these two,  every test we've went to, we've truly been testing. They're already accomplished race  drivers. We're not worried about that  part. They're adapting to the car. We're in a learning process, the testing  process, immediately the first test right off the bat was with a new tire. They were getting used to the car, we were  learning the new tire.   
  
For here at  Moroso, this is the second time in the past couple months we've been here. We come here with a list of test items that  we need to work on. This track, we chose  this track here because it is bumpy, it's not great for grip. It wears on the tires quite a bit. That's what we're used to racing in. Those are the conditions we race in. We can learn some things here that will carry  forward to other tracks we'll be going to, other street venues and things like  this.   
  
 Q. You  also mentioned the tires this year, Atlantics is going with Cooper tires. How much of a difference is it from last  year's tires? How are they holding up  compared to last year's tire?   
  
JOHN  BRUNNER: This tire is going to be  wonderful for the series. It's a softer  compound, so it cures one of the handling problems with the Atlantic car right  off the bat. But also it peaks pretty  quick, quicker than the Yokohama did. Once it peaks, like I said, it peaks very  quickly, it just levels out and it's going to be a wonderful race tire. I'm looking forward. I think the racing is going to be  better.   
  
I think  this tire will also bring some strategy back into qualifying because the tire  does peak quicker. These guys are going  to have to go out and get their qualifying lap in immediately on new tires,  which is going to bring a little strategy into the qualifying sessions.   
  
 Q. You  mentioned it has a softer compound. What  was the handling problem last year?   
   
JOHN  BRUNNER: The Atlantic car, the 08 and  the 014, the new car before, the 016, those cars have always understeered. This new tire has helped that right  away. It's taken a lot of the understeer  away from the car. Makes the car  probably easier to drive in some situations, but it's balanced the car, which  is nice. You're able to start going some  other directions on some of your other setup stuff because you're not always  chasing this understeering situation.   
  
I think the  cars, ultimately everyone will be faster.  I think the cars will be faster. The  tire wears wonderful. These tires go  forever. It's a really nice combination  with the car and the tire.   
  
  
  
JOHN  EDWARDS: I've been living in Europe for two years. When I first moved over, my mom went with  me. She was kind of back and forth. I was alone most of the time. Then this year I was pretty much living  alone. Although I did live with my  teammates, a couple mechanics. But my  parents were normally not there.   
  
I think  it's going to be easier next year because I'll be living at home, just  traveling to the races.   
  
ROBERT  WICKENS: For me, obviously I've lived at  home pretty much all my life except for when I'm in hotels. But so far, honestly I don't feel a  difference from my parents being at the track or when they're not at the track  because my parents, they always just give me my space. On race day, I almost wouldn't see them at  all because we're always so busy looking at data, trying to find out how to get  quicker.   
  
When my  parents are there, I don't even know they're there. I haven't really noticed a difference.   
  
I am moving  to Indianapolis fairly soon, in the new year. That will be great for me. I'll be able to be at the shop, train as much  as I can to try to make myself the best driver I can for 2007.   
  
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT