NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 12, 1998
Doug Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What does a game like that do for you the next day or going into the next game, is it really over or can you carry one like that?
 
DOUG BROWN:  You certainly grow with every game that you play and there were a lot of positives that came out of that game.  We got behind and we found a way to come back and that builds a lot of confidence in a team. 
 

Q.  You have won a lot of hockey games, kind of a double come back, have you ever been a part of one like that?
 
DOUG BROWN:  If you see -- play enough games, you see an awful lot of things happen and over the years and not in that -- not in a game as important as that one, but you have seen that happen over the years. 
 

Q.  Have you checked out your celebration after the goal?
 
DOUG BROWN:  No, I haven't. 
 

Q.  You were jumping around pretty good.
 
DOUG BROWN:  Well, I was pretty excited.  We worked hard that third period to try to come back.  It gave us a chance.  It was a good moment. 
 

Q.  Did you guys need a plane to get here?
 
DOUG BROWN:  Well, there is still a lot of hockey left so we got our feet back on the ground quickly. 
 

Q.  Is that something that you can do easily, forget about that and take the positive emotional things that try to carry it over and forget about the other stuff?
 
DOUG BROWN:  I hope so.  That is what good teams can do.  If we don't, we will be in big trouble. 
 

Q.  You guys spread the wealth pretty well in the Playoffs.  To see Draper without a goal in 15 Playoff games and to get one was kind of special to all of you?
 
DOUG BROWN:  Well, he worked so hard and does so many things to help the team win and it is great to see him get that goal and it was a good way to finish it off. 
 

Q.  2-nothing, I think it has been 27 years since a team has come back in the Finals and won a series down 2-zip.  Is that just a number to you?
 
DOUG BROWN:  You are just throwing out stats and it doesn't matter.  If we don't play well, we are in big trouble.  So, if we play well, we will be competitive and they are such a good team over there that if we are not on top of our game, they will below us right out of the rink. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT