KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2019
Alana Uriell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you found out that you were in the field for Kia Classic, on your home course, tell me, what did you feel?
ALANA URIELL: I mean, I was just so happy to be able to like live out this dream of playing here after I've been watching this tournament for so long.
First person I texted was my coach, Jason Puterbaugh.  He is an instructor here that I've been going to since I was a kid.  So to live out this moment with my coach on our home course is just amazing.
Q. Yeah.  I have chills just thinking about how big this is for you.
ALANA URIELL: Uh-huh.
Q. To finally make it out to the LPGA, home course, second start of the season.
ALANA URIELL: Uh-huh.
Q. Amazing finish last week.
ALANA URIELL: Thank you.
Q. Tell me, how is your season going so far as a rookie?
ALANA URIELL: I feel like my rookie season has been as good as I could ask for so far.  I'm taking it one tournament at a time and taking in all the learning experience I can.
Q. When you would come out to watch this Kia Classic, which players did you follow?
ALANA URIELL: I would follow Paula Creamer and I used to follow Brittany Lincicome and Natalie Gulbis when she was out here.  Like Michelle Wie, a few others.  All amazing players.  It's crazy to be in the same field as them these days.
Q. Imagine you being paired up with Brittany.  How would you react?
ALANA URIELL: I was paired up with her last week and I kept telling my caddie, This is so crazy.  I remember when she first got on tour.  It was such an honor.
Q. Tell me about the course and how comfortable you are going to be out there tomorrow.  What's it going to be like?
ALANA URIELL: The course is in great condition.  Really you got to know the greens.  The greens are the biggest defense out here.  Yeah, knowing where to hit it and to be patient.  These greens are hard, and I'm excited for it.
I think I'll have a great time.  I have a lot of people coming out to support me.  We'll have fun.
Q. Who's going to be part of the team supporting you?
ALANA URIELL: Oh, man.  I have friends and family obviously, a whole community of golfer industries here that have all supported me since I was a kid.  Puma is going to be out here, and I'm just so excited to see everybody here supporting me all in one place.
Q. Who has been maybe the most influential for you?  Any players that have maybe reached out to you?  Coaches?  Family?
ALANA URIELL: I mean, I think the most influential person has to be my coach.  He's been teaching me since I was 11, and I literally learned how to swing a golf club here at the corner of this range everybody is hitting on.
Jason has just had such patience with me and has grown me into this amazing player to have such a love and passion for the game.  I just can't thank him enough for getting me here and for being here with me through this cool journey.
Q. What would you like people that are watching the golf this week to know about Carlsbad?  You're homegrown.  What would you want the world to know?
ALANA URIELL: Good question.  I mean, Carlsbad is kind of like this really cool golf hub.  Most the golf industries are here:  Callaway, TaylorMade, Titleist, Cobra.  They're all here in one place.  I think if you want to come here for sunshine, great golf, great people, and just a good place to grow a family and live, it's here.  There is no other place you would want to be.
I feel like this place is just so laid back and fun.
Q. So are you back here?  This is your home?
ALANA URIELL: Yeah.  I live ten minutes away so I'm staying at my house.
Q. That's so cool.
ALANA URIELL: I know, right?
Q. That's really, really cool.
ALANA URIELL: Yeah, it's like not even being on the road.
Q. Home cooked meals, sleeping in your own bed, a luxury out here.  Totally.
ALANA URIELL: Yeah.
Q. What are you looking forward to the most this week?
ALANA URIELL: So there is this guy.  His name is Joe.  He's the starter on No. 1.  I've always watched him announce the girls, and he does it in such an amazing way.  I'm always like, Oh, I wish he would announce me.
The first tee when he announces me, that's going to be the moment of like I'm actually here.  It's going to be so special.  And not to mention like little whole crowd of people that I have that are going to be here.  It's so amazing.  Like just to see all these people that I love and care for all in one place is going to be awesome.
Q. Must be really surreal for you.
ALANA URIELL: For real.  I'm going to be crying on the first tee probably.  Don't laugh at me.  Yeah.
Q. What are your goals this season?
ALANA URIELL: I mean, as a rookie, it's hard to set goals because I have literally no idea what's out there.  Like I don't know how to do any of this stuff.
My only goal is to enjoy myself and learn a lot and kind of get to know some of the girls that are here and make connections and see where it takes me.
Q. Have you been surprised by how friendly everyone is?
ALANA URIELL: I've always thought the girls have always been nice, and then when was on tour I was like, Oh, it's awesome.  It's like having my own little family out here.
Q. Any events that you're looking forward to playing the most?
ALANA URIELL: Kia Classic has always been the No. 1.  It's at my home course.  Going to be super sweet.  Always looking forward to Hawaii.  Never been to Hawaii, so that one seems like a cool one to go to.
Then probably Evian, the major.  I mean, that course and that place is so special.
Q. Do you know Joe's last name?
ALANA URIELL: The starter?  I got that question last time.  Lindsay would know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT