NASCAR XFINITY SERIES: NASCAR RACING EXPERIENCE 300
February 15, 2020
Noah Gragson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Noah, 37 career starts, your first win comes in the biggest scene of all of them. It's at Daytona. 
NOAH GRAGSON: That's right. Regan, I'm so thankful. I want to bring this guy up right here, Johnny Morrison. This would not be possible without this man right now. I'm so thankful for this opportunity, and just very, very proud of this team, everybody from JR Motorsports, this 9 team, everybody who works in the fab shop, Hendrick Motorsports, for just allowing this to happen. The power was awesome. Thank you to Hendrick power, Hendrick engines. 
Man, I'm speechless right now, Regan. I didn't think this would come. But there's so many people who made this possible for me, Dustin Ash back at home, the O'Hanley family, Jefferson Pitts Racing, Kyle Busch Motorsports, everybody who's helped me get to this point. I spent a lot of time with Dale Jr. this week, talked to him for about two hours, and wanted to be a better speedway racer. He told me, go have fun; wreckers or checkers; you've got to manage your gaps, be there at the end, and just go lead the damn thing. That's what we did. 
So thankful for everybody at Bass Pro Shops. Make sure you guys go get your Black Rifle Coffee, right? And Bass Pro Shops right here, these guys right here make it all happen for us.
I'm so thankful. Thank you to all the fans. We did it! 

Q. You said you wanted to manage the gaps and that Junior taught you how to manage the gaps a little better. That last lap you got out to a pretty big lead. Did you have to tell yourself to make the good blocks to keep out front there? 
NOAH GRAGSON: Yeah, I seen myself get pushed out in the mirror, and just tried to work all race long managing how far out in front of the car behind me I got. If it weren't for this Hendrick power, I don't think we would have been able to get here to Victory Lane. So thankful for everybody at Xfinity. This thing was as fast as Xfinity internet today, and how about team Chevrolet going top to the board. Let's do it tomorrow for the 500, baby. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT