UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2011
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   You're the Big 12 defensive player of the week.   What does that mean?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   It's definitely an honor for me to receive an award like that.   It lets me know that I had a pretty decent week, and hopefully I can get more in the future.

Q.   What did you think of the Texas Tech and Baylor game this weekend? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I actually did watch a little bit of it and kind of just seeing what Baylor likes to do, kind of watch the tendencies and things like that.   It was definitely a good game. 
We're going to have a challenge this week with Baylor, and we know that.

Q.   How do you try to defend Robert Griffin and all the threats that he brings? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   You know, they have an explosive offense, great group of receivers with a Heisman quarterback back there.   So I think you have to take this in as we do every week and just control one thing and control what we can. 

Q.   Griffin's average touchdown pass is something like 35 yards.   What kind of challenge does that present, and are you excited about that? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   You know, I think as a defense, secondary, I think we pride ourselves every week we look at giving up long touchdowns, rushing or throwing, and we are in the top three in the nation of not giving up passes or long plays over 20 yards.   I think we pride ourselves on keeping people from extending plays past 20 yards.   So taking away long balls for touchdowns or long runs for touchdowns is something that we're used to.

Q.   You have a 72‑hour rule this time.   Maybe you'll leave some of the emotion behind, but are you able to carry over some of the momentum, though, from the A&M game?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I definitely think you can with a win like that.   There's definitely something you can take into the next week and look forward to bringing the same excitement and enthusiasm to Baylor. 

Q.   Have y'all talked about not letting Robert Griffin kind of have his Heisman moment or get that Heisman Trophy on you guys' watch? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   Yeah, you just kind of say, nobody wins the Heisman on Texas.   We'll have to try to stop him and not let him get it on us.   We're just going in, stopping him and his offense. 

Q.   You seem like kind of a quiet guy when you're around us.   What were you saying to Jeff Fuller, because you weren't real quiet with him. 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I didn't say too much.

Q.   You didn't need to, I guess. 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   Just a little friendly conversation. 

Q.   How important would it be to beat Baylor, being an in‑state rival and being the last game of the regular season?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   We definitely want to win the Texas state championship for us.   So I think that's a big deal for us, and they did beat us last year, so you know, a win this year gives would be perfection for us, to win all our games in state.   And it is the last regular season game, and I think we want to end it with a win going into the Bowl season.

Q.   I know you've talked all year about trying to create turnovers and that hasn't happened a bunch.   Do you feel like maybe that kind of gets the ball rolling on that front with your big six?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   We do talk about causing turnovers, and I think in a couple of games we weren't able to force turnovers and things didn't turn out the way we wanted them to.   I think that it does cause‑‑ I mean, it's definitely a great thing when we get turnovers.   It helps the offense out and gives them that spark. 
We just try to go into every game trying to get turnovers, and sometimes they come and sometimes they don't.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT