UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2011
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Mack went on and on about Kansas State's offense and what they can do. What do you know about them and what they bring to the table?  
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: I know they have a good quarterback, a good balanced attack. It's pretty much the same thing each week. You've got to be able to stop the run and you've got to be able to stop the pass. We know they're a little bit more of a run threat with their quarterback, but he can pass, too. I think we're kind of going in with the same game plan, stop the run and defend the pass.   
  
  Q. Anything you take from the game last year at all now?   
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: Last year we just had a lot of miscues, a lot of turnovers, and when you have so many turnovers in a game, it's hard to win. I think we're looking to cut down on turnovers and be efficient on offense and defense.   
  
  Q. Mack said earlier that the offense didn't step up, but defense did against Missouri. Can you talk about that?   
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, there's always positives. I think we played well the second half. I don't think we started the game too well. You know, giving up two touchdowns is not our goal. We gave up -- we scored five, so we always try to limit the number of points they score.   
 Overall I think we played okay. We definitely can play better. We definitely can improve on the performance.   
  
  Q. How tough is it against a quarterback that's big?   
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, size is not too big of an issue. He's just like everybody else. You still have to be able to hit him, so I don't think size is that much of a factor for me.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: I saw a little bit on the bus ride back, and I was kind of following it on my phone. But they played them tough to the end, and they're going to compete, and we're going to look to compete for four quarters again, too.   
  
  Q. Walk us through what you have to go through as cornerback against an option attack.   
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, me being on the outside, most of my role is probably stopping the pitch. I don't really focus much on inside with the quarterback and things, I'm more of a pitch player. But I think we're just going to take this week like any other week. Last week we had a running quarterback, too, so I think it's kind of in the same category. We'll just look to stop the run, though.   
  
  Q. How much have Blake and Keenan meant to you? It's their final game.   
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, they've definitely been mentors for us throughout this whole season, and you know, to play for them on senior night, it's an honor for me, and I'll go out there and give it all that I have for them and for the team. Definitely having those guys back there is an honor.   
  
  Q. When a guy like Fozzy goes down, do you see it affecting the whole team on offense and defense during the game?  
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, losing Fozzy was devastating, but I think that the guys had to go in for him just had to step up, and losing a guy like him is kind of difficult with his excitement and just leadership, but I think we have guys that can step up and handle the job.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: I think it's the first round blues. It's been pretty tough. I followed the game a little bit. I had my mom texting me scores and stuff. We had the same problems, a little bit of turnovers and things like that, but I think we'll get it right next year hopefully.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT