UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2011
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Have you gotten to watch a lot of Missouri this year?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: No, I didn't went and watch film yet, but what I've been hearing is they're a very balanced offense. They can run the ball and they can throw it. We're going to be ready for anything they throw at us. 

 Q. Talk about the secondary being so young. Where do you feel like you guys have made strides?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: Just every aspect. Being young, understanding the game I think is a big part of where we've grown. The more and more snaps you get each week, I think that helps you with your confidence and being able to understand schemes and things like that. Week in and week out, I think we're continuing to grow, and we're just taking it step by step.

 Q. How much better are you guys than at the start of the year?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, I think I've improved, too. Each week you always go in looking to improve, and you can't be conceited or you can't just be satisfied with where you're at. You have to continue to improve each week. 

 Q. What are you hoping for in these last four games of the year and finishing the season out?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: Definitely we're looking forward to getting these last four wins, but we have another stepping-stone in our way. We're focused on Missouri, and we're trying to get another W.

 Q. Does it worry you at all that three of the last four are on the road and it's so tough on the road in college football?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, playing on the road is a little bit different than playing at home, of course. It's a little bit different atmosphere. But I think we've handled some games on the road. One game we didn't play so well, but for the most part I think this team is ready for games on the road. I think that we'll rise to the occasion and accept the challenge.

 Q. What's been the difference for you on the road compared to home games? 
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, it's a lot of -- it's just different, a different atmosphere with the crowd and you just don't have that home feeling, that comfortability level. But we have to go out there and we have to make a statement. 

 Q. Have the older guys said anything to the younger guys about not being satisfied, the six wins, being Bowl eligible, but wanting so much more?
 CARRINGTON BYNDOM: They have mentioned it, but I think as players you're never satisfied with just six wins. We want to finish out the regular season the right way, and being Bowl eligible is a good thing for us, but we want to continue to improve and just take it brick by brick and go, each game with a W.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT