UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2011
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What do you think of Rice-Montana, Dawson-Taylor, then you've got Weeden and Blackmon. Do they rank up there against amongst the best duos?
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: Both of them are great guys, they're great college players, and we're just going to play them like that.

 Q. Have you had a chance to watch them much? 
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: No, I haven't watched film of them yet. I'll probably get into that later. We just know that they're a great offense, and we're going to prepare the same way that we did against OU for them. 

 Q. Can you talk about what you learned from that experience there?
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: Yeah, we've watched the film and we've learned a lot from it. There are definitely a lot of teaching tools from the game, and we're going to take those and we're going to use those this week and throughout the rest of the season. 

 Q. What did you learn specifically that you could do against guys like Broyles and Blackmon this week?
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, you learn a lot, and you learn that you have to just keep battling and keep playing, that nothing is going to come easy, that you have to work for it and just continue to get better in every aspect of the game and that it just will get easier. 

 Q. How do you stay confident? The secondary offers such a tough week. 
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: We know what we're capable of, and we didn't play up to our standard really in the back end. But this week we're coming back and we're going to look to focus and use everything that we've learned by watching film, and hopefully we'll be back to the way we were the first four weeks. 

 Q. Is it intimidating at all to have to play another one of the country's best offenses? 
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: No. We look forward to it. We're at Texas and you know we're going to play good teams. This is going to be another challenge for us, and we know we're looking forward to it. 

 Q. When you're matched up on a guy like Stills or Blackmon, such a physical battle, can you talk about just going to battle on one play and knowing you're going to have to do it again and again and again?
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: I mean, that's my job. I'm a corner, and so I have to face some of the greatest receivers in college football. You look forward to it. It's a challenge for us, and everybody out there likes to compete, especially us in the back end, and play by play, that's just what we're out there doing, just working hard. 

 Q. Is it different when they're trying to use the size as opposed to maybe speed or other things when it's just kind of just throwing Stills or Blackmon, big guys on you like that?
     CARRINGTON BYNDOM: You know, definitely different types of receivers, but they all play the same way. You can only play them one way, and that's what we just look to do.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT