UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2012
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Was Saturday closer to what you were expecting from yourself?   Are you going to continue that from here out? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I definitely think I want to play well each week, and this weekend was by far probably one of my best games this season.   And I do feel like I need to continue to play just as well not only for me, but for my team and my defense.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I think I just brought a lot of confidence this weekend.   Knowing that they were going to throw the ball a lot of times, I was going to get a lot of opportunities.   So I think I just brought the confidence that I was lacking into this week.

Q.   How frustrating can it get when you see what you guys did Saturday and say, hey, why couldn't we do this all year? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   It's a little frustrating.   But for our defense, we're definitely improving and growing up as the season has gone along.   It's still a work in progress, but each week we're continuing to get better, and we still have a long way to go.

Q.   What does Iowa State bring to the table offensively that you have to watch out for? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I definitely think they're a very balanced offense.   They can run the ball and throw the ball.   We know that they're able to make plays.   Then again, it comes down to our defense, as long as we're playing our game that we know we're capable of, we'll be okay.

Q.   Do you enjoy the crowd being there? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   It's a tough battle.   But that's what you expect.   Texas Tech takes pride in their receivers being able to block, and I give them credit.   That's something that all our receivers like to do.   They don't like to block.   They like to catch the ball.   We are having a little battle, but I definitely commend them on that.

Q.   After the game it was 7‑2, but it felt like you blocked everything and the world was against you.   Did you have that feeling as well (Indiscernible)?
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   At times it seems like that.   But then again, you need not to pay attention to anything outside.   That's what they tell us.   That's been‑‑ we need to not believe anything that's happened in the outside world, only what's happening with us as a defense, with us as a team.   So we're going to continue to, like I said, just go back to work and make sure it's all about us in these next three games and then finish off the bowl season.

Q.   Did it make your performance on Saturday that much sweeter? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   Just any win, especially any win in the Big 12 is sweet for us.   Nothing in the newspapers or anything that anybody has said anything negative.

Q.   Do you shut down Mike Davis in practice? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I think a little bit of both.   I can't say it's one‑sided, even though I'd like to say that.   He's definitely a tough person to guard.   He causes havoc for other defenders.   He's doing a great job this season.   As you can tell, he's doing a great job running by DBs this weekend.

Q.   Does he remind you of Jerry Rice or Steve Largent or Dez Bryant or anybody? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   He reminds me of Mike Davis.   I won't classify him with anybody else.   He is him.   But I definitely think he's coming into his own.   He's doing really great this season, and we look forward to him continuing to keep that up.

Q.   Who on this team is a morning person?   Who is going to have a great game having an 11 a.m. game? 
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   We all will.   We'll all be ready to go this weekend.   We've had two 11 o'clock games, so we're all pretty used to it by now.   We'll all get up and have a pot of coffee and be ready to go.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT