UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
Carrington Byndom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Carrington Byndom.     
   
 Q.   What is at stake and on the line this weekend against these guys?   
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I think a lot's at stake.   We know we got a tough opponent this week.   Top-10 team.   Another Big 12 game as it is a conference game.   So a lot is on the line.     
   
 Q.   What do you think when you see the numbers Geno Smith put up?     
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   It's amazing.   Great quarterback.   We know that he's able to handle the offense and going to put up a lot of numbers.   As a defense, we know that our goal for this week is just to stop them and limit the amount of yards, points and things that they're able to get.     
   
 Q.   What does the defense need to work on most?   
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I don't think it's just one thing.   I think you can always work on a lot of things as a defense.   You know, just anything in general.   There's always a lot of room for improvement.   I think we have ways for some room to improve, we have a lot of things we need to work on.     
There's not just one thing, there's quite a few things.   
   
 Q.   Is the defense frustrated, ready for a challenge, ready to prove themselves this week?   
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I definitely think there's some frustration.   We played a couple weeks.   We haven't played to the standard we think we're capable of playing.     
I think there is a little frustration to get back to the way we know we're capable of playing.     
   
 Q.   What is the most frustrating part?   Is it missed talks?   Mack talked about it earlier.     
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   I think for us, we just know that we aren't playing the way we're capable of playing.   Giving up big plays and things like that with missed tackling and stuff like that is just not things that we expect.     
So just getting back to playing our style of defense is what we're looking forward to, trying to accomplish this weekend.     
   
 Q.   When you see a player like Geno Smith, are you more concerned or does it jack you up more?   
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   Just like last week, Oklahoma State was number one scoring offense.   Coming into it, we see that as a challenge for us.   Again, with the numbers that Geno put up last week, we know again it's going to be a challenge.   I think we're ready for it.   I think we're ready to step up and rise to the occasion.     
   
 Q.   How much does preparing for an offense like OK State and playing that game prepare you for this week?   
CARRINGTON BYNDOM:   Definitely two explosive offenses.   I think also down the line we're going to get explosive offenses, too, that run the same, similar offenses that are going to put up points and are quick-tempo, things like that.     
I think this Oklahoma State game was definitely key for us.   It definitely is going to help us moving forward into the next week and the weeks after that.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT