NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 22, 2010
Jordan Farmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JORDAN FARMAR: Comfortable with. It's usually their starting group. I think we'll be fine. We'll just go out there and play.

 Q. You don't feel any different coming on the court in Phoenix than you do at home?
 JORDAN FARMAR: No, I like playing on the road. It's a challenge. It feels like you're a little unit against everybody else in the building. It's a good feeling when you guys stick together and overcome it.

 Q. The way the playoffs are spread out, you guys haven't lost in almost a month. Is the confidence now, is it at all similar to middle of December when you guys rattled off like 11 straight; is it a different confidence, or is it similar?
 JORDAN FARMAR: I think it's a more focused confidence. We're really close to our goal. We're just trying to stay as focused as possible, not get too high with our successes. When things don't go our way, don't get too low with that. It's important for us to stay even-keeled and stay focused.

 Q. Do you draw any similarities to back in that Utah series, go in there and you're up 2-0 and still a very good game in the end?
 JORDAN FARMAR: I think we did a great job. Oklahoma really prepared us, got us on the right track early. We didn't want it to happen again in Utah. 
 We came out really, really focused. And our effort was concentrated on what we wanted to do and we got the job done there. 
 So tomorrow will be the same kind of thing. Go in there with the same energy and do what we have to do and try to put them in a tough spot.

 Q. When looking at your effort these past two games in the series, what do you like most about what you guys have done?
 JORDAN FARMAR: We've done it the right way. We've let it come to us and work. We've trusted each other. Moved the ball. Made extra passes. Defensively, pretty good. Getting active, getting our hands on balls, things like that. And those are things that make all the difference in the world.

 Q. There's been a lot of talk heading into this series about how their bench has been performing at such a high level and as the series has gone on you've been more regularly productive. Do you expect them to step up a little bit more at all?
 JORDAN FARMAR: Absolutely. They're going to go home, have a little more leeway, a little more freedom to play a lot better, more comfort, probably. We to have to counter that, combat that as best we can. We have the guys to do it. We just have to go out there and do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT