NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 11, 2008
Jordan Farmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JORDAN FARMAR: My stepdaughter has known Kobe and she wanted to raise me, so that half of the family is from there. I've been there a few times to visit. I'm going there again this summer to do some basketball camps and stuff, and that's pretty much it. 

 Q. Great. How does it feel to be in the Finals?
 JORDAN FARMAR: It's great. You know, I was born in Los Angeles. It's a team I've loved watching and loving, so it's really special to be a part of it and try to help. 

 Q. How big is the fans, the crowd, the media, the trip?
 JORDAN FARMAR: Everybody is there. Probably the best media market here, New York, in the world. They love the Lakers. They love basketball. There's no higher level or higher game to play. 

 Q. Coming off the bench, are you equipped?
 JORDAN FARMAR: It's been big. We've created a cohesive unit. We call ourselves the bench. We love playing together, have a great time. 

 Q. Jordan, going up against House versus going against Cassell, how is that different?
 JORDAN FARMAR: Well, Cassell is a little more in control in terms of being the point guard. He'll rotate quick shots, so you have to be ready for that, but he'll get them in first step also. Eddie House, especially the four, will shoot the lights out. So they both can score the ball. 

 Q. How much do those guys change how you guys defend versus when Rondo is in the game, seems like you leave them to double team. 
 JORDAN FARMAR: Yeah. You can't really leave those guys. They knock down shots and three-pointers. No, they make you pay for it. So it's a little different. You still want to be scrappy and active and make everybody work for anything they get. 

 Q. Talk about the bench a little bit. First two games in Boston you didn't play the way you guys have played in the regular season. Did you guys make a concerted effort off the bench, as you say, the bench mob to come out strong last night?
 JORDAN FARMAR: We want to come out strong every game. We think in order for us to win, we're going to have to contribute, but we didn't get as much opportunity in Boston. 
 You know, last night I got to play 20 minutes, Sasha played somewhere around 30 where in the first game I played six, so you know, it's just the time, the minutes, the rotations are working out and we're fortunate enough to get an opportunity and find a way to come in and contribute? 

 Q. Tell us about your attitude after the game went down to zero and then --
 JORDAN FARMAR: It was pretty much the same. He wasn't nervous. None of us were really uptight or too concerned. They did what they were supposed to do, take that home court advantage. We came home and tried to do the same. We haven't lost yet. We weren't too worried. We knew we hadn't played our best basketball yet. So if we all put it together, we can play good basketball and continue to do the things that got us here, we'll be okay. 

 Q. What about Kobe Bryant, how was he in the locker room?
 JORDAN FARMAR: He was the same way. We're all nervous in every situation, but at the same time we have to be loose and be under control to be able to come in and play and contribute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT