NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 7, 2008
Jordan Farmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you feel you have to play Game 2 with more of a sense of urgency?   
 JORDAN FARMAR: It shouldn't change the way we play. It may step up our sense of urgency a little bit, but for the most part we should just continue to do what we've been doing, execute and getting contributions from where they need to come from, we'll be okay.  
  
  Q. What's the mood like? Has it changed at all?  
 JORDAN FARMAR: No, pretty relaxed, the same as we've always been, and that's a good sign. Nobody is panicking. Everybody is comfortable and having a good time with each other, and that's the way we feel comfortable.  
  
  Q. Can you expand on that? You said it shouldn't change the way you play. From a player's standpoint, what's it like when you go into a game knowing there is a big difference between a 1-1 series and a 0-2 series?  
 JORDAN FARMAR: We just play with the same sense of urgency and same energy and desire every game no matter what the series circumstances are. For us, we play loose. We play energetic and fun. If we get thinking about that and play tight, we're not going to play the way we normally can. It's key to stay how we are. Everybody is laughing and joking and having a good time, but still, at the same time we'll be concentrating and focused.  
  
  Q. Two days off gives the media way too much time to psychoanalyze what went wrong and what went right. From your point of view simplistically what does this team need to do right tomorrow to get a win?  
 JORDAN FARMAR: Just continue to execute. I mean, we did a great job in the first half of executing on our stuff, staying on the ball defensively, as well, helping each other out and being able to back each other up, and that just kind of went out the window to five guys not playing together as a unit. If we stay together and continue to execute throughout the course of the game, we'll be all right.  
  
  Q. Obviously you make your living living on the road now. Two days off in The Finals, what do you do to get yourself mentally ready?  
 JORDAN FARMAR: Same thing. You just live life. You don't have to think so much about basketball. There's a time to focus and check in, but at the same time there's so much more to life. You are just enjoy it. I have my family out here, hang out with them, my teammates are some of my best friends, so we're all just hanging out having a good time, and when it's time to play, we'll be ready.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT