MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2010
Amy Beggin
Don Flanagan
Eileen Weissmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by New Mexico head Coach Flanagan and student-athletes. We'll start with an opening comment about the game from Coach Flanagan. 
 COACH FLANAGAN: First of all, congratulations to Utah. Played a very fine game. Really it was a very competitive, hard-fought game. I thought defensively we did an excellent job. We gave up a few too many offensive rebounds and we got beat on a play that we had defended all game long. 
 But it's not one play that wins or loses a game. And I thought we had opportunities. Our poor shooting, shooting 22% the second half, we can't shoot in the 20s and beat people. Defensively I thought we played about as good as we could play. I like what we did defensively. We got over screens, and they set a ton of 'em. We defended just about everybody. I thought we did a great job on Whipple. She's 1 of 12. That's about as good as it gets. Then she hits the final three. 
 We had defended that particular play several times throughout the game. But overall when you look back at the game, it appears to me that shooting is the key and the reason why we didn't win that game. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for the student-athletes. 

 Q. Amy, I see you got a bruise. Seemed to me it was a very physical kind of game. Is that the impression you had of it, too? 
 AMY BEGGIN: Well, I think anytime we play Utah, it's a pretty rough game. I mean, they set a lot of screens, so we have to fight over a lot of screens every single time down. 
 I think both ways it's pretty physical. 

 Q. Amy, obviously you guys are 0-8 against them, all of them close. How much do you think might be mental at this point? 
 AMY BEGGIN: I don't think that was a factor at all today. I mean, we had a lot of confidence. If we would have come up with that rebound, we had a chance to win. I think it's just a bounce that's gone their way every time we played them. 
 If we could pinpoint one thing, I don't think we'd be sitting here right now. I don't think that was going through any of our minds in the game today. I know it wasn't for me. 

 Q. Eileen, can you talk a little bit about how it seemed to be so rough inside for most of the night, how much harder that made it to score. 
 EILEEN WEISSMANN: It was really hard. When you don't get the calls. We work on it every day in practice, if the refs don't give us the calls, go up strong. Coach always tells us to jump into Utah power backs, jump into the players, make contact. Even though we weren't getting the calls for how physical a game it was, we should have been finishing our layups because we work on that every day in practice. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athletes at this time and open it up for questions for Coach Flanagan. 

 Q. Coach, did you feel that was a loosely officiated game? 
 COACH FLANAGAN: I really can't comment on officiating. That's something that they don't allow us to do. 
 One of the things about officials is they're part of the game. You have to make adjustments to the part of the game. You really don't have control over that part of the game, other than understanding the way they're calling. 
 That's something that the players adjust to throughout the game, and that's what they have to do is adjust to that. Sometimes it seems like you're not getting the calls. To me a lot of times when I'm looking at it, of course, I'm looking at it -- I'm not very objective when I'm looking at the game. 
 So obviously it was a game where we knew that there was gonna be a lot of contact. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach Flanagan. 
 COACH FLANAGAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT