ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE OPERATION BASKETBALL
October 16, 2013
Ryan Anderson
Olivier Hanlan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JEFF FISCHEL:   I'm joined by Boston College, the guys here helping the program.   
Start with how you feel about this year.   Ryan, you've seen this team building over the last couple years.   Where do you feel you are heading into the season?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   I think we have competent guys.   I think we've really, especially my class, grown from a 9‑21 season, coming into this season with a lot of high expectations.   I think we've really grown as a team and ready to take the next step and be a real contender in this league.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Olivier?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   Like Ryan said, everybody is a lot more mature and older.   We finished the season well off last year.   Hopefully we can keep the momentum going.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Haven't forgotten about 41 points?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   That was a pretty good game.   We'll keep the momentum going as a team.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Questions for Ryan or Olivier.   
   
 Q.   Olivia, talk about what it's like to play for Coach Donahue?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   It's been great so far.   I really got a chance to improve a lot last year, just play through our mistakes.   Yeah, always had extreme confidence with me during the summer before I came to BC.   Got a chance to become a better basketball player.   
RYAN ANDERSON:   He's a really good guy.   He cares about us, not just as players, but as people.   
Even if we have a bad game, he cares about how we're doing in the classroom, how our families are doing.   Even though he's a great strategic coach, he's a really good guy.   It's great to play for him.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Unique to have five returning starters.   How does that help your team to have that kind of continuity?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   It means everything.   Not only do we bring some of our starters, we bring back some role starters as well.   
We got a transfer from Notre Dame and some freshmen that can come in and play right away.   Just gelling and know how everybody plays already, as Olivia says, is going to help us build off the momentum.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Olivier, you recognize everybody on the court.   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I feel like it will be better for the freshmen coming in, Garland Owens, Billy, to gel with us.   Like you said, everybody is coming back, used to the plays.   However Coach D coaches us, it will be a lot better.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   To give you a sense of how much this team is back from last year, 96% of the scoring, 88% of the rebounding.   It is a team that is experienced.   
Give me a sense of the battles down low, who you enjoy going up against, who you hate going up against?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   Going against the Plumlees is difficult.   There's a lot of big, big guys.   Mitchell, McAdoo, big men in this conference.   It's going to be fun going up against some of the best players in the country.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Olivier, which guards do you like going up against in the ACC?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   Last year I liked going against Shane Larkin and Erick Green from Virginia Tech.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   What are the team goals coach has laid out for you this season?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   I think Coach D, since the day I came on campus, was to improve as a player and team.   As long as we keep improving, that's a big goal for us, just to continue to improve.   If we continue to improve, we'll win a lot of game, and hopefully be still improving as we get late into the season.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, what is it like having Syracuse as a rival in the conference?  
RYAN ANDERSON:   Growing up, Syracuse has been a powerhouse in the country.   They're always pulling out NBA guys.   They always have a great team, led by a great coach.   
Any time you bring a team like, that you get to play against them, it's an honor, great chance to get a win against a great team.   I think it's a great challenge.   Everybody likes competing against the best teams.   When you bring one of the best, it makes it better.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Olivier, going against Syracuse?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I feel it's more a competition for the ACC.   I love competition.   I love going up against the best.   Having Syracuse, Notre Dame and Pittsburgh, going to make my happy.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   The conference got bigger with three great programs.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, how do you make the next step to being a better team in the ACC?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   I think it's just our habits on our everyday lifestyle, what are we doing on an everyday basis to become a better team.   
You can say a lot of different things, say you want to be up against some of the great players, great teams, you have to do stuff on a daily basis that prepares you for those players and teams.   
I think we've done that.   Our habits have improved tremendously from last year.   I think that's going to pay off when things go and get tough for us this year, we're going to be ready for it based on our preparation.   
   
 Q.   You have to believe you're as good as anybody in the league.   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I think we stack up pretty well this year.   Like I said earlier, we finished the season off pretty well, had some pretty good momentum.   Everybody is older, more mature.   They all know how to play the game of basketball.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Number of wins or a specific goal you have in mind?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I think obviously everybody's goal is to make it to March Madness, try to win as many games as you can.   We're trying to get a 20‑plus win season this year.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Give me a sense of what coach likes.   We know he's an organized guy.   Ryan, what is he like?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   I mean, he's a high‑energy guy.   Any time I see coach, you ask him how he's doing, he says something like, Tremendous, splendid.   He's so energetic all the time.   He's a caring guy.   
If you meet him, he genuinely wants to know about you, how your day is going.   He cares about you.   He's a high‑energy guy.   I think a lot of people see how much energy he brings to the court when he's coaching, but he brings that to everything he does.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   What does coach say about social media?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   He's not a big fan of that at all.   This year we're not using no Twitter, Instagram.   We're trying to stay focused on basketball.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Is that a good idea?   
RYAN ANDERSON:   Yeah.   I think you can get caught up a lot of times in social media, but it's good to stay focused.   
JEFF FISCHEL:   Good luck to Boston College, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT