EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2008
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice playing out there today. What was working for you?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I drove it better today than yesterday. My irons were not as strong today, I thought, so I didn't get it close, and when I did, I mostly kind of missed the putts. 2-under is a pretty good score. I'm pleased with it.  
  
  Q. I noticed warming up today you really hit a lot of nice drives there at the end.   
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I did. The driver, like I said, felt a lot better today. I'm going to go to the range to work on some of those irons.  
  
  Q. What are you going to work on?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Just get the shape better. I was not shaping it well. I hit a few really nice shots. I think my setup is a little bit shut, I think, that's what it feels like, so I've got to try to open it up a little bit and get a little better pattern going.  
  
  Q. You got an unlucky break there at 18, coming back all the way to the green. That was a great two-putt.   
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I mean, we actually thought it was -- it was downwind, so I hit a soft middle wedge there, and then mid-air the wind switched straight into, so what can you do?   
 It was the calmest day so far. It's still a tough wind, especially in the beginning because you have all the first holes into the wind, and then the wind switched a little bit, so we actually played a lot of our holes into the wind today.   
 I drove it a lot better today, which I was pleased about, but my irons were not as good. 2-under is a good score.  
  
  Q. Two shots off the lead right now. What's your strategy for tomorrow?   
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I'm going to go to the range now and try to sharpen up my irons a little bit because I don't think we know what the weather is going to do. There's a big storm moving in, so the course is going to be playing differently, a lot softer probably. If you can get the irons sharp you could have a lot of close birdie putts.   
  
  Q. Has every day been different out here so far?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Every day has been different. We haven't figured out some of the yardages on some of the par-3s and so on. 17 has been a little bit of a mystery so far. We haven't been able to hit pin-high there yet. I'm happy with the course. They did a good job with it.  
  
  Q. No. 18, in 2000 when you won, there was no water there. I'm wondering how it's going to be for the contenders tomorrow?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: It depends how you lie, of course. If you have a two- or three-shot lead, you're probably going to play like Kevin Na did, with an iron off the tee, then hit a long iron into the green, because the only way you can mess it up is if you take a chance with a driver, and that water is definitely in play. If you block the driver a little bit you're going to have a tough time hitting the green from there. That water is definitely in the back of your mind standing on the tee shot.  
  
  Q. More drama?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I would say more could happen for sure, yeah.   
  
  Q. What do you have to do to win tomorrow?  
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Depends on how everybody finishes, but I've got to play well. I mean, the greens are going to get a lot softer tomorrow, so you're going to see a few more birdies being made tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT