GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 23, 2007
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Right now obviously a couple good weeks for you coming in to here. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, I mean, it feels good.  Also very nice to stay at home this week.  I live about 25 minutes from here, so It's been good.  I've had a weird season.  You know, I broke my finger the second week out.  Broke my toe in May. 
 So it's been weird, and like I said, last three weeks been good.  I had a good chance in Texas, but I played very well in Vegas, too.  I made some mistakes there, too, but it's good to be having a clue where the ball's going. 

 Q.  What's been the difference between the early part of the season and now?  Is it getting over the injuries? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah.  I played with a broken finger and I played with a broken toe, so, you know, when I had a broken toe I had to hang back and then it's losing confidence a little bit and so on. 
 And then playing with the finger, you know, I had to kind of change my grip a little bit.  So it's tough to really get into a groove where you really feel the greens.  Every week you feel different pretty much. 

 Q.  So after this this kind of gives you a little bit more confidence going to the end of the season and for next season? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, definitely.  Weird enough, I saw my stats like a month ago.  The stats were actually really good this year when it comes to putting and birdies and greens in regulation and all that. 
 So stats-wise I should be up high on the Money List.  But somehow I must make huge number when I did miss the green, otherwise it don't add up.  So obviously the stats for my short game have not been very sharp.  That's something that I'll have to work on in the off-season. 

 Q.  When you look at the stats have you felt like you -- 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  No, I did not.  I did not feel that I played as well as the stats showed hitting the greens, and I didn't feel I was putting that great.  I thought my short game was okay and according to the stats terrible there.  Sometimes you don't see things the same way as they are. 

 Q.  What do you think of this course?  How does it suit your game? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  It's definitely not a walking course.  Need about eight shuttles out there.  It's about two miles between some of the tees.  But, yeah, you know, right now it's hard to tell because it's so wet out there.  The ball is plugging in the fairway, and I don't think we even had time to -- or been able to cut the fairways last three days because of the rain. 
 But if the wind is out it's going to be some tough holes.  Going to be tough holes without that second and third tee shots.  They're pretty tight.  Definitely the third one because you have water left, right, short, long.  So, I mean, if the wind does it's going to be tough. 

 Q.  Difficulty-wise, how does this course compare to some of the other courses? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, the rough is brutal.  There's no doubt about it.  You're going to struggle out there.  Of course, we lost probably five, six balls.  We just couldn't find them.  We walked sometimes a few minutes looking for them and we couldn't find the balls. 
 So we need some good spotters out there for sure.  I didn't try that much, because every time you end up in the rough, you know, you sink straight down.  I didn't want to hurt anything so I didn't even try. 
 But that's going to the biggest challenge:  To hit the fairways.  (Indiscernible) might not be the straightest driver on the course, so we'll see. 

 Q.  Were you familiar at all with the course before this week? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  I played on Friday.  But, I mean, it started raining already then so it was pretty wet.  But, I mean, they've done a great job here with the whole set up:  The clubhouse and the whole community here looks fantastic, I think. 
 They have a great set up for us in the locker room and everything, so I think all the players are going to have a good time here.  I mean, it's too bad it's only one year.  Like I said, it would be nice if (indiscernible) and you only lives 25 minutes away. 

 Q.  You don't get to do that a lot.  I guess just Honda. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Honda, which, I mean, we've been training for my (indiscernible) as well, which is long hike.  At least one and a half hours. 

 Q.  You play Disney next week. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah.  I drive up there on Wednesday, I think.  Yeah, this is nice end of the year.  You can pretty much do whatever you want. 

 Q.  Talk a little about sort of the peace of mind.  In Texas you basically clinched the card for next year.  I know you talked about you could use a one-time career Money List and didn't really want to.  Sort of coming out this week and then next week. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, of course that makes it a lot easier.  I mean, like you said, I could have used my career Money List.  But, I mean, at least have some pride.  I been playing now for 21 years and never lost my card so to speak, so it's something you want to do even though, like I said, I had a little parachute thing to fall back on. 
 But the other thing is I can, of course, be a little freer mindset coming going into the end of the season (indiscernible). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT