VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 5, 2007
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Jesper, for joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center. 
 Another solid round and I noticed out there that you made a couple of pretty long putts there down the stretch on 16, 17.  You had some six, seven footers to make par. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Actually 16 I missed the 3-footer for birdie.  And then on 18 I holed a putt, yeah, 8-footer for par, yeah. 
 The game felt very well going in today's round.  I hit it to about four feet on 1 and hit a great 7-iron to about, I don't know, 15 feet on 2.  Holed those two so I had a great start. 
 Then I slowed down for awhile and birdied 7 and 9.  4-under on the front-9.  And then I 3-putted 11.  That kind of put the handbrake on a little bit.  Then I holed about a 4-footer on 13 and 2-putted 14 and made a good par on 15 and 18. 
 So, what can I say?  It was still pretty solid round.  We don't see the gusty winds so far this week that usually this course produces.  Usually it's pretty tough for guys to win and it can be up to two, three clubs of wind which we have not seen yet out there. 
 That's why I say it's pretty much there for the taking right now, the golf course. 
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Still feeling pretty comfortable with that putter? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  That 3-footer on 16 shook me up.  It was such an easy putt.  I mean we thought it was just dead straight putt, three feet, downgrain, nothing to it.  Lipped out on the right side. 
 "Wow, don't start malfunctioning now.  You've been so good to me so far."  So then I lagged a little bit on 17, four feet short and squeezed that one in. 
 The wind switched on 18 on the second shot, I hit over the green and had to chip to about 7, 8 feet and holed the putt from there.  That was nice. 

 Q.  Shigeki got close at one point.  No one else really jumped up.  Are you surprised?  It could happen this afternoon.  But no one is really close right now. 
 Are you surprised? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yes and no.  I mean it's a course where if you -- I've been driving the ball very well, I have to say.  I don't miss many fairways at all and if you can do that, you're going to have a lot of wedge shots and lot of short irons that you can knock close. 
 As soon as you start spraying it into the rough it's very hard to hit the greens because you're going to get fliers and it's very hard to judge the distance. 
 So, I mean, I, of course, think the course played very easy so far.  I'm sure other guys have been in the rough said it's been playing pretty tough. 
 I mean, I thought Duffy played fairly well.  He ended up missing the cut.  It's that kind of golf course, I think. 

 Q.  Is this your best two back-to-back rounds of the year Jesper? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  The year?  Definitely.  When did I have something like this going?  At the Bob Hope many years ago I remember I was two behind John Cook going into the weekend and I think I shot 66, 62.  I lost by four (laughter). 
 There you go.  I think he shot 64, 62, something like that.  So, I mean it's not always easy to put a low round after a really low round like yesterday so, you know, I'm pleased with the way I played today. 

 Q.  The 3-putt, I guess it was on 12, was it?  Was that a difficult place to get down in two? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  I thought I hit a great second shot.  The pin was back right and came up a little bit short.  Looked very fast. 
 I hit it about five feet short and misread the next one and I mean the round there could have done a bad turn around because I hit it in the fairway bunker on the next hole which is a very tough shot on 12 because you have that ravine with the water, and we were right in between clubs, too. 
 I had a really solid 9-iron or 8-iron.  I decided to hit the high draw with the 8-iron which is a tough shot to hit.  Knocked it past the pin.  Great 2-putt from there.  That 3-putt on 11 that will -- fat shot on 12 in the water, there you go. 

 Q.  The bunkers on the left on 12; is that right? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yes. 

 Q.  Shigeki was in there and went into the water.  That's probably -- 
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Trust me, that was in the back of my mind, too. 

 Q.  Did you happen to see him in front of you doing that? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  No, I did not.  Luckily, I did not see that. 

 Q.  Is it nice the see a couple of countrymen chasing you there, Fredrik and Richard right behind you about five shots back? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah.  I mean I don't know -- is Richard 9?  I'm very happy for Richard.  He needs a very good finish here.  He probably needs to finish 2nd to get his card for the year so I hope, really hope he can get it going. 
 He's played great all year, just hasn't done anything.  Putted pretty poorly all year.  So in a sense, of course, I don't want him to catch up to me but I'm definitely pulling for him at the same time. 

 Q.  As it stands now it looks like you're in the frontrunning position starting the second half of the tournament. 
 How do you feel about that, your previous victories, do you remember having a nice lead going into the final two rounds? 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  I would say most tournaments where I've been leading I have won.  Greensboro I was leading by a few.  I think Furyk was right behind me there. 
 Honda I think I was leading.  Where else?  Bob Hope, I don't know if I was -- yeah, I was leading there as well.  No, I was not leading there. 
 So, it's a mixture.  But I mean I'd rather be in the lead than a few behind.  Put it that way. 
 It's always nice to have -- when you have a few to spare than the other way around where you have to be very aggressive where you can't give nothing up. 
 I would like to be in the lead by as many as possible. 
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Anything else?  Thank you. 
 JESPER PARNEVIK:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT