CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Jesper Parnevik, who followed up yesterday's 65 with a second round 68 today.  Stands at 7 under, 133 for the 2006 Canadian Open.

Jesper, a great start after missing five cuts in a row.  You must be happy with where you stand after two days here.
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, I missed five cuts in a row, but I think they were spread out over five months.  Was not really.

Of course, I'm happy playing the way I am right now.  This is a very tough golf course to start with.  When you get winds like this, probably gusting 25 miles per hour at times, when you're in the trees, it's tough to figure out what direction the wind is coming from.  I think that's why you see some of the scores are a little bit on the higher side today.
TODD BUDNICK:  The key so far for you through two rounds is the one bogey which you had today.
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, I haven't really made a bogey until 3rd hole today, which was my 12th hole.  It was a terrible bogey.  Took a gamble there and hit driver.  You know, very tight hole.  If you go past the fairway, you can reach the next fairway down there by the creek.  I hit a perfect drive.  I only had a sand wedge in there.  Ended up making bogey.

That was a little bit of a momentum stopper because I didn't birdie the par 5 or short par 4 after that either.  I holed two nice putts on 17.  My 17th and 18th hole, it was a good way to finish today.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.  You have done a good job, only making one bogey.  A lot of players seem to be making birdies, bogeys, volatile leaderboard.  Do you get a sense it's anyone's tournament the way it's being played out there?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, it's fairly bunched up right now.  In that sense, I think anyone can win.  I think you have to play pretty well, though.  Whoever wins on Sunday is going to be the one that plays the best.  This is that type of golf course where you have to hit it in the fairway, you have to hit the green.  You're not going to scramble yourself around, you know, for four rounds around here and shoot low scores.
Q.  What is the toughest part of this course?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Pretty much everything.  I mean, picking clubs is the toughest part today, I would say.  I mean, second shot on 1, it looks like it's about a 110 yard shot.  It's actually playing more like a 9 iron shot.  It was a lot of situations like that where it's a little bit uphill, just a little bit short, it plays two, three clubs longer.  Some of the holes are downhill, it plays really short.  I'd say that was the toughest part today.
Q.  What were the conditions like out there this afternoon compared to yesterday morning?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Like I said, was completely different.  The wind was blowing real hard.  The greens are still fairly soft, similar to yesterday.  I'm sure they're going to firm up if we don't get any rain the next few days.  I heard they might forecast rain for tomorrow.

If this course gets, you know, firm like it was last year, you get these winds, I have no idea what people are going to shoot.  It's going to be very tough then.
Q.  Nathan Green said he would take one or two more under par by Sunday.  Would you take that?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  One or two more under par, I would not take.  I think you need to get it to double digits at least this week to have a chance.
Q.  I have to ask you.  Everybody talked about the outfit reminds them of a character from a show called The Honeymooners.  Do you know the show and is this an homage to the character?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  No, I don't know the show.  Sorry.

You have to ask Camilo about my swing tip for him today.  I take full credit for the 63 or whatever he shot today.  When he comes in, you better ask him.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Jesper.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT