CANADIAN OPEN
September 7, 2006
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Maybe just some opening comments on a good bogey free round for you.
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, I got off to a good start, of course, after an absolute horrendous drive on the first hole, which actually two tee shots.  The first one I hit it straight right and it stayed in by about six feet, in a bush.  I had no shot whatsoever.  I tried to play it through a tree and some other bushes and it hit the tree, came down and I had a decent lie in the rough, which I knocked to about six feet from there and holed the putt.  It was a great par, but it could have been an 8 or worse.

After that I hit, I think, three of the next four shots.  I hit one within 5 feet and I hit one within two feet, probably.  So it was a great start.  I missed about a 6 footer on 9.  And then we had the incident on 10.  And after that my game stalled a little bit because of a little bit of confusion what was going on.  And I was happy to make the birdie on the 17.
Q.  Can you take us through when you found out there would be no penalty because of what happened on 10?  Just say how much that affected what you were thinking as you hit your next few shots on 11, 12?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I think it's going to affect everybody.  We hit our tee shots on 10.  We come up to my ball and we can't see it because the sun is in our face, so we don't see any of our tee shots, really.  My ball is about one and a half inches underground.  So I asked Greg and Matheus, my ball is plugged, and they said take a drop.  I take my ball up and my caddie cleans it.  We hear somebody say it might have jumped into a pitch mark.  So we called for a ruling then.  And he decides    he didn't know what to do.  I had to replace it in the pitch mark and play it.  And we're going to check later what really happened.  The referee came back on the next hole and said he still wasn't sure.  Of course it played on my mind, I was going to make 4 or 5 or whatever happened.  They checked with the SHOTLink guys at the hole and they saw the ball plug.  So he went with their opinion there, which I'm happy about, but    so in the end it was an actually a bad break, because I could have dropped it and actually played a better shot.
Q.  Did you find out at the end of the round?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  The end of the round they told me there was no penalty.  I was pleased with that.
Q.  So how did you get the ball on to the green if it's an inch and a half underground?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I hit a wedge has hard as a could, and I hit about two inches behind it and it pitched and ran up the green.  I was still short of the pin.  It was just one of those hit and hope shots.
Q.  How different is this course from 2003?  It looks, certainly by the scoring, minus 8 won last time, you're at minus 5.  It looks completely different?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It is a completely different golf course.  I know a tee shot like last time was very, very hard to hit the fairway.  Even if you hit it over the trap you would bounce through the fairway into the rough on the other side.  So you had to kind of hit a hook 3 iron or something like that off the tee just to stay on the fairway.  And all the fairways were really firm so the greens were concrete, as well.  All those long par 3s, for example, you had to try to pitch something short of the green or on to the green just to stay on the green.  Now you can pretty much hit a 3 wood and it's just going to plug next to the pin.  That's the big difference.  The rough is healthy, though.  It's hard to say, but it seems like anytime on the PGA TOUR when we get very soft greens there is low scoring.  Every week happens the same thing.
Q.  Did you hit more drivers this time?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yes, I hit pretty much driver on every hole.  I know in 03 I even hit 3 iron on the 4th hole, the par 5, just to make sure I got it into the fairway, because I could still reach the green from there as long as I hit the fairway.  Today it was driver, 3 wood.  So it's playing differently.  And because of the    the fairways were so hard back then, it was tougher to hit the fairways.
Q.  Even though you described the conditions as being somewhat different from '03, are you finding that there's a comfort level, you and your game and this course that contributed to your low score today?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It seems like I like Canadian courses for some reason, because I think I've been playing in the last group the last two years.  I always tend to play fairly well in Canada.  I don't know if it's the golf courses, the food or the crowds, I don't know.  I love coming here and playing.  So I'm happy to get off to a good start today.  I tried a little bit different move today with the swing, my caddie, Lance, had a little swing tip for me on Tuesday, that he was working on.  I hit a lot of really good iron shots.  The driver felt a little bit if I sometimes, but I think 5 under around to course any day.
Q.  Can you just talk quickly about your season?  I know you've missed a few cuts in a row on the PGA TOUR.  Can you talk about maybe how you've been playing or why you've been struggling or what's been going on?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, I came off pretty strong at the beginning of the year, I made really well.  I played a lot.  I played pretty much the whole West Coast and played the Florida Swing.  And then I pretty much quit end of May.  I went to Sweden and took about ten weeks off.  I've done that the last two years now, gone back to Sweden and spent time with my family and just had a great time, not doing much golf at all.  And last year I came back and played great.  This year I came back and missed two cuts.  So maybe this is the week that's going to kick start things again for the fall season, here.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT