BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 27, 2006
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Jesper Parnevik for stopping in after a second round of 67 on the North Course today.  He's 10 under par through two rounds, two strokes behind the leader heading into the weekend.  Talk a little bit about today's round, just the one bogey on No. 11.
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It was actually more of a struggle today it felt like.  The greens got a little bit on the bumpy side in the end.  The pins were actually tucked in pretty severe slopes it seemed like.  I had a few one footers that were outside the cup to hole them, and that's very rare.

The tough thing about the North Course, I think, is the greens are so soft and spongy and you hit wedges into most of them, it's tough not to spin them off the green all the time.  You have a lot of shots from 100 or 110 yards where you're actually hitting wedges and 9 irons not to put too much spin on them.
TODD BUDNICK:  You had a great finish last week and a good start this week.  How important is it to get your season off to a positive start?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Of course it's a plus.  Everybody wants to start the year on a good note because it's usually carried through the rest of the year.  I don't know too many examples of guys that started out really bad and then had a great year.  It seems like most guys that won on the West Coast ended up having great years; Phil and Mike Weir started winning, and Mike went on to win at Augusta and so on.  So it definitely carries through the rest of the year to have a good start.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I probably went five, six years without even seeing my swing on tape.  For me it has to be a feeling that I get for it to work.  Just to have positions and something to point at on film or TV, it doesn't work for me because I can pretty much miss the ball then.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I'm happy.  You can mess up on this course if you're not careful, especially where the pins are.  If you hit your shots in the wrong places, you're going to have pretty wicked putts.  You can play probably five or six feet of break from ten feet.  And when they're getting bumpy and slow, it's pretty tough.

I mean, at the start of the week if someone said you'll be 10 under after two days, I would have taken it, put it that way.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JESPER PARNEVIK:  For me since I bring my family along, it's accommodations that a lot of times decide where we're going.  A lot of players feel that way.  If you have a so so golf course but a great resort right there, there's a lot of guys that are going to show up.  And if you put a great golf course in the middle of nowhere, you're going to have the opposite.

The only time you're forced to go in the middle of nowhere where there's not a lot of resorts is the majors, and you have to show up anyway.  I remember at the British Open a few years ago I ended up renting a barn for the week, and I think they charged me about $20,000 for it.  So there you go.
Q.  When was that?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  That was when Ben Curtis won.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Oh, yeah, it was all right.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I wouldn't go that far.  I mean, the kids sort of thought it was fun because there were animals in the barn and so on.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TODD BUDNICK:  How about your round?  You had bogey on No. 11.
JESPER PARNEVIK:  11, had driver, 6 iron short of the green, hit a bad chip up there about six feet and missed the putt.

14, driver, 7 wood onto the green, two putted from about 60 feet.

Driver, sand wedge to about six feet.

Driver, sand wedge to about six feet.

Driver, 5 wood just short of the green, chipped it to three feet.

Hit a wedge to about ten feet.

And then driver, 7 wood just short of the green, chipped that to about six feet.

That was it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT