BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2005
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Up and down for you by and large, but you're in contention going into the final round?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  You could definitely call it up and down.  I was playing it so well yesterday and got it to minus seven after nine holes and took it from minus seven to plus one and down to plus one and back to minus five in 15 holes.  So definitely a roller coaster out there.  I hung in there and I thought there was no end to my bogey train but finally got it turned around.

I feel like I'm playing really well, so it was just that I could not read all of those 4  or 5 footers right and I got it wrong and I think it got to me in the end because I get a little bit tense over the short putts.
Q.  Does it become a snowball effect for you?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It did on the putting definitely.  I'm going to work a little on the putting green now.  I putted beautifully the first round.  So it's not that I feel like I'm putting bad or anything.  I second guessed myself a few times on some of the lines.
Q.  Are you surprised at all of the birdies on this course?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, but on the same token, all of the birdies I've made have been in pretty close range.  The eagle I got from three feet on 15 was a big bonus, of course, if you play well, you get rewarded and if you play bad you're in for a struggle, that's for sure.
Q.  How about being in contention, has it been a while?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I was in Reno a few weeks ago.  I started to play a lot better which is nice.  You know, hard work doesn't always pay off in this game, so I'm very happy to see some signs of recovery.
Q.  It's tough and already a tough golf course, how tough can they make it for you tomorrow?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, if they start hiding the pins, they can be very tough of course.  It's tough enough already.  They don't have to trick it up or do anything.  It's a good, tough golf course and that's it.
Q.  You've been a popular guy, how have the fans been?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Oh, I always love the fans around here, the Canadian fans have always been good to me, and so that's why I always enjoy coming back here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT