BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2005
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A little bit of a contrast from yesterday's round for you?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, I played a hundred times better today.  So I was a little bit    I could have shot a really low score.  I was about to shoot in the low 60s and something got sidetracked and I ended up with a 72.  That hurt a little bit because I didn't even come close to missing a green on the front nine.

I could have shot 6 , 7 under on the front nine and all of a sudden 5 footers for par on the back nine just wouldn't drop.  I just couldn't stop the bogey train from going.
Q.  Is the course starting to firm up at all the greens?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, they are.  They are firming up in the afternoons.  If we don't get any rain on the weekend, this course is going to be brutal on Sunday.
Q.  Are you still in this, do you have the game to compete?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  The good news is there's only one player that's way ahead of everybody else.  There's only one player.  I mean, you never know, and the course is going to get tougher, so I'm playing well enough.  I'm really happy with the way I'm playing, so I can't complain.  Just got to start over again tomorrow.
Q.  A lot of players commented on the rough around the greens, have you had any issues?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, it's tough.  I mean, it's very close to unplayable.  I don't know if this course needed it, because it's such a course without the thick, thick, wiry rough.  But just made it pretty much impossible to get it within ten feet, I would say, if you miss a green.  It just makes it even tougher.
Q.  How many fairways    inaudible?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I missed the 9th fairway by maybe six inches, you're right, and I couldn't even see the golf ball.  I hacked a wedge as hard as I could, and I bet you it only flew 20 yards.  There's a little bit of luck involved.  You can get spots out there where you get lucky and some spots are not very fortunate.
Q.  How far was the putt on 9?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It was only two feet.  I hit a great wedge in there, yeah.
Q.  Do you have to go out with a different attitude when you're playing a course that's set up this tough?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I get really bored in the practice rounds and started playing a little too safe I thought.  So I'm more    my theory now is just rip it and see where it goes and take it from there.  If you get too intimidated by the course you start guiding it around here, there's no telling what you might shoot.  You might shoot 90.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT