THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 21, 2016
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under around Carnoustie, quite happy; is that the way you feel?
JESPER PARNEVIK: Very happy, if you shoot 2-under, you take that every day.  The wind was tough today.  It switched around 180 three times I think.  You've got really gusty, then calmed down.
On this course, no wind, I'll take 2-under.
Q. From about 45, was it you were injured, you went away for awhile until you hit the Champions Tour?
JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, it kind of started, I actually had my best year in 2000.  I think I was leading the Money List in the US and my hip started bothering me.  I had hip surgery later on that year in August.  It came back the year after I won at Honda but then I had another hip surgery and then it just kind of went downwards after.  Then I ripped my back, cut my finger off.  I had a lot of injuries.  That was the last eight, nine years, pretty much trying to heal up, and I'm very happy right now that the body feels good so I can practise.
Q. Then I saw, it went viral, Parnevik doing Gangham style?
JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, that was a while ago.  We've done a lot of stranger things than that the last few years.  We have our own TV show now in Sweden that we have been running for two seasons that have been, thank God, it's hugely successful.  Because if you do something like that in Sweden, it's not a success, it's kind of like Australia; they absolutely kill you.  It's the same thing here in England and Scotland.  I'm happy about that.
My daughter now, she's actually touring in Sweden with her music and all that, so a lot of things going on.
Q. What about the volcanic dust, are you still at it?
JESPER PARNEVIK: When I was injured, I would try anything.  But the volcanic dust, I cannot quick that -- might take it up, if it helps.
Q. Patient start but came good on the back nine?
JESPER PARNEVIK: I actually played pretty well on the front nine, but I'd take 2-under any day of the year.  This is one of the toughest links courses we play and this course is tough without any wind.  2-under is a good score today.  I'll take it.
Q. A couple good par saves at the end?
JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, a couple good long putts, 2-putt saves, yeah.  You do that around here, you can putt from 50 yards off the green here sometimes.  It's probably easier than hitting a pitch shot.  You'll take par on any hole, especially the last few holes, 16, 17, 18, it's not easy.
The tough thing was actually the wind, but it was not that it was that strong.  It was that it switched around three times.  It went, we walked to the first tee, it was straight downwind.  When I was about to hit my tee shot, it was great into the wind, and that happened three times today.  That was a little tough to get used to that wind switch, because usually it's just so strong, just keeps going one direction.
Q. How are you finding your first Senior Open Championship?
JESPER PARNEVIK: I mean, this is a good start, 2-under.  I haven't been playing much this summer.  I had too much fun in Sweden with family and friends and so on.  So I'm actually excited about this.  Anytime I come to Scotland and play, though, I get motivated, because I love this golf.
Q. Can I ask you about Henrik, how good it is for him and Swedish golf?
JESPER PARNEVIK: It's very good for Swedish golf that Henrik won, finally won a major.  The women has spoiled us for years with major after years; Annika, to name a few.
But it was huge.  The way he's been playing the last five, six years, it was just a matter of time, and hopefully now we're going to see a few more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT