BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2004
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
(Inaudible.)
JESPER PARNEVIK:  We're asking for trouble now.  Right into the bunker and it stayed there and kicked left down in the trap.  I missed a lot of putts today.  So I told my caddie when we are standing there in the bunker, I said we're asking for trouble now because I really should lay up and tried to make birdie that way.  I had 215 to the pin and I hit a perfect 5-iron.  Went over the green and I hit a great bunker shot.  Nice way to finish, I have to say.
Q.  How did the course shape up after all the rain?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It's incredible how they could get it in such good shape after all the rain.  It started raining last night and it didn't stop until I think 10:00 or 11:00 this morning.  We were just happy we could play today because they must have done an incredible job to get it in that good of shape.
Q.  What do you do with the five-hour delay?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It's a bad thing.  They always say one, two hours first, and then you have to get ready for that.  I walked out on the putting green after a couple of hours and was ready to go and they said, "oh, it's another hour"; and then it's another hour and then it's another hour.  That's the tough part to know when you should go, because you know all of the sudden you're going to miss lunch and then you've got to squeeze lunch in there as well.  Once again, I had a couple of breakfasts and one lunch.
Q.  How tough was the wind out there today?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  It's very tough, I have to say especially with the course set up where the rough is so high, if you miss the fairways you have no chance of getting off the greens.  Very pleased with the way I drove it today and the way I hit iron shots.  It's blowing 20, 30 miles per hour out there and it's not easy.

The toughest thing about this course usually is to figure out where the wind is coming from.  When the wind is so strong, that was the easy part to figure out what direction anyway.
Q.  How was 17 straight into the wind?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  That's always been a tough hole.  I hit a really good drive there, and I still had close to 200 yards I would say.  With a pin all the way back there, it's going to be a lot of bogeys made on that hole.
Q.  Is there any advantage to the fact that you finished your round today and some players are going to have the rest of the week split up for the first couple of days?  Does it make a difference to you guys?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Depends on the weather we get tomorrow.  If it's sunny and no wind tomorrow, then I would rather have played tomorrow and not have played today.  Hopefully it's going to blow like this the rest of the week because, hey, I love playing in weather like this.
Q.  Did you need lift, clean and place today?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, definitely we could not have played without it I think.  They were worried also they could not get all of the fairways ready.  So I think there were a few spots if you hit it in the fairways still, you had nowhere to drop except for the rough.  So that's why they had to play lift, clean.
Q.  How were the bunkers?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  They were wet and playable.  They did an amazing job.
Q.  '99 Ryder Cup changed things I know.  Phil mentioned that it forged better relationship between him the Europeans and the Americans; is that a return to what the event used to be, because it got out of hand at Brookline in '99?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yes, I have to say so.  I mean, the crowd should be energetic and they are very much into it.  If it was without the crowd, it would not be very special to play in the Ryder Cup.  I mean, if it was just playing 24 players, there would be no atmosphere.

It took it a little bit over the edge at Brookline where we don't need the cussing and the personal attacks that we got there.  I think all of the players are on the same level now.  I mean, I love Ryder Cup so I mean, I love when it's that loud and crazy, trust me.  But that was maybe a little bit over the edge.
Q.  What's your prediction for the Ryder Cup this year?
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, always both teams look very good.  U.S. always looks a lot better on paper but Europeans are playing very well this year.  So it's going to be probably even again.  It's so tough to call, it's going to hang on the last few holes on Sunday again I bet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT