THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 8, 2001
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Well, anyone that was here earlier this week understands that this is a lot easier today.  The greens are perfect, but the big thing is there is no wind this morning.  I thought it was lucky to tee off early and that the wind would pick up after nine, but there was pretty much no wind on the back nine, either.  It was definitely a day to shoot a low score.  But I still don't have to say that I played that great.  The greens were rolling so nicely that I probably putted the best I have done so far this year.  I have to say, that was the biggest thing for me today. 
 

Q.  Would you say that you didn't get out here earlier all week?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I was here yesterday and played a Pro-Am and it was blowing about 30 miles harder than today.  So, I mean, was very easy it.   Was cold this morning.  It was about 45, 50 degrees, but after that, it was perfect. 
 

Q.  You skipped this event the past couple years and a lot bigger names skip it just to prepare for next week.  Is there any reason you are playing this week, as opposed to sitting out?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I usually play this week.  It just happens to be the last two years it has not fit in my schedule.  You know, I live an hour from here, so I commute every day.  So it's not really an event I want to miss.  So, I mean, I like to play. 
 

Q.  Do you hope the winds pick up throughout the week? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I don't know.  (Laughs).  Usually, I love to play in the wind.  I love British Open weather.  And the way this course is playing, it's running.  And, you know, the greens are getting firm and so it is similar conditions to that.  It's just that today I didn't really hit my driver as well as I wanted to, and I just knocked most of the iron shots close when I had a chance, and then holed the birdie putts.  But, you know, I've been practicing a lot with this weird-looking putting device.  Like a doughnut, almost.  It's an English guy that invented it.  I don't know his name.  It's like a putter with a doughnut hole in it.  And you put the ball in this hole and then you make a normal stroke and then you kind of release the ball towards the hole, but it's stuck inside the putter.  I think it's called  -- it's called the Zen Oracle Training System.  It's amazing, the feel you get with it.  It's helped me a lot.  It's hard to explain the feeling of it, but all of the other pros that have tried it on the putting green are amazed.  They come up to me and say, "What is that?"  And they try it and it's just amazing the feel you get.  It's one of those string-looking inventions, but it really works.  
 

Q.  What is it called? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Zen Oracle, I guess for the sand, I don't know. 
 

Q.  Is it sold here?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I don't think so, no.  
 

Q.  You'd better buy them all.
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah. (Smiling). 
 

Q.  They might now be. 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah.  
 

Q.  After all of the anticipation with the baby coming and all that, do you finally feel like you're getting into a rhythm and a routine.
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:  I got off to a slow start this year, I have to say.  I didn't play as well as I wand to.  Of course, I had the hip surgery last feel fall.  I didn't feel like I was 100% starting the year and I didn't putt well and so on.  Right now it feels like pretty much all of that is past me.  And it was great anticipation, of course, having my first son being born and all that.  So it's a great relief now, and all that is behind me and I can focus pretty much just only on my golf.  My hip feels a lot better and so on.  So I'm definitely looking forward to, you know, this next few events, and of course this one.  
 

Q.  How is Phoenix? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Very well, thanks.  Sleeping pretty well, too.  
 

Q.  You said you're staying home and commuting.  Are you able to get any sleep while you're there?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yes, that is the hard part.  I had to get up at 4:00 in the morning just to get here on time.  Same thing yesterday.  6:45 Pro-Am time which meant I still this to get up before 4:00.  It's still worth it.   Staying at hotels every week, it's nice to sleep in your own bed for a change.  That one-hour commute doesn't really bother me.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT