GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 14, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Thank you.  
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah.  
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Of course, it's great any time you win a golf tournament. You know, I
think this is the first playoff I've been in in the United States. I've played in a
playoff against Seve long time ago where we played six holes; he beat me in the end. But
this was definitely exciting. After the putt I missed on 12, I really didn't see that I
was going to get into the playoff. But I missed a putt like, I don't know, it was a foot.
But then I watched the leaderboard and I saw Davis drop a few and I was right back in the
game. 
 
Q. What happened on that putt? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know. It was such a -- you know, it's pretty severe green, but
I was so happy I hit such a putt up there about a foot from the hole. I didn't know, I
didn't think about it and just marked it and tapped in and it just snapped-sliced. 
 
Q. What was going through your head? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I was just shocked after that. You don't know -- it's one thing if you
miss a putt and you stand over it and you feel uneasy or whatever. But this one, I just
wanted to tap it in and it missed and I thought, "Wow". 
 
Q. Did you take a little extra time at 18 just because of that? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. I didn't want to take too much time, though. 
 
Q. Were you thinking of the earlier one? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: On 18? No. No. Maybe it crossed my mind in between playoff holes, but
not really. When you're out there, I was pretty focused on winning the playoff. But we hit
three great shots into 17, I thought. That's a tough pin today, just over the water there;
and two birdies and a lip-out is, you know, pretty exciting. 
 
Q. When you lost -- or when you were in L.A., you said there was part of you that was
hoping you would make that putt because it meant so much, did you have thoughts of --
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, because I know Davis wants to win so bad. He's had a chance --
well, he's had many chances this year, already: Hilton Head, I don't know all of them. But
he's such a great guy and he's such a great player, he should win one of these. You know,
after he holed that putt on 17, of course my putt was a lot longer, but it's tough when
you want to win very bad, instead of just letting it happen. I expected him to make the
putt on 18, even though it was a tough putt with a lot of break on it. I thought we were
going to go to extra holes again. 
 
Q. Have you had the victory cigar yet?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Unbelievable. I forgot about it. (Laughs). You know, after I holed out
the putt on 18, I went up there and said, "You know what I forgot? I forgot the
cigar." First time in years. I guess it was not really good timing to light up a
cigar, anyway. 
 
Q. You dodged a lot of bullets there down the stretch and in the playoff. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah.  
 
Q. You don't really sound like you're over the moon like you normally would be. Are
you? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Of course you're happy. There was -- I don't know how to say it. It
was so close all day, and it was not like, you never really thought about winning in that
sense, you know, you just try to stay in touch with the guys. I was always behind, one
behind, two behind, three behind, two behind. So it's more of a -- you know, I was just
happy to get in the playoff in the end, because I thought -- especially when Davis had his
six -, seven-footer on 18 to win the tournament. So it's a huge bonus. I mean, it's good.
This whole year has been a good bonus.  
 
Q. When you birdied 15, you're 1-up. Now your thinking has got to change when you're
1-up. Do you think if you can get a birdie at 16, you can put it away? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. I thought definitely I was going to birdie 16, but then I hit a
great tee shot, I thought, but then the wind kind of died. It was hard off the left and it
kind of died, and my ball just went straight for the trap and kicked a little bit left.
After that, you know it was the same thing. I hit a great shot into 17. Misread the putt
on the 71st hole, but a lot of guys missed a lot of chances, I guess, in the end. 
 
Q. What was your terminology, a snap-slice?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know, it must have broken, I don't know, a cup at least from a
foot. I couldn't believe it.  
 
Q. How far do you think the putt was in the playoff on 17? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Mine? It was about six feet, I would say. Six, seven feet, yeah.  
 
Q. Felt like 12? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, felt like 15 after he holed his, and it looked like Phil was
going to hole his, as well. But it was a fairly easy putt. It was straight up the hill and
fairly straight putt. So, you know, tried to make a good stroke at it and it went in. 
 
Q. How long was your first birdie putt there at 18, when you had a chance to close
Davis out? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: The last hole, oh, that was about a 20-footer, I would say, yeah. I
hit a good putt there, too. It did go by three or four feet, which I didn't want to see.  
 
Q. Do you remember what you had in on that hole and what you hit? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: 9-iron. Yeah, we hit three terrible shots the first playoff hole, I
thought. Everybody had really easy shots in there, and I don't know what we did. I think
when we stood behind that tree, you didn't feel the wind and it -- the wind must have been
a lot harder off to the left than we thought, because there's no reason why we should hit
three 8-irons 40 feet right. I was just very pleased, after I missed mine right, I thought
someone should birdie the hole.  
 
Q. This one will certainly get you into the Top-10 in the World Rankings. You've
already won twice this year, could you talk about the momentum you have for the rest of
the season now, how well you're playing?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I never had a year like this before, of course. I mean, I've won twice
now, I have what seven, eight Top-10s, also. It's definitely been my best year so far. The
only disappointment has been Augusta where I had a chance for a while and got it to even
par the third day, but kind of let it go again. But I'm definitely looking forward to
Pebble Beach, which is going to be more of a British Open, links-type U.S. Open, where,
you know, I struggled a bit. I've finished Top-10 last few years, but I never consider
myself as a really good chance to win it because you have to just hit it so straight.  
 
Q. Vijay never liked his chances at Augusta.
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: That's true.  
 
Q. Your winning putt, was that longer than the putt at 12? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah. The winning putt was about three, four feet, I would say.
The miss was just over a foot.  
 
Q. You were saying you didn't think you would make the playoff after you missed that
one on 12?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I felt like that right there, yeah, but I had a good shot on the
next par 3 and just missed the birdie putt. And then I stiffed it on the next hole. And
when I looked at the scoreboard, then I saw that Davis just made two bogeys; so we're
right in it again. I was swinging pretty good out there. I guess Tiger was the only one
that really made a big move. He must have shot 63, yeah.  
 
Q. A little champagne on the flight to Germany, I think?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I was going to leave tonight, but I missed that. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. What did Byron say to you? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, I mean, he's a terrific guy. He's doing so much good, I think, for
the game and, you know, I can't say enough things about him. Of course, he gave me -- you
know, it's very honoring to hear him talk good about my game and so on, and to just watch
him sit on the 1st hole every day, walk up to him on the 18th I think is unbelievable. 
 
Q. When you were in Sweden had you ever heard anything about Byron Nelson?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: When I grew up, probably not.  
 
Q. When is the first time, when you came to America?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, you know, I don't know how old I was. 
 
Q. When you started playing golf?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: When you start looking at who is -- I don't know what age you start
looking at the Hogans and Byrons and so on. Of course, his record is unbelievable.  
 
Q. How many European Tour events are you going to play between Pebble and the PGA? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I think four of them. Three or four.  
 
Q. It's possible you could be one of the -- I mean, 2 or 3 on our Money List, Top-5 in
the world and not get into NEC? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Very much. So that's why I rejoined the European Tour this year
because that was my last resort to get into that event. And to have any chance to win or
do well on the U.S. money List, you have to get into the World Championships; otherwise,
you pretty much are too far behind. 
 
Q. How do you put things, bad stuff like 12 out of your mind and just keep going and
not let it linger? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I mean, that's probably what I've done well this year is to leave bad
things behind me. I started the year playing unbelievably well. I doubled every other
hole; so I'm pretty used to leaving things behind now. I think I made like 75 birdies like
the first three events, but I pretty much average one double-bogey a round as well. That's
pretty much what I've improved a lot with this career. 
 
Q. Were you steaming walking to the 13th tee? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. I was more in shock than steaming. I don't know how to explain
that. 
 
Q. Did you even mark it? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, marked it, but just for, you know -- I don't know why I marked
it even. I gave it to Lance just to wipe off in case there was any dirt on it and I went
up and tapped it in and it missed. 
 
Q. Did you line it up? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, I lined it up.  
 
Q. Had you not would be, the trip to Germany might have been a little rough thinking
about that deal? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: You can't really think about it. Well, of course, you can think about
it that way, but it would have been a longer trip, yes. 
 
Q. Are you still flying Price Air? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I think I'm going back to Price Air. Yeah, I was going to sneak
by Sweden tonight and then to Germany tomorrow, but now we go straight from Florida, I
think to Hamburg with Nick Price, yeah.  
 
Q. So you'll fly home tonight?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: So I go back to Florida tonight and fly over to Germany tomorrow. 
 
Q. Davis has been pretty frank and honest about how Tiger hanging around is
intimidating to him. How do you feel about that? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I enjoy playing with Tiger. I've had, I would say nine or ten times
I've played with him. I've played very well. I love playing with the best guys, and I
think everything going around Tiger, with the bigger crowds, all that, just makes me play
better, anyway. 
 
Q. When he's shooting 30 in the front in another group, does that turn you on? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. I mean, it's fun to see, because you know he can do that any
time he plays. Like I said, the times I've played with him we had a lot of fun together.
Usually, I putt like crazy when I play with him, hole everything and he doesn't like that.
 
 
Q. Did you take note or say anything to Lance once you saw Tiger up there tied for the
lead at one point?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I think everybody noticed. I think even myself said, "Oh, Lance,
look at Tiger, he's 5-under already." But we were still a few ahead I think at that
time.  
 
Q. Jesper, why is it -- you talked about your empathy with Davis going through all
this. What is it about him that all of you seem to have that feeling for him? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I mean, he's a great guy. I don't know what to say. There's nothing
really bad to say about him. He's a great player, great guy. He's been -- always nice to
me ever since I came out on TOUR. He's just -- I don't know what to say.  
 
Q. The more times you win like this, does this kind of switch your reputation to a
great player who has got little idiosyncracies from a guy who has lot a -- lot of
idiosyncracies and can play, as well? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know. I'm pretty stuck with the old stuff, I think. But the
more I win, I guess you might say great player as well. 
 
Q. Can you describe the color of your pants?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: They are very pink. I tried them once before and I finished second in
L.A. But I took them out today again; so good pants. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. What did you have Sunday at Palm Springs at the Hope?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: What I shot?  
 
Q. No, what did you wear? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, that's very boring stuff. Gray pants and a black shirt. I spent
three or four weeks on the West Coast. I ran out of the good stuff.  
 
Q. Why are you playing better this year, besides putting the double-bogeys behind you
better? What's the main reason behind your success?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, that's so hard to say with golf. You know, I took a lot of time
off last year. I think that's key and I just came from a two-week break right now with my
friends over -- my friends came over from Swede even with -- we spent some time in the
Bahamas and so on. I've been working out very hard all year with Boris. Worked out all
winter with my sister, Jessica. That must have helped me some. In golf, it's so hard to
say, because the difference between 1st and 40th is nothing. I mean, it's one putt there,
one shot there and all of the sudden you're talking four, eight, ten shots per tournament,
and it's very hard to really point at what's -- you know, it's like if you stand on the
range. If you watch all the guys, they pretty much look like they are pretty good guys,
all of them. And then Tiger might be a little bit better than everybody else, but it's not
huge. But he just does everything a little bit better. 
 
Q. Are you putting better?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I'm putting better, definitely. This is the first time I'm ever I
think Top-10 on the putting stats. I remember my first few years here I struggled to get
to the Top-100 for putting. But that's definitely one of the key factors. 
 
Q. Your disagreement with the European Tour is pretty well chronicled. I wonder if you
sort of feel like: "The better I do over here, the worse they look"? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, not really. I had a good talk with Schofield. Even though he
admitted that changing the rules for the NEC was wrong, he pretty much said there was
nothing he could do about it now. And my last chance to get in there was to rejoin the
TOUR. I don't know if that was his plan or not, but that's the way it worked out. You
know, he's been fairly considerate to me playing over here and so on. He changed a few
other rules. You cannot count the majors in the World Championships and so on, and it
would even count the NEC this year even if I would not make the tournament.  
 
Q. Are you saying that in four events in Europe, you've got to get in the Top-12;
that's your only way in now? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. So I've got to play well.  
 
Q. Jesper, are you used to hearing cracks from the gallery sometimes on your wardrobe
or maybe some of the other players give you a hard time?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Both ways. Most of the time people you know think it's -- they love
the stuff, especially the women I think. Once in awhile you hear someone make a funny
point or so on, but both ways, I would say.  
 
Q. Jesper, have you hit the ERC driver, and do you have any plans? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, I haven't hit it. I hit it once on the range here and that was
pretty much it.  
 
Q. Any thoughts?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, it was illegal. So I thought no real use in trying it out
because I don't want to just change it for one week in Europe. 
 
Q. With your schedule coming up in Europe this summer, would you think about throwing
it in the bag?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. Like I said, I don't think I would want to change it for a week
here and there, in case I would love the thing. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Who won the tennis match the other day?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, I kicked his ass really bad, 6-Love. Yeah, we played together the
first two rounds, as well. But he was not a very good tennis player.  
 
Q. Can you go to your backhand and just wear him out?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: As long as I kept it in play, he would miss; I knew that.  
 
Q. So he hit a lot of balls in tennis, too, in practice?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I hope not, because then he's not very talented.  
 
Q. I notice playing tennis you had red shorts on and black shots. It even extends to
the tennis court?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't think too much thought went into my tennis gear.  
 
Q. Was it on purpose that you and your wife both wore pink pants today? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know. Maybe she did that on purpose. I just know that me and
Lance do not match at all. He had his orange shirt on. I'm probably going to call him in
the morning next time and tell him what to wear. 
 
Q. You hear things in the gallery, do you hear any comments -- what kind of comments
did you hear in the pink pants?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Most of the time: "Oh, I love your pants, love your shirt."
I don't know, that's what else they can say. 
 
Q. Is it fun making stuff like the commercials with Sign Boy and that sort of thing? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, Sign Boy is easy stuff for us. He does everything. We just show
up. I think he even provides everything -- I don't even know if we say anything in the
commercials. He is funny, though, I have to say, yeah.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT