GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 19, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JESPER PARNEVIK: Probably the best I've ever had. Three years ago, no win; I think I
had five second runner-up finishes three years ago. This year I got the win in the Bob
Hope. And probably playing as well as I ever have before. So, you know, looking forward to
every week right now. 

Q. Can you talk about the eye surgery, the decision to have it?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I mean, it's something I've been thinking about for a long time.
I've been wearing contacts probably for 20 years, and I have astigmatism as well, but not
strong enough for me to -- how should I put it -- I need hard contacts to correct the
astigmatism. And with my allergies, it's very hard to wear hard contacts. I always wear
soft contacts, and I wasn't happy with the way I was seeing, anyway. Weeks like this week,
last week, Augusta, the pollen is very bad. So I always struggled getting, you know,
seeing well. It's always been -- I don't know how to describe it -- sometimes it's almost
like seeing underwater and you have to rub your eyes. And then it gets clear a few seconds
(inaudible). So last week I talked to (inaudible) who is a physician of LASIK surgery. And
the doctor he's been going to, Dr. Whitten up in Washington seems to be the best one in
the United States. So I decided on Thursday last week I'm going to do it on Monday. It was
a very spur-of-the-moment decision, but I had enough with my contacts. And I'm very, very
glad I did it now. It's amazing technology would be -- you know, I did it on Monday night,
and yesterday I saw perfectly, and no irritation, no discomfort, nothing. And I'm just
amazed. 

Q. Did you get out on the course at all yesterday?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I hit balls. You know, I'm seeing a lot better than I did before
with my contacts now. And like I said, my eyes don't bother me like I expect them to do.
It's an unbelievable feeling, actually. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I was -- not bad, I was around -2.00. And like I had no idea. I
just thought I was so unbelievably bad before he did his eye surgery. I think he was minus
11. He could see a few inches.

Q. Did he wear contacts, also?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I think he must have, yeah.

Q. Did he go to the same doctor that did this?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, he did a lot of the golfers, Dr. Whitten up in Washington.
Everybody I've talked to has been very, very happy. I know Fannie went to the same guy and
a lot of other players. They had pretty much the same experience I had, perfect vision the
next day, no irritation. Fred Funk did his I think on the one before Kemper last year, and
I think he was leading the tournament after the first round. The only thing that bothered
him was after he came back to hit balls that morning (inaudible). He played great golf
since then. 

Q. Do you have a guess which phase of your game might improve most dramatically?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I did it not only because of the golf, of course, I mean -- the
mornings and the nights now, it's kind of weird to just before, brush your teeth, and you
usually have to fuss around with your contacts, the liquid, put them in. And now I just
wake up in the morning and I see perfect. I think on the golf course I think reading clubs
would help a lot, depth perception, I think, as far as being there. And just to see well
all the time without having to -- the pollen, rubbing your eyes and so on. I know Duval,
for example, he wears glasses all the time because he gets a lot of pollen in his
contacts. And I'm pleased with everything so far.

Q. Were you at all nervous?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah, of course you're nervous, I mean it's your eyes. And that's
why I wanted the best guy to do it. And I mean he took a lot of time. I went in Monday
morning, did a lot of testing, came back Monday afternoon, did a lot of testing again, and
then did it Monday afternoon -- Monday night. And then come back Tuesday morning for more
tests, the checkup tests. You're worried when you're lying there, of course, because they
don't really -- it's not like they strap you up a hundred percent. You would have the same
feeling when you're standing on a very tall building and you want to jump over, but you
don't really want to jump over. And that's the way it is when you're lying there. You're
so focused on staying still with your head, and then you have a bad thought like you want
to move around. So that's the only thing. You have to be really focused on this little
light, and you have to lie still. When you're the most nervous, that's when you would get
a twitch or something like that. 

Q. How long does it take?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It only takes about ten seconds per eye.

Q. Can you tell a big difference in picking up the line?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know yet. I still haven't putted yet. So hopefully. 

Q. If you did better than you did last year, you're going to be something else.

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah. I don't think I'm going to putt better than last year. I
hope I would, but that was a once-in-a-lifetime putting experience I had here last year.

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yes, I always wanted to do it. But I was concerned, like everybody
else. It's your eyes. What if something goes wrong? And I think after playing Augusta, you
start like, no, this is enough, because so many times you stand over a shot and you're
blurry in one eye and you kind of hit anyway, because you know it's not going to clear up
straight away and things like that. I talked to Fred, I said: "Okay, book me in for
Monday." And then that was it. 

Q. When did you talk to Fred?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think it was on Wednesday or Thursday last week.

Q. Does Fred have this kind of a --?

JESPER PARNEVIK: He got to be close friends with this doctor. I mean he went in there
last year, like I said, and was really pleased with his surgery, perfect vision. I think
he's at 20/15 like I am now, 20/15. I think the biggest deal is the astigmatism, which you
get rid of that as well, which I didn't correct with my contacts before.

Q. Tiger's talking at Augusta, he was reading dimples on the ball 25 feet away.

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah, anyone who doesn't wear glasses cannot imagine how bad his
eyesight was. Because you see those letters, and the rows, you're supposed to read the
fourth row. And I think Tiger had a letter E that was about this big, that he could not
read from about two feet away. So that's pretty bad. To go from there to perfect vision is
pretty amazing.

Q. This week is going to be different weather compared to last year. How will that
affect your play?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think it's going to be a different golf course this year,
definitely. This course usually plays fast, and you can run the ball. You can hook it
around a few corners and the ball is going to run away another 50 yards, and that's going
to be a big difference this year because the ball is not going to play. I think the course
is set up to be a running type of golf course or the design is a running type of golf
course. But it might favor a little bit longer hitters this week because the par-5s are
going to be a lot harder to reach in three and so on. Last year I only hit two fairways on
the weekend with my driver. So I guess driving is not the key around here. But even though
the rough was very high and tall last year, and it's the same thing this year.

Q. The Jaycees that sponsor this event are contemplating seriously of building a new
course about ten miles up the interstate. In general, what do you think players on the
Tour want out of a new course at a venue such as this?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think these days a lot of players are looking for traditional, I
mean this is a very traditional course with the trees and design and so on. We don't want
to play TPC type golf courses week in and week out when you only have water and green then
a little bit of (inaudible). I mean I love the old traditional designs. I mean both times,
great golf courses with perfect set up for the Ryder Cup there. I love those type golf
courses, and it seems like a lot of players would like to see a lot more of the
traditional type golf courses played on the PGA TOUR.

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: I usually play well when I have to defend the title. For me golf is so
much the (inaudible) and the good memories. Anyone that plays golf knows that you can walk
up to 18 holes and only remember the bad stuff. Usually when you win an event you have a
lot of good memories from there. I usually do very well when I try to defend the title. I
think last year I finished second at the Scandinavian Masters. The Scottish Open I think I
finished second or third when I defended there. But I mean, to win two years in a row is
always a tough task. You need a lot of breaks to win any tournament on Tour these days.
(Inaudible).

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, I don't know. I'm really worried I'm going to go out there now and
kind of frown a little bit about what I did last year, because I think I was something
like 24-under par after 51 holes, which is amazing, because I think it was me, Furyk, and
Maggert right there then at the end. The rest of the guys were like 10, 15 shots behind.
And that's very common on the PGA TOUR to do that. I remember Dudley Hart was leading
after the first day; he played in the morning. I think he shot 66, and he left the golf
course around 2:00 o'clock in the afternoon leading by 1, and came back Friday afternoon
10 behind. So the scores we shot last year were unbelievably low, I thought. It's not that
easy of a golf course.

Q. Do you expect a more traditional course this year?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I would think so. I mean I don't know all the facts, but I could
see this tournament won around 10-under par, no problem. And I think this course last year
was just strange.

Q. It's been said that the players don't like the changes in the greens configuration,
undulation, et cetera. Your feelings about that?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Obviously, I like them. I liked them last year. I like a little
undulation on the greens. For me, it's easier to hole a putt when I have a little bigger
of a break than the Ryder Cup putting surface where everything looks straight. I like to
see some movement to the greens.

Q. Guys who play this, like Davis Love, who hasn't won in two years and has played some
terrific golf in the last four years, can you talk about maybe (inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Of course he's one of the best players in the world. I don't know what
the rankings say, but everybody knows that. But like I said, Tiger, what he's done last
year, winning all these tournaments, you still need a few breaks. The one he got at
Pebble, of course he made a big charge, but he also had to make a lot of bogeys to help
him and so on. And Davis Love has been up there a lot of times. And sometimes it just
won't happen. A lot of tournaments you walk into the last day and you played so-so, but
other guys play worse, and then you win. And sometimes you're out playing great the last
day, but somebody is playing better. I wouldn't be that concerned if I was him. I don't
think he is. He's up there enough times to know that anytime he's going to win again.

Q. He's mentioned a couple of times that he's been trying to press and put more
pressure -- (inaudible)?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, definitely. Oh, of course that would happen. That's the only enemy
he would have I think is himself to -- when you're in that situation to try too hard. I
remember Phoenix Open was my first win over here. And the year before that, I had five
runner-ups, and I found myself pressing a little too hard when I was in the situation. And
that last round of Phoenix, I just more had the attitude: Just let it go; see what
happens. And even though it was very tight at the end of the tournament, there were about
five, ten guys who could win the tournament. I made three birdies the last five to win.
And -- but I more let it happen than to try to force it upon myself, which is easier said
than done sometimes. But that usually is the key. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, LiFizz is doing great.

Q. It's like Alka-Seltzer, isn't it?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, but it doesn't taste like Alka-Seltzer at all. Alka-Seltzer is a
very, very old technology and flavor. They tried to put in flavors in Alka -Seltzer but
nothing like we do. Ours are more -- very good tasting, and more soft drink, more lemonade
type of flavors. We have strawberry, raspberry, lemon-lime, orange, whatever you want. In
Europe it's pretty much the way to take vitamins, is taking an effervescent. I grew up
taking them that way. So I was just amazed when I came over here and it wasn't around.
We're doing very well. It's a little bit different when you endorse a product and when you
start your own company with a product, because you have a little more pride and so on when
it's your own product. And that's why it feels more gratifying when I get letters from
customers that it changed their lives, they feel so much better, and they can finally take
vitamins that they couldn't take the pills before and so on. It makes me feel better. And
I try harder to improve the product and so on. Like I said, it's my personal company, so
it's very close to me. 

Q. Some of the guys were talking about after THE PLAYERS Championship about the
autograph situation, how it's become somewhat of a hassle, professional autograph seekers.
Can you talk about your experience with it?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It's a very tough situation, because you never want to turn down an
autograph. Just when you see the same guy six, seven, eight times in a row come back for a
new ball or new photo to sign or something, I usually sign them anyway, but it's a little
bit frustrating when you know (inaudible.) The bad thing is when they send kids up -- I
know some place else -- "that's enough, I've already given you five autographs."
And they send kids up next time to collect autographs for them. That's when it gets out of
line.

Q. (Inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: I have no idea. I'm not that picky, so there should be plenty around
there. I have no idea.

Q. At what point will you start casually focusing on the Open, getting ready for that
and what do you think about the setup at Pebble this year?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I've always enjoyed Pebble Beach. I've never played it in the
summertime, which is going to be completely different than when we play in February. It
should suit my game, I should say. It's a U.S. Open, but it's also a links type of golf
course. I love playing the links type of British Open style golf courses. So I hope they
set it up fair. Pinehurst, I thought, was set up probably as fair as any of the U.S. opens
so far. You could hit it out of the rough. The greens were not severely fast and so on. So
it was playable and still even par, 1-over, won it, and that's the type of set up I would
like to see. I don't like when you have to hit it in the rough and then chip out every
time. I would like to see some creativity left, you know, as an option. But like I said,
I've done well at Pebble and I like the golf course.

Q. Do you get the sense that the USGA acknowledges the players enjoyed last year set up
enough that they will incorporate some of that?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I hope so, because you've got a lot of good comments from last year. I
mean even though, like I said, the scoring was very high, it was tough conditions.
Everybody enjoyed the setup. I couldn't hear anybody complain, thinking it was too tough
and so on. They could have set that course up to be impossible. If they wanted 20-over par
winning score, they could have done it. They left it the way it should have been played, I
thought.

Q. At these tournaments where Tiger is involved, there's so much attention focused on
him. When you come to a tournament where he's not playing, is there a risk of any kind of
a letdown with you guys playing?

JESPER PARNEVIK: No. I think all players go to these tournaments and do their best to
win the tournament. And of course going to be more (inaudible) when Tiger is around. But I
think all the players just enjoy that. We all recognize what he's done for the game and
the golfing boom right now. I would like to see him play every week if he could. I know he
won't. 

Q. How much attention do you guys pay to (inaudible) greens in regulation?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It's always nice to be up there in the stats. (Inaudible) The driving
stats is done with two holes per day, which you have to be very accurate. (Inaudible.)
Most of them are fair, I would say. The greens, you can't argue about that. The putting
stats, it's hard to do the correct one because you want to use the tougher greens in
regulation. But it all comes back to how close to the pin you hit it. So you really don't
know if you're putting well or if you're hitting your irons very well. So really you're
talking about ups and downs for all stats. 

Q. You're talking about (inaudible.)

JESPER PARNEVIK: Definitely. (Inaudible) -- where they can measure each putt. Now they
have these things where they stand on the tee with a microphone and can measure your swing
speed and ball flight. So there's a lot of fun things coming out that I think not only the
players will enjoy, but the crowds and the TV viewers. It's kind of like mentioning the
fastballs in baseball, it's fun stats. People love stats and numbers. 

Q. Do you think it will reflect a more accurate portrayal of what particular players
are able to do with every shot?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think the more facts you get in the more accurate you're going to
be. It's not like players try real hard to win a (inaudible). I know if it's in someone's
contract and you're leading the driving stats, you might hit 3-woods throughout the
tournament and not miss any fairways. Apart from that, I don't think anybody is really
concerned where they are in the stats. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT