WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JESPER PARNEVIK: I'm probably playing the best golf in my career right now. And I took
the last ten weeks off last year, I kind of tried to get in good shape and relax a little
bit, get some time off golf, and it seemed like it's helped a lot. I'm probably hitting my
irons as well as I ever have. And when the putts go in, it seems like I'll have a chance
to win.

Q. Can you bring us up-to-date with how your health is, with the stories at the end of
last year with your heart trouble? Is that in the past or something you're still
monitoring?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I still have the irregular heartbeat. The problem is probably going to
be there forever, I guess. It's something I've had for probably 12 years, about 12 years.
And it just got really bad last summer. And it just got to the point where I felt I was
not in control of the problem anymore. And I talked to a few guys about it and Harry is
one of them. And I decided to take the last ten weeks off of the year, and pretty much try
to see what the problem was, and see if they could cure it somehow. And right now I feel a
lot better. I still have the irregular heartbeat, but the really bad symptoms have at
least been gone for a while now.

Q. What were those symptoms?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It's hard to explain. It's like a feeling that you're having a heart
attack. That's pretty much it. I mean it mostly happened at nighttime, when I went to bed.
And it was just a case of the heart rushing away, beating like crazy, and feeling like you
can't breathe, or your chest is about to explode. And it was just not only very
uncomfortable, but it was just a feeling that you didn't know what was going on. Even
though I've had irregular heartbeat for a long time, this was so far beyond that feeling
that I really felt I had to see some doctors and get some medical advice about it.

Q. How are you treating it?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I've been offered a lot of different medications, but I've stayed away
from that so far, hoping that it was going to go away naturally. Those last ten weeks I
took off last year pretty much, just relaxing, working out a lot, trying to get really in
good shape, seems like it's helped a lot. And I would love for it to go away on its own
without surgery or medications, so that's what I'm looking forward to right now.

Q. Have you been told it's possible it can just go away?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It depends on which doctors you ask. Some doctors think it's not going
to go away, and some say it is possible. I just have to wait to see.

Q. It's obviously not affecting your golf, though?

JESPER PARNEVIK: No, I actually never had the problem on the golf course. Even last
year where I felt really bad, example just before the Ryder Cup I had some really bad
ones, and during the actual play it's not like my heart started racing or anything like
that. It doesn't seem like the pressure in the golf tournaments affects it at all. It's
more off the golf course. And in fact when I'm relaxing, that's when it can happen the
worst.

Q. It seems like the only problem you've had this year is double bogeys. It doesn't
matter that much in match play in terms of how you can quickly recover from that?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, like I said, I made a lot of birdies this year. I actually lost
track now how many. But I remember it was something like 75 the first three weeks, which
is unbelievable. I never made that many birdies ever before. And, yeah, it's been the
double bogeys that hurt my chances to win some of the tournaments, some triple bogeys I've
had. But like you said, in match play birdies are much more important than doubles and
triples. I'm looking forward to that this week. Because I feel very confident now, I can
go out, play 18 holes and even if I start like I did last week, I mean I had three bogeys
and a double on front 9 on Thursday, but I still felt -- when you make so many birdies,
you have that confidence in you that you're going to make five or six birdies, whatever
happens. And it's a very good feeling to have.

Q. Do you feel there's a different attitude among the players this year with match
play? It seems with all the upsets last year, I get a sense that players seem to be more
into it this year, if you will?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think most guys really enjoy match play, and they did so last year,
too. But the Ryder Cup has done a lot for the golfing world. And last year you have to
realize that an event like this, where you have the top 64 players in the world, and as
good as the players are these days, over 18 hole match play, anyone can beat anyone on any
day, and that's probably going to happen this year, too. You're going to see a lot of
so-called unknown guys beat a lot of the top names. You might be right there that some of
players are gearing up for this tournament more than they did last year.

Q. You're playing your Ryder Cup teammate, have you seen that, tomorrow?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I was very impressed with him at the Ryder Cup, I have to say. I
hadn't played that many rounds with him before Ryder Cup, but he played absolutely great
there. And what he did in the last game with Mark O'Meara I thought was impressive. He's
one of those guys you really don't know what you have, because he can play unbelievable
golf when he's on.

Q. Did your birdie improvement come more from the short iron play or putting?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Iron play. I would say 75, 80 percent of my birdies come now from
putts within four or five feet, which is all because of the iron game. I'm stiffing so
many more shots now than I've ever done before. Actually about ten years ago, when I was
younger, I used to have a really good iron game, but then my putting was a little bit on
the weak side. But now I feel like I'm putting very well, within ten feet, so that's where
all the birdies come from.

Q. Have you changed -- you play the new Callaways, or are you playing the same ones? Is
it a swing change? What do you think the reason is for your better iron play?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know. I worked out very hard last winter. I don't know if
strength can improve your iron game that much, but that's the only reason I can find right
now where I've really made an effort to improve is in strength. And it's not that I went
all winter long working on a swing, and now it's clicking, it was one of those weird
scenarios where on Wednesday at the Pro Am in Maui, I had this swing feel and it worked
great. And it's been sticking with me since that date.

Q. Have you always worked out as intensely as you did this past winter?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Not as much as this now. It's almost once or twice a day, so I'm
really making an effort to get stronger.

Q. What led you to that?

JESPER PARNEVIK: One thing was of course the heart condition. Then it just seems like
the way Tiger is raising the bar every week these days. All the guys are seeming to make a
harder effort to improve their games any way they can. It's not just hitting balls on the
range, they try to improve mentally and physically and whatever they can do. And I guess
it's all Tiger's fault, really (laughter).

Q. You said you're not -- we know you're not maintaining your European Tour membership.
Are you going to play at all in Europe this year?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yes, I'm going to play three or four times in Europe. I really haven't
decided what tournaments. Of course the British Open, maybe Loch Lomond, Scandinavian
Masters, and maybe the SAP, but I haven't really made up my schedule.

Q. You do plan to rejoin the Tour next year?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Definitely. I would love to join the Tour this year as well, but we
had this problem with the NEC Invitational, that did not count towards the European events
or I was not part of the tournament anymore, so I felt it could be hard for me to reach
the 11 events this year.

Q. You talked last week about your driving range contest with Vijay Singh, and then
Sunday you swung out of your shoes for that drive. Is that something that is part of your
game now when you need it?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I've always been able to gear it up when I need to hit it much, much
further. Usually it's just a range swing I use just for fun. No. 10 last week is
definitely one of those holes where you could, like you said swing out of your shoes and
go for it. But it's not one of those swings that I would feel comfortable hitting at say
the Bob Hope, actually I've probably done the opposite, I'm cutting off some distance with
my drives, just to make sure I get it in play, because I feel so comfortable with my iron
game right now. 

Q. How much -- you mentioned Tiger earlier, how much of a different does it make
mentally when he's not in a tournament, like next week, Doral, for instance, if he's not
playing Doral?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't think anyone thinks about it that way. I don't think anyone
makes up their schedules looking where he's not playing.

Q. Not make up their schedule, but the comfort maybe you might feel or relief out on
the course when you know that you don't have to worry about him coming from 7 strokes back
or whatever?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I haven't really thought about it that way. I really don't know.
I think most guys enjoy when he's in the field because they know there's going to be big
crowds and all that. So I don't think anyone really have felt a relief when he's not
showing up.

Q. The tournament feels different when he's in it and when he's not?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Of course, the media is much bigger, the crowds are much bigger, so I
really hope he could play every week. It would just be great for golf.

Q. Schofield and you, did you have a meeting? Are you going to have a meeting?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I haven't met him yet, but I'm sure we're going to meet this week,
because I know he's here.

Q. During your ten weeks off, did you touch clubs, did you do anything golfwise?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah. I'm one of those guys that really enjoy playing social golf
with friends and family, so on. I have some fun betting games and outside the PGA TOUR.
And I could play pretty much every day on my off time, because I really enjoy playing
golf.

Q. About 15 years ago when I was in Sweden, they had a big push for golf, is that still
going on, a lot of big stars coming up in your future?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I hope so. Golf is very open in Sweden. We don't have that many
private golf courses, most all are public, and they're building a lot of golf courses,
because you're always going to run into problem when you have this golfing boom that right
now for some golf courses there's a long line to get in. They're building a lot of golf
courses, to try to make sure that everybody can play somewhere, because right now I think
we're up to almost half a million people playing golf in Sweden, and we're only 8, 9
million people in the whole country. It's grown really fast. We need a lot more golf
courses right now. 

Q. Did Lunderberg tell you what color pants you have to wear in you're in contention?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Not yet. But I'm sure he will. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT