BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 23, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JESPER PARNEVIK: It was a little bit more interesting the way it happened than I wanted
it to be, but that's just the way I do things, I guess. Same thing at Greensboro. This is
the first tournament I have won by one shot. Any time I won in tournament in Europe, I
think I won by three or five shots. And Phoenix, I won by three. And in Greensboro, I
think I had a three-shot lead going into 18. It was a little bit different feeling knowing
I have to birdie 18 to win.

Q. Since you finished before Sabbatini, how nervous was it to stand there and watch?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I tried to hit some balls, but I didn't know what to do, really. I
really wanted to go and watch, but I wanted to hit some 5-woods in case it was a playoff,
and I knew I needed another 5-wood to knock it on the green. We couldn't see anything from
the driving range there, and I just had to listen. The PGA TOUR guys were there saying,
"He's going to putt," and, "Now, he putted." And I just had to listen
and see if there was a big scream or not. I think the putt stayed high, and that was it. I
never -- I never won a tournament being not in the last group, I think.

Q. Can you talk about the hole where you hit the spectator with your drive, and what
happened on that hole? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I was -- I mean, I was cruising along just fine. I was playing
great. I think it was 13, I had an L-wedge into the green. I hit a terrible shot. What I
was thinking about was, before I hit the shot, I actually thought, "Wouldn't it be
amazing if I shot 59 to win the tournament, two years in a row here," and I just
chunked a wedge in the bunker to make bogey. And then I kind of pushed my drive on the
next hole. We thought it was okay, and then when we walked up there; we heard someone was
hit. Oh, he looked -- he was down on the ground, and it looked like a big golf ball was
growing out of his forehead. It was a terrible sight, and he was lying there and we asked
if everything was fine. I asked him a few times if he was okay he said, "I'm fine. As
long as you win the tournament, I'm okay." So that was very comforting in a way. It's
terrible when things like that happen. 

Q. Do you think you won the tournament on the front nine?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I got off to a great start. I shot 5-under on the front nine,
which, of course set the pace for everybody else. I thought I had to shoot very low to win
this. I thought it would be around 30-under to win the tournament. You know, my caddie
said, what -- after I think three or four holes, I asked him, "What do you think it's
going to take?" And he said, "27-under is going to be a lark." And after 8
holes, I asked him, "What do you think now?" And he said, "Probably more
like 30." Nobody really did anything on the back nine, I guess.

Q. Is your dad any kind of fan of Bob Hope?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, ever since I came over here for the first time, I think in '84,
he pretty much asked me to tape everything on TV. You know, Bob Hope has always been one
of his favorite guys because he like that kind of humor. He's not a big fan of the new
type of -- how should I put it, easy jokes with no -- just dirty jokes. He's more like
into when you have to think a little bit and put some mind behind it. And Bob Hope was
definitely one of his favorites. I remember Smoothers Brothers were some other ones he
really liked. 

Q. Did he know Bob Hope?

JESPER PARNEVIK: No, he never did. No. 

Q. Was there any kind of problem with those two guys in your group when Stephen
withdrew, in terms of pace? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: We just tried to set a very slow pace to start off with. We walked as
slow as we could because the worst thing you want to do is wait on every shot. So we had a
ruling on the 2nd hole. Rich Beem hit it right, and I think an official touched his ball.
So that helped a little bit, put us a little bit behind. And the pace was fine after that.
We walked just pretty much as slow as we could though.

Q. What is your situation as far as playing here and playing the European tour?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Last year I was a full member on the European tour. I think Ken
Schofield told me that January 5th was the deadline to join the European Tour this year,
and I just didn't feel like I could commit to full 11-tournament schedule. So I haven't
joined, so far. I don't know if that's going to mean I can't join this year at all and
just play full-time here. But the way things are right now, I'm only a member of the U.S.
tour this year.

Q. There's a lot of cases where someone can play really well in Ryder Cup and have it
carry over, be some kind of a confidence-lifter into the next year. Even in a losing
effort has that been the case, do you think?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Ryder Cup is such a special tournament. I mean, it's -- you really
can't explain it. It's far different from any other tournament you play in your career,
and it's just a thing where it seems like everybody just lifts their game to a new level.
And I think it's the atmosphere, the energy and everything like that. You know, of course,
I was very happy to play as well as I did with Sergio. We had a great time together. I
think that gave me a little it bit of a confidence booster because it helps a lot when you
see that you can play that well under that amount of pressure, because I don't think it
gets any worse than the Ryder Cup.

Q. Along that line, is there anything that you can point to physically that's gotten
you off to this start this year? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: I took the last 10 weeks off last year. I had that heart condition --
I still have it, but it just got really bad last summer; so I decided not to play at the
end of the year. And I've been working out really hard actually, all winter long with Doug
and my sister, at a clinic, Innova Health, down in Jupiter, Florida. I think that helped a
lot. Now these three weeks on tour, I've been starting to work out with Boris Kusmic, who
also trains Vijay Singh, Tom Pernice, who else does he have? Yeah, Gabriel Hjerstedt. I
think Tim Herron is starting to work out with him as well. I've seen him on that bag.

Q. How do you assess your chances after Friday's round and do you think playing Bermuda
twice in two days was an advantage for you? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Bermuda Dunes has been a golf course where I've struggled in the past
years. I don't think I really shot any low scores around here. I don't know what has been
-- I think even par, around there is about what I've been shooting. I've been going really
low at Indian Wells and things like that. After three days, I have to stay that I thought
I had to go real low, probably lower than I did to have a chance to win. I thought that
Rich Beem playing Indian Wells yesterday would run away a little bit, maybe 26 -, 27-under
starting today. But glad to see they stopped it at 22 -- 21, actually.

Q. You've worn popsicle-purple pants before, and white, but all black; is that a
different direction for you? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: I was just out of the big colors. I wore red already this week, and
baby blue, so I had to go with the old-fashioned way. 

Q. Do you know what your schedule looks like the rest of the West Coast and beyond?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I'm going to play next week in Phoenix, and then the World Match-play
event in La Costa. Between that, I haven't decided yet if I'm going to go to Pebble Beach,
or if I'm going to go to L.A. looks like San Diego is definitely going to be a week off.
Because when I say over here, I stay in Florida, in Palm Beach; so I have the whole
Florida Swing that I would like to play. But now, with so many tournament tournaments, you
have to take a few weeks off somewhere. Usually, I actually stay at home during the
Florida Swing and drive back and forth, which is a lot of miles. 

Q. You've had three good weeks in a row, three Top-5 finishes. Beside working out and
being in good shape, why are you playing so well?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think the 10 weeks off helped a lot. I think any time I feel like I
have a good time on the golf course, I have a lot of fun, I play well. I did the same
thing three years ago. I took more than -- I probably took 15 weeks off, and, you know,
you just relax, play for fun with friends at home, practice and so on and I came out and I
finished -- I think 3rd, 2nd, 3rd, 4th the first four tournaments I played. And it just
seems like when I have fun on the golf course, that's when I play my best golf. 

Q. If you're not going to play as much in Europe, do you have a number in mind of how
many tournaments you'll play in the U.S.?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I would love to play full-time on the U.S. tour one year, just to see
where I can end up on the money list over here. Usually, I've been -- between 15, 20
tournaments has been pretty much my limit, and it would be fun to play like 25 tournaments
in one year, just to see how well I can do. I know Tiger can play 15 and win by miles, but
it would be fun to challenge him.

Q. Would this be the year, then? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Maybe, yeah. 

Q. Briefly on the play-by-play today, did you have a sense of overtaking the lead and
then falling back into a tie, that sort of thing? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, my mind set was just to go out and just try to make as many
birdies as possible. I shot 69, 67, 66, 64. I thought if I could go one lower today, I
could have a good chance. But even though I was 5-under the front nine, I saw that
Sabbatini was also playing very well. So the birdie on 12 and 13, then I kind of felt like
I had it in my hands. And I still don't -- I still don't know what happened on the 14th
hole. Mind boggling. Perfect drive, too.

Q. What's your opinion of Sabbatini as the kind of player he is, played pretty well
today, hung in there? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah, I'm very impressed. He hasn't won a tournament here yet,
but, you know he did a great job. He just needs to do what he did. I know he had a bad lie
on the 18th hole. He still hit an unbelievable third shot, I heard, over the
walkie-talkies, because they told me it was all over before he hit the shot, but we had a
big roar again. But it was very impressive what he did, I thought. 

Q. What about 16? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah, my touch has been -- 16 was one of those cases where, in my
mind, I wanted to hit a cut 6-iron in there. I asked my caddie, "So, what do you
think?" He said "7-iron." I said, "Oh, I wish you didn't say
that," because I was hoping he was going to say cut 6, and he said, "No, 7-iron,
would be fine." And I felt like it was really not enough; so I tried to hit it a
little bit harder, and it hooked a little bit and hit the slope there and just spun way
left. My touch has been so bad all week. I don't know what it is. 

Q. Bad touch?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, terrible touch. Anything outside, 10, 20 feet, I've really been
struggling to get the right pace. That's why I was not very pleased to see my putt on 18,
you know, end up 40 feet from the hole. I was just actually happy to hit the green with
that. I was hoping -- I might as well putt this over the green. 

Q. Considering the established field, 16 of the 30 winning leaders, are you surprised
that it came down to you and somebody who is a new player to the Tour?

JESPER PARNEVIK: This is one of those weeks where all you have to do is score very,
very well. It's not one of those golf courses we play where, you know, really a lot of
emphasis is put on your game, because the rough is not very high and the courses are
fairly shot. It's not like playing Carnoustie, for example, where if you play bad, you're
going to shoot 90. These type of courses, you can get around, even though you're not
playing your very best. But I definitely thought Duval was going to go in and shoot a low
one today. I didn't see what he did, but he only shot a couple under, I think. 

Q. Just wondering if you've heard from your friend, Mr. Schofield across the Pond, and
if not, do you think this might help him come around a little bit, your performance here?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah, I will talk to him fairly soon, I would say. I love to play
worldwide. I love to play in Europe. But it just felt like I didn't want to join and have
to play 11. It was -- I think I would have joined if I was in the Akron tournament, but
the European Tour changed those rules so they don't take the Ryder Cup team anymore. And I
felt to play one more tournament in Europe, to get my 11, might be on the edge; so, you
know, he was talking about banning me for two years last year when I didn't play in
Valderrama. So I said, "Well, I'll wait and see what happens." 

Q. How do you shoot 27-under with a bad touch?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, that's a very good question. I've been hitting my irons
extremely well. I'm probably playing as well as I have in the last three, four, five
years, I would say. I'm very surprised, actually, how well I'm hitting my irons. Any time
I'm standing over a shot, it feels like I'm going to hit it within 10 feet from the hole,
and it's just a very good feeling. And all week, I've had a lot of -- lot of putts within
3 to 10 feet; and it's just when I came outside that range, I really didn't know what to
do.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT