MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 6, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: It was, of course, very tough. Similar winds to Carnoustie for a
while, especially around the 8th, 9th hole today. A few of the shots, I bet it was three,
four, five club wind. You know, those conditions, you can't think about the swing or
anything like that anymore; you just try to get the ball around the golf course and hope
for the best.  
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: It was a pretty interesting card (laughter). Not too often you make
two doubles and a bogey and still lead the tournament, but I managed to do that. I got off
to a good start with a birdie on 1 from about 15 feet. I hit a 6-iron on 2 to about 15
feet. No. 4, I hit a 7-iron to about three feet. I hit driver, 3-iron, No. 5, to about 25
feet. 2-putts for birdie. Then I hit driver, wedge, on No. 7 to about 15 feet again. Then
I had a few good chances. Holed a long one on 11. 8-iron off the tee there. I had about a
25 - 30-footer, I would say. Then the fun started (laughter). Actually, I tried to draw
the ball all day. I kind of kept going pretty straight. The wind on the 12th tee, it was a
little bit over your shoulder. I really tried to hook it to knock it on the green there.
It just went through the wind. I hit it probably 20 feet too much to the left, hit it in
the trap; it bounced up. I got a lucky break because it went into a big hole where the
sprinkler was, so I got a relief from that. Then I managed to do double anyways. Wedge,
short, chip, 3-putt. The next hole was just blowing so hard into. I had 150 to the front
edge. Actually killed a 3-iron. Still went 20 yards short of the green. I was hitting a
little bit in the rough. Hit it a bit high on the face. The ball kept climbing, and it
didn't go anywhere. Then I tried to get cute with a pitch shot there in the bunker, then
double. Then I made two good putts on 14 and 15. Hit a driver, yeah, pitch on the short
par 4. Driver, 3-wood, pitch again to about five feet on 15. On 17, the group in front had
a ruling, so we had to wait for probably 20, 25 feet. I chunked my wedge on the second
shot. I hit a long drive, almost all the way down. It just cleared the bushes actually.
Then I hit a good chip, ran by about eight feet. I missed that one. Then on 18, I walked
up, about to hit my putt, the crowd started screaming, "Hey, if you knock it in the
hole, we don't care what color pants you have." I just hit this putt way out to the
right because I know it's a big swing. Halfway there, I mean, I was a hundred percent sure
it was going to go in, because it was looking so good all the way. It stopped like an inch
short. Still, it was a fun day, interesting. 
 
Q. You have to change pants tomorrow then?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I guess. 
 
Q. Is this a lot of people or just one guy?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, because the announcer, he announces what clothes they're
wearing, on the 18th hole. He goes, "In the wild red pants from Sweden." One guy
in the crowd. 
 
Q. Who was the ruling on ahead of you on 17?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Franco. I don't know what. He hit it probably 30 yards over the green.
I don't know what they were doing. Stuart was sleeping on the green for a while. We didn't
know what to do. We just waited. 
 
Q. Did you leave it in the bunker on 13?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. I was just short of the bunker, then I chipped it into the bunker.
 
 
Q. I mentioned this to you yesterday, you were talking to Sid Wilson for a while. What
is your status? You had some chest pains, took some time off, whether it was stress
related, and you're trying to play both Tours. Can you go through this whole scenario?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: You know, last year I played both Tours, trying to get on the Ryder
Cup team, trying to play as much as possible here. It's just a case where Schofield wants
me to play a lot in Europe, Finchem wants me to play a lot over here. It's very tough
flying back and forth all the time. It's more a little bit politics about what the rules
are for each Tour, how many tournaments you have to play, so on. I really don't know what
the case is yet with The Ryder Cup two years from now because, of course, I want to be on
that one. I think I have to still make a decision if I want to join the European Tour
full-time again and play my 11 there, or if I just want to focus on the US Tour this year.
That's pretty much what I'm deciding right now. 
 
Q. What about your health? What exactly happened?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: It's something I've had for probably 12 years. It's an irregular
heartbeat. It's something you get used to. It just beats, speeds up a lot of times. It
just get worse this summer, especially at nighttime where it get really, you know, kind of
like a heart attack feeling. You panic. I decided to take it easy in the off-season this
year. Actually, after Disney, I decided not to play anymore for the rest of the year, just
kind of rest up and get healthy for this year. I feel a lot better now. 
 
Q. What was your immediate feeling when the European Tour sent that little dispatch out
that said you were essentially off the Tour? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, I shouldn't say anything. It didn't surprise me, put it that
way. The guy in charge never surprises me. 
 
Q. Seems like they're after you. They've been making rules up that make you mad. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I don't know what it is.  
 
Q. Not like they have 50 great players over there. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I don't know. Ken definitely wants to try to change the rule as much
as possible to get the players to stay in Europe. From one point of view, you know, you
can understand him, but at the same time, you know, I think it would be better if
everybody could play really where they wanted to play. I just hope it's not going to end
up being that somehow I'm going to miss out on The Ryder Cup 2001 just because I played
the US Tour for the last seven years. 
 
Q. Where does your European Tour card situation stand? Are you getting a medical
exemption?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. I'm still exempt this year because I won two years ago. But that
exemption is going to run out the year 2001, when The Ryder Cup is played. I don't know if
I can just play a few tournaments in Europe, get my card back that way, then rejoin again
for the 2001. That's pretty much what I'm looking into now, see what's going on. 
 
Q. Lawrie is coming over here; Sergio is going to play, the long-standing philosophy is
you had to come over here and play if you're going to be good, Nick Faldo. Do you think
that's true? Do you think they're upset because they're losing so many top people?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I mean, of course, he's worried about losing all these top players.
You know, when I decided to come over here, yes, it was more a decision that I just felt I
had to make to reach the next level. You know, in Europe, I have a lot of friends, Swedish
friends, probably 25 Swedes on the Tour there. You're comfortable every week, you know
where you go, you know the courses you're playing. I thought it was too easy to get too
comfortable finishing 20th on the Money List over there. I decided to start all over again
and go over here and play, which I benefitted a lot. My game has improved a lot since I
came over here. 
 
Q. Has Paul Lawrie, for example, talked to you about this, whether he should come over,
since you have done both tours?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. That's a decision he's made completely on his own. It's a little
bit different for the guys living in Great Britain, I would say, because for them the
European Tour is very easy living because it's very focused around London. It's a tougher
decision for them. Anytime you have a family, it's a tough decision to move everybody over
here and start all over again. 
 
Q. Are you unsure, if you don't play 11 this year on the European Tour, whether you'll
be Ryder Cup eligible? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, no. The problem I had, I had a tough time, yeah, putting in 11
tournaments in my schedule this year, especially if I'm not going to be part of the Akron
tournament. The way the rules are, if you don't play 11, they can ban you for a certain
amount of years. I said that I'd rather not join the Tour this year, instead of running
that risk of not being able to play in 2001. I just have to see if that's going to work
out the way I want it to work out.  
 
Q. Could you describe what it was like out there today? Some of the guys said grainy
greens. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: 10th hole, I couldn't get my ball to stay on the green. Even when I
put it down the second time with the marker, the ball blew away. A lot of times stuff like
that plays on your mind. Just picking the right club is very hard. That's the fun part at
the same time. I mean, it's not very often you have to try to slice the ball 30, 40 yards
to kind of keep it straight. 
 
Q. On TV you mentioned something about the British Open. Had you two great British
Opens. Is there any similarity at all?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: In the wind, yeah. I mean, I wouldn't say it was Carnoustie winds, but
it was very close. 
 
Q. When you're over there for the summer, do you have a base?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I have a small base in Sweden. I stay with my sister there.  
 
Q. You don't own a place in Europe now, or do you?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, I don't have like a house or anything that way. I just stay with
my parents or my sisters. They all live in Stockholm.  
 
Q. You have family points, but no Marriot points?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah (laughter).  
 
Q. You seemed after The Ryder Cup pretty calm about the whole situation. In the time
that has passed since, have you had any discussions with your teammates or the Europeans
about what went?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. It was just a bad thing that happened. You know, if you were
there, you could see it happening. I'm not saying that it should have happened. Of course,
Olazabal felt he deserved a little more respect than he was showed. If you're there and
you feel the atmosphere, you feel the energy that's going on there, you can see it
happening. I just know that I would freak out if I holed a putt like that (laughter).  
 
Q. Sergio freaked out quite a bit. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, he freaked out every time there was a 3-footer holed.  
 
Q. You played the American Tour. All these guys are your pals, yet you're playing
against them. You're a little more divided than some of the other players, caught in
between. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. I mean, when I got over on this Tour, I mean, everybody told me
I was going to have a tough time getting friendly with the other players and so on, they
were so businesslike. Ever since I came over here, I pretty much got to know all the
players real well. It's been very nice, went easy, getting familiar with moving over here.
I'm good friends with all of them, so I can't have nothing bad to say.  
 
Q. When you came, wasn't there a connection with you and Gary?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I knew him when he was a little bit younger, yeah. We were about 20, I
would say. 
 
Q. Were you playing competitively or playing in college together?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: He was very good friends of Johan Tomba (phonetic), which was a good
friend of mine. I think he came over to Europe and played a little bit and so on. I didn't
come over here because of Gary. I played with him and I knew him fairly well. 
 
Q. Have you talked to him about his coming out this year?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. I mean, I think it's great that he finally got his card. He's
always been a good player. Anyone who has to play under his circumstances, I think it's
very hard to do. Anytime you have to try to step in footprints like that, it's very hard
to do.  
 
Q. Like you, if you try to do an impression in Sweden?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. It's a tough field to get into.  
 
Q. What color slacks tomorrow? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Baby blue maybe.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT