THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY AND MERCEDES-BENZ
October 31, 1998
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JESPER PARNEVIK:  Thank you, yeah.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Play was just as tough today as any other day.  Difference in my round was the few times I missed the green today, I managed to make it up-and-down, twice from a fairly tough position.  No. 3, I was left of the pin, which was not a good place to miss the green.  I played solid on the back nine.  I played well the first two days as well.  I think I got it to a few under par every day on the back nine, but kind of dropped back in the end.  It was nice to finish with a birdie today.


Q.  How did you birdie the 18th hole?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Hit a 4-iron to about ten feet, then holed the putt.  It's an easy hole (laughter).


Q.  A lot easier today, isn't it?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, like Justin said, it's a  smaller target today because you have to pretty much pitch it in that opening.  But it's nicer to be able to hit the 4-iron instead of trying to bust a 2-iron to get to the front edge.


Q.  What was the distance, Jesper?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I had 202 to the pin.


Q.  Average is about 232?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  About 235, 240.  Playing around probably 250.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, around there.


Q.  Does it feel almost like a Major in that when you have to come out against a course like this, you can't make up a lot of shots?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Definitely feels like the US Open.  It's very tiring.  I mean, you got to be focused the whole way around.  I think it's very important to stick to your game plan.  I mean, the few times I decided to go for something or tried to get shots back, that's when I ended up with another bogey.  You know, it's so hard to find a balance between when to be aggressive and when to lay back, because it's so important to hit the fairways and greens.  But at the same time, you have to take advantage of  some of the pins.  When they're in good spots, you've got to go for it.


Q.  Have you decided how many times you're going to play in Europe next year?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  No, I haven't yet.  But it would be a few.


Q.  Would it be more than the four you need to play?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I think so, but I haven't decided which ones I'm going to play yet.  But probably definitely be over for the PGA, around that time.  Maybe play one or two there.  I'll do my normal British Open, around the Brit Open Tournament, Scandinavian Masters, maybe a few more.


Q.  In the past few years, you've always just stuck on this Tour, stayed with this Tour, because you felt that you couldn't do both.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, the first few years I played on this Tour, I was a full member at both places.  I flew back and forth all the time.  It was fun.  Even if I had a good year here and good year in Europe, I would finish in 40th place on both Money Lists, which didn't do me much good.  I didn't get into any of the Majors, didn't get into US Open or PGA or anything like that.  That's when I decided to play a little bit more over here, tried to get in the Top 30, and that way get into  all the tournaments I want to play.


Q.  Do you feel quite confident you can manage it next year?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I hope so.  I mean, it's kind of a forced situation because I want to play on the Ryder Cup, of course.  That was probably one of the thrills of my career so far.  I would love to be back there.  Next year the rules are I have to be a full member on the European Tour and play the full schedule, so I'll try to get on the team on my own, definitely.


Q.  Vijay still leading, I assume?


Q.  Do the players pretty much look at Vijay like once he gets there, you better do something to catch him because he's not going to do what he did yesterday?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, he's a pretty aggressive player, though.  I mean, but that's the thing, though.  He's also a very unafraid player, so he's never going to back down or try to secure his lead or anything like that.  I mean, he's going to try to birdie every hole.  His mind set is so good, if something like yesterday happens, if he makes four or five bogeys, it doesn't worry him because in his mind he's thinking he can birdie every hole on the back nine anyway, so it doesn't matter. 


Q.  You're one of the few players that doesn't have to worry about the Presidents Cup in December.  A lot of guys are getting hammered with their off time, basically going to have about two weeks max.  Are you looking forward to your off-time?  What's your schedule after this tournament?  Are you going on vacation?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  No.  I'm going to play a few. I'm going to play the Johnnie Walker Super Tour in Asia. You travel to four different countries in a week, play 18 holes in each country.  You travel about 70 hours in one week.  That's a good one (laughter).  Then I go to Sun City, which was a good tournament.  Then just a few small things, maybe Callaway commercials, things like that.


Q.  But you're going to have a little bit more off time than most of the other guys.  Is that going to help for next year, obviously?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, it's still not like it used to be, if you put it that way.  I remember the first few years when I played in Europe, I mean, European Tour ended probably mid October somewhere, picked up around February, which was perfect.  Now, even though I'm going to have three weeks off probably around Christmas, it still would be nice to have a few more weeks, just to build something up.  I'm sure, you see when you see Greg Norman, when he's coming back, he's not been slacking, lying on the sofa.  He's been working out hard.  That's probably what most players would like to do, really get onto a fitness schedule, or just do things to be really fresh when you start the year.  Definitely I'm going to play a few less than I did last year.  In that way, it's going to be nice, yes.


Q.  Are you going to attempt to play the American Majors?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  If I'm going to play the American majors?


Q.  US Open, PGA.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah, yeah, all of them.  All the World Tour events.


Q.  How do you rate this golf course from what you've seen of it?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  In what way?


Q.  Difficulty or whether you like it, you don't.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I mean, it's a great golf course.  The rough is so tough, I mean, it forces a lot of players to play very much defense.  I mean, maybe they didn't have to have as of deep rough as they have, but it's playing tough.  I have to say that.  I would not say it's as tough as Congressional, but  it's somewhere up there, for sure.


Q.  Do you have any thoughts on Annika playing with her husband in that J.C. Penney event?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah.  I talked to her about it. I was supposed to play with her.  I was supposed to play with her last year as well.  I got invited now to Sun City two years in a row.  I have to turn her down.  But I think she looked around for a few players, they were already booked.  She decided not to play the tournament.  And I think the tournament wanted her to play, and they said, "You can pretty much play with whoever you want to."  None of the guys wanted to play with her.  She just asked her husband.  I'm sure they're going to have a lot of fun.  I don't know if they're going to win.


Q.  Do you know anything about his game at all?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, he's about a five, I would say, five handicap.  With her being five shots better than all the other girls, should be pretty even (laughter).


Q.  Question about next year, European Tour status. Seve is upset about the World Championship money being included.  Thoughts on that?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  I can see his point.  Still, I can't, because -- how should I put it?  Then you would have guys who come over here and play the Majors and those World  Tour events, they would miss out on tournaments in Europe. So that's not fair either.  The Ryder Cup, all the Majors in the US count toward the Ryder Cup points.  If you would like to take that away from the World Tour events, it's going to be the same situation there.  I don't know why -- I think the reason he doesn't want it to count is if someone wins two or three World Tour events, they going to win the Money List over in Europe, it's going to kind of be over, which is a valid point.  But I still think it's the fairest way to do it, is to make it count.  I mean, any guy who wins two, three Majors, or a few World Tour events, they deserve to win the European Money List, I think.


Q.  I think his main concern is the guys near the bottom for qualifying for the next year, they're not going to get into these World Championship events, and the guys that are able to are going to make the money, continue to push them out of their chance to play the regular European Tour the following year.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Well, it's only going to be five, six players from the European Tour qualifying anyway.  I mean, it's not like it's going to be a bunch of guys getting free money to push away all the newcomers.  I mean, I don't think that's going to be the case at all.  I think it's the guys that pretty much deserve to be there, like Monte Monty, Westwood, Clark, Langer, all those guys.  Those are the guys that are going to play in these tournaments.  They would be up there at the end of the year anyway.


Q.  The more money you can put into the European Tour, regardless of where it's coming from, is healthier?

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Yeah.

JESPER PARNEVIK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT