THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 29, 1997
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I was very pleased with my day, of course.  I went over to Europe last week and played there, and I played really bad, actually, probably worse than I played since I turned pro.  I struggled badly and I missed the cut there.  So I came here with no real expectations of doing that great.  And I was actually one over after a few holes.  And when the balls started to drop and you get that mindset, when you all of a sudden get your confidence back it's a lot easier to play. 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Bogey on 3.  I hit a terrible drive, big hook, was actually lucky not to hit it into the water.  And I tried to hit a stupid shot through a tree, under a tree, around, out of the deep rough, and actually I only moved it about 30 yards, but just over the water, way left. And chipped up to about five feet and holed the putt for bogey.  Then I hit a good shot on the next hole, 6-iron to about four feet and made birdie there.  No.7, I hit another hooked drive into the bunker, actually pitched out with a wedge, then hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet and holed that, which was a different way to play the hole.  And then No. 9, I had a real good 7-iron to about three feet.  No. 11, I laid up.  It was playing long.  And I hit a sand wedge to about 12 feet.  Then on 13, I hit driver, 6-iron, I would say to about 25 feet, holed that one.  3-wood, wedge to about 15 feet on the next.  Then a driver, 3-wood on the Par-5, chipped it to about 4 feet and made birdie. 
 

Q.  Any other good chances, Jesper?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Oh, yeah, I had quite a bit, but one, I had a good chance for about 10 feet.  Let's see, 10, about 10 feet again.  12, from about 15 feet.  18 was, maybe 15 feet again, but it was a little bit downhill. 
 

Q.  So really apart from two bad drives you've played very, very well?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yes. 
 

Q.  How many months can you play golf in Sweden? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It all depends on what you wanted. I guess you can play a round a year, if you want to play with a pink ball.  (Laughter.)  The courses are in good shape maybe two months, and they're still probably not good if you compare it to American standards.  It's probably about four on the stimpmeter if you roll the greens.  But the southern part of Sweden you can play -- you can play maybe eight months, but it's not very nice. Stockholm where I'm from, I would say five months -- but it's pretty bad -- you can play in April, May, and you can play in September, but it's terrible. 
 

Q.  How do you keep your game together?  You play indoors?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yes.  We have a big tent in Stockholm and you have basements and things like that, you will put a net up.  Sometimes I think it's good, especially when you're a kid, not to play around the year.  You don't get focused on this one game too early, you do different things, you play soccer, and ice hockey, tennis and things like that. And so you don't really have, what should I say, the pressure of doing so well in this particular sport.  You mostly play for fun until you're about 15.  And then you can fly out to Spain, come over here on a scholarship and things like that.  There's different ways. 
 

Q.  What age were you when you started golf in the United States? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Well, I actually never did that.  I started actually coming over to Florida a couple of weeks every winter to play and practice. 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   That was around 20, 19. 
 

Q.  Two weeks?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Maybe a month sometimes. 
 

Q.  Jesper, you've had a magnificent year, four runners-up, what would it mean to actually win, for you to win?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It would mean a lot.  But sometimes there's not much you can do about it.  The runner-ups I had this year, I really don't feel I had a chance to win yet. Steve Jones ran away with it in Phoenix, and Nick Price ran away with it in Hilton Head and Brad Faxon ran away with it in New Orleans.  The only real chance was in San Diego, if I finished birdie, I would have won.  One of these days -- then you have different scenarios, I won other times when the guy who was leading is playing bad and you make a few birdies and all of a sudden you win by three or four.  It's such a small difference between first and second -- or first and 20th. 
 

Q.  Do you think that if you did win over here that Seve could not ignore you for the Ryder Cup?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I don't know if it would matter that much.  I think it more depended on Olazabal, how he's playing.  I think Seve is going to have a tough time not  picking him to play the Ryder Cup in Spain and all that, the way he's playing right now, if he would have made the team -- I feel pretty sure he's going to make the team, but I think that would be the worse case if Olazabal wouldn't get on or Nick wouldn't get on. 
 

Q.  When did you start wearing your hat that way?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   That was about five years ago.  And it was actually in Florida.  And I came from Sweden to go and practice for a few weeks, before the European Tour started where I played back then.  And I was very pale, because it's pretty dark in Sweden in the wintertime.  And I flipped it up to get a little bit of a suntan and I started putting better, because I didn't see the edge of my hat.  And my coach saw me, I have a Swedish coach that was over with me, and he started laughing and said it looked funny, but thought I should try it in the first tournament.  That tournament was Majorca and I ended up losing in a six-hole playoff to Seve.  And I've had it ever since then. 
 

Q.  What were your problems in Europe and how did you straighten them out today?  Was there one specific thing you were doing, or did you just play badly?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I don't know.  I was a little bit tired.  I think it's tougher to go that way than come this way flying-wise.  I guess I was not really, I don't know how to say, we just had a baby and so on, so I hadn't practiced for  three weeks.  I was not really so keen on going.  I was tired and, I don't know, just small things and you play terrible. 
 

Q.  Just generally not playing well?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah. 
 

Q.  Nothing specific, technically or whatever?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   No.  Just find it again, kind of. It got lost on the flight. 
 

Q.  What did you do, then, to find it today?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I just hit balls on the range here and tried some things out, and just started feeling better yesterday. 
 

Q.  Did you speak to Seve at all in Europe?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah, but he doesn't really want to -- he keeps it pretty low, tries to keep it low key.  I think he wants to keep his options open and not really tell anyone anything until September comes. 
 

Q.  Did you come under any pressure from -- I know you had long meetings with the TOUR, with the European Tour at the Players Championship.  Did you come under any pressure from them?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   No, they told me what kind of options I had.  And they wanted me to come back to Europe and play.  Just some things, they tried to change the rules a little bit and so on, so I could come over there.  But starting this year, I already decided I was going to try to play fairly  full time over here.  If I would have known about it earlier, maybe, and things were a little bit different, I might have gone back to Europe this year and played. 
 

Q.  If Nick and Ollie don't get in the top-10, your only way in is to win a major, isn't it?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah -- 
 

Q.  To become an honorary member like Nick?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   That could be true.  But the same thing, I told them also that I would come over and play if I got to count the Lancome money from last year, when I won in Paris.  And they said I couldn't do that, because I was not a member, then, even if I rejoined now I could not count my money from last fall. 
 

Q.  You mentioned about turning the bill up five years ago.  When did you start getting paid to keep it turned up?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Actually I think Titleist was my first sponsor, and they were not really so keen on the idea at first.  But after a few weeks they thought it was all right, I guess. 
 

Q.  What year would that have been?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   That could have been maybe, '94. 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you pay more attention to the scoreboards now since  your experience in the British Open?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   No, I've always pretty much looked at the scoreboards.  It was one of those things that happened at the British Open, not really that I didn't look, it was more that I was pretty focused on making birdies, and I cannot miss the scoreboard. 
 

Q.  Your experience in Sweden with inclement weather, was that any reason why you played so well here in these conditions like we have today?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Maybe my seven years on the European Tour helps, because we play in this type of weather a lot more often than you do over here.  It's more just I accept it, not really be frustrated by the weather, and just kind of grind.  But definitely because we play in much worse conditions in Europe it could be a factor. 
 

Q.  You and Tim, Tim's from Minnesota and he likes wet whether, and I thought maybe that --
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I don't really like wet weather, I'd rather play in the sunshine. 
 

Q.  You were talking about changes, the relaxation of some rules on the European Tour, could you sort of explain?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah, it used to be 11 tournaments straight, you had to play 11 tournaments.  It used to be less, but then it went up to 11 again.  And now they talked about making it 11 but you can count all the majors, so in a way it's  seven tournaments, plus the four majors.  So that's what I did. 
 

Q.  You basically then are not counting on getting in the Ryder Cup?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   No, I cannot qualify.  I can get picked on the wild cards but I cannot qualify on my own. 
 

Q.  But from what you say with Jose and Faldo, looks like your chances are not all that great?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   They can qualify on your own, I think Olazabal can get in. 
 

Q.  You can still make it?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah.  I can get one of the wild cards, but it looks much better for me if Olazabal or Nick gets on the team by themselves, instead of having to use the wild cards. 
 

Q.  Do the people in Sweden pay attention to golf?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Not like over here.  It's a fairly new sport in Sweden, it's booming a lot, but the newspaper interest is mostly in ice hockey, soccer and tennis still.  But it's growing.  They kind of mention my name sometimes now, even. 
 

Q.  Would you be more famous in Sweden or would Tiger be more famous in Sweden?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   I think I'd beat Tiger, too. 
 

Q.  What made you decide you wanted to play over here?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It's always been a dream of mine.  My family came over here in 1980 to do kind of a vacation, tour.  And I watched the golf on TV all the time then.  And I kind of always looked forward to one day maybe play over here sometime. 
 

Q.  Are you still eating volcanic sand and what's that stuff taste like?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It tastes like sand.  I haven't done that for a while now.  I think my last cure was at Doral, I guess. 
 

Q.  Where do you get that stuff?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   From Sweden. 
 

Q.  Has there been an outbreak of new courses, golf courses in Sweden, have several been built lately?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Like I said it's booming a lot, yes.  And we're getting more and more players every year.  When I grew up I was pretty much the only kid -- well, I was the only kid in my school who played golf.  And none of the neighbors or anything like that played golf, so it's grown a lot since then. 
 

Q.  Were you included in the junior trek that went to Spain to train?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah.  If you're good enough they have kind of a system where you qualify for the youth team and boys team and they play against Spain and France and things like that and England.  So you get to travel and play against  other kids your age and so on, which is very good.  Kind of gets you motivated to practice and so on, so you look forward to these trips. 
 

Q.  Which would you rather win, the British Open or the U.S. Open?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Oh, the British Open, definitely. And Nick could finish second.  (Laughter.) 
 

Q.  Just going back to the Ryder Cup again, how much of a disappointment would it be for you not to be on the team, given the year that you've had?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Well, as much as I want to play on the team, I really can't be disappointed if I don't get picked because the decision I made was to play over here, so it's kind of -- if my main goal for this year was to get on the Ryder Cup team I would have rejoined the European Tour and played over there.  So whatever happens I just have to take whatever comes to me, I guess, because I put myself in the situation where I have to get picked.  If it would have been the other way around I would have probably been disappointed. 
 

Q.  You're one of only four Europeans in the top-20 of the World rankings --
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   If he would have had 12 picks and I wouldn't get picked I would be very disappointed, yes. 
 

Q.  I understand you're now a magician?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It's kind of a hobby of mine, I  picked up about six months ago, a lot of fun. 
 

Q.  What sort of tricks do you do?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Mostly cards and coins and things like that.  I met a lot of magicians and they're very interesting people, very fun to be around and I just enjoy watching close up magic when people do things, right in front of you, you can't figure out what they're doing. 
 

Q.  Did you have rain gear on today?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yep. 
 

Q.  Just one, the volcanic sand is a cure for what?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   It's more of a cleansing process, I would say.  How should I put it? 
 

Q.  Sounds like punishment.
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Well, it is, the way it tastes, maybe.  It's supposed to clean your inside, your intestines and all that.  It's supposed to absorb a lot of the heavy metals, like mercury and things like that, and kind of flush it out, I guess. 
 

Q.  Do you have trouble getting that stuff through customs?
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Actually once, yeah.  I had to -- I didn't have -- I used to have it in like a box, but this time it was in like a white plastic bag.  It looks like something else. 
 

Q.  You're sure it was sand? 
 
JESPER PARNEVIK:   Yeah, but it looked like something else.  They took a piece and they let me go through, actually. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT