AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 8, 2019
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice playing out there.  Conditions got really tough to finish and that was really one heck of a par save at 18.
SCOTT LANGLEY: Thanks.  Yeah, I mean as you can see it's pouring rain now and it was the last like three holes for us.  But thankfully we got pretty much 15 holes rain-free, which I felt pretty lucky to get.  So count it as a good break and obviously really happy with my score.  Spyglass always seems to be the course that, I'll call it the toughest out of the three, so to shoot 3-under in these conditions at the end, I feel pretty good about it.
Q. The conditions weren't too bad at the start.  When did they really start to deteriorate?
SCOTT LANGLEY: It just started kind of spitting rain on the 14th hole and I was kind of just, I told my partner, Dan Rose, I was like, you know, man, like we're pretty lucky it hasn't done anything yet, so it might as well just come and it did and in full force.  And I just tried to grind down the stretch and make pars.  Fortunately I 3-putted 17, just had a little funny little bounce on the second putt and but overall I feel like I played really solid.  The shot into the last hole I felt like I hit really well and came up 50 feet short.  And these conditions can just do that to you.  So but all in all I felt really good about my score and can't wait to play Pebble tomorrow.
Q. What's the key for you in a week like this?
SCOTT LANGLEY: Just putt well.  I'm not going to overpower these golf courses, but if I can make my 5- to 10-footers, I consider myself a really good wedge player.  So controlling spin well into these soft greens is something I've worked really hard on and prepared for this week and if I can continue to do that, that's been kind of the thing that I've been doing really well so far.  Holed out a wedge shot today on number 7, the par-5.  So you can't count on making wedge shots, but if I can continue to hit good wedge shots, that will be a key around Pebble because you get a few of those around there.  So, yeah, putting well, that's a big key for me.  I've been rolling it really nice.
Q. You come back this season off the WEB.COM TOUR, you're currently inside the top 100 in FedExCup points.  What have you learned since having to go back to the WEB.COM TOUR and now back on the PGA TOUR?
SCOTT LANGLEY: Oh, gosh, where do I start?  How long do you have?  You know, I've just learned maybe a different perspective and the good golf, it means more to me.  I appreciate it more.  Definitely kind of seeing everything when it comes to my own game, the good and the bad, and just kind of learned to roll with it a little bit more.  Stuff seems to bother me a little bit less.  So maybe just a fresh perspective and definitely more gratitude.  Happy to be back out here and playing these great tournaments and playing against all these exceptional players.  So I like where I'm at with my game and feel like I'm doing some good things and looking forward to the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT