FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'm going to ask this question first.   First tournament, fatherhood.   How does it feel?   I like the smile right there?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   It's great.   We're really happy.   Our little girl is super healthy and she's doing great. 
You know, I miss them a lot.   They're at home, in an ideal world we would be together and spending time, but I appreciate my opportunity to be on the PGA TOUR, and I felt like I really wanted to come back and play this week.   You know, so far, so good.   So I had to make sure I made it count.

Q.   Absolutely, and that's the thing.   You know, not as important as fatherhood, but the golf game seems to be there.   You hit a lot of solid shots today. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I played well today.   Yeah, I felt like yesterday, to be honest was a little bit of a rust knocking off day competitively.   I haven't played a round in over five weeks, so it was nice to get back and get inside the ropes and get the blood pumping again.   And today was just an extension of that.   I felt like I just played really well and putted quite well today and just controlled my ball hitting.   I didn't hit every fairway, didn't hit green but I just kind of managed my game really well and figured out a way to get it done.

Q.   That's kind of what your game's all about.   I followed you the first time around in Hawaii, and you're a manager.   This is a golf course where you gotta figure it out from before you hit your tee ball?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Definitely.   Yeah, game plan is huge out here, just knowing where you need to be on the greens, doing your homework there, and I feel like I've done that well this week.   So I feel well prepared to get out there and play.
It can be a tricky place.   You know, on the greens, tee to green it's a really great golf course.   I think the greens are great, too.   You just have to really know, like you said, what you're doing and kind of have a game plan going in.

Q.   Learning process for everybody and everybody's starting at ground zero, so it's not that bad if you haven't been here before. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No, it's great.   I really like the course, and obviously Napa is great.   We had an awesome event last night over at William Hill Winery and I had a half glass, just let myself partake a little bit, just make sure I was still ready to go today. 
But yeah, it's a great venue, and I'm glad to see the tournament come here, and I think it's drawn a great field, so hopefully it stays here for as long as it can. 

Q.   Tell you what, good playing.   You can have a full glass tonight because you got a late tee time tomorrow.   Go out there and have fun. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thanks.   Thanks.   Appreciate it.

Q.   What's the daughter's name?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Kennedy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT