WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Scott, a bit of a change from yesterday, 6 birdies and a bogey You poured it on at the end with birdies at 8 and 9.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Today was a really solid day.   Gave myself a ton of chances.   I'll definitely take 65.   It feels like I left a few out there.   I hit a lot of shots close.   Didn't convert everything but I'm happy with the score, absolutely.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you, a couple putts just burned those edges and rimmed around the hole there could have been a couple shot betters but it appears your stroke is really on point this week.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I feel good about my putting.   I made a nice adjustment to my grip earlier in the week.   I was kind of struggling with it the last few weeks.   I only played in one tournament over the last month or so.   I wasn't feeling great about it and decided to make a little change.   It's worked pretty well so far.   I'm going to keep refining that and working on it on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling for the weekend of the prospects being right in the hunt tied for the lead?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   This is exactly where you want to be.   So, it was a lot of golf left but I'll draw on some past experiences I had this year when I've been near the lead on the weekend and hopefully just keep my head down and stay in the moment and play well.  
   
 Q.   Thanks for your time.   Good luck to you.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Good round for you, Langley.   You ended the day with a share of the lead.   How does that feel for you going into the weekend?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Feels great.   It's right where you want to be going into Saturday and Sunday.   I'm excited about this weekend.   I feel like my game is in good shape and my putting feels good.   I have a good feel for the greens.   
It's really important around here because they can get pretty quick and undulating.   I'm excited.   There's a lot of golf left but I just draw on some experiences I've had this year and hopefully play well this weekend.  
   
 Q.   What was strong about your game today?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I gave myself a ton of opportunities to make birdie.   My ball striking was pretty solid.   I hit plenty of good tee shots and plenty of good approaches and, like I said, I had a bunch of looks inside of 15 feet and anytime you can do that, I'm confident I'm going to make my share.   I was really all around it was pretty solid today.   I wouldn't pick out one part of my game over the other but it's pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Did you know you had a share, a chance at a share of the lead there on 9 before you hit that birdie?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   I saw the leaderboards everywhere.   I know -- I saw that I had -- Heath got it to 10-under.   I wanted to get there and play with him.   Some guys finished behind me.   He's a friend and it will be fun to play with him tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Scott, last year you were a bubble boy.   This year you're not a bubble boy.   Little bit less pressure this year?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Oh my gosh.   Yeah, way different.   Last year so much going through my mind as a rookie, not knowing how to handle it.   My game was in good shape but I had a rough ride and missed the cut.   
Mentally I was thinking a little too much about things that I really have no control over in terms of keeping my card, what other guys are doing.   Lesson learned.   
Fortunately, I kept my card and applied that a little bit this year and thought less about it and kind of tried to play golf instead of playing the FedExCup.  
   
 Q.   Your caddy said you like these greens because you tend to go where the bowls are.   Do you real really like these style of greens?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I do.   Having the greens like this, you know that every few holes you hit a good tee shot you're going to have a hole location that's in one of those bowls and you feel like you can be really aggressive with those and yeah, I mean I guess I like it but I like it probably as much as everybody else does.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT