WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a great way to start this tournament, Scott, your second time here in Greensboro.   Last year you missed it.   What was it, 31?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thanks, yeah.   Nice to get off to a good start.   The round was kind of slowly developing over the course of my front-9.   I felt like I was playing well but wasn't really scoring great but managed to make the long putt on the par 3, I think it's 12, and really kind of got me going, kind of a bonus from the bottom of the green, probably a 40-footer and kept going from there and it was a pretty stress-free round.   Always nice.

Q.   What were some of those memorable shots on the back-9 to keep it rolling with the birdies on the back?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I got some good breaks.   I hit a drive left on the par 5 that could have easily gone in the hazard and stayed up.   I ended up trying to go for the green and little short and got up for birdie there.   That's a 6 potentially turning into a 4. 
18, I hit not a bad tee shot but blocked it a little bit and actually hit the chair that a marshal was standing right next to, ricocheted back to 50 yards in the fairway.   I was able to hit the green from there I had some things go my way for sure and that was nice but, I mean, nothing really, really sticks out. 
Hit a lot of quality shots.   Hit some wedges pretty close to inside five feet.   Anytime you can do that once or twice a round, you can do it. 

Q.   Your got the breaks, congrats.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thanks.

Q.   Great opening around.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   It was good.   I didn't really know what to expect, coming from an off week.   I've been working really hard and nice to see the putts go in.   I've been focusing on my putting last week and played a pretty stress-free round.   Anytime you can do that regardless of the golf course, it's nice and a good score.   So, really happy with the start.   Obviously, it's only Thursday.   You can't win but you can lose.   Nice to get off to a good start.

Q.   Interesting, I was talking to some people in your camp.   They said you were thinking about possibly pulling out.   Can you tell us more about that?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   I was not feeling well this morning.   I had a blood draw last week that kind turned into a little more of an issue for me.   My arm is in quite a bit of pain and soreness.   But it's fine.   It's not an excuse.   I can go out and still swing.   Just got to play. 
Yeah, the doctor was here to help me yesterday.   Today the guys on the Tour were really good.   I'm ready to play and thankfully kind of got better as the day went on.   Today is probably the best day I've had.   I guess that's a good sign. 

Q.   Congratulations on a good opening round.   Wish you all the best.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thank you.

Q.   Scott, great start to the tournament.   Just some general comments on your round.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Thanks.   Yeah.   It was a good start.   You know, I got off to a good start and then it kind of slowed down a little bit but really picked up on the back-9 and made some nice birdies and played a pretty stress-free round which is always nice.   Didn't make it too hard on myself.   I hit a lot of greens. 
If I didn't, I had pretty straight forward up and downs so out here that's important just keeping the ball below the hole because the greens can get a little crazy sometimes if you're past it.   So, I did that well and managed my game and had a good score.

Q.Scott, looking for your first career win, the Wyndham has given the first career wins to so many golfers.   What does it mean to be the leader at 12:21 on Thursday?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Nothing, really.   To be honest, I've been near the lead a few times this year and I can tell you that really doesn't matter until Sunday afternoon.   So, I'm just going to keep playing and keep my head down and keep playing golf and I think my game is good enough to keep playing this golf course for three days and shoot good scores. 
So, I'm going to try and do that and keep it really simple because there's a ton of golf left.   I could very well not be in the lead this afternoon.   It's not a big deal to me.

Q.   Are you feeling all right?   How are you?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Not a hundred percent but I'm fine.

Q.   Really?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   Everybody has got their little deals.   Unfortunately, mine had to come this week and, you know, it will be all right.   No excuse.   I can still go play.

Q.   The greens have softened up a little bit.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   The greens are great.   They're in fantastic shape.   Roll really well.   Yeah, the softness is there because of some of the rain earlier in the week.   Man, I think they're playing really nicely right now. 
Some of the best greens we've putted on all year to be honest and it's definitely fun to come and experience that because, you know, if you hit a good putt it's going to go in if you read it right.   Yeah, really a pleasure playing here at Sedgefield.

Q.   Why do you think that is?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't really know.   I feel I putt well on bermuda greens that are like this fast.   Kind of like that.   I think this is a course that really doesn't really favor a particular player.   That's what makes it great.   Those are the types of golf courses that I seem to play well on.   It's not a really long -- I feel like I get a few wedges in my hand and that's kind of my strength.   If I can keep executing those well then it will be fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT