TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played out there, 25 of 28 fairways.   31 of 36 greens in regulation.   27, 28 putts both days.   Kind of been pretty good about your ball striking.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   My iron play has been really solid, given myself a lot of short putts for birdie.  
I mean it's nice having, you know, almost tap‑ins for birdie at least twice three times around.   So that's always kind of a bonus.   
Struck the ball pretty well, kept the ball in play and putted pretty well.   Really only made one kind of mistake I kick myself about.   But for the most part I played quite well and looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Any key to your two rounds so far?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Just had really good tempo.   That's kind of led for some good consistency for my ball striking.   But again, the name of the game out here is putting.   I putted like I said, quite well, and I feel confident on the greens.   My speed is pretty well dialed in.   So that's nice just stepping on each green knowing you feel comfortable and putting with confidence.  
   
 Q.   Just in your second year on the PGA TOUR.   It's a learning process all the time.   A few weeks ago at the Memorial you played in the final group on Sunday.   What did you take away from that?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   You know, just when I get in those situations I need to keep my head down and just play golf.   You know, there was a lot going on on Sunday, and I probably didn't handle it as well as I could have, but I learned from it, and going into this weekend, I'm not going to talk about what it would mean to win, think about that.   Not going to talk about results.   Just going to keep my head down and keep playing golf, just what I've done really well the last two days.   So that's my goal, just to stay in my own little world and just play the game, because I've done it pretty well the last two days.  
   
 Q.   What are the plays this afternoon going to face out there?   What kind of golf course are they going to find?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   The winds have picked up a little bit.   It's still relatively calm, but I would say like five to 10 miles an hour.   So that's enough to get your attention.  
The pins I would say are somewhat accessible, maybe a little bit tougher than yesterday.   But there's scores out there to be had, for sure.   You look at the board, and I haven't looked at it too closely, but I'm sure there's some pretty good numbers from a lot of guys.  
So it's still pretty soft and gettable, but I would say maybe a little bit tougher than yesterday just because of the wind.  
   
 Q.   Well played so far.   Good luck this weekend.   65 on Friday with a double for Scott Langley.   How do you overcome your one hiccup today?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I just reminded myself that I was playing really well and I kind of was ticked off because it was such a silly mistake, and I had a relatively easy wedge shot and kind of miss‑hit it and it was just a bad shot, to be honest.   Just had a little talk with myself kind of on my own on the left side of No. 3 and just, you know, I was playing so well, you have to kind of take those moments with patience and just move on.   
It was nice to bounce back on the next hole to make a nice birdie, and couple holes later make another one.   So I felt like I over came it pretty well.   And you know, that's the name of the game.   No matter how well you're playing, bad stuff is bound to happen.   You just have to overcome it and fight back.  
   
 Q.   You hit every fairway at TPC River Highlands today.   How comfortable are you with your game?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I mean I feel good.   You know, my tempo has been really good.   I think it's led to some good consistency in my ball striking.   My speed feels pretty dialed in on the green.   Anytime you can get both of those working together it's going to be a good formula for low scores.  
You know, I've been pleased with the way I've played so far.   Just going to keep my head down and keep playing.  
   
 Q.   Touching on this is your second year on TOUR.   You've been in the final group before like at the Memorial a few weeks ago, what do you draw from that experience as you get ready for the final 36?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Well, yeah.   There was a lot going on on Sunday at the Memorial, and I didn't really handle it great.   I kind of maybe got a little ahead of myself.   So going into this weekend I'm not going to think about what it would mean to win or results or anything.   I'm just going to, like I said, keep my head down and keep playing, because that's when I play my best.   And that's what I feel like I've done the last two days, just really keep my head down and kind of stay in my own little world and just have a nice, relaxed focus out there.  
So that's my goal, just kind of head down and keep playing.  
   
 Q.   Clubhouse leader, Scott Langley, and it's a very different story from last year.   This time last year you were packing up and heading home.   This year you held the clubhouse lead before the afternoon waves tee off.   What's the difference in your game and how you've approached this course?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I just played a lot better.   I don't know what the answer is.   I've putted really well so far this tournament, and I've kept the ball in play.   I think I've hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and my iron play has been a real strength this week so far.   I've given myself a lot of birdie putts, you know, inside of 10 feet, and a bunch inside 5, which are kind of bonuses sometimes coming in with mid irons and even short irons.   
It's been nice giving myself kind of easy opportunities to make birdie and hopefully continue to make it easy on myself the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   You've put yourself in contention before this season.   You got third place at Valspar.   Are you going to be able to pull from any of that and knowing what it feels like to be in contention, be in the final pairing on Saturday or Sunday, to you know, kind of maybe calm your nerves a little bit heading into the weekend?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   I think I learned from Memorial more so than Valspar.   Just final group, towards the lead on the weekend, there's a lot going on and you have to kind of just keep your head down and play golf.   That's what I've done well the first two days here, and that's what I'm going to just keep doing.   I'm not going to think about what it would mean to win or who I'm playing with or what the golf course is playing like or, I mean, you know, what other guys are doing.   It's really just about me playing the golf course out there, and you know, if I can keep doing what I've done the last two days mentally I feel like I'll be in a good place on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   What a difference a year makes.   Have you made adjustments or is it just one of those things you say, this is golf.   You're up, you're down.   What's been the biggest thing for you right now?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I've just played a lot better this year so far.   Last year I missed the cut by one here, I think.   And I actually played decently well, I just had a couple things not go my way, and didn't really putt great looking back.  
This year I've just given myself a lot of short birdie opportunities the first two days, and those are nice.   I mean you start adding up three or four or five almost tap‑in birdies.   That really kind of boosts your momentum for the week.   So that's been nice.  
Putting has been pretty good so far.   Ball striking has been solid.   I think I've kept the ball in play really well and hit a bunch of greens, and whenever you can kind of piece things together scores seem to happen on their own.  
   
 Q.   Some of the guys were saying the wind kind of changed a little bit towards the end of the round.   The wind started to pick up coming from different directions.   Did you find that or was it pretty consistent?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I didn't find that it came from a different direction, but it's picking up a little bit.   Over the course of our round it was maybe a little calm at the start, but then probably around 14, our fifth or sixth hole it got kind of breezy again.   
So maybe a little bit more wind today than yesterday which may keep the scores a little bit higher.   But the golf course is still right there.   They've done a really good job setting it up.   It's fair, but it's pretty gettable, and greens are soft.   So it helps when you're in the fairway, you can kind of be more aggressive.  
   
 Q.   What is your mindset like when you're in the position that you're in?   Thinking about the possibilities.   Don't want to get ahead of ourselves, but what does it mean to you and what's going through your head at this point?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   You know, the thing I've learned this year, I've been in contention and playing in the final group on Sunday at Memorial.   This weekend I'm not going to think about the possibilities.   I'm not going to think about what it would mean to win.   I'm not going to think about any of that stuff.  
Sunday night the results are going to be what the results are going to be.   I'm just going to keep my head down and play my game, because when I do that, I seem to play well, and that's what I've done the first two days here.   I've really kind of stayed in my own little world, I guess, and just played the golf course.  
So that's my goal this weekend.   It's kind of a challenge, because there's a lot going on when you play late, but I feel pretty well prepared to handle it through the lessons I've learned this year and the experience I've had.  
   
 Q.   Both holes that you bogeyed, immediately after you follow up with a birdie.   Do you feel pretty dialed in today?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I just‑‑ you know, I played‑‑ I play with a lot of drive to do that.   You know, I made a really silly mistake on Tuesday, and it kind of fired me up to just really go and get it back.   So I was pleased to make a birdie the next hole and kind of right the ship a little bit.  
But yeah, I mean that's‑‑ you know, it's maybe a little bit of a coincidence the way it happens, but no, I'm definitely motivated whenever I do make a bogey to get back on the horse and do it quickly and move on.  
It's again, kind of keeping your head down and keep playing.   It kind of leads to things like that.  
   
 Q.   Your scores were almost the same as yesterday for you, but one round different from another as far as what you did well?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Not really.   They were pretty similar.   I mean my iron play the last two days has been really good.   My putting has been about the same.   My driving's been about the same.   So across the board my game feels pretty good and it's felt pretty consistent the last two days.   Given myself a lot of opportunities, and played two somewhat stress‑free rounds of golf with the exception of a few moments today.   
But you know, it's been a solid two days, and I'm just going to keep my head down and keep playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT