THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Scott Langley, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   A bogey‑free round, 67 today.   With that, just turn it over to you for some comments on Round 3 here at the Memorial.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Anytime you shoot in the 60s here, pretty happy about it.   Tough place.   The golf course is set up really fair, though.   Thick rough.   But greens are receptive.   Fairways are firming up, which I like.   I like being able to play the ball on the ground and kind of running out there and have the ability to do that a little bit.
But I'm really pleased with the day.   I controlled my emotions pretty well.   I hit a lot of quality shots.   Scrambled well.   Putted very well. 
So anytime you can do that, you're usually going to shoot a pretty good score.

Q.   Any indication that a week like this was coming?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I felt better about my game this year than I did even last year.   That's the way golf is, though.   Sometimes the good weeks come out of nowhere.   I didn't play great at Colonial last week but I felt like I had a really good final round.   So maybe a little bit of that momentum kind of pushed me into this week a little bit. 
But, I don't know, trying to approach each week with the same expectation, just to work hard, stick to my process really well and let the results come.   And the results have come pretty well this week.

Q.   How many all‑lefty pairings have you been in on TOUR?   Ever?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't know if on TOUR.   Yeah, probably never.   Maybe I played with Brian Harman a couple of times.   But that's about it.   Not too often.

Q.   Ever played with Bubba?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No.

Q.   You talked about controlling your emotions.   Has that been an issue for you?   You're kind of young in your TOUR career. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I would say last year was tougher than this year for me.   Rode the ups and downs a little bit more last year than I guess I have this year, just tried to approach the game and my career with just a little more even‑keel attitude, I guess, take the good with the bad a little bit more.
And that boils down to every day just kind of keeping a level head.   So I've really tried to work on that, improve that part of my game.   I feel it helps me play better on tougher golf courses. 
My track record shows I generally play tough golf courses pretty well compared to maybe some easier golf courses.   That's something I try and hang my hat on.   This year over last is just staying a little more even keeled, not getting too down when I hit a bad shot but not getting too excited when I make a birdie.   Just kind of moving along.

Q.   A lot of people feel this is a local‑knowledge golf course, and yet you're playing well here your first time.   Do you see that?   Do you just feel like it's pretty straightforward and you're just really not finding a whole lot of things that surprise you?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I've learned some lessons this week.   Thursday I hit it long on 18, back bunker to the front right pin, and that's a no‑no.   So I'll remember that for the next year.
But I look back to my college days.   Coach Small really taught me how to learn a golf course somewhat quickly.   We played a lot of golf courses like this one in college, tough, demanding.   Have to control your ball, have to play to a certain side of the flag, you can't just fire at every pin. 
So in that sense, I guess, he's taught me in that sense.   It's really helped me this week to get over the learning curve a little bit more quickly.
But I'm still learning.   Each day I kind of pick up a little nuance that I'll file away in the memory bank.   And it's kind of been that way every day for me.

Q.   Did you happen to catch what your former teammate Luke did this afternoon?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I was actually following him a little bit this morning on my phone.   He had a great round.   6‑under, something like that.   Yeah, awesome.   I'm happy he had a good day.   And definitely good to see.

Q.   He was talking a lot about his college experience about how he had experience on pitching it out of hard roughs like at the Memorial.   Did you share that experience with him?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Oh yeah, come visit our short game facility at Illinois.   Coach wasn't shy about growing the rough up pretty thick. 
So this type of golf course is the type of golf course I kind of grew up playing.   Thick rough.   You have to hit it straight.   Like I said, you gotta control your ball in the greens, play to the correct side of the hole.   Accept par sometimes as a good score. 
Luke and I definitely had enough practice chipping out of the rough at Illinois.

Q.   Couple of prominent left‑handers, not to mention Bubba and Phil by name, who have talked about the 16th hole as doesn't set up well for them, basically the worst piece of mess that Jack ever designed.   What are your thoughts, please?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't know if I would be as critical as that.   It's just a tough hole, right? 

Q.   Is it a lefty thing for you?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   It doesn't set up for me whatsoever.   But maybe if they put the pin in the front right it will set up for me a little better for me tomorrow, which I think is where it will be.   I never played the old 16, so I don't really know what it was like.

Q.   There's like four of them. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   But it's just a tough hole.   You have to step up, hit a good shot.

Q.   How are you playing this week?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Even par.   So no qualms, no issues.   I have a little more complaint with the tree on 18 because I strike my drive and I'm right behind it every day, but it's Jack Nicklaus.   I'll concede to him on basically anything to him on golf.

Q.   You're even par on 16.   Is that 3s?   Or because Phil's even par is 4s.   I want to make sure we're right on that. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Oh, no, I played it as a par 3.   I played it even par at nine shots over three days. 

Q.   The last time you were in a final group, was that Sony?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I think it was.

Q.   Can you just talk about what you took‑‑ obviously you didn't win there, but what you took out of that and what you might use tomorrow, if anything, going into Sunday?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, Sony really helped me in the sense that when I came to Tampa this year and I was in the mix, I think it was like three groups from the final group on Sunday, I just felt way more comfortable.   I felt more in command of my game, my emotions.   I didn't get as nervous.
And I took my time.   That was the biggest thing.   I felt like at the Sony, I got in the final group.   I was playing great but I was kind of eager to see the result a little bit, to be quite honest.   I think that's human nature a little bit.
So I tried to work on that, and Tampa this year, I really improved.   It was a big building block for me to finish well there and have a chance to win, being in contention on Sunday again, and I just hope to use that again tomorrow, really trying to stay in the moment and take my time and just when I look back, know that I processed everything really well and give my best effort regardless of the outcome.

Q.   You say that about taking your time.   You won a lot of tournaments in college.   You contended a lot.   How is it different out here?   Where has that time element come into play college versus out here?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't know if it's so much like noticeable time.   It's just taking a moment to take a deep breath, really is what it is.   It's not like I take way longer or took way longer in college than I do now. 
Out here, maybe the intensity is a little higher and there's a little more at stake.   So just kind of stepping back and taking a deep breath and staying centered in the moment a little bit, that would be my best explanation, I guess.
THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations on a great day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT