RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about your day.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I fought really hard.   The first 10, 11 holes, I think I was 5‑over par, and nothing was really going right.   Just a tough day.  
But I hung in there and managed to birdie the last two holes, which feels awfully nice.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on starting a round and tied for the lead?   Obviously this is a course where thing can change quickly.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I just tried to go out there and play a solid round, and try to hang my hat on that every week, knowing that I never give up.   And today was certainly one of those days.   It was one of those days that honestly I could have maybe missed the cut, because I was really behind the 8 ball.   And I managed just to hang in there and stay positive and just try and keep hitting greens and making pars.   And before I knew it, I made a couple of birdies coming home, which was just a bonus.   Really nice to finish that way.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit more about that finish, the birdie, birdie finish?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Well, the 8th is such a tough hole.   It's straight into the wind and probably about 450, 460 to where the tee is today.   And just two really quality shots to get myself about a 20, 25‑footer up the hill.   And I hit a great putt and it went in.   I hit a lot of good putts today that didn't go in.   But that one finally did, and that was nice.  
And 9 I just hit a great stinger, kind of 7‑wood, just flighted it down the right side of the fairway to give myself a good angle to the left pin.   And hit a great wedge shot, one of my best swings of the day probably and made a putt.  
So it sounds simple, but it's just so tricky out there today with the rain and the wind and the cold and everything.   It just makes this golf course even better.   It just brings out the life in it.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel good to finish the battle and now you have time where you can sit back, you can just see what the weather is going to do?   Because really nobody knows what's left in the afternoon.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yes, it does.   I count myself pretty lucky to be in the clubhouse at 3‑under right now, instead of having to go out and play this afternoon.   I got what I would consider probably a couple bad waves the last couple of tournaments in Texas.  
I'm in the house and I'm excited for the weekend.   Ready to go tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Describe the mental grind of not only the conditions but especially when you don't get off to a great start, you put some bogeys on the board.   But, man, that was a heck of a turnaround over your final stretch of holes, and just the mental grind of staying positive through all that.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, like I said earlier, I just try to hang my hat on never giving up and always fighting and grinding.   Today was just a day that was tailor made for that attitude.   I put myself behind the 8 ball, like I said earlier, and I managed to hang in there.   I knew I was playing well, so it was just a matter of holding onto patience a little bit.   And that was huge.  
   
 Q.   Were a lot of those bogeys, were they bad shots or just you misjudged winds or something like that?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No, no, I mean I hit a lot of quality shots.   For example 18, I hit a great drive and a great second shot.   One of my best shots of the day, went to the back edge of the green.   I hit a good first putt, it just didn't turn as much as I thought.   And I hit a good second putt and it just lipped out.   It's so windy and exposed out there, it's tricky to get the ball in the hole.   Just an example of a couple good shots that led to a bogey.  
I bogeyed two par‑5s today with a wedge in my hand from the middle of the fairway for my third shot, which is uncharacteristic for me.   And actually hit some pretty good shots.   For my third shot unfortunately got a gust of wind at the wrong time and it beat it down into a bunker and missed short on 2.   Those things will happen.   
I felt like my caddie and I just processed the day well.   We put ourselves in a good position to hit good shots.   I don't know if they turned out, it's up to the weather sometimes.   But it was overall pretty good.   
   
 Q.   What's your caddie's name?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Joe.  
   
 Q.   Joe.   How do you spell his last name?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   E‑t‑t‑e‑r.  
   
 Q.   Because of the way you finished the last stretch of holes under par, because you can see the weather getting worse and where you are are on the leaderboard, has there ever been a greater sense of relief to see a round over and now you can sit back and see what happens?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Not recently.   This is very relieving to be 3‑under.   For you to have seen me on the third tee box when I was even par for the tournament, I would have probably taken even par in the house.   I was just kind of frustrated and it was tough.   But I managed to play really solidly those last six holes or so and got in the house pretty good.   I'm excited where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   Could you go over the last three birdies.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No. 4 was a par‑3, I hit a great shot, front pin, managed to keep it below the hole and to the right.   And I made about a 12‑footer for birdie, which was just relieving, my first birdie of the day.   Finally.   One of those moments.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   8‑iron.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I hit it down low and into the wind and just scooted it out there, and hit a pretty nice 5‑iron to the front portion of the green about 20, 25 feet away.   And just a really good look for being that far away.   I was straight uphill, a little left‑to‑right and just buried it right in the middle.  
9, I flighted down 7‑wood to the right part of the fairway to give myself a good angle to the left pin.   Hit a great wedge shot, landed about pin‑high and just went past the hole from where we were trying to be for an uphill putt.   And again hit a really good putt and just nice to see it go in.   
   
 Q.   Do you usually carry 7‑wood?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, yeah.   I've been playing that club ever since last year.   It's a great club for me.   It can do a lot of good things with it.   I love it.  
   
 Q.   You've been in contention a few times in your young career already.   Does this rank up there, this first couple of rounds, as far as satisfaction level?   Because yesterday you gave the one back on 18.   You would have had the outright lead and then the way you came back, grinding it out in tough conditions, had a great round.   I assume this is going to be one of the better starts you've had in your young career?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, the times I've been in the mix I could say this is the one that I probably grinded the most.   Second most I grinded a lot in Tampa, too, because it was tough and conditions were not great for scoring and I was actually pretty sick the whole time.   That was a grind.   But this was definitely satisfying so far.   The goal now is to kind of put it behind me and just focus on what I need to do tomorrow to post a good score to put myself in position.   
Yeah, I'm pleased with 3‑under through 36 holes, definitely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT