VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Scott, great playing today out there, you post 5-under.   You were actually tied for the lead on 16.   How aware were you, if at all, what you needed there coming into the Snake Pit?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   You know, I didn't totally know I was tied for the lead and that was probably good.   Those holes are so demanding.   
I hit a good tee shot on 16, kind of got away with a bit of a bad swing and it was perfect.   Got down there and I'll hang my hat on this week that I really had the opportunity to win and I played to win.   I didn't try and play to the front of the green on 16.   I tried to hit it close and I maybe hit it a little too hard and went over the green and I ended up making bogey there.  
You know, 17, hit a club that I thought would get me to the hole.   I wanted to really take advantage of the opportunity I had in front of me and, unfortunately, it doesn't look like it's going to work out.   Yeah, just a grinder today.  
   
 Q.   You got to tip your hat to John Senden playing the Snake Pit the way he did.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:     Absolutely.   Birdieing 16 and 17 in these conditions is what you have to do to win.   It was right there for me but it's just tough.   I mean all day it was tough.   
It was tough to putt, tough to get the right club, tough to hit fairways.   Just very demanding golf course.   And I'll hang my hat on the way I grinded and hung in there and played to win.  
   
 Q.   On a day where a lot of people had a chance, you threw yourself in the mix.   What was it like, how?   Do you access it a few minutes after just falling short?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   I got off to a good start, finally.   I kind of struggled to get off to a good start on this golf course the first three days and put myself right in the mix early and that was nice.   
You know, I played to win today and that's what I'll hang my hat on.   I hit a couple clubs on 16 and 17 that essentially went long but I felt like they would get me to the hole and that's what I had to play for.   I had to give myself a chance to win.   
Man, I grinded.   One of those pars, 17 and 18.   18 is one for the memory banks.   That was pretty interesting.   But, you know, I played hard.   Just, you know, this will help me, I know.   I'm a little bummed but it will help me.  
   
 Q.   How aware were you where you stood and how proud of you of the effort you put forward?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   The whole day I knew I was close.   I wasn't really aware on 16.   I was trying to focus on what I was doing and play my own game.   It was so tough out there today.   
It's tough to hit fairways, tough to select the right club into the greens and tough to putt once you get on the greens.   I tried to focus on my own game.   
I had a feeling that I was around the lead all day and then, you know, I got in and saw Senden birdied 17 and 16, which hats off to him on a day like today to do.   That's what you have to do to win golf tournaments.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT