VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2014
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     You know, 69, wind still swirling.   It's still a good score and 2-under you're in contention now going into the weekend.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   It was tricky this morning.   It was cold.   The wind picked up around our 6th hole and made it challenging. 
I'm sure this place is a great golf course and I think the weather we have enhances it even more, brings out the great parts about this place.   So, it was a little tricky today but I managed my game pretty well.   Hit a lot of quality shots.   Fairly efficient around the greens, which was nice.   Very good score today and I'm happy with it.

Q.   Was there any sort of highlight, any long putt or any save?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.   A couple of kind of bounce-back holes really kept my round going.   I bogeyed 16 and then I birdied 17.   I hit a great shot into there and made about a 10-footer and then I bogeyed 3, came back on 4 and made about a 30-footer down the hill. 
Had a couple nice bounce-back holes on par-3s which out here are challenging.   The par-3s are very good.   To make birdie on those after a bogey is always nice, definitely keeps the momentum going.

Q.   I noticed you shot 65 last week.   Any momentum carryover?   You got anything you're doing differently in your swing?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Sure.   Last week I felt like I played that way the whole tournament but I didn't score that way.   Sunday I kind of tied it altogether, putting and my long game so I just kind of, you know, worked on my fundamentals a lot last week with my swing and worked on my putting a lot and I continue to do those same things. 
Just focus on simple, simple cues and the basics and the better I can do those, usually the better I play.

Q.   The last thing I'm going ask you is, you're a rookie last year, you came here for the first time, tied for 30th, respectable.   Just some thoughts on Innisbrook.
SCOTT LANGLEY:   You could probably tell, I like it quite a bit.   It's a great of course.   Suits my game pretty well.   Kind of equalizes the field because we have to play the same way.   Takes driver out of your hands sometimes and puts more of a premium on accuracy.   I tend to play better at places like this.   So, I just like it.   I'm comfortable here, you know, this weather is fine so bring it on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT