AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 7, 2013
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Thanks for joining us after a 65 over at Monterey Peninsula.   Maybe some opening comments about a good day, good start.   It's been a long week but obviously a good start for you.  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, golf is such a funny game.   I didn't have a ton of expectations coming into today.   But I just got out there and got off to kind of a slow start to be honest but kind of picked it up really quickly.   
I made a really long putt on No. 4, my first birdie of three in a row.   Just got me off to a really nice start through the midway point in my round and just had a lot of momentum out there.   I felt really good ones the day got started.   I made two mistakes all day.   
One was a mental error and the other one was just kind of a bad break and a bad swing in one.   But the rest of the day I was really pleased with.   
   
 Q.   Can we get some details on what you mean by that?   Since the press likes to accentuate the negative; what was the bad mental thing?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I hit the wrong club off 17th tee.   For me it's either a 7‑wood or a driver, and I hit a 4‑wood just thinking that it was what I felt best with at the time.   But looking back, I put myself in kind of a tough spot and I could have avoided it easily by hitting a different club.   Went left behind the thick rough and had to punch out.   
   
 Q.   New club?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Recent addition.   But yeah, I've had a hybrid in my bag for a long time but was at the PING facility in Scottsdale last week and tried a 7‑wood and it's awesome, I love it.   Great club.   
I hit my tee shot on 2 by the bunker and I had to kind of stand one foot in the bunker.   I had a really funky stance and I hit what I thought was a good shot and came out a little too low, hit the lip of the bunker, came out low and tumbled down the fairway.   Hit what I thought was a pretty good shot and ran into the hill and that stopped it from going towards the green.   
But I had a lot of good and that's what I take from today, seven birdies.   I putted very well.   I just, you know, besides the two mistakes, hit the ball very well for the most part.  
   
 Q.   Were the greens fast?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   They were pretty quick.   Any time you get on any course here, the ocean effect is very important.   So you really have to keep below the hole.   Pebble is so true, probably even more so than Monterey Peninsula.   Still, the greens are quick and the fairways are running very fast, which makes it actually pretty fun, because you get some really long tee shots if you hit it good.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of that course‑‑  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I love it.   Got here early and played in 2010.   I love it.   I think the views are so amazing, and the golf course itself, I was talking to Patrick today on the course.   I was like, this place is really cool‑looking, but it's also a very good golf course, and if it gets windy, it's pretty challenging.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Hit 7‑iron, a little into the wind.   That's a great hole.   That thing is so cool.   Standing up on that tee is amazing.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Pebble Beach and Del Monte.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   First time Sunday with my partner.   Every time somebody asks me that question, I say no, but I wish I was related so I could go out there and play.   I had my first experience on Sunday and it was a very special day, it was cool.   Almost made a hole‑in‑one with my 7‑wood.   I had my best shot of the day, went past by 25 feet but this thing was just eyeing the flag the whole time.   I was so nervous hitting the shot, too, but it was so much fun.   Actually birdied 17, so that was cool.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   But the 7‑wood might be there to stay, at least for now.   It's pretty good.   
   
 Q.   First time in this event, what are you looking forward to the next couple of days?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   This area is so funny with weather, it was supposed to rain but turned out to be the best day we've had all week.   Just be prepared for every condition possible.   My partner and I, Doug, are having so much fun.   We had a blast today.   He chipped in on 17 from like 30 yards and it was a great way to cap off our round.   
Playing with Kelly Slater and Patrick Cantlay and they are both really super cool guys and laid back.   Kelly is a really good golfer, too.   We are just in a great group and we have a lot of fun.   I feel good about my game.   I like these courses and I like Spyglass and I like Pebble obviously.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you have more experience in this tournament as a rookiebecause of the course rotation format?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   For sure, I even said it I think a couple days ago.   I came here when I was young and I was so amazed at how beautiful this place is.   You get distracted a little bit by the views.   
I remember when I was younger, I came here and played and I was so nervous on 7 and 17, these iconic holes of Pebble Beach.   And I feel differently now.   I feel more comfortable here, more at ease.   I've had good results here so maybe that helps my confidence a little bit.  
But just yeah, to answer your question, I don't know if I'm more prepared than other rookies but it's nice being here before today and before this tournament to kind of get more rounds under my belt and have a familiarity with the area and learn kind of the way the golf course works.   
   
 Q.   What did you take out of the bag that you didn't use?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Oh, I thought you were talking about golf clubs‑‑ just the umbrella.   I wore this, it was kind of chilly.   Maybe four other gloves.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything you're doing to take your mind off the game for the rest of the week?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, this week I love going to a place called Cafe Fina over on Monterey wharf.   That place is awesome.   We got to know the owner well and every time I walk in, he gives me a bag of red tees (ph).   They are famous for the red tees.   They are big golfers and it's great food, so I'll go there for dinner probably just to get away.   
But I'm staying at a great house with really nice people, and my family is here.   So we just kind of hang out and get away.   By the time that today is done, it's almost dinner time.   Time to go get away a little bit.   
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Scott, thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT