AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 6, 2013
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Scott Langley, thanks for joining us.   
You're playing in your first Pebble Beach AT&T National Pro‑Am, but certainly you have some significant history here at Pebble Beach.   
Maybe some opening comments about coming back to, like I said, where you've had some good history.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, as a golfer I love this area so much.   Pebble Beach is such an iconic place.   Alongside Monterrey and Spyglass this week, our venue is just so awesome.   
I've had some great memories here in my short career.   Going back to the First Tee Open where I was a junior golfer playing with Tom Purtzer and Dana Quigley two years in row.  
That was such an amazing experience, very eye opening for me, coming here for the first time and capturing the beauty of the place and being able to play and compete and be alongside professional golfers inside the ropes.  
So that was a really cool experience.   Then to come back for the U.S. Open in 2010 and play well as an amateur, just I love this place.   There is something about it.   I don't know.   Maybe I read the greens well.   Maybe it just suits my game.   I don't know.   Just when I come here I'm very much a peace and I love it.   
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   How did you get here from St. Louis when you were a junior?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   The First Tee.   So I was probably the First Tee chapter of St. Louis.   There was a qualifying process in Manhattan, Kansas where the Kansas State University is.   Basically it's a selection involving golf, and they kind of interview you and write an essay and they kind of watch you throughout the week to make sure you'll be a good representation of the First Tee.   
It's a selection process, and I think like 30 or 40 young kids from that selection week.   
   
 Q.   Have any of those essays?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No, I don't think so.   I don't have any college essays.   Those may be long gone.   
You know, yeah, that was a selection process with a lot of their young kids.  
   
 Q.   What is with the ribbon?   Am I being incredibly stupid?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   No.   All the PING players will be wearing this ribbon this week.   It's just a Northern California PING rep who passed away recently.   Trying to give honor to him.   
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I actually don't know his name.   I forget his name.   Yeah, ask one of PING guys.   They'll know.  
   
 Q.   So jumping back to the First Tee Open, tell me about how you've changed as a person, as a golfer since then?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I've just grown up.   And I'm still a kid, but I've just experienced so much.   That was really my first opportunity to be inside the ropes with pros.   Back in the day, it was just such a cool thing for me.  
Sitting here today, I've before fortunate to be inside the ropes much more, so I just come here a little more comfortable, I think, and I know what to expect.   
You know, I still love how beautiful this place is, but I'm not as distracted by the views.   I can just kind of get down to playing golf now, which is good.   
But, yeah, I mean, I've just kind of grown up personally, and golf‑wise I've just gotten more experience.   So feel well‑prepared this week.   
   
 Q.   Do you stay in touch with Tom or Dana, and have they given you any advice?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   We kept in touch a little bit after the tournaments, when I was back in high school.   I'm beginning to understand now just how busy they really were when they were doing what I'm doing now.   
We haven't kept in touch as much lately, but I've run into Dana a few times down in West Palm Beach, and every time I do we're pumped to see each other.  
And Tom Purtzer and I are friends on Facebook.   I try and follow what's going on with him and I'm sure he'll follow what's going on with me a little bit.   
Those are guys that I really looked up to when I played with them.   They were just awesome and great to play with and great examples for kids.  
So just awesome guys.   
   
 Q.   What was the state of your mind and of your game when you left Honolulu?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Well, I felt good.   You know, I was just so excited.   My game to this day feels good.   I got to the Humana and I was a little tired, to be honest.   It all kind of caught up to me a little bit.   
I actually played pretty good at the Humana.   I missed the cut by one shot.   I shot 9‑under par for three days.   I mean, if you would've told me I'd shot 9‑under, I probably would have said I would be playing the next day.  
But, yeah, I mean, I'm learning.   Sony was awesome.   Wouldn't have it any other way.   I think it maybe took a little bit out of me that I'll learn to grow from in the future and manage my energy a little bit better.   
But I'm a rookie.   I mean, it's a long year.   It's a learning process for sure.   We're just getting into it.   We haven't even left the west coast yet.  
   
 Q.   (Regarding Torrey Pines.)   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Torrey I did not play very well.   That was kind of the point where I was pretty mentally drained because I had been doing a lot of extra stuff, which was all good, getting my name out there a little bit with the media and doing extra things for the tournament because of the exposure I had at the Sony.  
It's all been good, but I think I've learned it's okay to say no sometimes.   I'm learning when to say no at the right times and develop good routines.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yes, I was not.   I was going to try and qualify, but I just decided to take the week off and practice and kind of refresh my mind a little bit.   I was just a little tired after the first three weeks.   
I'm in the qualifier next week.   Hopefully I'll just play great this week and get in.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   If you look at Sony ‑ and that could have been you just as well as Russell ‑ seems like there re about five or six of you youngsters coming out ready to win more so than in past years.   What's going on?  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't know, man.   I spoke to it a little bit at the Sony.   I think there is just such a deep pool of talent in professional golf.   You see a lot young guys playing really good.   Luke List, I know he didn't have the weekend he wanted to, but I played with him the first two days in San Diego and he absolutely killed it.  
More guys are coming out more prepared and with more confidence.   I don't think we're as intimidated by the venues and seeing the guys we've seen on TV our whole lives.   I think we're just excited to be out here.   We appreciate every opportunity for sure, so we want to take advantage of everything we can.  
Yeah, I think the talent pool is just pretty deep, and you're seeing that.   A new guy every week is popping up every week.   David Lingmerth almost won Humana.   You're getting young guys just trying to make a name for themselves.   I think we're all pretty hungry.   
   
 Q.   And James Hahn was third.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, James Hahn, too.   I forgot about James.   What, he finished third?   That's awesome.   That's a great, great finish.   So, yeah, I think the more and more we see each other do it, it helps us believe we can do it, too.   
I know I had dinner with a lot of the rookies with the commissioner during Humana, and a lot of guys came up to me, Oh, it was so cool seeing what you did.   It was so inspiring.   
David was the one that said it to me, and then he almost won that week at the Humana.   We kind of see each other doing it, and I think shows us that we can be in the same boat.   
   
 Q.   Regarding Luke List.)   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Luke List?   Yes.   He outdrove me a couple times by like about 70 yards.   No. 1, north course of Torrey Pines.   It's a par‑5, like 560 or ‑‑ No. 1 on the north course.   Yeah.   
I'm pretty sure he hit like a 9‑iron or hard pitching wedge into the green.   The pin was in the back.   Slightly downwind.   I think I laid up.   I think I hit like driver‑‑ no, I did go for it, but I had to hit a hybrid to get to the green.   
It's a little different game.   
   
 Q.   Two‑part question.   What's your natural ball flight in terms of trajectory?   And secondly, that little bullet 3‑wood you hit, is that more of a crutch, and by that I mean a go‑to shot or is it a...  
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, it's more of a specialty shot kind of.   The week at Sony I was obviously on TV much more than I have been the last two weeks, so you see that one a lot at the Sony know because that course suits that shots perfectly.   A lot of the holes and fairways are firm.   The run‑outs are like 300 yards, so driver is a little too much.   
So 3‑wood goes low and very straight and is a good play.   Generally I have a little higher ball flight than that.   I would describe my ball flight as lower than average on TOUR, but I don't mind it that way.   I've gotten it around.   I've played well in U.S. Opens hitting it that same height.   You would think, Oh, U.S.   Open, firm and fast; you need to hit it really high.  
I haven't really found that to be the case.   I feel like if you can control your ball and control how far it flies, that's the biggest thing for those events and a lot of events on TOUR.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever tried get your flight higher or wanted to make it higher?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I mean, I'm making some equipment changes to hit the ball higher.   I'm recognizing I do need to get it up in the air a little bit more.  
The Sony, it's a little bit windy.   The fairways are very firm so the low ball flight is perfect.   It doesn't necessarily suit every golf course.   That's why I don't hit that shot on other golf courses really.   
So like this week, for example, I hit that shot maybe one time on the three golf courses.   On No. 8 at Spyglass off the tee.   The rest it's pretty standard ball flight for me this week.   
No, I wouldn't try and change my game around.   I feel like it's good enough.   If anything, I am trying to get a little more height out of my equipment.  
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Scott Langley, thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT