SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2013
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had sort of maybe not the day you were looking for, but you had a great finish. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I didn't totally feel comfortable out there with my swing all day, just kind of fighting it.   Putter was pretty poor to be honest.   My short game was not very good for most of the day.   Certainly work on improving that for next week, but to finish the way I did was really fun.   I looked at the board on 16, and I noticed that I had gone all the way down to like 6th or 9th, and I really wanted to move up.   So wanted to make that putt on 17 for sure to make it a Trifecta for our group, and then obviously wanted 18. 
It was a lot of fun to finish that way.   I wish it would have come a little sooner.   But all in all, I can't be disappointed.   This has been a great week, and I'll always look back as this week as a special one, my first one out here.

Q.   Playing in a final group on a Sunday on the PGA TOUR, what can you take away from this experience?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I can take away a lot, just the more and more you can put yourself in this position, the better off you're going to be.   I've never been in the final group.   I got to play in it on Saturday and Sunday.   That experience is so invaluable, and the fact that I got that in my first event is just awesome.   It's a bonus.   I'm really happy, and I wish I would have played a little bit better today and made some more putts, but Russell played so awesome.   I don't even know if I could have caught him.

Q.   Coming in with conditions the way they were, did you think there would be another low score out there? 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I knew the pins were going to be pretty tricky being Sunday, but still, this golf course suits my game when I'm playing good golf.   If I would have made a few putts, it could have been a pretty good score again.   It all came down to that.   I missed a bunch of five‑footers, and I usually make all those.   That was a little surprising and disappointing at the same time.   But I still take away a lot of good things from this week, loads of experience and a great start to the year. 

Q.   You've got to be really happy with where you are, given that it is the first week on the PGA TOUR proper. 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah.

Q.   You've been at other events before but nothing quite like this?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, for sure.   I wanted to get off to a great start this year, and if you would have told me at the start of the week I would finish tied for 3rd, I would have taken it in a heartbeat.   I play every event to win, but this time it just wasn't in the cards.   But I was certainly pleased with the way my game held up, and to know that deep down when I need it I can finish the way I did today is going to take me a long way, I think.   I'll definitely take that with me from this week. 

Q.   Bottom line is people don't know who you are, you come out here, you finish third.   People are going to be reading the paper on Monday and saying is it a fluke or is it the real deal?   What do you say to people about that? 
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I don't know.   I feel like I'm here to stay.   I feel great about my game and I feel comfortable out here.   I feel like I can compete.   I feel like if I play good golf and prove it to myself this week, I can have a chance to win.   I can be in the last group.   I can be in contention.   No matter what other people think, I know what I think, and I know I believe that I belong out here, and I believe it's going to be a great year.   I'm just going to build off of this.

Q.   Do you believe more now than you did when you started the week?
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   I believed that I could play well this week for sure, but there's so much uncertainty coming into the new year, new season, my first event as a member, didn't really know how I was going to respond, and it was certainly nice to kind of break the ice a little bit this week and really play good for most of the tournament.   Yeah, any week when you play good and finish in the top 5 in a TOUR event, it's going to boost your confidence. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT