SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2013
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Scott, a 1:00 appointment for your PGA TOUR debut.   It must be exciting.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, I've been excited for this day ever since I got my card.   I'm excited to play along Luke Guthrie, my college teammate and roommate, so that'll be a lot of fun.   Yeah, game feels great, excited about the golf course, so definitely excited.   
   
 Q.   You had such an accomplished amateur career at the University of Illinois.   What kind of butterflies do you think you'll have on the first tee?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   I'll be nervous for sure, but I've learned to embrace being nervous because I only get nervous when I am playing pretty good because I feel like I'm excited about what can happen.   If I'm nervous I'll embrace it, and I definitely will be.   I'm excited to go, and like I said, I've been itching for this day for a while.   But definitely excited about it.  
   
 Q.   You're one of 23 rookies in this field.   Do you see some familiar faces?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   For sure.   I've been fortunate to play in a few events.   I've gotten some sponsor exemptions in the past and played in two U.S. Opens, so I don't feel like as much of a rookie as I would have if I hadn't played those events.   So coming out here, I kind of know what to expect.   I feel pretty comfortable, and I've kind of gotten over the enormity of what it is.   It's my dream come true, my dream job, and I'll always cherish it for sure.   
But I've learned really just to get into the week and play my game and focus on that, and I think that'll benefit me.  
   
 Q.   Goals for this year?   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   You know, I'd love to get Rookie of the Year.   I think any rookie would tell you that.   So that's certainly a goal of mine.   And then as far as looking down the road, I've always loved to aim high.   I'd love to be in the top 30 on the FedExCup points list and get in the TOUR Championship.   That would be a big goal of mine.   So hopefully worked towards that throughout the year.  
   
 Q.   You are the first First Tee graduate to gain a PGA TOUR card.   
SCOTT LANGLEY:   Yeah, it's an honor to represent them, and I think it's really cool that the First Tee is getting a presence out on TOUR.   It's a great organization, and it taught me a lot when I was younger.   I had so much fun playing in the First Tee Open twice.   I was really fortunate to play at Pebble Beach with the Champions Tour pros, and at a young age it was so cool to get inside the ropes with those guys.   I am sure some of those lessons I learned that week have helped me get to where I am now.   But no, it's really cool to be out here and to say I was a part of the First Tee, and it's a great organization, so I'm proud to represent it.   
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT