U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2010
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just general comments about your first U.S. Open round?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: Obviously not the scoring I wanted starting out the day, but happy with the round today my last nine holes. It was tough. I struggled all day. There weren't any easy holes. There were some you could make birdie, but at the same time, good shots were making bogey. I tried to hang in there.  
  
  Q. Change anything tonight, anything that's in your bag?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: No, I just have to slow it down a little bit. I was a little quick early, just with everything. I just have to slow it down a little bit and try to settle in.  
  
  Q. Your putts 5 through the 8 holes at that time thinking, oh, no, or are you thinking you're going back to those birdies on the front that I didn't get to?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, I didn't really panic. I tried to stay in the moment, I guess. I gave myself some chances to make birdies. I knew I would make a couple. I gave myself a few more chances on the front than I did on the back. On the back I just didn't get it on the green. I felt like I was in jail a few times on the back nine.   
 So I just started playing a little smarter and tried to put the ball in in better position.  
  
  Q. How tense were you on the first hole, did the moment hit you?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: I wasn't that tense. I didn't hit a very good drive on the first hole, but I hit the fairway. So that was good. I wasn't too nervous. I've been at it for a few days. I've gotten used to the situation, the course, the fans.  
  
  Q. That was my next question, how intimidating are the galleries?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: It's fine. It's pretty fun.   
  
  Q. Any surprises about the course from the practice rounds?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: Not really. The greens were not in very good shape. They were pretty chewed up. That's kind of what you expect in the afternoon. They're bound to be a little bumpy. You miss the green -- you've got a tough championship, first of all, and you give yourself a lot of 5 footers and you know it's going to be a long day. So you try to hit a lot of greens on the front nine.  
  
  Q. Regardless of the score, toughest golf course you've played after this round?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: It's close. I can't think of a course that I played this firm. I never played a course that challenged me in this way. A lot of times it's way short of the pin -- it's a challenge for me. It's pretty tough.  
  
  Q. Did it make you nervous out there?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: I was a little nervous on the first two shots. I mean every shot in the tournament, I wouldn't say I was nervous, but I knew I had to really focus to hit a good shot and put it in a good spot.  
  
  Q. Any trouble spots?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, I had to chip twice on three holes, because I whiffed my first chip on No. 10, my first hole. And then 17, I had to chip twice. 8, I had to chip twice.  
  
  Q. How did you whiff on your first chip?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: It wasn't a great -- you had to be really precise.  
  
  Q. Are you going to play any different tomorrow?  
 SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, I'm looking forward to getting off first on the greens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT