THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2015
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH: Scott, I know you're still glad to be sitting in that chair, 1-under par 69 today, still in the last group tomorrow.  Just comment on your round.   SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, it was a little tougher day for me.  You know, following up a round like a 62 is never super easy mentally, but I hung in there today, didn't have much going for most of my round, but made a bunch of pars and was able to make two birdies coming in for my last few holes.  Really ended the day on a real positive note, so I was pretty happy with the score, all things considered.   JOHN BUSH: Putter let you down a little bit today?   SCOTT LANGLEY: It didn't really let me down.  I wasn't getting the ball to the hole, and my reads and my strokes were great.  If you gave me two feet of extra speed, I think I would have shot 4- or 5-under today.  I left a lot of putts within six inches of the hole just right in the heart.  I just need to be a little bit more assertive tomorrow on the greens.  I feel like I'm reading them really well, my caddie and I, and I'm hitting a lot of good putts, so just a matter of being a little bit more aggressive.   Q.  You talked yesterday about wanting to stay positive.  Was there a point in the round today when you felt that slipping away or anything?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Not really, no.  I mean, that's my ultimate goal this week, and that's kind of in the forefront of my mind no matter what happens.  If something that would stress me out happens, maybe I three-putted for my first bogey of the week on the par-3 on the back, I just told myself there's a lot of golf left, it's soft, there's a lot of birdie opportunities, so just stay patient and good things will happen. I really did stay positive today.  That was something I'll take away from the day for sure.   Q.  Does wearing the glasses make a difference out there when it's kind of cloudy and dark?  SCOTT LANGLEY: It has to be pretty dark for me not to wear them.  I'm pretty well used to wearing them in a lot of different light conditions.  It's funny, the way my lenses are, it actually kind of brightens things up a little bit, so on darker days, guys will be surprised that I'm still wearing them, but I'll take them off and it'll actually be a little darker compared to if I had them on.  It sounds funny, but it works for me.   Q.  It's a crowded leaderboard, a lot of players within three or four strokes of you.  Does that make it a little bit more pressure-packed tomorrow knowing if you slip a couple spots, it's not one or two guys that can beat you, it's 10, 20, 30 even?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Not really.  I trust my game.  I'm playing well.  It's the PGA TOUR; it feels like that's almost every week now that there's a bunch of guys near the top.  You're not seeing any real dominating performances aside from maybe a couple throughout the year so far. You know, that's just the way it is.  I'm ready to compete, I'm ready to go have fun tomorrow, and like I said, I trust my game, and I know I'm playing well.  I like my chances this weekend.   Q.  You were in contention last week at Travelers, and going into the weekend didn't work out the way you wanted it to.  What did you learn from that that you can take into this weekend?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, just the importance of staying positive.  I really didn't even play that poorly on Saturday, I just didn't make any putts, and all of a sudden I shot 3-over.  I didn't make any birdies, got shut out.  That doesn't really happen that often.  So it was just kind of a weird day, and then I finished last week on a real positive note, 3-under on Sunday and moved way back up the leaderboard. It's good to keep putting myself in that position.  The more and more I'm there, the more comfortable I'll get, and the odds are becoming more in my favor that I'll have two good days on the weekend.   Q.  You missed out on a good bit of rain yesterday afternoon, you missed out on a nasty downpour this morning.  I know those things tend to even out over time, but you're feeling pretty lucky about your draw with the weather, aren't you?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, definitely.  We got the better draw.  I think it was pretty tough for the guys that played opposite of us.  Yesterday was very calm for us.  I know it rained basically all afternoon once we got finished, and that's just the way it goes. I mean, I've had plenty of weeks where it's been the opposite.  Like you said, it evens out, and so far I've been lucky that we've had good weather.   JOHN BUSH: Scott Langley, thank you, sir.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT