THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 2, 2015
Scott Langley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Scott Langley into the interview room, 8-under par 62, no bogeys.  Scott, is that the best you and Jonathan could do out there today, 15 birdies and no bogeys?   SCOTT LANGLEY: It's pretty close.  No, it was really fun.  J-Byrd and Michael Putnam, we're all great friends, so it was a great pairing, and certainly Jonathan and I kind of fed off of each other and kept pushing each other to play well.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun making all those birdies.   JOHN BUSH: Just recap your season for us up to this point if you can.   SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, it's been a weird season.  I felt great about my game the last two or three months and I haven't really produced anything.  But I'm really excited.  I mean, I've got a new outlook on the year.  I've gotten a little down on myself early in the year just because the results weren't really there and kind of looked myself in the mirror and said, you know what, at the end of the day, no matter what happens, I need to be the most positive guy in the field week in and week out, so that's been my goal the last two weeks.  Last week I had a really positive week.  I finished 25th.  I didn't win the golf tournament, but I felt really good about the way my attitude was and my game was, and I felt like it helped me play a little bit better.   Q.  The conditions I guess were pretty good for scoring.  How beneficial is it now to be inside if the weather comes up this afternoon and to have that score in there?  SCOTT LANGLEY: It's really beneficial to be inside right now because it's about to hammer down in about 30 minutes.  So we had great conditions this morning for scoring.  Like Jonathan said, very little wind, a little bit of rain early but it went away after about a hole.  The golf course was soft, and when it's like that, a golf course that's not super long, you can really get aggressive with wedges and give yourself a lot of looks. That's what I felt I did.  I don't know my stats, but I felt like I hit a lot of greens and put a lot of pressure on the golf course today.   Q.  You talked about turning your season around.  Was there a moment or something that happened specifically that maybe did that?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Not really, just a general sense of where I thought I was and kind of talking to my caddie and talking to my wife and my coach and just thinking about like what is the reason that I'm not playing well.  My game feels great, my golf swing feels awesome, my putting feels good.  What is it?  The last thing on the last was where is my attitude at, where am I at mentally.  Sometimes you've got to just look yourself in the mirror and think about that. You know, for me, I've always had a pretty good attitude, so it was kind of weird not being in that place, so to kind of just get back to who I am and have fun when I'm playing is really important for me.   Q.  And I presume you don't have a spot in the British.  Can you talk about the motivation knowing that there's still some spots left that you can grab this week?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, I mean, right now I'm committed to the Barbasol event in Alabama, and although I've heard Auburn is great, I'm sure it's really hot in the summer, so I'd much rather go to the British, no offense.   Q.  How much fun was it being out there with Jonathan, you guys kind of trading shots?  SCOTT LANGLEY: Tons of fun.  Yeah, when I saw the pairing, we kind of laughed because it was the two guys I had talked to earlier in the week about, man, we haven't played together in a while, what's going on, and then we got the text and saw that we were all paired together, not only Jonathan but Michael, as well.  We've played together a lot and we have a lot of similar values and just good friends.  It was great getting out there and playing with those guys.  They're really easy to play with.  Like I said, Jonathan and I kind of fed off each other and both produced some pretty good scores.   Q.  You said the course is in good shape.  How close do you think they were to putting in lift, clean and place rules?  For the rest of the field, if it dumps out there the rest of the field has got to put up with the ball staying down.  SCOTT LANGLEY: Yeah, they might get a little bad luck if it rains as much as it looks like it's about to.  When we were playing it was not necessary.  We didn't really have any issues with mud on the ball or any sketchy spots in the fairway.  The golf course is in awesome shape.  It wasn't really an issue for us.  Who knows what the afternoon will hold, but hopefully the conditions are still fair for the guys playing in the afternoon.  You don't want it to be totally one-sided one way or the other.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT