CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2011
Pat Moir
Christian Pilon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us today in the media center here at the CN Canadian Women's Open. I would like to introduce Christian Pilon, superintendent of Mount Bruno Golf & Country Club who is representing the Canadian Golf Superintendents Association who is going to make a presentation to our superintendent, Pat Moir. Christian, go ahead.   
 CHRISTIAN PILON: It's an honor and a privilege to be here to present this presentation to a close friend of mine. The Canadian Golf Superintendents Association represents almost 1500 individuals involved in the profession of golf course management.   
 CGSA provides education, certification, representation and communication services to members with the objective of improving the image of the superintendent and appreciation of the industry for the role of the golf course manager.   
 Through the development and delivery of training programs and the development of national occupational standards CGSA is working to ensure that superintendents are knowledgeable concerning the latest tools and techniques available to insist with environmental protection, sustainability and consistent course conditioning and give them the ability to apply that knowledge in a responsible and effective manner.  
 Now, in an effort to recognize the work of superintendents throughout the country, CGSA has its plaque presentation through national tournaments, superintendents who contribute to national tournaments, and it's a pleasure as part of this program to be here and recognize the contribution of Patrick Moir to the success of the CN Women's Open, Canadian Women's Open at Hillsdale Golf and Country Club. (Applause).  
 PAT MOIR: Thank you. I know typically I'm on the donating end of these plaques, so it's really an honor to receive this and certainly a privilege to host the event this week, and it's something that my staff and I have been working really hard toward preparing the golf course for and certainly hope everybody is enjoying what we provided to them. Thank you.   
 THE MODERATOR: Just a quick question to get us started. Talk about the level of preparation that goes into hosting a national open championship like this.  
 PAT MOIR: I don't know if you really ever appreciate it until you're in full swing, but our crew has been pretty hard at work starting from last year trying to fine tune areas on the golf course that we think or thought might have been a bit of a weakness for the players. Certainly the bunkering we spent a lot of time in trying to create a consistent playing condition in those areas. And greens speeds as well was something that we tried to work on. So yeah, it dates back to last year.  
 THE MODERATOR: Now, we'll open it up to any media questions. If anyone has any questions, just please raise your hand.   
  
  Q. I believe you just said three inches of rough and the speed of the greens, those are going to be the two main challenges for the golf course this week?  
 PAT MOIR: Yeah. Certainly that was the way we were hoping to protect the golf course. We were able to attain a greens speed of 11 foot 6 and that's where we would like to keep the greens for the rest of the remainder of the week. So whatever the girls have practiced on as the greens speed is what we would try to maintain for the rest of the week so they wouldn't have any curve balls thrown at them for the rest of the event.   
 And yes, three inches was the last cut of rough Saturday afternoon. So if the weather stays as it is and seeing the rough the way it is right now will provide a challenge to the girls if they happen to stray off the fairways a bit.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAT MOIR: Yeah. It's pretty much down today. First we were looking at something around two-and-three-quarters which seems to be almost standard fair for them. But with the weather that we had in the month of July getting up to that two-and-three-quarters really didn't look like it was going to be challenging enough for the girls, so we decided to go with a little bit longer so an additional quarter inch is what we decided on.  
  
  Q. (Question in French)?  
 PAT MOIR: The question was how wide are the fairways, and typically they go anywhere from 22, 23 yards wide up to about 40 yards wide. So for the most part fairly generous landing areas for the girls.  
  
  Q. What's the length of the --  
PAT MOIR: The golf course is playing at 6600 yards, 6604, which is what we call the white line yardage which is the farthest the golf course will play, the longest the golf course will play. But with the rain we had on Sunday and just the nature of the fairways that we had here, it'll play all of 6600, so you might notice that the girls aren't getting any appreciable roll out there, so it'll be a challenge for everybody but the longest hitters I would think.   
  
  Q. (Question in French)?  
 PAT MOIR: So a -12 was basically the goal to have in the final score. That's what we were hoping to see anyway.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 PAT MOIR: As it stands so far I haven't been asked to roll the rough again.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 PAT MOIR: It was cut on Saturday at three inches. And --  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PAT MOIR: It could be long. I don't think -- four inches might not be out of the question, which will be significant.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?   
  
  Q. Put in terms of toughness on a scale of one to ten if you modify it a bit, ten being the toughest, what would you guess?  
 PAT MOIR: For me it's about a 12, because I'm not good. For the girls, it's hard to say. It's almost impossible to protect the golf course for a player that's in the zone. So we're hoping for that -12 score. I guess -- I would think that it's probably about a 7 or 8 for them.  
  
  Q. Would you take some personal pride if the final score was like a -4 or 5 or something like that?  
 PAT MOIR: Yes.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 PAT MOIR: Typically -- well, not typically. What's standard practice for either an LPGA event or PGA TOUR event is the TOUR sends the host club superintendent a standard -- a package of standard operating procedures, so we basically run everything on that. They would try to have consistent play with every week with every tournament they play. So greens speeds anywhere from 10 and a half to 11 and a half feet and rough about two-and-three-quarters to three inches for rough length.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thanks, everybody, for joining us today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT