BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2011
Jarrid Famous
Augustus Gilchrist
Stan Heath
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 COACH HEATH: Today just wasn't our day and Cincinnati had a lot to do with it. Yancy Gates was phenomenal. I know our defense wasn't great but it not easy to go 10 for 11, either. We didn't have an answer and probably should have done more double-teaming, things like that to slow him down. Their team came to play. They made shots. They were balanced. They were inside, they were outside. I thought at halftime we were still in striking range, 8 points. I did not think we had played very well. 
 Unfortunately, coming out of the locker room without our point guard, we were a little bit in disarray. We never seemed to maybe capitalize and really get things together in the second half. You know, I'm proud of this group. We showed resiliency. We showed resolve. We showed character. You know, winning a huge game yesterday. Today we just didn't have enough fuel in the tank, but we got a lot to build on. We're going to miss this guy to my right, Jarrid Famous, my only senior. He's had a terrific two years for us and has done a lot and I'm proud of him and he's got a bright future ahead of him and my other guys are going to spend the off-season getting better in the a lot of areas and we will add more pieces to help our basketball program, too. 

 Q. Stan, is there an update on Anthony's injury and can you talk about how tough it is to overcome losing a player at that position considering it was probably the one position you could not afford to have a guy go down in? 
 COACH HEATH: I don't have the total answer of where he is. He definitely was a no-go. He couldn't raise his arm all the way up. We think he subluxed it, he got x-rays, we'll know more tonight or later on tomorrow, but it's a huge loss. 
 We have guys that are extremely valuable. Gus or the way Shaun has been playing or Jawanza but that's probably the one position I can rotate front court guys but that's the one position where he's been 36 minutes per night and I probably haven't done the best job at preparing the other guys so when he went out that was the leadership from that position and he was probably the guy playing a little better and the engine that makes us go a little bit.

 Q. How did he hurt himself? 
 COACH HEATH: He got two steals like on our bench on the far side of the court and on the second one he said as he was -- as he got the steal he planted the arm and he said it just subluxed in, he heard something pop and that was it. It happened right before halftime, I mean right before halftime. He made a couple of great steals to save a couple of baskets from Cincinnati. 

 Q. Stan, just to follow up this is the second year you guys have played a second night here and stuck around, how much has that helped to set the bar for where you expect things to be a year from now? 
 COACH HEATH: I think it means a lot. We tasted success here in the tournament. We beat a very strong team in Villanova, and a strong program and I think that they gave us -- it gave us and will give us some confidence in the future in terms of winning against tough teams. 
 This team, this team, we have leftover parts from last year in Gus and Jarrid and a couple of other guys but that perimeter was basically brand new guys and that group never really experienced success beating a very good team. 
 So that was, I think, a big win and something we can build on in the future. 

 Q. For either of you, can you talk about what happened in the second half after Anthony went down and the struggles that you had going up against Cincinnati? 
 JARRID FAMOUS: Just dealing with Anthony not being on the court is a big loss to us, going out there we need him. We had turnovers, back-to-back to start of the half and we didn't start of half off the way we wanted to. 
 AUGUSTUS GILCHRIST: Like he said, it was a different pace. Anthony has tremendous speed. He knows who to hit in the offense and it was a different thing, it was getting through the break, it was good for us, and just finding open guys. It was just a big loss for us. 

 Q. Jarrid, can you talk about Gates and what he did to let him be that much more in control of the post than he was the previous times? 
 JARRID FAMOUS: Tonight he had a tremendous game like Coach said, 10 for 11 from the field. Not much we really could do to stop him tonight. Like Coach said, we didn't have the answer, maybe we should have doubled him from the beginning or whatever, but he had a great game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT