AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Ainhoa Olarra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about some of the difficult approach shots out there today.  Were there any holes that stood out as really challenging?
AINHOA OLARRA: There were like a couple, because I decided to leave my 8-iron today in the locker room and take my 4 and my hybrid with me.  Before I went out and make the decision with Coach, we looked at the pins.
So I thought that I wouldn't be using the 8-iron that much.  But you know, things, some things happened, so I had to use the 8-iron twice.  So I hit like a soft 7-iron.  I wasn't feeling so like really comfortable with that, but probably it was hole No. 17 that I made the birdie with the 7-iron, but it was 8-iron distance.
On No. 3, I think, also, it was an 8-iron distance.  I just didn't have it.  So it was a 7.  I mean, even if I didn't have it for those two shots, I really need the 4 and the hybrid because the course is pretty long for me.
Q. How many times did you hit the 4?
AINHOA OLARRA: 4 times I think.  I hit 4 and 5, like plenty of times.
Q. Can you remember the club you hit on 4 tee, the par 3?
AINHOA OLARRA: The one that I made birdie?
Q. The long par 3, No. 4.
AINHOA OLARRA: Yeah, that I leave it close, 4-iron.
Q. And the greens, talk about your feeling out there with the greens.
AINHOA OLARRA: The greens drive me a little bit like crazy today because I couldn't make any.  But I don't know, it was just I was getting like -- the first hole, the second hole, I made three-putts because I hit it really hard on the par 5, so then I just kind of -- I was kind of like afraid of, you know, like again being in the same situation.  Just hitting too hard and get over and make 3-putts.  So Coach is like, hit down here and take that in mind.
I was every time a lit short.  I was afraid, also, to be long again.  I wasn't really comfortable with my putter but then I made birdie on 17, so that feeling went a little bit away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT