AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Ainhoa Olarra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How good did it feel to see that putt go in?  
AINHOA OLARRA: It was really good.  I felt really good, actually.  Also because I made double on my round today, that hole, so it just was a nice way to finish.   
 Q.  What was your mental talk getting on that tee with a 4-iron in your hand, knowing what had just happened in regulation?  
AINHOA OLARRA: It's because today, on that hole on 17, when I was playing -- we took the wrong club.  So we knew that that was the right club this time, and I was aiming a little more right, but I pulled it a little bit and it ended up really well.  So I mean, I was nervous, but not maybe as nervous as SEC maybe.   
 Q.  What are you most looking forward to about Saturday and playing Augusta National?  
AINHOA OLARRA: Just enjoy.  I mean, it's like opportunity to just enjoy it.   
 Q.  Have you heard from your boss at Deloitte, by chance?  
AINHOA OLARRA: No, I don't have data right now, so I'm with the Spanish phone, so I don't have data until I get wi-fi, so I don't have anything yet.   
 Q.  Do you have enough vacation days for this event?  
AINHOA OLARRA: Yeah, they gave me the days.  So they were really nice about that.  No problem.   
 Q.  Is your boss a golfer, by chance?  
AINHOA OLARRA: Yeah, he plays golf.   
 Q.  That helps.  
AINHOA OLARRA: That helps a lot, actually.   
 Q.  What is your job?  
AINHOA OLARRA: I'm an auditor.   
 Q.  While in school?  
AINHOA OLARRA: No, I graduated last May.  I've been working since September.   
 Q.  You mentioned José Maria spoke to your parents.  What words do you think he might have?  
AINHOA OLARRA: I think he just told them just to enjoy this opportunity I was having, and I don't know if he -- I mean, he could have texted me or he probably already arrived or I will see him maybe on Saturday hopefully at some point.  Maybe he can give me some advice for Saturday, I don't know.   
 Q.  How does your family know him?  
AINHOA OLARRA: He practice at my golf club.  He's not a member for my golf club but he's like really often at my golf club.   
 Q.  How does it feel knowing so many great Spaniards have taken that walk down 18 at Augusta and you're going to be the first woman Spaniard to do it?  
AINHOA OLARRA: I think it's going to be a privilege and I will feel like I'm having this opportunity, and it's going to be amazing.   
 Q.  Have you ever had played with him before, José?  
AINHOA OLARRA: Yeah, I've played with him.   
 Q.  Any tips or anything he's given you?  
AINHOA OLARRA: He tried to change my swing a little bit, but, I mean, he always gave me good advice, I have to say.  Like I really like him.  He's awesome and his tips are always like perfect, pull actually.   
 Q.  Can you share, what was your relationship with Celia?  
AINHOA OLARRA: I met her, I think I was 11.  She used to, I mean, she was my friend, like we played so many different tournaments together.  Like we went to high school for one year together in Madrid.  She was a special person, honestly.  She was awesome.  She was a good player but also a good friend.  We played championships together, like European Championships.  During the summer we used to be together because we have a lot of tournaments in Europe.  Like we used to room together.   
It was just -- she was such a nice person that I know that she will be so happy to be here.  In a way, she's with me here, so we're enjoying the ride together.   
 Q.  What's your bracelet say?  
AINHOA OLARRA: It's hard to, I don't know if there's a way to translate it exactly, but everything counts, like everything works, kind of a thing.  She used to say that.   
 Q.  What does that mean to you?  
AINHOA OLARRA: Like, I don't know, it's hard to explain it.  I guess for me, at least, it doesn't matter like how you play.  Just keep going.  Like don't give up.  If you hit into a tree, just keep going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT