NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 19, 1999
Bryan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN LEWIS: I think it is important to first of all, to point out that every goal
scored in the National Hockey League sure has been reviewed. This one was no different.
Our immediate reaction is take a look at it; backup tapes from a variety of angles, number
of different things. Officials do not leave the penalty bench area; we do not drop the
puck until they have been given a signal from upstairs to the penalty bench area to go. A
couple of things I'd like to point out in terms of rules. The debate would be is: Are
there reasons that a guy can have his foot in the crease and score a goal? Absolutely. One
example's coming down with possession and control, taking a deke, your left foot would go
you would shoot and score even thought the puck would be out, that goal counts. The debate
here seems to be did he or did he not have possession and control. Our words from upstairs
and our view was that yes, he did, he played the puck from his foot to his stick, shot and
scored. The other component of the debate is: Does the puck change as a result of hitting
the goalie on the glove. Our rules are very clear in terms of completion of play. A puck
that rebounds off the goalie, the goal post, an opposing player is not deemed to be a
change of possession and therefore Hull would be deemed to be in possession, control of
the puck; allowed to shoot and score a goal, even though the one foot would be in the
crease in advance of the puck. So that is what we looked at. That was the determination we
made from upstairs, and walked our way through. This was sent to our managers in a memo
dated March the 25th listing all the examples we could possibly think of that would be
subject to review, dispute from upstairs, and we gave them to our video goal judges; gave
them to all the on-ice people and managers as we walked our way through. Having looked at
it, the determination by those of us upstairs in the goal judges location upstairs,
including myself, was in fact that Hull played the puck; Hull had possession and control
of the puck, the rebound off the goalie does not change anything, it is his puck then to
shoot and score albeit a foot may or may not be in the crease prior to.

Q. What plan did you have in place in the event that it was clearly a goal that should
have been called back and the celebration was on?

BRYAN LEWIS: We have talked about this. I mean, this would be the worst case scenario
that you can think of. Our reaction is blow the horn; get the players back out there, drop
the puck outside the blue line and play hockey.

Q. In the crease rule was put in (inaudible)-- objective -- what you are explaining
make it a subjective call; does that kind of contradict the advent of the ruling?

BRYAN LEWIS: No, not necessarily because some of these had been there since the very --
it started. The terminology possession and control has always been there. The rebounds off
the goalie always has been there. All we have ever tried to do is to clarify by examples
of what we gathered over the years since this has been into play; to walk your way through
- that when scenarios cropped up, we are in a position to say to our video goal judges,
take a look at it, here is the criteria. We carry that paper with us the paper; lays there
in front of the table; posted in every video goal judges location so that it is always
there for any one to make any reference to. It has been in place; well looked after it. It
has been there, since the inception, but it has also been clarified as recently March 25
of this season.

Q. It is customary when these things come up that there is a lengthy delay. There was
nothing of that sort here. There was no indication that the play was being reviewed --

BRYAN LEWIS: I just said every goal in the National Hockey League this season has been
reviewed. I also think it is important to point at Playoff time someone from our
management team is always there. Our immediate reaction is the moment a goal is scored --
we even have this year a camera angle from down low that is mounted inside the net that is
not even available to television - so the automatic process, the moment that a goal is
scored, as simple as some people may think it is, we are already backing up the tapes and
taking a look at it.

Q. Why in this particular case -- normally if you say it is reviewed and certainly
there would have been question on it, in every previous instance, an announcement is made
that it is under review and would you agree that this -- this should have been made with
this type of a situation?

BRYAN LEWIS: No, because if we can look at it and say immediately, possession and
control -- the idea is we don't want to have a three, four, five-minute delay. If we can
phone downstairs -- we have done many, many, countless number of goals you look at and say
there is not a problem; drop the puck center ice and go. So no, in all cases do we have
long lengthy delays, absolutely not.

Q. Who makes the Final decision?

BRYAN LEWIS: Charlie Banfield, Larry Rupter (phonetic) in conjunction with both video
goal judges that work here were there with us as well. But it is the League person who
takes over -- there is a League person at every Playoff game. The series supervisor sits
with the video goal judge.

Q. Isn't this the worst possible scenario, so much controversy over the video review. I
mean, if you sit there and think what is the exact worse scenario-- (inaudible)?

BRYAN LEWIS: We talk about all these. We talk about worse case sin near I don't see
throughout the entire Playoffs - talk about worse case scenarios throughout the entire
hockey season. This is an example that we have written; talked about; looked at videotapes
all year so that if it happens, we have got clear explanation as to why the goal would
count or why a goal would be taken away. This whole process goes on all year. I said as
recently as March 25th this year -- we even produced a videotape with a number of
sequences on it to give to our video goal judges before the playoffs start. So they have
had it in have it in picture form and written form, so that when we have every example we
have got we think we sit in a comfortable position to make the right rulings.

Q. We understand your explanation and we understand the rule. A further question.
Should the rule be changed? Is video good for in the crease?

BRYAN LEWIS: My immediate reaction is I think it is an inappropriate time to get into
that, from my perspective.

Q. Do you have any kind of count would that be available to you -- how many goals this
year when a foot was in the crease were allowed because possession had not been changed on
a rebound?

BRYAN LEWIS: Just so you know what we do. Every time the review is made, a copy of
videotape comes to the office. They are all numbered. We record them all under a variety
of categories; do I have them at my disposal? No. Do we have the amount for players in the
crease? Yes. I would have to go through them probably all one by one to take a look.....
Probably the polite answer is, no, I don't have that to say as how many people would be.
But I said before where a player comes down makes a deke; then the puck would go in the
net and the immediate reaction by a lot of people is his foot was in first. Our immediate
reaction is that doesn't matter.

Q. Did you speak to either referee on the phone after the goal --

BRYAN LEWIS: What we do, it becomes part of a signal whether the referee went to center
ice to drop the puck - he doesn't drop the puck until signal is given to him by us on top.
It is the same premise here is, once it is phoned down and said the goal counts, then that
is it. Under normal circumstance they would go to center ice, be standing there. That puck
is not dropped until they are given the signal by us.

Q. How many times did you run it back and can you estimate how long it took?

BRYAN LEWIS: We had --- our prime tape that we used initially was the overhead - was
the first one. We take a look at each tape that is there including the one that is in our
net that is not available. I would say probably six, eight, and some of those include
different angles that we take a look at.

Q. You ran it tonight?

BRYAN LEWIS: There is more than one of us up there. Charlie is looking at one set of
machines; I am looking at another set; video goal judge is looking at another set.

Q. How long did it take?

BRYAN LEWIS: I can't answer that.

Q. Was it one minute? Was it five minutes?

BRYAN LEWIS: I don't know.

Q. Would you have stopped the celebration if indeed then --

BRYAN LEWIS: Absolutely..... Just -- that is the job we say as we do in many, many
occasions when the players are celebrating or cheering, we just say, whoa here, it is not
a goal, doesn't count -- 

Q. Were you still reviewing it during the celebration?

BRYAN LEWIS: Yes, we were. If you notice -- and I can't tell you how long it took --
the officials stood at the penalty bench. They don't leave that area until they have been
given a signal by us. How long did that take, I apologize I can't answer that.

Q. What kind of signal is this?

BRYAN LEWIS: By telephone. We phone to the guy in the penalty box; he just says the
signal.

Q. Did you feel pressure to make the rule fit because of the celebration?

BRYAN LEWIS: Not at all. No.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT