PEGASUS WORLD CUP INVITATIONAL
January 23, 2021
Robert Low
Jacob West
Irad Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  ROBERT LOW:   To have a horse like this that wins, it's just very gratifying, and really a tribute to -- I hate to give him credit, but Jacob did a wonderful job picking this horse.  It's very meaningful to us.  We love the game, and Jacob finally came through for us.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   We'll go next to Jacob West, bloodstock agent for Mr. and Mrs. Low.  You and I actually spoke about this horse earlier this week leading up to it, and you had said one of the most special things for you was buying for these owners.
 JACOB WEST:   Mr. And Mrs. Low have supported me from the start.  To notch a win like this is tremendous.  Like Mr. Low said, they've been in the game a long time.  They've supported the game.  They're great owners.  They love the competition.  To get a win like this and help facilitate that is very meaningful to me.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   This is a horse that started out on the dirt, switched over to the turf as well.  Irad Ortiz, you saw how pumped up he was winning.  You could see he was loaded coming to the wire.
 JACOB WEST:   When he got in the clear and got on the outside there and was kind of coming down the lane -- I mean, we were up in the suite.  I'm surprised the grandstand didn't come down.  We were up there yelling and cheering so hard.  God, it meant so much to us, to Mr. And Mrs. Low, to Todd, his hard working staff.
 But then you saw the emotion.  Once he hit the wire and see Irad fist pumping like that, you know it meant a lot to him too.  Special.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   With a win like this, what do you think the future might hold for Colonel Liam moving forward?
 ROBERT LOW:   The sky's the limit.  We thought about maybe taking him across the pond, maybe Ascot.  We don't know yet.  That's a possibility.  I don't know if we can talk our trainer -- I don't think our trainer really likes to travel that much.  Maybe if we pay extra, he'll go.
 There's some other really nice, nice turf races.  He's young.  He's just turned 4.  I think his possibilities are wide open.  We're very excited about the future for him.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   Jacob, if you slide your microphone down this way, we're joined by winning jockey, Irad Ortiz, who was aboard Colonel Liam.  Irad, you know all about winning the Pegasus last year with Mucho Gusto, two years ago with Bricks and Mortar on the turf.  How special is this winning another one?  You know all about winning the race.
 IRAD ORTIZ:   This is very special, honestly to me, because I live my life once a day.  We don't know tomorrow and just enjoy the moment.  I was so happy.  I was so happy for all the connections, for Todd Pletcher too.  Thank the owner for letting me back on the horse.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   You were pumped up at the wire.  What were you feeling?
 IRAD ORTIZ:   I feel great.  I was thinking about my grandfather just passed away last year, and in another year, I just know he's looking at me.  My whole family's at home watching the race, my father.  I just miss him to be around on the track.  He's my number one fan.  I just imagine everything in seconds, like they are looking at me.  I just feel like I have to celebrate.
 ACACIA COURTNEY:   Well deserved celebration. Round of applause for your Pegasus World Cup turf winners.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT