NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS DODGERS
October 18, 2017
Jose Quintana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you describe the mood of the room, the mood of the clubhouse as your team prepares for this Game 4?
JOSE QUINTANA: How you doing, everybody, first?
We forget.  Everybody forget.  I think we have a long way to go now.  Just we talked a little bit and we said one game at a time, so that's what we need to do now.  Everybody feel great.  Everybody's happy around, and we stay here for one reason, so just we try to do our gap.
Q. What have you learned about your teammates since you came here as far as their confidence and their belief that even when things are bad that something good's going to happen and they're going to win games and put streaks together?
JOSE QUINTANA: Things I learned is like how I see my team today when we got to the park, especially when we stayed 3-0, and they don't have any panic.  Nobody has panic.  Everybody goes today like a team, doing their best, and we need to do a lot of things now.  We're ready to go.  You know, we have a really good team, a lot of talent, and we can do so.
Like they say, one game at a time, so we need to try to get minimal mistakes than we've got in this series.  Again, I hope we have a better night tonight.
Q. With your season this year, you began in the WBC and pitched very well against Team USA, and now you're here in the NLCS.  What do you think your season has maybe meant to the growth of baseball in your homeland?
JOSE QUINTANA: Well, I've been around a lot of things this year, and I started a little early, too, with the WBC, and too many things happened to me this year.  I heard a lot about trade rumors, everything.  But I grew up and learned how special this position is for me my first time, and I also get another chance tomorrow to continue to do my job and continue to get this awesome experience.
Q. Looking back at your start in Los Angeles, what did you think that you did especially well or could have done better there?  Anything that you would maybe want to do differently if you do get another start?
JOSE QUINTANA: You know, we can do attack the zone, they have a really good lineup, and they take a lot of pitches.  So I think they have very good four starters, you know.  Try to get the game longer more I can.  But for sure my approach will never change.  But when you saw guys like that take a lot of pitches, you try don't get the situation.  So I feel last time in the inning, get in trouble with two walks straight, and then try not to happen in games like that.
But that's what I learned.  I want to get another chance against this team.  So it's very special, and to also get another one.
Q. You said you guys got together and talked a little bit.  Was there one guy in particular that was trying to be very motivating this afternoon?  We've heard Rizzo and Rocky and Jason Heyward spoke last season.  Was there any guy that kind of made that?
JOSE QUINTANA: Yeah, a couple guys made big impression.  Everybody pays attention to them, especially when J-Hey say something, Jon Lester, Lack, Jon Jay.  So we have a couple guys that are leaders here.
Like I said before, I saw his eyes, they don't have panic.  So that motivated me to try to do the best I can to push forward for everybody.  We haven't lost anything yet, so we have a really big game tonight, and we'll go night by night.
Q. Whose eyes don't have panic?
JOSE QUINTANA: No, I say like I don't see panic in them, in everybody.  So everybody is happy.  When we stay in the clubhouse, we try to joke a little bit, try to be more relaxed as we can, and just go to the field and play this game.
Q. With your team facing elimination as your preparation for tomorrow, is it like a normal start, or are you preparing for anything tonight and even being called into duty?
JOSE QUINTANA: I make my preparation for tomorrow like a starter.  They haven't told me nothing yet for today.  So I keep doing the same for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT