OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Andre Roberson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you just talk about coming in this year, what your expectations are?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: This coming season, what are my expectations.  For us to grow on and off the court as best we can.  And to continue to carry on the Thunder organization, the values and continue to grow in that area.  I feel like we've got a great group of guys, and go out there, play hard every night, and continue to grow as players and get better every day.   
 Q.  How do you see the offense changing with the off-season departures?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: I see us running the ball more and running and gunning, and we've got great guys that we kind of put in different positions and allow other guys to kind of step up and fill a larger role.  I feel like myself, Steve, Vic, all of us can go out there, A-Mo, and go out there and do so much more to help the team out.  It's going to be a great year.  Great, fun year, and kind of showcase ourselves a little bit more and play a bigger role.   
 Q.  You've been all over the place this summer.  Can you just talk about what you improved on in your game?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: Been all over the place.   
 Q.  You've been to New Zealand, all over.  
ANDRE ROBERSON: Yeah, I feel like I worked on a little bit of everything, as well as from my jump spot shot to dribbling to reading the game, as well as trying to maintain and master my craft.  I'm working on that each and every day.  So I feel like I worked on every aspect of my game this year to kind of be putting and feel comfortable to be put in situations.  Should be good.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the defense has almost been handed over to you and Steven, that it's your thing to mold now?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: Definitely.  Me and Steve, kind of being the backbone of defense, and Serge also is known for being a defender, I feel like we definitely have to carry that on now, kind of be the backbone of that, like I said.  Just carrying on those values.  Guys left and I think it's our time to step up and kind of fill that role, in aspect of being leaders on this team now, me and Steve going into our fourth year and kind of figuring out what it is, what the Thunder look for and value.   
Defense definitely is something we can definitely preach on in the locker room and stuff.   
 Q.  There's a possibility you could move positions, moving to the front court.  Does that change anything for you at all in terms of what you have to do or the type of players you're going to be playing against?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: I don't think so.  The way I believe Billy wants to run the offense is he's not really labeling guys in positions.  All the positions on the court are going to be pretty much interchangeable.  We all have to know all the positions, any ways, to know where guys are going to be at.  So I think it's definitely going to be -- it's going to be good in terms of ball movement and just cutting a lot of that stuff.  So should be fun.   
 Q.  The assignments, guarding bigger players, as opposed to some of the perimeter guys?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: Yeah, bigger players.  I feel like I'm versatile to go out and guard bigger players, smaller players.  I don't think it will change in that aspect.  I would still like to guard the best players, so I'll take on that challenge, so it should be good.  I also have a co-founder (ph) with Vic, as well as being a defender, so it should be good.   
 Q.  Do you see Russ maybe trying to do more than usual?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: I don't think so.  I think that's what people think.  I don't think he is to be honest with you.  I think he's going to be more team-oriented, and sharing the ball is definitely a big part and I feel like he kind of sensed that last year in the playoffs.  Ball movement is really key and not caring who is getting the credit of who is scoring.  That's the way you beat teams instead of relying on stats and all that other stuff, and what does it really matter.  If winning games really means that much, I think he'll do what's right.   
 Q.  You come back from training camp, Kevin is gone, there's kind of a cloud hanging over the organization for awhile.  Who kind of takes a leadership role as far as keeping the mood light?  I know Steven and Enes kind of do that but what role do they play in that?  And a little bit further, who is a guy that keeps you guys up, or has kept from you coming back and feeling depressed for lack of a better word?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: I wouldn't say I came back depressed or anybody came back depressed.  But we definitely hurt.  But I think it didn't last long.  Because you know, we can't just sit there and pout about it.  We have got an upcoming season and we have got new guys coming in and draft time coming up.   
So you know, we had a lot to look forward to.  And you know, we're not going to sit there and pout.  We've got to get better and continue to move forward.  I mean, that's how I felt.  I know other guys, I talked to Nick, he kind of talked to me after it happened and just kind of texted everybody and kind of keep it level-headed.  I wouldn't say anybody was still hanging on to it or a cloud over the organization.  I think we kind of like let it go, kind of moved on from it.  There's nothing we can really do about it from that respect.   
 Q.  Did you keep that stuffed animal from the fair the other day?  
ANDRE ROBERSON: Definitely did.  It's by my front door guarding the house as we speak.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT