ITALIAN OPEN
October 12, 2019
Matt Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67. In your words, how would you assess that one?  
MATT WALLACE: Another good start to the round. The bogey on 3 was kind of a little anomaly. Jumped off the face because of the turf. Made bogey there and then made another bogey on the par 5, 15.   
Without those two, it was a very nice day. Didn't really play great on the back nine. So things to work on but we're still in the hunt.   
 Q.  You are in a great position. What's the biggest thing you want to try and work on, achieve, work on overnight as you head into the final round in that great position?  
MATT WALLACE: Well, the same stuff I've been trying to do the last three or four months. Working on my swing. Working on my iron play. I'm really high up there in greens in regulation this week, which is great. Whenever I do that, I'm in contention. That's nice. Do that again tomorrow.   
But I think the most important thing around this golf course is driving it well, and I didn't drive it that great on the back nine. That's why I didn't score so good. So things to work on. Drive it well. Keep hitting iron shots like I am and try and hole putts.   
 Q.  What about the position you're in, a bunched leaderboard for Sunday, great season, extremely consistent, but do you feel like the win is not too far away?  
MATT WALLACE: Yeah, it's been pretty much like that the whole year. Had a couple seconds. Had some good events in majors. Probably wouldn't say that winning here is the most important thing for me. I know the bigger picture for me is just doing the process, and like I say, if I can improve my iron play and keep driving it the way I am and keep holing putts, I'll be okay.   
I've won four times in this country, which it's been very kind to me. Must be the mozzarella balls.   
 Q.  How would you assess the day and the week here in Italy?  
MATT WALLACE: Yeah, very good. Things were improving. I'm not normally leading greens in regulation in a tournament but I think I'm up there somewhere. Last time I did that, I won in Germany. That's good signs. Like I say, keep doing the process and keep trying to do better, and see where it puts us tomorrow.   
 Q.  Big week, Rolex Series would push you high up in the rankings, as well. Is that on your mind tomorrow?  
MATT WALLACE: No. Not at all, really. I think I'm a little bit more experienced now to know that only that stuff comes with playing good golf. I've got to go and work on some things that didn't go right today, try and improve on that for tomorrow, and like I say, drive it well around here and see where it puts us at the end of the day.   
 Q.  Playing with Kurt Kitayama, also played well, did that help today?  
MATT WALLACE: Not really. He hits it a long way. That was quite demoralising. He played great. We holed a couple clutch putts to keep things going. I think that was more the momentum than making birdies against each other. We both played nice, and yeah, he'll be one to beat tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT