PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2019
Matt Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Last week at the British Masters runner-up, and then at the moment tied third here.  Now, you couldn't have played in front of two more contrasting galleries.
MATT WALLACE: Yeah.  The British fans were amazing last week.  And then obviously the American fans here are rooting for their own.  But that was crazy out there today, and it was -- there were so many cheers and roars going on that you kind of knew what was happening.  D.J. is making a run at it.
But for me to try and stay in my own competition and try and finish third, really, in the end I wanted second, but I would have taken third.  I think we're looking at tied third at the moment.  That's not a bad week for me.
Q. And did you think today's were the most difficult conditions?  The winds switched and the end of the golf course was brutal?
MATT WALLACE: I think that was shown by the scores.  That was by far the hardest we had all week.  I had a drive on 16 that I hit probably the best drive that I hit all week, and it probably went 250 yards down the hill.  So I had the couple gusts out there today.  But I really dug deep and showed another side to myself that I was proud and kept churning away and trying to produce the best I could out there, and 2-over was the best I could have done.
Q. Well, it was a really gutsy putt on 16 to save your par.
MATT WALLACE: Massive.  15 as well.  Up-and-down from 75 yards, 16 up-and-down from 60 yards.  And just constant on that back nine.  It was hard.  But, yeah, really happy with that.  And I can do that now, and that's what you need to do in majors.  So I've done it now and hope I can two steps better in a few weeks' time.
Q. And would you be ready to put your name on the Ryder Cup in 2024 and take them all on?
MATT WALLACE: I looked in the mirror this morning for some reason and I saw yesterday's highlights, and I thought, yeah, I could see myself playing Ryder Cup here, and I don't feel like I can -- I want to be there now.  I really do.  And I feel like I can be there, whereas before maybe I didn't feel like I could, and now I really feel like I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT