NASCAR XFINITY SERIES MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2018
Daniel Hemric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q. So tell us how you feel heading into Homestead this weekend.   
DANIEL HEMRIC: I feel kind of relieved to know that we have another shot to come back down here to Homestead and kind of get what we feel like we figured out a way to get taken away from us last year. So having that opportunity is something you think you're only going to get once in a lifetime, and now we have a shot to do it for the second year in a row, and just been trying to sleep easy at night throughout this week knowing that we've done our jobs, we've prepared the best we can, and we sent our hauler out of the shop the other day, it was the best horse out of the stable we felt like we loaded up to bring here to race with.   
   
 Q. What's a piece of advice that your crew chief has given you heading into this weekend?  
DANIEL HEMRIC: I think Danny Stockman has done a great job of just letting me do my deal, just letting me approach the weekends the way in which it got me here to this level, and just trusting that, trusting and believing in myself and my leadership as far as sending him in the direction in practice, into qualifying, into the race that I feel like is the reason I'm able to stand here today. So just believing in myself and knowing that I've got a group behind me to support me no matter how it all shakes out.  
   
 Q. Is there one thing in particular that you feel like has changed about your approach this year versus last year?   
DANIEL HEMRIC: Honestly, I don't think so. I feel like maybe the one thing that really kind of sets it home for me is maybe the emotion a little bit. Last year knowing, man, it's incredible, I get to run for a championship in the second tier of the sport that I grew up my whole life trying to compete in. And going through all those emotions last year, this year, it's like, we're here to race, it's another race, and yeah, the prize is maybe a little bit bigger at the end of this particular race, but at the end of the day, we're here to race, and that's what we're going to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT