ATLANTIC-10 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2015
Paul Hewitt
Isaiah Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH PAUL HEWITT:   Congratulations to Tom and his team.   Wish them luck tomorrow night.   I thought we battled pretty hard.   The young man, Sengfelder played a terrific game, played a great basketball game. 
Prepared for their ball‑swinging attack.   I thought we did a pretty decent job on them but they made some shots.   We did some things in the first half to try to break their rhythm a little bit; it worked early.   The latter part of the half, they sorted to solve it a little bit but again they still have to make shots.   It wasn't a case of making layups all the time.   They knocked down some shots to stretch our defense. 
Congratulations to Tom and his team and I wish them luck tomorrow night. 

Q.   Can you talk about what they were doing to make the difference?   They forced some turnovers down the stretch.   What did they to do make the difference and get the edge? 
ISAIAH JACKSON:   The last steal, ball was stolen off a pass, switched it, is what they called it, so they kind of switched the screen.   Blew through the pass and I guess I didn't throw a strong enough pass.   Kind of just throw it, went down there, seemed like got an easy dunk.   Kind of that was a big swing in the game, late in the game.   That's about it that I know. 
Four straight for Fordham over George Mason.   Anything special they do or just a matchup? 
COACH PAUL HEWITT:   They do a good job there with those ball screens, especially the one where they set at a different angle, called an angle screen and five play. 
But at the same time, in the first half, we had some turnovers that really put us in the hole.   We had eight turnovers in the first half.   I thought we played pretty decent, shot the ball well, shot over 48 percent, or at 48 percent.   But the ball screen defense is the thing that we still didn't do a good job with. 

Q.   The end of another pretty tough year and there's been a fair amount of speculation where you stand.   Do you have any thoughts about what your job security is?   Have you had any discussions with your boss about whether or not you'll be back next year?
COACH PAUL HEWITT:   Obviously I understand your question but it's not something you think about during the season.   You think about winning the next basketball game.   At some point I'm sure we'll sit down and talk. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT