ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 3, 2011
Paul Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We have with Georgia Tech head coach Paul Hewitt. Coach, if you could, a few comments about your team, then we'll open it for questions. 
 COACH HEWITT: Our team has really improved on our defensive end of the floor. Shumpert is playing good basketball, shooting the ball well. Early in the year he struggled shooting the ball. Now he's developing confidence in his stroke, redeveloping his shot. 
 I like the way our team has come along defensively. We had a tough loss last night. Thought we played well enough to win the basketball game, but didn't do the things we needed to do to close it out. Came out of it overall encouraged as we prepare for our first game in the ACC. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions. 

 Q. Paul, you have four freshmen who are playing significant minutes. Daniel Miller is a starter for you. Wonder how you assess their progress so far as the ACC season is upon you. 
 COACH HEWITT: It's good. There's some areas, especially with our young big guys, Kammeon Holsey, we put him in the starting lineup the last couple games, Daniel Miller, Nate Hicks, we need them to be a little bit more of a threat around the basketball, assert themselves in the low post. I think Daniel has the best chance to do that. He's a very skilled player, excellent passer, has good touch around the rim. I think he has to understand that he's capable of doing it each and every possession of the game. 
 Again, the thing that I've been encouraged with with most young guys, they don't understand all the parts of defense in terms of whether you help in on the ball, helping someone else out who is helping on a ball screen. I think we've come along with that. I think our numbers reflect the improvement we've made defensively, especially from the three-point line. 
 So overall I think it's good. 

 Q. What is the biggest thing that they'll have to adjust to within conference play?
 COACH HEWITT: You know, I'm not sure if there's going to be a major adjustment. Obviously the talent level is going to be higher than what we've played in the pre-season. We've played some good teams and played some teams that aren't ACC-caliber teams. I think the biggest adjustment is going to be that each and every possession, something we talk about every year right from the start of practice to this point, how important each and every possession and sequence is as you go through a game. 

 Q. Is Iman handling the point or are you playing him off the ball?
 COACH HEWITT: He's been playing more off the ball. He's played some point. Last night we put him in the point a little bit. We went with a bigger lineup at some points in the game. He's been mostly playing off the ball. 
 The way we've been running things offensively, he has the ball in his hands quite a bit where he can create. But you could still see him as we go into the ACC season playing some point guard. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for taking the time to be with us today. We'll hear from you next week.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT