NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Dennis Smith, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dennis, talk about what you'll bring to your new team, please.  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: I'm thankful to be a part of the Dallas Mavericks organization, and I'll be a point guard to come in and just compete and try to win every game that I can.   
 Q.  Did you speak to Mark Cuban at all?  He's a very hands-on guy, so I was curious if you got to spend some time with Mr. Cuban.  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: No, sir, I haven't.  I haven't got to spend time with him but they sent a couple times to my pro day.  I got to speak with Donnie Nelson and I got to speak with Coach Carlisle, and those meetings went pretty well, so I guess they're basing it off that.   
 Q.  Dallas Mavericks going in a kind of really new direction, Harrison Barnes, Nerlens Noel, now you.  Have you thought about how that team plays?  And you'll still have Dirk around.  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: It'll be great.  If you look at the history of the Dallas Mavericks, they've been a great team for a very long time.  They have great guys there, Mark Cuban, Coach Carlisle and Dirk, and like you said, they have Harrison and Nerlens, they both did pretty well last year, and I think I can only add to that.   
 Q.  What do you feel like you bring to that equation because both of those guys, certainly in Dirk and Harrison can really score.  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: I think I can help them.  I can give them four extra points apiece at least, and I can play both ends of the ball and I can add a lot to the pick-and-roll game.   
 Q.  Is there anybody in the NBA you look forward to playing against?  And at this moment, what do you need to work on the most to get better in the NBA, to have a good NBA career I should say?  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: I look forward to playing Chris Paul, Derrick Rose, Russell Westbrook because those are three guys I try to model my game after in a while.  In the NBA the biggest thing I can work on in terms of making the transition is definitely conditioning because it's an 82-game season and 48 minutes a game.  That's way different than college, and I can learn a lot about the game, to make me the best player I can be.  I need to learn that as soon as possible.   
 Q.  Can you talk about playing with Dirk, about this feeling for you, having him on your side.  
DENNIS SMITH, JR.: It's a blessing.  He's one of the great scorers, one of the greatest power forwards that we've ever seen, so to be able to play with Dirk Nowitzki and learn a lot from him is a blessing for me, and I believe that it can only enhance my basketball career.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT