ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2002
Amy Fruhwirth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Amy, thanks for coming in. Let's go through your score card first.
AMY FRUHWIRTH:  I birdied Hole 1.  I don't know if I can remember all that.  Hole 1, I hit a 6-iron in, pin high right, about a 10-footer, made that.
7, I'm drawing a blank.  A Par 3.  I must have hit it within 3 feet.  Oh, yeah.  I hit it actually about 3 or 4 feet from the hole, made that.  I think I hit a 7-iron into that green. 
9, I hit it short on my third shot, rolled down the hill, chipped up okay, missed about a four-footer.
11, another Par 3.  I must have hit it within 10 feet.  I can't remember.  What is that hole again?  I forget that hole. 
12, I hit it  -- 11, let me think.  Gripped a 7-wood, hit it about 15 feet behind the hole, made the putt.
12, I hit it, I gripped a 7-iron in.  I hit it about 15, 20 feet behind the hole, made that.
13  -- it's been a long day.  Anyway, I must have made about another  -- did I already say 13?  I think it was probably another 15-footer I made, and then.
15, I hit it about 10 feet by with a 9-Wood.  I gripped a 9-Wood.
And then 17 I hit a really good shot in, but I went over the green, and putted off the fringe and got it up and down.
LAURA NEAL:  Overall comments on how things went out there today.  I bet you're glad to be done.
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Yes, I'm very glad to be done.  The greens are really soft.  That's what made it bearable.    You could attack the pin a little bit more and not worry about it bouncing off the green, and that's what made it fairly easy.  I hit the ball solid.  I didn't make hardly any mistakes, hit almost every fairway.  Hit every fairway, and never really missed it on the wrong side of the hole or the green.  Just good solid shots.

Q.  Do you wonder if you'll ever play a tournament again without rain interrupting some part of it?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Usually when we come to town, it always rains, so if there is an area that has a drought, the LPGA should definitely play there because it will get rain.  It's definitely part of the game.  And it's just something  -- you have to be patient and just kind of get used to it.  There's nothing we can do.  We just have to be positive.  Accept it.

Q.  What time did you get here this morning?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: I got here at about 7:30.

Q.  What did you do during the rain delay?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Watched TV and ate snacks, and just talked to players, but I stayed here all day.  I didn't leave the tournament.

Q.  How much of an advantage do you think you'll have over the players that have to come back early tomorrow?  And were you thinking, I definitely want to finish today so I don't have to come back?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Yes.  I think I was very fortunate to be in the earlier tee times because it is a long day when you have to wake up early the next day and finish the round and then stick around and play another 18 holes, especially this golf course because it's difficult to walk.  It's very tiring.  And again, I think as far as coming back in the morning, it's all mind set.  It might be better.  It may dry out and not be quite as wet.  The fairways are pretty wet.  But with the lift, clean, and replace, if we had any mud on our ball, we were able to wipe it off.
The fairways were pretty soggy but the greens were pretty good.  I don't know.  I don't think it's too much of a disadvantage for them.

Q.  The wet fairways make it even tougher to walk, I guess?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Yes, it's kind of like walking on sand all day.

Q.  (Inaudible) -- worse drought in 40 years?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: That is surprising especially in Atlanta when they said that, because we've always had, for the most part, delays there, the last couple of years.  So it is surprising.  From what I've experienced, the rain, like the storm coming in, it dumped a bunch of rain, the ground can't absorb it because it's coming too fast and it just washes away, so I think that's what you see out here.

Q.  How did you think the course drained as far as all the rain it did get, 3 to 5 inches of rain?
AMY FRUHWIRTH: Pretty well, considering there weren't  -- like the casual water spots that I saw for the most part, it wasn't like puddles of water.  I didn't see that on the course much.  I mean it was pretty slushy.  I was really surprised how well the greens rolled.  I thought that there might be  -- they might be a little more spongy than they were just because of how slushy and spongy the fairways were.  So I was impressed with the greens, especially around the greens.
LAURA NEAL:  Thanks, Amy. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT