KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2002
Amy Fruhwirth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  Okay, Amy, maybe just give us some comments.  I know it got windier today at the end of the day, but what was going right for you out there?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Actually, everything.  I have to say putting was the key.  Every opportunity I had for birdie, I took advantage of, which is important out here.  Early on, the front nine, it wasn't too windy, until the back side for my group, probably starting on 16, 17, 18, on the 18th hole.  Hit my irons pretty good, on the correct side of the hole or the fairway, so I always gave myself an opportunity to get up-and-down, and the wind was changing a lot out there. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Yeah, I hit it well  -- at least when I'm playing well, getting myself opportunities for birdie, and I missed some greens, quite a few greens on the back side, but I was able to get up-and-down, and made some  -- a couple long putts for par.  But it's just when I'm playing well, it didn't feel like it takes that much to score well. 

Q.  It's been a while since you've been a leader, hasn't it?  Maybe I should ask you:  When was the last time?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   A long time ago because I can't even remember.  (Laughs).

Q.  How does it feel?  Are you surprised? 
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   I guess I don't  -- I just went out there and just tried to get the ball in the hole and felt solid.  I really love this golf course, and for the most part, I've played very well here in the years that I've played.  So, there's a lot of confidence with that coming into the tournament.  I'm pretty accurate off the tees, so I don't  -- I'm not finding myself in a lot of trouble.  Although, the rough this year is not as high, which is nice because when I did miss the fairway, I was able to hit iron out and actually get it on the green; whereas, in years past, pulling out a sand wedge was almost what I had to do. 
I just think the last time I led was in 2000, somewhere during part of the round on the last day.  So, yeah, it's been a while. 

Q.  You mentioned you had played well here and like this course.  Is there something about this course in particular that you like?  Or can you put your finger on why you have done well here?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   I grew up in Orange County and I used to come here with my parents and play.  So probably since high school, watching Beth Daniel and Nancy play, so I've always wanted to play here.  So every time I played here, it's always been such a thrill, and I try take advantage of the whole environment, because it's just a great venue. 
And just past playing, playing well, builds the confident from that knowing that I can score. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Since I was an amateur, it's gone by fast, but yet it hasn't. 

Q.  How did you adjust with the wind on the back side?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Really just picking the right club.  My caddie, Jim, is really good at getting a feel for the distances.  So I'm very confident in the yardages and how he feels it's playing.  So I know that whatever club that he decides that we should hit, I'm very, very confident that that's the right club.  So I'm able to have confidence over the ball. 
Usually 18 is the only real scary hole, I think coming in cross-wind, driving with the water on the left and the wind blowing left-to-right.  So it's kind of easy to miss it on the right.  That was probably the trickiest hole with the wind, just because it's so severe, and you have to be accurate on that hole on every shot, anyway. 

Q.  You played here when you were in high school?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Yes. 

Q.  You played on this course?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:  Well, I played an AJGA event here, but just coming to watch it when it was Colgate, Nabisco Dinah Shore, I would come and watch.  So it was a thrill for me to be able to play here and I enjoy it very, very much.
Yeah, absolutely, I've watched some of the players and I always told my parents, "This is exactly way want to do, I want to play in this event, I want to be here, and one day I hope to." 
So I've been able to accomplish that goal, anyway. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Oh, they were big supporters, so obviously, they were saying, "Yeah, one day we'll back you, you'll be here, can't wait to watch you." 

Q.  Are they here this week?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   My dad is here.  My mom passed away some years ago.  But my sisters are here, aunts and uncles, cousins.  You'll be able to hear them.  We are a pretty loud family.

Q.  Inaudible?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   I think I played  -- I think first year as a pro, you mean?  I believe so, yeah.  I think I was.  I don't know, what year was that?  No, I wasn't a pro.  I don't know if I was  -- I don't remember  -- I think I was watching it on TV.  I don't know if I was here for the weekend. 

Q.  Will you jump in the lake if you win?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Absolutely.  I don't care.  If I am the winner, my whole family and I are going to come out and jump in the lake.  We are going to empty that water out.  (Laughter.) I'll have to  -- it depends on if I run in or if my caddy pushes me in.  We'll have to wait and see. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   My skin is very sensitive, fair skin and I've had basal cells removed from both my left eyebrow, so I'm very conscious of the sun and trying to do everything I can to protect it.  Although, you know, pretty much anything I get now is going to be damage that happened years ago.  But it helps.  My skin doesn't feel like it's trying as much.  I wear long sleeves as much as I can, as long as it's not too hot. 
LAURA NEAL:  Can you go through your scorecard? 
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Yeah. 
Let's see, I birdied hole No. 4.  I hit  -- I've got to think about what I hit.  I believe I hit a 9-iron just to like pin-high, but on the fringe, and I putted it in from off the green. 
On hole 9, I hit sand wedge.  I think I had about 75 yards or so.  I think I hit it a little bit past pin-high.  I had about a 10-footer and made that. 
On 11, I missed the green on the right just shy of pin  -- well, actually, a lot shy of pin-high and I did not get up-and-down.  Putted from off the green and hit it about 7 feet by and missed that putt. 

Q.  What did you have it? 
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   What did I have in?  9-iron. 
And then on 12, I hit  -- I hit my drive in the rough and I hit a 6-iron just short of the green and putted it in from off the green. 
Then on 16, I hit a 9-wood about 7,8 feet short of ten and made that putt.  And then I bogeyed 18.  I blew my drive right; so I had to chip back into the fairway.  I ended up hitting an 8-iron into the green pin-high about five feet left of the hole and missed that putt low. 

Q.  It's been a while since you've won.  How has it been the last four year's trying to get back in the winner's circle? 
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   It's been a struggle, I think more mentally than anything else.  It's just a matter of being patient, trusting my swing.  Then trying to change things in my swing the last couple of years, and feel really confident with it right now. 
You know, again it's confidence.  The putter, I think over the last couple of years has really let me down.  I used to be a real strong putter, and I've struggled a lot with that.  Today I putted very well, and it feels good to be able to make putts again.  So, we'll see. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
AMY FRUHWIRTH:   Oh, that's a long time ago.  I don't think I've won.  Although, I did win quite a few my last year of the AJGA, but I don't think this was one of them.  Could have been.  I don't know.  There's a photographer with an AJGA hat on  -- I don't know if he has  -- anyway. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT