THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2015
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON BOHN: It was my career best.  Yeah, I made 10 birdies, one bogey today.  I kept my golf ball in play, hit a lot of good -- I played from the fairway pretty much all day, and like I was saying earlier, I just kind of hit my -- every iron shot was kind of up the fall line.  I didn't really have a lot of break to any of my putts.  They were like left edge, inside right.  The ball was just barely breaking, so I had a lot of straight putts, and that was pretty easy, and I kind of felt very comfortable with the putter today and made a lot of putts.   Q.  Was there a point when you thought, man, this might be my day?  JASON BOHN: No, not really.  I mean, the golf course this morning was fairly benign.  We didn't have a lot of wind.  When you go off that early, the greens are perfect.  I mean, this is a golf course where you can make a lot of birdies if you're in play, and if you're out of play, you're struggling to make par. But yeah, I never really thought about it.  I just kept trying to -- I think there will be guys, the leaders will probably shoot 5- or 6-under par today, so I'm going to be a little bit back coming into tomorrow, but you never know.  I just wanted to sleep in to be honest, so now I don't have to get up early in the morning.   Q.  You had a good week here last year, didn't you?  JASON BOHN: Yeah, I did, actually.  Yeah, last year I played pretty well here.  It was the first time I had kind of -- I don't remember what place I finished, maybe top 15 or so, but it was a solid week.  My family and I really enjoy the Greenbrier.  It's a fun place to be, so it's nice to be out here on the weekend.   Q.  Weather has been the hot topic the last couple days.  How were conditions overall for your round?  JASON BOHN: Fairly benign.  It was just spitting a little bit.  The wind is starting to pick up a little bit now and it kind of is shifting directions from what we played it this morning, so I guess in the morning it kind of goes up the mountain, and in the afternoon it seems like it comes down the mountain, so that'll be the tricky part is how consistent the wind stays.   Q.  You've got four top 10s and two second places.  You've been here before, so what's your impression for tomorrow?  JASON BOHN: Make a lot of birdies, like I did today.  These guys are so good, and the conditions are set up, being so soft, that there's going to be a lot of birdies made, even tomorrow.  You've just got to play very aggressive and play smart when you're out of position and aggressive when you're in position.   Q.  Finishing with those two birdies, how crucial do you think that will be going into tomorrow?  JASON BOHN: Yeah, it's great, just buys me a little bit more sleep-in time, like I said.  Really to birdie 18 is the thing.  To be honest, I wanted to hole it because I wanted everybody to get a thousand bucks.  But yeah, I mean, hopefully somebody holes that one today.  It's possible, actually.  I think you can hit it left of that hole and it's going to funnel down in there, so hopefully we see a hole-in-one today and these people all get rich.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT