CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2015
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, that was pretty special.   When did you know it was a special round going?
    JASON BOHN:   Well, I was just making putts, it was great.   I rolled my ball really well.   I felt very comfortable.   The greens are perfect.   I don't know, I was just kind of seeing the lines so I made a lot of putts early and (inaudible).   The conditions are soft enough, so just fired at every flag.

Q.   The putt at 18, what happened there?   That was right on the right edge and never moved?
    JASON BOHN:   I don't know.   I thought it was in, that's why I started running.   I think it just straightened out because Zack, we were talking about it when we got finished, (inaudible) so it must have just straightened out there at the end.

Q.   Great playing, hopefully we can play a few more.
    JASON BOHN:   Thanks.   I don't know, though.   The finish, the wind is helping everybody on the course so I think that's going to -- you can make some birdies coming in.

Q.   Jason, you started at 4-under today, six back of the leaders.   You didn't birdie the par 5 first, but you figured you would just birdie six in a row and get yourself back in it?
    JASON BOHN:   Yeah.   Actually I hit two great shots into No. 1 and I just hit the top of the bunker on the left side and it's a difficult bunker shot shooting away from you.   It was kind of hard, didn't get it up and down.   I just started holing some putts.   It was great.   It was nice when you're holing putts and you feel like the hole's a bucket and you're just looking up and you kind of -- everything's more general when you start to make putts than being real specific.   You're kind of seeing the break and just rolling it down there and they were going in for me, so to make six in a row is pretty good.

Q.   Under the gun, is that the most you've birdied in a row?
    JASON BOHN:   Actually on the PGA TOUR, yes.

Q.   Because you shot 58 in Canada once?
    JASON BOHN:   I did shoot 58 in Canada once.   And on the Canadian Tour I made nine birdies in a row at one point.   But six in a row is probably my ...

Q.   As you go to the back nine you bogeyed 15 and then you hit a beautiful shot at 16.   What kind of number did you guys have on the tee box there?
    JASON BOHN:   16 was like 187 but it's downhill, downwind, and we were trying to hit about a 175-yard shot.

Q.   You said you thought you made the chip shot at 17.   Is it easier being able to pick it up and put it where you want it?
    JASON BOHN:   Yeah, no doubt, especially in this rough to place it anywhere.   But I think it was a good call by the officials because we really needed to try to get this golf tournament in today and it looks like we're going to be able to do that.

Q.   18 you hit a beautiful putt.   Did you think you made it?
    JASON BOHN:   I totally thought I made it, yeah, absolutely.   It was rolling right down there and we both had it breaking left in the last three feet and it just hung right on the right edge and lipped out.

Q.   What's the plan now, do you feel like you have a chance to win?   There's some tough holes coming in for these guys.
    JASON BOHN:   Yeah, but the wind is helping the last three holes.   It's down on 16, it's left-to-right on 17 with a back right hole location, and it's right-to-left with a left hole location.   So somebody's going to make a birdie coming in. 

Q.   How will you kind of pass the time while everyone gets done?
    JASON BOHN:   I'm going to eat.   I'm hungry, I'm old, I want to sit down and I want to eat, to be honest.   And then after I eat, I don't know.   They're still out there.   To be a hundred percent honest, I mean, I think I needed to get to 12- or 13-under par.   So I think 13 will probably -- I'm going to say 13 will play off.   I think there'll be two guys get to 13.   So I'll miss by a couple but I played good today so I'm happy.

Q.   What happened with those six straight birdies on the front nine?
    JASON BOHN:   I don't know, I just kind of got on a run and I was hitting some really good shots, and to go around the horrible horseshoe or whatever they call it out there, I birdied all three of those and that's the first time I've ever done that, maybe the last time I'll ever do it.   But it was -- I kind of, I was hitting good shots and I was making putts.   It was playing very soft and you could play very aggressive, so I just kept trying to push the pedal down and keep firing at flagsticks.

Q.   Do you feel like that early morning rain kind of helped your round in terms of throwing darts out there and doing what you needed to do?
    JASON BOHN:   Yeah, the golf course has been pretty soft all week and the outstanding part about this golf course is the greens are phenomenal.   They haven't changed at all with the pace.   Even with all the rain, they're still at the same speed they were at the beginning of the week and we don't see that anywhere else.   So whatever they're doing here, it's phenomenal.   I mean, the greens actually, yesterday when we got a little rain, I thought they got faster.   That's really tough.   Normally you see everything slow down, you start hitting it, but here they were perfect, absolutely perfect.

Q.   What happened in the bunker?
    JASON BOHN:   Honestly, I choked.   It was not a difficult of a golf shot.   I was trying to play a fairly aggressive line, trying to hit it in there about 15 feet left of the hole and I hit it a little thin.   And then I kind of was like, ooh, you can't do that, you know, because that's like hitting it two feet and that's really about all it went, it went about two feet forward.   The next shot was actually even more difficult than the first shot, so I had to move my line a little bit farther left and just play safe and take my bogey and go on.

Q.   The reaction on 18, you almost jarred the long birdie putt, the reaction was pretty good.   What's going through your mind at that point?
    JASON BOHN:   When it was rolling down there, both my caddie and I said it's breaking just a touch left at the very end and it was right on the line that I thought it was going to break left at the very end and it just kind of hung on the right edge and lipped out.   Maybe if it rolled softer it would have gone in.   But I kind of wear my emotions all over myself so I'm all over the place, so yeah.   I'm not just a tipper of the cap, I'll let you know how I feel.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT