OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 15, 2014
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Like to welcome Jason Bohn.   4‑under 67, after round three at the OHL Mayakoba.   Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   Still in the driver's seat, right where you want to be.   You mentioned on the way up that it was a rather challenging day out there.   But, again, you are right where you want to be heading into the final round. 
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, it was a very difficult day to play golf with the rain coming in and coming out and the wind picking up and then the wind dying down.   It was pretty tough. 
But I played well.   I relied a lot on my short game today.   I was able to get it up‑and‑down a few times.   I kept the ball in front of me and 4‑under par was a good score. 
A little sour to finish with a bogey at the last hole, but that's the way it works.
DOUG MILNE:   You're obviously playing some great golf right now coming off your tie for second last week in Mississippi.   What is going especially right for you right now? 
JASON BOHN:   I think I'm just more comfortable with who I am.   I've always tried to do things with the golf ball that maybe I can't actually do.   I'm really comfortable in a place where I know kind of my own game. 
I'm not a bomber, but I can keep it in front of me and I can hit some good solid iron shots in there. 
So I just kind of thinking I'm a little bit, it's a little bit just being comfortable.   And just relaxing and having fun.
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   With that we'll take a few questions. 

Q.   How did you feel with the rain started?
JASON BOHN:   When we started it was just a little bit breezy.   It was nice.   It was going to be a beautiful day. 
Then we could kind of see the rain coming in from the ocean.   But, yeah, once it started raining, it got very difficult.   The greens got a little bit slower, just from the rain, so you kind of had to make an adjustment there. 
Your lie, if you were in the rough, if you got some squirters, where the ball could fly where there was water trapped between the grass and the ball.   And it was just tough. 
It's no fun when you're standing there and you hit a shot and you run underneath the umbrella and then you got to get back out. 
I'm just soaked.   Right down to my boxer shorts.   I mean, I am as soaked as can be right now. 
So, it's a different ‑‑ to be honest, I wasn't that prepared.   I did have an umbrella, but I didn't think that ‑‑ I didn't realize it was going to rain like this today.   I thought maybe a little shower here and there.
So, I didn't really have all my rain gear when I needed it.   I'll pay the price. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Maybe tomorrow is going to be the same.   We saw you on 17 and 18 and it's completely different.   So what is going to be the strategy for tomorrow?
JASON BOHN:   Just kind of go with what you are kind of dealt.   Are we expecting a little weather possibly tomorrow?   Maybe some showers? 
So, at least I know about it now, so I'll be more prepared.   I'll have my rain gear with me, but, hopefully, it just turns into a nice day and we can just go.   The first two days were gorgeous.   That's why everybody lives here.   I get it.   So, to play golf on those days, it was just fantastic. 
But I got through it today and I had to play a lot of golf in it, so it's more mental than it is physical.   You just got to really stay within yourself and not worry too much about you're wet or the adjustments that you have to make.   You just ‑‑ but a good caddie can really help you on a day like today. 
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Well, Jason, hope to see you right back here tomorrow.
JASON BOHN:   Yeah.   Thank you so much. 
DOUG MILNE:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT