OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 14, 2014
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a nice consistent round of golf for you, bogey‑free. 
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, the last two days actually I've been bogey‑free.   I tried to give it away coming down the stretch here.   I got up and down.   I hit it in the rocks on number 7, chipped out and got it up and down.   And this hole over here I had a little wedge in my hand on 6 and pull hooked it left into the sand and chunked a chip, made like a 20‑footer. 
I got away with a few things today, but made some good‑‑ I struck my ball really nice on the front nine.   Had a lot of good looks and rolled my golf ball pretty well.

Q.   I wasn't here at 5 a.m. like you, but when I got here the wind was up a little bit, maybe 5 miles an hour?
JASON BOHN:   We didn't have much of a breeze today.   The last couple of holes we had a little bit to deal with, but it's been very benign for here.   It can start humming.   I'm a little disappointed you didn't get up at 5:30? 

Q.   I thought of you though.   It counts a little bit. 
JASON BOHN:   That's very generous of you.

Q.   I understand there could be a little cowbell on Saturday.   Break down that Mississippi State‑Alabama game for me? 
JASON BOHN:   I've got to tell you, I see that we're favored and I'm a little shocked at that.   I know home‑field advantage is a big thing, but I'm kind of disappointed I'm not going to be there.   But I'd much rather be playing here Saturday afternoon.   I'll try to tune in as much as I can.   I'm pulling for the Tide obviously.   I hope we can squeak it out.

Q.   Second round 65 for Jason Bohn.   Jason, it seems like you've been in a nice rhythm out there.   How has it been going so far? 
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I played very well.   Struck my golf ball well.   Here you have to drive it well.   You've got to get in position.   So I've kind of kept it out of the bush the first couple days, so I've been able to position myself on the fairway, and I've had a lot of good iron shots.   I've actually rolled my golf ball very nicely.   Hit a lot of good putts, made a lot, and lipped out a bunch too, so it's been great.

Q.   You finished tied for third here last year.   You're in a similar spot halfway through.   What is it about this layout that has you so comfortable? 
JASON BOHN:   I think what I like about this layout, obviously length is always an advantage.   But here it's about positioning yourself in the middle of the fairway or right side of the fairway or trying to attack some of these flags.   That's one of my strengths is just getting the ball in play.   If I can get my putter hot, we'll see what happens.

Q.   What's on tap for the rest of the day as you look into the weekend? 
JASON BOHN:   My alarm went off at 3:50 this morning, so it's going to be a little lunch and a big siesta.   So that's on tap. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT