SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 2014
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You took advantage of it.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I did.   I made a few putts, but what I did really well is played the par‑5s well.   My pitching from 30, 40, 50 yards was really kind of sharp, and whenever I had wedges in my hand I was able to take advantage of it.   I hit them close and I made a few putts.   Hit a couple really good 6‑irons today, too, that got in there close to the hole.   Yeah, it was a great day for sure.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the‑par 5s.   I think the key, though, was the 11th, hit it in the water there and were able to get up‑and‑down to keep the round going.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's like making birdie.   That's all I'm trying to do there.   I thought I hit a pretty solid second shot.   I kind of whiffed my tee shot, so I was back quite a bit, but I hit a good 3‑wood in there and just kind of started drifting a little right.   But yeah, the momentum carries you forward if you can get it up‑and‑down from 40 or 50 yards.  
   
 Q.   To get off to a hot start, we thought we'd see a lot of low rounds today.   Then something just sort of happened in the middle of the day.   It just never really developed into one of those days where anybody was going to go crazy low.  
JASON BOHN:   I thought there would be a lot of low rounds out there today.   I thought it was very accessible.   You know, the greens were perfect.   There wasn't a lot of breeze, and the temperature was up when we were out there playing.   I know the guys that finished this morning weren't too happy, but by the time we got our day going, the temperature was nice.   
   
 Q.   Jason, 66 here on Saturday, you put yourself in position.   How pleased are you with the day?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I played great today.   I only made one Boeing, so made a lot of birdies, and just managed my game very well.   I drove it in a lot of fairways and was able to position myself going into the greens, and I hit it close a bunch, so I was very pleased.  
   
 Q.   As you get to learn this golf course, how much knowledge do you have today maybe as opposed to two or three days ago feeling more comfortable?  
JASON BOHN:   Well, I think the things that we have challenges with is the new pin positions.   We're not used to seeing some of them, so we're really paying attention to our greens book and the work that we did on Tuesday to kind of see.   Sometimes you'll get up there and think you've hit a good shot and it's actually trickled off 20 feet from the hole.   Those little nuances of where the flags are the last few days, there will be a big advantage to have played here for a few years for sure.   
But yeah, we're still learning.   But it's a great golf course, and it's a lot of fun to play, and there's a lot of birdies out there, and if you strike your golf balls well, you can shoot a good score.   
   
 Q.   What excites you most about Sunday?   
JASON BOHN:   I've just got to go‑‑ I'm an older guy.   I'm kind of going to go through my motions, do the same thing every time.   I've got my routine.   It's great to put yourself in contention and you kind of see where your game is at the end of the year.   We've had a long year, so it's kind of nice to see towards the end of the year my game is starting to get a little sharper and quick.   We'll see what happens tomorrow, but I'm going to go have some fun, I can promise you that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT