FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     Jason, 2-under 68 in the second round over two days.   Your first round was over two days.   Talk about playing those split rounds.
    JASON BOHN:   It's difficult because you got to get up some early.   We're here at the golf course just after 5 for a 7:00 restart.   So -- but, I mean, we had some really good conditions. 
    That wave had some great conditions compared to the other side, we got kind of lucky on the draw for sure.   And today hopefully we have no more storms and can get back out and kind of start the third round.

Q.   Your putter is really hot.
    JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I'm putting the golf ball really well right now.   We made some adjustments this week with my coach and caddy.   We've been working on it.   I just feel like I got good flow and rhythm and it's coming off where I'm looking.   It's good.

Q.   You only played the 18th hole this morning.   Could you tell anything about the course conditions?
    JASON BOHN:   Yes.   It's very wet.   So the golf course is playing very long.   The ball in hand makes a big difference if you can drive it in the fairway but, if you don't, that rough is pretty wet. 
    So it's going -- it was a lot more difficult.   I'm glad I only had to play one hole.   It was a lot more difficult than it was yesterday afternoon before all the rain.

Q.   Do you think some of the moisture will dry up out of this stuff before you get out again?
    JASON BOHN:   I don't know if it will dry up before moisture comes.   I don't know about that.   I think the golf course took a lot of rain yesterday afternoon.   So I don't expect -- I expect it to play fairly long and soft.

Q.   Does it feel like you've already played four rounds of golf even though you only played two but it's taken you 1two and a half days to do it.
    JASON BOHN:   It does.   I was surprised we're only at the 36 hole mark.   They're long days when just sit around and wait and you got to get up early and come out and obviously the perfect storm, we had fog again this morning.   Just never seems like we could get back out and get going. 
    But little nap this afternoon will feel nice and then hopefully, without any weather, we'll get to restart this afternoon for the 3rd round.

Q.   How important is a good attitude?   Even when you finish the day, right now it's 8:00 in the morning and you still have a smile on your face.   I know you're in contention.   But how much does a positive attitude in these kind of circumstances matter when you're playing out here?
    JASON BOHN:   It makes all the difference in the world.   The attitude -- because you can't control the weather, you can't control the restart times or anything like that.   You kind of got to go with what you got and if you can sit in the locker room and have a little bit of laughs and some fun with some guys, it definitely makes the time go by a little bit faster.
    To dwell on all the negatives, you're going the beat yourself up.   You're already beating your body up as long as the days are.   Positive attitude is a big thing.

Q.   For you in the two rounds that you've played, here you are, 5-under.   I know some guys still haven't teed off.   Put positioning-wise, you like where you're at as you head into the final, what we hope is, 36 holes?
    JASON BOHN:   I played pretty well the first two days.   I got some really good conditions.   That's out of the way.   That wave had the best condition for 36 holes without a doubt.   With the greens being soft, golf course is going to play a little bit longer this morning but there's not a lot of breeze.   There leaderboard some good scores this afternoon.   The greens are perfect.

Q.   Ben out there at 12.   Seven shots seems like a lot.   This golf course, under ideal conditions, can bite back and now how do you see maybe the next couple of rounds?   I know you want to catch Ben but he's not safe, I don't think, having that big a lead right now.
    JASON BOHN:   I definitely think you might see a 7, 8-under par here this afternoon.   So big move.   It's very possible with the conditions the way that they are right now. 
    I mean if it was dry and windy, 7-under par is not in the equation.   But, you know, now with it being calm and soft, yeah, somebody could shoot a low number. 
    Like I said, the greens are absolutely perfect so if you can get it in good position to make birdies, they're out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT