WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2014
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the shot on 17. 
JASON BOHN:   I got a bad time on 16, and for my second shot I took 1 minute 10 seconds to hit my second shot on the 16.   I was warned if I got another bad time, then I know it's penalties, so on 17 I didn't feel that comfortable with the wind starting to gust up a little bit, and I went ahead and hit it anyhow in a situation that I probably would have backed off in.   So I'm more disappointed in myself and the way that I handled that than the golf shots that I hit. 
It's hard, so the I hit a crappy one; it is what it is.   I was more disappointed in the way that I handled my emotions after finding out that I received a bad time. 

Q.   Other than that, though, you played a pretty good final round there.   Talk about the round, the tip‑in on 12.   You played well up so that point. 
JASON BOHN:   I did.   I grinded.   It was tough, I don't care what anybody says.   Jim Furyk to shoot 7‑under par today is an incredible round of golf out there.   The wind was a little gusty and it was difficult.   I chipped in on 12, I holed it from the fairway on 10 for eagle, so I had a lot of good things go my way, and I really kind of thought if I could put together a good "Green Mile" and post a good score that I would have a chance.   That didn't happen. 
I had a terrible start to my week.   I bogeyed the first three holes, and I played the last two holes in 3‑over par.   It was a bad start and a bad finish but I learned a lot in the middle, and I played really good golf, and overall I'm very pleased with my performance. 

Q.   Your third top‑5 finish, third since Mayacoba.   What kind of a finish can this do for the rest of the year going forward, this next stretch? 
JASON BOHN:   It builds a lot of confidence, it absolutely does.   Anytime you play well it builds confidence.   I did a lot of good things, my short game was pretty sharp this week and I made some good putts so carrying that over into a big tournament like next week is a big advantage for me.
I'll just keep focusing on what I was doing this week and so if I can roll it into next week, I think it creates a lot of confidence anytime you feel like you're playing well. 

Q.   Did you have a bad time coming after the 16th? 
JASON BOHN:   No, I got the bad time on my second shot on 16, which isn't the easiest of golf shots.   I don't know if anybody has been out in the middle of that fairway with that wind trying to hit to that back left hole location, but it is what it is.   (Chuckles.)
I took my time.   I knew I needed to hit a good shot there, and I did, but then I was not able to control my emotions and myself on the 17th hole.   Something I can learn from. 

Q.   Jason, four rounds on the new greens.   Now that it's all said and done, looks like they held up pretty well.   What do you think they may do to the PGA Championship on these greens in 2017?   Can they make them tougher, more player friendly?   Just an assessment and evaluation. 
JASON BOHN:   I think in Augustit's going to play more difficult due to the fact that it's going to be warmer, the greens are going to get tougher, get a little baked out.   They were already firm for us, and we had perfect weather. 
I don't know that they'll make too many adjustments.   This golf course is going to play really difficult with Bermuda rough.   When your ball is kind of running out into that Bermuda rough and you're hitting all these jumpers, with this rye grass, it's a little sticky, so you can spin is out better than you can out of the Bermuda. 
They're not going to have to do too much.   It's going to be a great test.   It's an awesome piece of property.   The changes that they did make to the greens are phenomenal.   They gave us a lot more pin placements, their greens are more subtle in areas where we can use some of the shelves, and I don't know, I take my hat off to them.   It's hard when you keep doing redesigns, you keep feeling like are you ever going to get it right, but I really believe they got it right. 

Q.   You have no problems with this place.   You seem to always play well here. 
JASON BOHN:   I like this place.   I like the piece of property.   It's a pretty place to walk around, a lot of pretty people out there to look at, too!   No complaints on my end. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Jason.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT