OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 17, 2013
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. First of all, Jason, how are you are feeling after that round?   
JASON BOHN:   I'm exhausted.   It was pretty tough out there actually.   I mean, when you get out on the ocean on the back nine it was great because the breeze felt awesome.  
But sometimes you get down these fairways and it's still, and man youjust, Ah.   We went through a lot of water today.   Probably still dehydrated.   
But, yeah, I played good.   I didn't play very good on my front nine, so it was good to kind of bounce back on my last nine holes and play a good back nine.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel the course played?   
JASON BOHN:   Not its most difficult because it was so soft.   You know, it made the fairways a lot wider.   And previous years when it's firm and fast the golf ball can get away from you pretty quick.  
But, now if you land it in the fairway, it's staying in the fair way.   I think the rain kind of hurt the golf course a little bit.   It made it a little bit nor defenseless, to be honest.  
But the greens are perfect.   Golf course is in perfect shape.   It's amazing that we can even play with as much rain that we had.  
And the finish prior to time schedule, that's unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   You finished second earlier this season.   This is a pretty good finish.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?   Off to a good start.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, it's great to get off to a good start in a new season.   I have never had a great start like this.   I've always been one to finish the year good.  
So it's kind of nice that from now on hopefully I'll be able to start my year when I'm playing well.   I always seem to play well late summer and fall, so it's kind of nice that I can maybe take a little time off on the west coast and not have to grind so hard out there.   
So it will be great.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on Mexico, what the whole week was like?   Obviously a whole new tournament.   What are your thoughts on it?  
JASON BOHN:   I think it's great.   I think the OHL event here, to be part of the FedExCup is just perfect.   They're going to draw major strong fields.   The golf course is outstanding.   The resort is top notch.  
The only thing that I'm disappointed in is I didn't bring my family.   That was it.   Next year I know they're all coming.   The hospitality is just superb all the way across the board.  
I'm really glad it is an official part of this FedExCup Tour.   I think a lot of guys like the golf course, and I think you'll see stronger and stronger fields as the years go on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT