SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2013
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Such a strong start, birdies on three of the first holes, and then the course got a little tougher.   
JASON BOHN:   Well, I made one poor swing today really.   I mean, really bad golf swing out on, I don't even know, 6.   
Then just from there, kind of hard spot.   I tried to hit what I thought was a good shot.   I hit a poor pitch, came back down to me, and then I didn't hit a very good putt for bogey.   It was kind of like all my bad shots happened on one hole, and that's kind of the way I looked at it.   I just looked at it as I made a double every day, which is kind of frustrating.   But I'm looking at it as I haven't just made a bogey this week, I just made a double, one double every day.   So I got‑‑ I just said, okay, I got it out of the way.   I hit all my bad shots on one hole, out of the way.   I just keep playing.   
I hit a lot of good golf shots today.   I drove my golf ball very well.   I had opportunities for birdie, and I just didn't make them.   I felt like I was around the hole.   I felt like I was rolling it pretty good.   
So it's not what I wanted after the start I had, but it is what it is.   My goal is if I get a shot to win with nine holes to go, then I've accomplished my goal for week.  
   
 Q.   I thought your ball striking was really good other than that one hole at the 6.   You missed just one fairway the hole day.   You only missed two greens.   But no one on the golf course were making any putts late in the afternoon?  
JASON BOHN:   Well, I think the greens in the afternoon get a little bit bumpy, and they get‑‑ you can see a lot of the impressions from all the‑‑ they're fairly soft, so we're seeing all the soft spike prints and there's lot of pitch marks.   I think they just got a little bit harry.   They get kind of dry, so that grass kind of stands up and doesn't lay down real well.   There's definitely an advantage in the morning when the greens are really good.   You can make a lot more putts.   
I was surprised.   I thought there would be a lot of guy in the afternoon, you know, shooting, you know, 64, 65, 66.   But I looked at the leaderboard and there haven't been that many.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT