SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2013
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   7‑under par 64 in round 2.   Did you see this one coming?   
JASON BOHN:   You know, I putted my golf ball pretty nice yesterday, and I got off to a good start, so I felt like the scoring conditions are really out here this week.   I mean, I played the front nine really well, had a chance for eagle on 9 to shoot a really good score on the front, and I still think I broke 30 on the front nine.   I got a little shaky on the back nine.   I didn't really ever think about a number or anything, but I just‑‑ I started kind of guiding some shots, whereas in the first probably 12 holes I just kind of swung the golf club, and then I kind of started guiding a few shots in there.   
And to finish with a double on 17, it's never fun, but I mean, I didn't make a good golf swing, and that's what you get.   So I wasn't committed to my target, and that's‑‑ I ended up with 5.   Not a very good‑‑ 5 with a penalty shot, so that's even worse.   
It is what it is, and I did a lot of really good things today, so I can move forward on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   You find yourself in the middle of contention going into the weekend.   How are you approaching tomorrow?   
JASON BOHN:   The same as I did today.   You know you've got to make birdies.   You know you've got to play fairly aggressive.   You can't just shoot at the middle of these greens.   I feel like if I can give myself‑‑ if I can drive the golf ball in the fairway, then I can give myself some pretty good opportunities for birdie, and if I continue to putt well, I might have a shot.   
   
 Q.   Do you like playing courses like this where birdies are a little easier to come by?   
JASON BOHN:   I think so.   I like it.   I mean, I like both‑‑ I guess both tournaments.   Par is fun, but I wouldn't want to play where par is a great score every day.   It's kind of nice to play golf courses where I feel like I can get to a couple of the par‑5s in two.   I'm getting older and my ball isn't going as far as it used to.   The air is thin.   You can hit the ball a long way.   I feel like I'm 10 years younger, so that's kind of fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT