JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You were on a roll there on the back nine, weren't you?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I hit a lot of good shots.   I had some opportunities even earlier on the back nine, and then made four in a row and didn't make the best of golf swings on the last hole.   Just got a load of good golf swing in there for tomorrow.   
Yeah, I would have liked to‑‑ you hate finishing with a bogey, but that's the way it is, and I played really good golf today, I really did.   I wasn't out of position very much and made a lot of birdies, made good putts.  
   
 Q.   What goes through your mind when you're on 17, and if an eagle had gone in you would have been the leader for the moment?   
JASON BOHN:   Well, I'm also the third group to tee off.   These guys are still in there having lunch.   No, it's a very scorable golf course when there's no breeze like this.   The greens early in the morning are absolutely perfect, so if you can hit it on the line you're trying to hit it on, you make some putts.   
I think this afternoon the scores are going to be good, too.   It's nice to shoot a good round, but you know you're going to be about the middle of the pack when you tee off tomorrow.   So that's just the way it is.  
   
 Q.   But another 64, 65 tomorrow and you're going to have a really good finish, probably your best finish of the year?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, absolutely, and I'm starting to play really nice right now, and I've just got to eliminate the mistakes and keep playing aggressive.   This is a golf course where you can't play conservative.   You've got to fire at flagsticks and try and make birdies.  
   
 Q.   And health‑wise you're feeling good, too, right?  
JASON BOHN:   Unbelievable.   I've never felt better health‑wise, so that's huge.   
But now it's just got to‑‑ I feel great but now my game has got to be good, so it's starting to come around.   I've seen some signs of brilliance the last few weeks even though I haven't scored very well, so it's kind of nice to make a few birdies and kind of get it going.   
   
 Q.   And it never fails, you're walking down 18 and a guy yells out, "roll tide."   Happens every week you play, doesn't it?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, it does, and I enjoy it.   It's great.   I love to hear all the "roll tides" for sure.   
   
 Q.   Could it have been even lower out there for you today?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I had some opportunities, some probably 10‑ and 12‑foot putts, and like I said, the greens are so good that they're very makeable.   But yeah, I think you're going to see another, like you did yesterday, you saw 8‑ and 9‑under par, I think you're going to see that pretty easily out there today.  
   
 Q.   What's been working with your game?   It seems like you've been eliminating bogeys each day you've been out here.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I mean, the first day I really struggled.   I made a lot of bogeys and a lot of mistakes, but I made a lot of birdies so I kind of was able to shoot a couple under par.   Just the key is just when you hit a poor shot, you've just got to get your par and go to the next hole because you know you can make birdie.   You just can't be so far out of position that you can't even salvage par.   That's kind of‑‑ my misses have been closer to the hole, I guess, so it's easier to make par.  
   
 Q.   What were your greens in regulation today?  
JASON BOHN:   I couldn't even tell you.   I couldn't tell you.   I know that that was the only bunker shot I had to hit all day was on the last, so I might have hit pretty close to 15, 16 greens.   I don't remember chipping, but I might have been on the fringe a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What's happening on No.3?   
JASON BOHN:   Oh, you know what‑‑  
   
 Q.   That hole has had your number this week.   
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, it has had my number.   I've three‑putted it twice and yesterday I hit a poor chip.   It's not that difficult.   Yesterday was a terrible bogey.   It was a wedge yesterday.   They had the tee way up.   
Today it's a difficult pin.   I think you'll see some guys‑‑ you get it above that hole today, and that was the fastest putt I've hit at Deere Run.   I mean, it's really a quick putt.   
Yeah, I don't know.   Hopefully I'll make a 2 there tomorrow and put it all behind me.  
   
 Q.   What's the course setup today?   Is it there for some low numbers?  
JASON BOHN:   Yeah, I think it is.   It's not as easy as it played yesterday.   Yesterday I felt like the golf course played about as easy as it could.   They had a lot of tees up and they had a lot of flagsticks that were really accessible yesterday.   Especially like the third hole, you're hitting a wedge in there.   You're going to see some 2s, and that's a hard hole to make a 2 on.   
And 17, you know, the pin was up front yesterday.   The tees were up on the drivable hole, 15, I guess.   Today everything is back and the pins are a little bit more difficult, but I still think‑‑ I mean, the conditions are so good right now.   I mean, there's no breeze and there's no sun.   It's not hot, it's not humid.   It's perfect.   It's perfect scoring conditions.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT