ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2011
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Jason, thanks for joining us, the defending champion of the ZURICH Classic of New Orleans. Obviously, that's still got to have a good ring to it. Thanks for joining us for a few minutes. You're making your ninth start this year, just a couple comments on how you're feeling as you're heading into the week to defend your title?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I feel pretty good. I had some solid things happen last week so it's good to have some confidence coming into this week.   
 But as soon as I drive down the driveway, all the goose bumps light up again, and I remember all the great feelings. I played nine holes yesterday. It was amazing how vivid my memories were of what I did last year on the holes that I played yesterday.   
 So I'm excited. I know I've got a much stronger field this year which is great. But I'm very excited to play because I've got some positive mojo, so it's good.   
 DOUG MILNE: Well, the way you sealed the deal last year on your approach into 18, that's got to do a lot even a year later for your motivation and your confidence.   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's funny, I haven't played that well this year, and I kind of struggled. But when I'm at home I'm always watching the DVR of last year's ZURICH Classic, and I'm just trying to remember the thoughts and my golf swings and everything and my positive energy to try to carry it on into this week.   
 But it's great to be back. I mean, man, I had an awesome meal last night. It's one of my favorite things about coming here is you just can't miss. The food is phenomenal. My belly's full, and I've got a big smile, so I can't complain.   
  
  Q. Where'd you go?   
 JASON BOHN: I went to NOLA's last night, yeah. It was incredible. I sat with some of the guys with the Titleist van, and they just brought out everything. So we had three main dish meals that we kind of all split. I had the duck which was, I guess it takes three days to prepare they were telling me. It was unbelievable. Probably one of my favorite things I've ever eaten in my life.   
  
  Q. When guys in the media like us write about or you hear people talk about young guns on the TOUR or young guns are taking over, what does that mean to you? What do you think when you hear the term young guns? Do you consider yourself one, or who would you say is a current member of the young gun club?  
 JASON BOHN: I'm far from a young gun, I can tell you that. I enjoy good food and wine, and I think the young guns are -- no, the young guns, it's a great term, and it is.   
 It's the Rickie Fowlers. It's the mid 20's, late 20's, even some of the early 30 guys that are out here that are still strong, that don't have any aches and ailments to their body. They can party all night and still wake up and play the next morning and there is no problem. But those days are long gone for me.   
 But it is great to see it. It's awesome. I think it's something that will never go away, because as the younger kids they're more trained. They're better players when they come on tour than maybe 15, 20 years ago.   
 Youth can go a long way. Their attitudes are incredible. Their memories are like relief pitchers. They just forget so quickly if they play bad, and you can see that. They bounce back incredibly. We've got a few of them in the field this week.   
  
  Q. I'm doing a story on sponsor exemptions. Have you ever taken one and turned it into a good finish and turned it around?  
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, absolutely. I've only gotten one sponsor exemption in my life, to be honest. It was at the Colonial. I was injured and they gave me a start back. I think I finished like 15th and then turned it into a great rest of the season. So it was kind of like a turning point in my season, for sure.   
 Yeah, I think they're very valuable tools, and if you can snag them, you can really do a lot with it. It gives you a lot of confidence that somebody entrusts that you're good enough to play in the event and they welcome you to be a part of it.   
 Yeah, but that was my only sponsor exemption ever, and I'll never forget it. I'll always play their tournament as long as I'm eligible.  
  
  Q. Do you remember what year?   
 JASON BOHN: It was in '09 that they gave me the start. I was injured. No, I'm sorry. I was injured in '07, and it was in '08.  
  
  Q. Did that money let you reshuffle up?   
 JASON BOHN: Actually, I hadn't played that much. Actually, you know what? It was the start of fulfilling the medical, and I was able to fulfill my medical obligations by the end of the year financially.   
 DOUG MILNE: We appreciate your time as always, and best of luck this week.   
 JASON BOHN: Thanks, appreciate it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT