WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2011
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Another beautiful day in the desert, great round of golf.   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, played nice today, I really did. I hit a lot of great iron shots. I hit a lot of shots close. Had a few three-footers for birdie, and that was kind of nice. I only made one mistake all day, so it was pretty good.  
 The golf course was set up to speed up play. It was set up a little shorter than we normally play it. It was just try and get as many guys' holes in as they possibly could. I think that made it play a little easier on my side for sure.  
  
  Q. Talk about the wait this morning, the weather, and shooting 6-under.   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I mean, we do this all the time. It's a wait. It's tough because you get here and you're expecting to play, and then it just keeps delaying. But you just make the best of it.   
 The best thing for me was I had ample time to warm up, and that's kind of what you need when it's weather like this. You can't just go out and get you a 30-minute warmup. I spent an hour and a half warming up, which is an extra 40 minutes longer than I normally do. That was kind of helpful to me is that I had a lot of time to hit a lot of balls and get my body loose and warm.  
  
  Q. Talk about what it means for the rest of the week.   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, it's round 1, but it's -- yeah, the guys are going to play a lot of golf tomorrow, and if there's any sort of delay I probably won't hit a shot. So I've got a good day off but a good day to practice. If the weather is nice in the afternoon I can come out and do some practice and kind of keep my skills sharp and get ready for Saturday.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like your game is coming together and getting where you want it to be?  
 JASON BOHN: I made a couple nice putts today and hit a lot of great iron shots. Yeah, I felt very comfortable. My body moves well in this cold weather, which is unique for an old guy like me. But yeah, so I was happy, very pleased.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT