THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2010
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good round today. Just some comments on how you're feeling, especially still riding the high from a couple of weeks ago.   
 JASON BOHN: Feeling great. I played very solid golf today. Just, I think I made one mistake off the tee. It cost me double bogey. But to make seven birdies out there on this golf course, I'm extremely pleased.   
 And I am, I am definitely riding the confidence high for sure. Even though I didn't play so well last week, I'm still kind of -- I'm still on cloud nine, for sure.  
  
  Q. Ryo Ishikawa shot a 58 in a golf tournament a couple days ago. Having done that, what are your thoughts on that?   
 JASON BOHN: Well, it's pretty impressive. I think that young man's got a lot more talent than I have. Any time you kind of can get it going like that, it's extremely impressive that you really just don't miss shots. That is the thing. You hole a lot of key shots and keep your momentum going.   
 Any time you shoot 58 on Sunday and win, what a story.  
  
  Q. Shooting 58 anywhere is pretty good, isn't it?   
 JASON BOHN: 58 anywhere is good. 58 on some putt-putt courses is good. It's impressive. It doesn't matter where you're playing. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter the yardage. It's the fact that you get going deep and you're able to keep the pedal down and make aggressive golf swings. You don't back away from it and you don't think about it. It's more a mental thing that's more impressive than anything.  
  
  Q. Does the mental thing explain the streak that you're on in here lately?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I don't know about streak. Missed cut, win, missed cut.  
  
  Q. Chalk that up to too much celebration?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I think that golf is all about momentum. I think it's when you make a key putt to save a par and your momentum stays with you and you just keep going. So when you're feeling good, riding high, I mean, there's definitely a big burden off of my shoulders in the fact that I'm able to just swing a little bit more aggressively. I'm not holding on to anything. If it goes left, it goes left. If it goes right at it, fantastic for me. So that is the big mental side of it is that I can just rip it and let it happen.  
  
  Q. You said conditions are perfect?   
 JASON BOHN: Perfect conditions. Unreal. Very little breeze this morning at all. Greens were still very receptive this morning. We anticipate them to dry out, for sure. But the golf course -- you probably couldn't play a much more benign situation for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT