ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2010
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's kind of an unusual week in the sense that you finish your third round and you don't have a whole lot of time to think about your position. You're going back on the golf course almost like a U.S. Open qualifier. Did that help you have less downtime to even consider the position that you're in? 
 JASON BOHN: I think a little bit. I think you're kind of used to being out there and playing and the flow is kind of going. Every start is you're a little anxious, you're excited to get going. 
 But since you've been through it -- I don't know how many hours we were out there this morning, three or four hours, so it makes you feel a little more comfortable. But it does it for everybody. And guys that have played well this morning have great momentum going in the afternoon.

 Q. We see you're unshaven. Probably not a lot of time to shave in the morning. But fatigue at all a factor? Are you energized by the situation and not worried about the amount of time you'll be out here today? 
 JASON BOHN: When you're playing well you're less fatigued I guess because you're more excited. If you're not playing so well, you're going to get pretty tired. 
 But fatigue definitely is going to set in. So it's important to get a little rest, good lunch and stretch it out and be ready to go again.

 Q. Lastly, you've been leading sips your opening nine holes, your been playing well all week long. Your game plan for this afternoon and your confidence level right now? 
 JASON BOHN: My confidence is really good right now. I feel very comfortable. I feel calm, relaxed. So I'm just going to go out and play aggressive. 
 I know there are going to be some good scores shot today. The wind's not as bad as it has been the last two days. It's for the taking, so I expect somebody to go out and shoot a low number, so I've got to keep putting the pressure on.

 Q. You got a bogey, a birdie, and a one putt par this morning?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I played it fairly aggressively. I had another good number. And I just needed to keep it left of the water, and once again I wasn't able to do it. So I kind of blocked it out there a little bit. 
 A good up-and-down saved some momentum. I bogeyed 17, kind of hit a poor shot there, and left a little chip. So it was nice to make the par on 18 and get in the clubhouse and get ready to go again.

 Q. You've had a lot of good final rounds. I was thinking specifically of Riviera 65 on Sunday. 
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I've played well on Sunday. I'm energized to play today. I'm excited, looking forward to it, I'm confident. If I can make a few putts early, it might settle me down a little bit.

 Q. It's already been a long day, you had to finish up the third round. Now you have 18 more holes to play. Fatigue set in at all mentally if not physically? 
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, absolutely, there is a lot of fatigue out there especially when the alarm's going off at 4:00 in the morning the last three mornings in a row. So that's been a little bit difficult. 
 But if I'm in the hunt, my adrenaline's going to be flowing, and I hope that's going to carry me through. 

 Q. You started the round with the four shot lead. Now the lead is down to two. What is your mentality heading into the final round? 
 JASON BOHN: The conditions were absolutely perfect out there this morning. So I expected some guys to shoot some good numbers, and I felt like I needed to post something in the 60's. I was unable to do that. 
 I'm fairly confident. If the conditions stay like this, I'm going to have to shoot a good number though because somebody's going to go low today. You know it always happens on the PGA TOUR. So I've got to kind of keep making birdies and keep firing at flagsticks and playing aggressive.

 Q. You say your confidence. You've also said that you've been patient this week, which is a little out of character for you. How much is that patience going to be tested today in the heat of competition? 
 JASON BOHN: Oh, big time. In all honesty, this is what we all play for. You play to the best of your ability under the gun. 
 So this is what you work really hard for, mentally, physically, everything for. So this is going to be a great test for me. Regardless of the outcome, I'm really going to be excited. I haven't been in the hunt for a long time, but I'm really looking forward to it.

 Q. Now that you're in the hunt is your strategy to rubber neck and look at what the other guys are doing behind you? 
 JASON BOHN: I'm not scared to watch it. I think it's good. I want to know kind of where I stand. I want to know when I need to play aggressive when I need to play conservative. 
 I'm not trying to put a lot of pressure on my caddie to tell me those kinds of things, but I'll be watching. I'm all for watching the leaderboard. Sometimes it comes back to bite you, but I think it makes you stronger in the end. If you can look up, know you've got to hit the shot and then execute. That's what we work hard for.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT