ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2010
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Jason Bohn, thanks for joining us here in the interview room of the Zurich Classic. Second round completed 5 under 67 to go with your first round 65, 12 under par. Obviously, looked like you came home pretty good. Three birdies in the last three holes, 7, 8, 9. Just talk about what it was like, pretty windy and obviously a stop-start morning.  
 JASON BOHN: It was a little difficult. I didn't think we were going to get to play any golf once we stopped again. So very fortunate, I think, that we got it in.   
 It's kind of weird warming up and coming back in. Then telling us, you know, get in the van and then they're pulling us off the course.   
 It's a difficult situation, but I think every guy's been through this forever and we'll continuing to through it. So, you know, if you can just kind of ease yourself, stay patient, drink lots of water, it helps.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Kind of a special day too being your birthday today, 37 years old. Nice little present for you.  
 JASON BOHN: I got a couple of birthday bounces out there, that is for sure. I'll take every one of them (smiling).  
  
  Q. With the course playing longer and being so much windier, the scores being as good, it's got to seem this round is better than the first one?  
 JASON BOHN: I struck the ball better than I did in my first round. I think the first round there wasn't as much wind, so you could kind of get away with some mis-hits and didn't emphasize them as much.   
 But today I struck it solidly and nice, and I was able to make some putts again. I think that is the most difficult thing when it's this windy is putting. You get some exposed areas, and it's flapping your pants pretty hard, so it's pretty difficult.   
 I stayed patient and waited until the end. I knew I was going to get some downwind holes, that's kind of the key out there. The downwind holes you've got to take advantage of those. The into-the-wind holes you're just trying to get it into the center of the greens, get your two putts and get out. And I was fortunate enough to be able to do that today.  
  
  Q. You got both ends of the spectrum, Thursday morning and then today with all the wind. To be at this point right now at 12 under --  
JASON BOHN: Thrilled, yeah, absolutely (smiling).  
  
  Q. -- is this the best you've ever felt at the halfway point?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, absolutely. I feel very confident with my game. Believe it or not, I feel very -- I'm excited about how patient I've been staying. And it's difficult to do that in windy conditions. It's difficult not to fire at flagsticks when you don't have the right clubs in your hand.   
 So in all honesty, that's what I'm most proud of is how I'm just really very focused and I'm very patient at what I'm trying to do. I'm not getting ahead of myself, and that's weird for me to be honest. That's not real -- I'm a little bit of jumping-the-gun kind of guy. So I'm a little anxious. But, you know, I'm proud of the way that I've handled myself the last two days.  
  
  Q. You said you got some birthday bounces. You didn't get any serenades from the LSU fans?   
 JASON BOHN: No, they've been great here. Maybe some of them don't know that I'm from Alabama, so I'm going to keep that on the lowdown for a while, for sure.   
  
  Q. Was it the final three holes downwind?   
 JASON BOHN: Yes, all three, 7, 8 and 9 are playing downwind, yes.   
  
  Q. Were you able to take advantage of the par 5s today?   
 JASON BOHN: I played the par 5s three under par. Two of them are downwind, and two of them are into the wind.   
 On the second hole I got a great bounce. I pulled it left and hit a tree, and it kicked into the bunker. But it could have gone anywhere. It could have gone into the pampas grass, I could have made a 10. It was a really poor shot that got a great break, and I was able to salvage par from there. To play them 3 under par is pretty good.   
 And I laid up on 18 today. So maybe I learned my lesson, maybe I didn't. I don't know yet (smiling). But I was definitely feeling I could have easily gotten home. Wasn't real comfortable with my look on the shot, and I laid up and made birdie. So maybe I taught myself something there. I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. You said you had been playing so poorly in the first two rounds. Did you just kind of talk yourself into staying with it today and focusing after the first round?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I did. That's exactly what I was trying to do is just stay patient. I knew it was going to be a very difficult day of golf out there. You knew you were going to probably hit some shots that the wind was going to grab or you misjudged the wind.   
 And I was pretty fortunate today. I only misjudged the wind one time. But, yeah, I'm thrilled for my start. I would not have expected a start like this compared to my year, but maybe I'm turning something around.   
  
  Q. What's it like having to go back out again now?   
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, it's going to be kind of tough. I'm going to kind of go chill out. Find a table maybe to lay down on. I don't think I'll probably go until maybe 5:30 at the earliest.   
 I don't even know what time it is now, but I've got a couple hours. So I'll try to take a little nap and do a whole 'nother warm-up.   
  
  Q. How are you at staying patient in terms of waiting for the game to fall in place and play well? Do you get frustrated when you're not playing like this week every week?   
 JASON BOHN: Not really. I'm not bad at that. Last week I played at Hilton Head, and I didn't play -- I scored very poorly in round one, but I knew I wasn't that far off. And Hilton Head can kind of make you seem like you're really far off and not hit that bad of shots.   
 But then on Friday, I think I might have played my last four holes maybe three under par. And I kind of -- I didn't have enough holes. I ran out of holes is the way I felt.   
 But I started to hit the ball very solidly again. I went home, worked with my coach on the weekend, and I knew I was doing the right things. I just needed to continue to trust what we've been working on.  
  
  Q. You said you've got to find somewhere to chill out. How difficult is it to idle down after playing so well?   
 JASON BOHN: It's not too bad. Yeah, I'll talk to my wife and kids, and hopefully they'll sing me happy birthday if they remember (laughing). No, my wife was texting early. And I'll check a lot of voice mails. I know I'll have a lot of friends and family calling and all that. That will be kind of good. Everything will be really positive, the atmosphere that I'll be in.  
  
  Q. Coach Saban call today?   
 JASON BOHN: I doubt Coach Saban that I'm going to get the call. Maybe if I'm sitting here Sunday afternoon.   
  
  Q. You said your caddie's going to take you out for the birthday dinner tonight. Did you decide where?   
 JASON BOHN: In all honesty, depending on what time we get out of here, I don't know. It's going to be probably pretty hard. I know that we'll go across the street to Mother's if I can't get a reservation, I'll stand in that line for sure.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Want to go over your birdies before we let you go.   
 JASON BOHN: Number 11, I hit my third shot in there about six feet, right underneath the hole from about 70 yards.   
 Number 13, I had another 80-yard pitch that I made a 20-footer.   
 And No. 18, laid up, learned my lesson, and probably made a 15-footer.   
 Bogey at 1 was the only time I misjudged the wind. I felt like there was more wind into me than there was. I hit it through the wind into the back of the green and three-putted.   
 And 7, 8 and 9, I chipped it up to probably five feet on 7 for birdie. 8, I probably made a 15-footer, and 9 another 15-footer, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. So many people are critical of this course with the wind and all. Does this prove that this course can be played and good scores can be scored with the wind the way it is today?   
 JASON BOHN: I'm going to say that if the rain is what's helped the golf course. It's allowed us to play it with this wind and it's still to be accessible.   
 Because without the rain, if you were to have this kind of wind with it as dry as it was on Thursday, it could be treacherous. Because your ball -- it would be very difficult to keep it on the green. You could chip it across the green. But the moisture that's in the greens right now is making it very playable.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT