WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2009
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jason, long day. 62 just to get in the playoff. You had to be pretty happy with the way you survived today.
 JASON BOHN: I played well. I'll be a hundred percent honest, nerves got to me a little bit at the end. I haven't been in this position in a long time. It's good. Definitely was feeling it on those shots coming in and to dump that one in the bunker and leave it in there was a big mistake, but I had a great day, had a great week, great tournament.
 So I mean, all in all, I got to kind of take my hat off to myself.

 Q. Did you feel that hour layoff that you had, you had to wait a long time, did that have any effect on you?
 JASON BOHN: Believe it or not I never thought I would get in a playoff. There was too many birdie holes coming in and I just thought 16-under wasn't good enough but -- so, no, I got to go out. 
 I hit some good shots on the practice range. I was feeling kind of comfortable but, man, when you draw that number, the heart starts racing. It is what it is. I learned a lot from it so I'll take some more out of this next week.

 Q. Let me ask you about the second shot on the playoff hole. You an Stadler were in the rough. You saw where Ryan Moore was. 
 Did you pretty much figure you had to go right at the flag?
 JASON BOHN: We were trying to hit a draw off the center of the green and gets it back in there. It's a hard 3 know matter where you are. 
 Ryan had a 50-yard advantage on us for sure at least. I think both Stads and I kind of overcooked it but, yeah, you're thinking you got to make 3 to win.

 Q. Then the bunker shot, I guess you were trying to be too fine with it?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, little nervous, little dummy. Wasn't really committed with it. I just needed to be a little more aggressive and give myself a putt for par anyway. Little disappointed in the way it ended.

 Q. Overall as we go into the playoffs, you've got to be feeling pretty good.
 JASON BOHN: I'm thrilled because this is my first FedExCup playoff to go to Barclays next week. I'm pumped, I can't wait.

 Q. You waited over an hour for the playoff to begin. You had some fun with your kids over in the play land area.
 Did that shut you down a little bit from the golf tournament hanging out with the family and had to kick it back in?
 JASON BOHN: Not really. It's all about family, anyhow. I loved watching my kids jump on that thing. I wasn't even thinking I would get in a playoff and I gave myself ample amount of time to go warm up, practice. 
 I hit the ball nicely on the range. To be a hundred percent honest, when I pulled that number, the nerves hit, my heart was racing. It's a situation I haven't been in a lot, especially this year. So for me to just put myself in that situation, I know I'll take a lot from it.

 Q. What will you take from it?
 JASON BOHN: Definitely the fact that, you know, I'll probably head to the putting green, I'll probably just kind of, you know, maybe just keep myself in golf. I got a little bit out of golf but I got right back into it. It's just golf. 
 I'm standing there on the tee going, man, I'm just shaking nervous, but it's just golf. I played the hole beautifully the first time around. I played it well all week. To make my only bogey of the day, you know -- you know, it's nerves. I'll be honest. It's total nerves.

 Q. Lot of guys maybe going out of here with their head down losing in a playoff. You seem all smiles.
 JASON BOHN: I'm pumped. I'm putting beautifully and today I struck my ball really nice and so I'm really looking forward to it. 
 My coach is coming in next week so we can fine-tune some more. To go to the playoffs, I'm feeling hot. To go in there with some momentum is huge.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT