WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2008
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE: We'd like to welcome Jason Bohn here to the interview room here at the Wachovia Championship after a great opening round 68. First and foremost, how are you feeling? Obviously battled a lot of injuries this last year with a rib injury. Coming into this season, let's talk about your health. 
 JASON BOHN: I feel great actually. I'm 100 percent healthy and I'm still trying to shake a little of the rust off my golf game, so it's either Jekyll or Hyde with me right now. It seems I play well or don't play so well.
 But my health is back, my ribs are perfectly healed, and I feel good.
 STEWART MOORE: A long time ago you had played some mini-tour events in this area, have some friends in the Charlotte area. Is this a tournament you look forward to coming to? 
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, but for many different reasons. One, my ML 550 I'm driving (laughter). No, this tournament is fantastic. I do look forward to coming in and seeing some friends and family that come and watch. 
 But really, the reason why I think the Wachovia does so well, with everything else that they put into it, it is an unbelievable golf course. It's a true test from the 1st hole to the 18th green. It's got a mix of every shot. It's great. So I think that's why I love coming here to play the golf course, because it's a fantastic track. 

 Q. How did the injury occur actually? I hate to go back, but I haven't heard you explain that one. 
 JASON BOHN: I was playing the Memorial last year in the second round on Friday and made a swing on like the 14th hole, and I felt some really sharp pain in my right rib cage, didn't quite know what it was, finished the round with some medication, and I found out I actually had stress fractures in multiple ribs, so two different ribs, two stress fractures.

 Q. Were you trying to chop it out of the rough?
 JASON BOHN: Actually I was hitting the ball right out of the fairway. From all the diagnoses a few weeks later, everybody -- they kind of said my body was getting really tight on my right side, and it just kept pulling and it was going to hurt something. I felt like initially it was just some sort of muscular issue.

 Q. Intracostal muscle or something?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, that would be pretty common. But I couldn't touch a golf club for six months, so it was really difficult.

 Q. Did you feel better before the six months had gone by? 
 JASON BOHN: I did. Actually I felt great after about a month.

 Q. Did you have cabin fever and want to get back out?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, I was actually misdiagnosed. They told me it was something like costal chondritis, which is more of a cartilage issue, so I came back out a month early and then re-fractured them in Tiger's event on the Saturday of Tiger's event. 

 Q. AT & T?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, AT & T.

 Q. He's got the one in December, too. 
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, he's got them all (laughing). Yeah, at the AT & T in Washington, D.C., and then realized -- and then I had some bone scans done and some things, and then I sat for a good five months. 

 Q. Was it anything about your swing in particular that caused the tightness in your side that you had to adjust?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, the doctors actually told me -- I made a swing change with my instructor. I moved my ball position quite a bit more drastic forward than I had ever played before, and I hit a lot of repetitions to try to get used to that really quick, and they said that could have been a pretty good cause of it. They say it's really common in rowers, so they haven't heard of many golfers doing it, but a lot of Olympic rowers doing it by making a small change. And just so many repetitions too quick, my body wasn't able to handle it.

 Q. When did you start feeling 100 percent? 
 JASON BOHN: I got the clearance to hit golf balls like four days before Christmas, and then I had to shop, so I didn't really have time to hit golf balls. 
 No, but I really got to start going back and practice right after the holidays. 

 Q. Your first start this year was?
 JASON BOHN: The Bob Hope. 

 Q. And you've got X starts to make X amount to retain your card this year?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, that's right. I finished 6th in Hilton Head two weeks ago, so I made enough money to secure my medical status, so now -- yeah, kind of a big relief off the shoulders, and now I can just play the rest of the year. 

 Q. What part of your game is the Jekyll and Hyde, or is it everything?
 JASON BOHN: Actually I've been kind of struggling a little bit with my putting, and I had my putting coach come in this week and we worked pretty hard on it Tuesday for a few hours, and I made a change with the putter. A brand new putter, a little bit longer, so I made a pretty drastic change. But I felt like I putted pretty well the last couple days, so I put it to use today, and I made my fair share of putts today, so it was good.

 Q. How much longer, and what's the length overall?
 JASON BOHN: I used to putt with a 34-inch putter, now I'm putting with a 35-inch putter, so longer, so I added an inch to my putter. I made an adjustment with my left hand in my grip. I strengthened my left hand a little bit and really paid attention to my ball position. I've started to hit my putts a lot more solidly and on my line that I'm looking at.

 Q. How many tournaments were you going to have left after Hilton Head to get the money necessary to retain your card?
 JASON BOHN: I believe I was going to have five. I think that was my seventh event, and I had 12 events to play. I had five more to play up until that point. But the big thing for me is I wasn't eligible to play THE PLAYERS Championship next week, so that enables me now to play THE PLAYERS Championship.

 Q. You got two birds with that one stone?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, that's right.

 Q. It's kind of a dirty word, but did they give you steroids to help the muscles recover and all?
 JASON BOHN: Yeah, actually I did an infusion that was called Aredia, and they're three-hour infusions. They give it to people with bone cancer to help strengthen and heal the bones or help strengthen the bone frame. I sat in a chemotherapy room for three hours and had the IVs dripping into me. I did that three times. I did it once every like four, four and a half weeks. 

 Q. Do you think the pressure of having to make that money in 12 starts actually helped you play better, or do you feel you may play better now that you're freed up?
 JASON BOHN: That's a great question. There is some pressure. It's kind of like you're thinking about the 125 number, but it's a different scenario. But yeah, I was paying attention to it. 
 The big pressure for me, though, is I had my second son two months ago, so now I'm like double diapers, so I've got to play good, period. That's way more pressure than making my medical. 

 Q. Can you talk about the round? I mean, what were the key moments of the round and key shots?
 STEWART MOORE: Why don't we go through your card briefly starting with birdies at 10 and 11. 
 JASON BOHN: I got off to a great start. I hit a sand wedge in on 10 probably two feet, so I had a quick tap-in on 10.
 And then again on 11, I hit a wedge maybe three feet, so I kind of got off to a good start.
 I made bogey on 12, got bad breaks is what I'm going to say. I hit it in the left rough and had a really bad lie and kind of squirted out to the right, right of the green. 
 Then birdied 14 with another wedge that I hit in there fairly close, three or four feet.
 And then bogeyed 18, driving it into the right rough, just trying to lay it up, trying to get up-and-down for par.
 Birdied 1 with a little 9-iron from maybe -- I probably had 12 feet.
 Birdied 4, which was a good birdie, from -- I probably had 15 feet. I hit 8-iron into there. 
 Then birdied 5, the par-5, right after that, probably made eight feet. 
 And then parred in from there. But I had a couple good looks coming in, just couldn't get them to sneak in there. 
 STEWART MOORE: Jason, thanks so much. Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT