WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2007
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about the round, pretty tough course?   
 JASON BOHN:  Yeah, I played okay today, actually.  I struck my ball pretty nicely, gave myself some good opportunities.  I had some difficulty with my 40-yard pitch shot.  One I skulled across the green and the other I chucked it short and three-putted.  From 40 yards, I made a bogey and a double.  I think my work this afternoon is going to be spent on my 40-yard shots.   
 I hit a lot of good putts and just lipped out a couple, but I made some good ones, too.   
  
  Q.  How did the conditions out there affect what you were trying to accomplish?   
 JASON BOHN:  Actually I think we played in the most benign conditions on my wave.  I had pretty good conditions yesterday morning.  This afternoon they were really pretty good.  I thought we could get some rain.  It held off.  We didn't have any rain during the whole course of the day except warming up.   
 The winds weren't real tough, so I felt like the golf course played as easy as it could in my two rounds so far.   
  
  Q.  Going into Saturday one shot off the lead, good for the confidence?   
 JASON BOHN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I'm playing nice and I'm confident in my game and my stroke right now.  So, you know, I struggled coming in a little tonight, but, you know, I'll go work it out a little bit.  You've just got to keep in the hunt.  It's a marathon, it's not a sprint.  If you can keep one or two back going into the last nine holes on Sunday, you're right there, and that's my whole goal every week.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned confidence.  If there's any one physical aspect of your game that might need to improve over the next couple days for you coming out victorious, what do you think that would be?   
 JASON BOHN:  Well, I think anybody who is going to win this week is going to drive their golf ball in the fairway.  I've been doing it nice.  My confidence is up with my driver and my 3-wood.  I've just got to keep putting the ball in the fairway and that gives me more opportunities to fire at flagsticks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT