WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome Jason Bohn to the interview room here at the Wachovia Championship.  Jason, great round today, opening round of 67, had an eagle on the par 5, 7th, which was your 16th of the day.  Talk about your day, highlights, lowlights and how it felt out there. 
 JASON BOHN:  Actually today was one of my -- obviously one of my best rounds of the year so far, so I played very nice.  I got off to a great start.  I got to hit a wedge on the first hole to about four or five feet, made that, so it was just kind of comfortable.  I don't know, I hit a lot of fairways, made some good putts and just kind of kept my ball out of trouble today, and it yielded a good score. 
 STEWART MOORE:  You haven't really played up to your expectations this year.  What was different about today as opposed to the previous couple of months? 
 JASON BOHN:  I had my coach out this week, so we just kind of worked on a few things, practice round and the Pro-Am yesterday, on kind of alignment issues.  I kind of got hitting it where I was looking today, and that was a big bonus for me.  Obviously you've got to make putts to shoot a good score. 
 This golf course is just phenomenal.  If you drive it in the fairway, you can attack some of the pins, and the greens were perfect.  So if you hit a good shot in there, you could make it from 15, 20 feet. 

 Q.  First and second out of the same group, huh? 
 JASON BOHN:  Yeah, it was great.  I think you see that a lot anymore.  I kind of rode Padraig's coattails today.  He got off to a pretty quick start.  He played beautiful golf.  He made a lot of putts.  He's rolling his golf ball really well.  So it was just kind of nice. 
 You can see birdies happening, so I thought, why shouldn't I join the train, too.  But it was my first time playing with Padraig, and he's an incredible guy.  Adam I know didn't play as well as he could have today, but another -- I don't know, that's why these leaders in the game, you can kind of see why they're so good because their attitude is phenomenal, good or bad. 

 Q.  Given where the golf course is right now, pretty firm, is driving it in the fairway the primary thing to do right now because the ball is running into the rough or is that not big of an issue? 
 JASON BOHN:  It absolutely is because the greens have some skip to them.  This morning they had a little more moisture in them than yesterday afternoon.  To be able to attack some of these flags and be controlling your spin, you've got to be coming out of that fairway, absolutely.  There's not many pins you can fire at out of the rough even with sand wedge or lob wedge in your hand. 
 If the greens dry out a little bit this afternoon it will play more difficult.  It should always play more difficult in the afternoon unless they get some rain to soften it up. 

 Q.  With this course being known as one of the more difficult courses on TOUR, are you surprised at the scoring today being relatively low compared to years past? 
 JASON BOHN:  Maybe a little bit, but because it's firmer, it plays shorter.  So, you know, last year I remember coming here, and the 9th hole I couldn't even get home in two.  I was hitting driver, 3-wood and it was so wet I couldn't get there.  Today if you can keep your ball in the fairway, I can see you're hitting some shorter irons in there to attack some of these flagsticks.  But by it being so firm, it's definitely playing shorter. 
 I don't know, I mean, you see this golf course draws world class field; world class field equals world class golf course.  I mean, that's just -- you can't ever underestimate any of these guys out here, that's for sure. 

 Q.  What's it like to be a player in this tournament?  This event has just exploded in five years.  What's the attraction? 
 JASON BOHN:  They don't miss a beat here.  I mean, the golf course is A-1.  It's in my top five, and I guarantee you it's in a lot of other players' top five golf courses.  They treat us like kings.  Not that they don't do that every week, but they don't miss anything here.  You know, for me, they treat my wife fantastic, and that helps. 
 No, it's a combination of everything.  I truly believe that the main reason why the field is so good here is the golf course.  It's just major championship.  They set it up like a major championship, the support from the town feels like a major championship.  So it's -- and the best players in the world want to play the most difficult conditions like major championships every week. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Jason, great round.  Thanks for taking time with us here today. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT