CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 8, 2006
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank the runner up, Jason Bohn here in the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro for joining us.

Jason, a nice final round 6 under 66 to put you in the runner up spot.  Your best finish of the season.  Just talk a little about today.
JASON BOHN:  It was a great day for me.  I played very well.  You know, I didn't make a bogey and I missed a couple    I short sided myself a couple times and hit some good pitches to save par but I knew, you know, looking up at the leaderboard when you see Davis up there you got to keep firing at flag sticks, got to keep making birdies.  I was unable to capitalize my last four holes coming down the stretch.

But, every week you take your hat off to the winner.  That's some exceptional golf.  He played great today and deserves to be putting his name on the trophy.
TODD BUDNICK:  Take some questions.

Q    What is it about this course that you seem to play so well at it?
JASON BOHN:  To be a hundred percent honest, I like the whole feel of being in Greensboro.  It feels like a home town to me.

I'll be straight up and tell you the food is the best food on Tour because it's home    feels    fried chicken, it's mashed potatoes, green beans.  Just makes you feel like you're at home.

The fans are great here.  The golf course    I don't know, I like the golf course because to me it suits my eye.

I see where I need to go off the tee and I like the fact that you can't really blow it way off line here.  If you blow it off line, you're going to pay the penalty, hitting it out of bounds or hit it in some hey they designed.

I think it's a great design.  I enjoy playing it very much.  But the food is great.  I mean I'll tell you.  I bet I put three, four pounds on this week for sure.

Q    When you're two back, there's a lot of guys ahead of you, thinking that there's a certain score you have to hit?
JASON BOHN:  I told my caddie today standing on the putting green when we were practicing, I need to get to 7 under par to have a chance because I felt like that would make a leader shoot, you know, 5 under par and, you know, that's    being in the last group, that's    it's very feasible, especially with the way the conditions were today but, you know, it's a great number.

For Davis to shoot 6 under par as the leader, it's very rare you're not going to win when you shoot 6 under leading a golf course on Sunday.

I still would have fell one shot if I shot 7 under so    I guess I needed 8.

Q    Jason, there's been some speculation, a lot of what it is that the people who are running the tournament here might want to move down the road, move the tournament from here to somewhere in the area.

Thoughts on that.  You know this area?
JASON BOHN:  I don't know the area very well but I'm sure they would choose an outstanding golf course.  It would be a disappointment to me because I like the facility.

I don't think we play many golf courses like this where, you know, the houses are setback 20, 30 yards into the trees and you're not looking at everybody's barbeque when you walk around.

And so, you know, it's an old style golf course with some great old trees and we don't play many like that.  We play a lot more stadium built golf courses.

So I don't know from a spectator standpoint, you know, how much they can see or not but it looks    it's an easy golf course to walk which I like so    I don't know.

I can't really say whether it would be a good or bad decision but I would like to see it played here for awhile so    I'm thoroughly excited about the new sponsor and I'm excited the tournament is going to still be around.

A couple years ago that was a big issue to me.  This is a tournament that's been around for 70 years and you'd hate to see it leave with all the names    all the champions that have won here.  It's just great that somebody, they want to continue the event.  I think that's fantastic.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  Go through the birdies, Jason.  No. 3.
JASON BOHN:  3?  Oh, yeah, par 4 third hole I hit 3 wood off the tee.  I hit 7 iron to about 4 feet just beyond the pin.
TODD BUDNICK:  6?
JASON BOHN:  No. 6, drove it kind of in the left rough and I hit 6 iron to about 15 feet right underneath the hole.

7, I hit driver off the tee and lob wedge to about four inches.
TODD BUDNICK:  10?
JASON BOHN:  No. 10 I hit driver off the tee.  I hit 9 iron to about maybe 15 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  13?
JASON BOHN:  13, I hit 3 wood off the tee, I hit 2 iron to about maybe 18 feet for eagle and 2 putted.
TODD BUDNICK:  Next hole?
JASON BOHN:  14, hit driver off the tee and hit a beautiful 5 iron to 18 inches?
TODD BUDNICK:  Anything further for Jason?  Congratulations on a good week.
JASON BOHN:  Thanks so much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT