CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 1, 2005
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Jason, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  First of all, great round today.  I know you were a little disappointed on that finish.  But you still ought to be all in all very happy with your round.  On top of that, it's a big day here because when you woke up this morning, you were getting paid today and you're going to get paid again tomorrow with your million dollar putt, which you can talk about.  Can you talk about your round.
JASON BOHN:  Actually today I played great.  I got off to a fantastic start.  I just hit some really high quality golf shots, then I kind of got a little loose coming down the stretch.  To be honest, I made a couple mental mistakes.  I was trying to find out the score of the Alabama Florida game.  I wasn't at all where I needed to be.  I hit some poor shots (smiling).

All in all, I'm very pleased with my performance.  I played very well.  I'm putting my golf ball very well right now.  I'm not afraid to fire at some flags because my short game's pretty sharp right now.  I can get it up and down, salvage some pars.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Tell them about the payday you had today, how that worked out.
JASON BOHN:  At the University of Alabama in 1992, I hit a hole in one worth a million dollars.  Every October 1st, I get paid $50,000 a year for 20 years.  The check is in my mailbox right now.  Alabama is up 24 3 over Florida.  I just shot 65.  I'm going to be smiling for a long time right now.

October 1st is a great day for me.  Typically my wife and I get the check, we try to go out to a nice dinner.  We throw in the video from 1992, just laugh our heads off.  Pretty blessed actually.  It's a great day for me.  It's a good day to be Jason Bohn right now.
Q.  Why is it October 1st?  Is that when you made the putt?
JASON BOHN:  I actually made the shot November 1st.  Just the way the insurance company pays me out, it comes every October 1st.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions.
Q.  Eagle on 2.
JASON BOHN:  The eagle on 2, I hit a driver down the right hand side of the fairway.  I tried to chase a 3 iron.  We were thinking it landed about 20 yards short of the green.  Rolled onto the green.  I was actually really surprised.  I thought it might be short.  I had about 20 feet just down the hill.  Looked good all the way.  Chris Smith said, as soon as I struck it, he said, "That's in."  It's a nice way to get off, to start.  I lipped out for birdie on 1 from about six feet.  To make eagle on 2, I was feeling pretty confident.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Go through the rest of your round.  Birdie on 6, par 4.
JASON BOHN:  That was my next birdie I guess, yeah.  Sorry.  Played a lot of golf recently, so (smiling).

No. 6, I hit a good tee shot just down the left hand side of the fairway.  I tried to hit a high cut 7 iron to a flag stick that was really kind of tucked.  I probably hit it about five feet, I guess, made the putt.

7, I hit 2 iron, pitching wedge to probably about 12 feet, right underneath the hole.  Had a great look at it.  That one just barely fell in the front edge.

No. 8, lots of luck around today.  No. 8, I kind of hit a fat 3 iron.  Hit a pretty poor tee shot short of the green.  I'm going to say I probably had to have 70, 85 feet, somewhere in there, 30 yards short of the pin.  I hit a pretty good looking chip.  It rattled the flag stick and fell in.  To chip in from 30 yards was unbelievable.

No. 9, I hit two good shots.  I hit a driver right hand side of the fairway, a 3 wood just front right of the green, and chipped it to probably three and a half, four feet.

No. 11, I hit the tee shot in the right fairway bunker.  Where that pin is today, it was a great location to come in from the right side.  I was pretty fortunate.  I hit a 9 iron into the middle of the green, and it catches the ridge, just funnels right back in there.  I thought somebody would really make a two there today.  The way you could just funnel it right off that ridge, it was going in the hole.  I probably hit it maybe four feet just beyond the hole.

13, I hit 3 wood off the tee, then another 3 wood into the bowl just left of the hole probably 25, 30 feet, rolled it up to maybe a foot, tapped it in.

18, I hit a 9 iron from 167 yards that flew probably 175 yards.  Caught a big flyer, took one hop.  You can't hit it over the back of 18 green.  I did.  I still hit a pretty good pitch probably to 10 or 11 feet.  When I hit the putt, I really thought I made it.  I was going to give it a little bit of a fist pump.  It kind of horseshoed.  I guess I quick called myself, which we all know that's not a good thing as a golfer.  Until that ball is settled at the bottom of the cup, that's when it's in.
Q.  Talk about tomorrow.  You have to shoot 63, 64.
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, I think the greens this afternoon, though, are getting a little firmer.  They're starting to put a little water on some of the greens coming in.  It depends how much they water the greens tonight, what kind of weather we get tomorrow.  If we get an overcast day, that yields for really good scoring.  The golf course is playing    the greens are a lot softer this year than last year.  I think that's why you're seeing so many birdies.

I think going into tomorrow, you got to play aggressively no matter what position you're in.  I think if I can get off to a good start tomorrow, have a good Front 9, maybe hit some good shots coming down the stretch, who knows.

But I'm going to go out, play aggressively.  I've got nothing to lose and everything to gain in this position.  One of my goals after I won was to try to get in the top 30.  I'm just barely inside the top 40.  I'm going to fire at flag sticks.  I'm going to try to make a bunch of birdies tomorrow and see what happens.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Played the Front 9 fairly well, 11 under, no bogeys.  You felt you could come out strong?
JASON BOHN:  I've really gotten off to good starts this week.  I've come out strong on the Front 9, absolutely.  I've hit some really high quality shots early.  That just builds confidence for later in the day.  I'm looking forward    I don't want to jinx myself, but I'm hoping I can go out shoot 3, 4, 5 under par on the Front 9 tomorrow, and I'm going to be right there.
Q.  Before your win this year, you had some success at tournaments sponsored by other automobile firms.  Did you like being behind the wheel of a Chrysler today?
JASON BOHN:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  I mean, I'm thrilled to play in every single golf tournament on the PGA TOUR, to be honest.  Chrysler, it's an incredible company.  I think they make really sporty looking cars.

Yeah, it's fun to drive 'em.  We're so spoiled, we drive a brand new car every single week, and that's just amazing.  You get that fresh smell that you're always looking for.  We get it every week.  It's definitely nice.  I'm looking forward to just, you know, trying to stay focused tomorrow and see what happens.

I can't really hoist a Chrysler, but hopefully I'll be hoisting the trophy at the Chrysler.
Q.  You know what name is on that trophy?
JASON BOHN:  I know there's many great names on that trophy.
Q.  It is the Sam Snead trophy.
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, absolutely.  It would be an absolute honor to put my name on a trophy with that many    especially with Sam Snead's name, but with so many fantastic champions of this event.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You've been in this position, the last couple groups.  I know you played well at Deutsche Bank.  Are you becoming more comfortable with that position?
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I think the tournament at the Deutsche Bank was a huge steppingstone for me.  I teed up in the final group and I played good.  I just got beat that day.  That to me meant more.  It almost meant more than my win, it really truly did, because I knew there was a lot of pressure, I knew I was putting the pressure on myself by saying I'm in the last group.  I don't know, I played great golf there coming down the stretch, and I was very happy with myself.

I know I can do it.  I'll probably yield back to that tomorrow, look at my good performances coming down the stretch in the last couple groups.  I'll try to go back and find some good memories from that, you know, flow with it.
Q.  Back to the hole in one, how long did you think about it, turning pro?
JASON BOHN:  Maybe three and a half seconds.  I really had no choice.  It's just too much money, 'cause I knew I could put food on the table for a family for 20 years.  I had a partial scholarship.  I wasn't giving up much, to be a hundred percent honest, maybe some books.  It's all right.

It was really a no brainer.  It wasn't a tough decision.
Q.  What was the venue for that?
JASON BOHN:  It was a charity fund raiser.  You paid a dollar a ball for it.  You hit it within a circle.  That qualified you for semifinals.  Anybody that hit it in the circle was in the semifinals.  They eliminated    they tried to limit it to 12 contestants.  They took them onto an actual hole on the golf course and gave you one shot.  If you hooped it, it was worth a million.

I don't know, it puts a smile on my face every time I tell the story.  I never mind telling it.  It was a pretty amazing moment.  It was life changing.  It gave me an opportunity to chase my dream.  For that I owe a lot to the organization and a lot to the University of Alabama.
Q.  Weren't you up late the night before?
JASON BOHN:  I was up late very late.  The night before was Halloween.  I was 19 years old, college student, going to Halloween parties.  I was having fun.  I was definitely having fun.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT