DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2005
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Jason Bohn, who is tied for the lead in the clubhouse through three rounds of the Deutsche Bank Championship after a 4 under 67 today, 2 under on the front nine and then kind of a roller coaster type back nine there for you today.
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I think I only made one par on the back nine.  But that's kind of this golf course, you hit good shots, you get rewarded.  You hit bad ones and you get penalized.  I hit a few bad ones in a row, and you know, I kind of got my head down and then actually I ate a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, and I don't know what that did for me but turned me around to birdie my last four.

I don't know, I'll have peanut butter and jelly in my bag tomorrow, I'll guarantee you that.
TODD BUDNICK:  Two guys, Kent Jones and John Rollins early on posted good scores, so you think they are out there but the afternoon comes around and nobody makes a move.  Can you talk about the conditions?
JASON BOHN:  I think the afternoon the winds swirl a little bit differently than they do in the morning maybe.  Definitely the greens get about a step harder, a good pace harder.  It's a little bit more difficult to kind of get to those tucked pins, so, you know, the greens are getting a little bit more firmer, a little bit more spiked up than in the morning but you've got to take your hat off to anybody that shoots 8 under par on this golf course.
TODD BUDNICK:  You picked up your first win earlier this year at the B.C. Open, you're in contention for your second one, talk about the possibilities and what you're looking for heading into tomorrow.
JASON BOHN:  I've been a player all my life that plays with my heart.  I just go out there and grind as hard as I can.  Today it worked out for me last few days.  All three days I played like I did today.  Played really solid at times and then I've kind of thrown in a couple holes of disaster and then managed to bounce back from it.  So for tomorrow, I'm just going to go out there and try to do the same thing I've done the last three days, you know, pick my points on when to be aggressive, and hopefully hole a bunch of putts and come out on top.
Q.  Peanut butter jelly sandwich, was it crunch peanut butter and    inaudible?
JASON BOHN:  Yes, I make two peanut butter and jelly sandwiches every day and I put them in my bag.  I ate the peanut butter and jelly sandwich walking down the 14th hole when I managed to make a good, solid par.  It is crunchy peanut butter, and it's    sorry?  Grape jelly on whole wheat bread.
Q.  Were you eating peanut butter and jelly sandwich?
JASON BOHN:  No, I wasn't eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich at that time but I should have been but I was eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich when I won the B.C. Open, more importantly.
Q.  Inaudible?
JASON BOHN:  Well, actually I have been eating a lot of these energy bars at the turn and I kind of felt like I got a big kind of sugar rush.  So I got a lot of energy for four or five holes and I felt like I crashed a little bit harder.  So I felt like I'm looking for something and I load the peanut bitter with a touch of jelly to make it go down.  I feel like it lasts longer in my stomach and gives me a little bit more energy.
Q.  What was your mindset after the third straight birdie, to turn it around like that    inaudible?
JASON BOHN:  You know, actually, I give a lot of credit to my round yesterday.  I couldn't get anything going yesterday.  I hit some bad shots and then coming in, I told my caddie standing on 16 tee yesterday that I was going to finish three, three, three, and I did.

So I knew that those holes coming in, you can make birdies on them if you hit good shots, and I was confident in the way that I finished yesterday so I was looking for a good, strong finish today.  But to birdie my last four, I don't know, I hope I can do that tomorrow, because I think I'll be right there if I can.
Q.  What happened on 18?
JASON BOHN:  On 18 I had 201 to the hole, and I tried to hit a high, cut 4 iron in there to land it as soft as I could.  I hit a great shot.  Couldn't find my pitch mark so I don't know if it landed on the green.  Might have landed on the fringe.  I might have had 12, 13 feet coming down the hill, and misread the putt.  But I hit it right where I was looking, but I thought the putt would go left and it kind of hangs and goes maybe even a touch to the right.
Q.  Could you talk about how you feel now with a chance to win and contrast that with the way you felt at the B.C. Open?
JASON BOHN:  I'm really calm now.  The B.C. Open I was a little more anxious I think on Saturday but felt fairly calm.  The B.C. Open was really my first contention    first time I was ever in contention to win a PGA TOUR event.   Right now I'm going to go do some work tonight and have a great dinner with my wife and my little boy and just kind of take it easy.

Tomorrow is the day to think about tomorrow, not today.
Q.  Inaudible?
JASON BOHN:  I wasn't going into the day with the lead.  I was actually one shot off the lead going into Sunday.
Q.  Inaudible?
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, sure, but to me, the tournaments that are opposite a major or opposite World Golf Championships are great opportunities for me being just a two year guy.  I look at those tournaments as kind of like majors for us.  Those are opportunities that if we can't get in the larger field events, we still have a place to play, and a win is a win on the PGA TOUR.

Most definitely, to win in a field like Deutsche Bank would be an unbelievable honor, but to win any time is an unbelievable honor on the PGA TOUR.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your card, Jason.  You started with birdies on 4 and 5.
JASON BOHN:  Wow, that seems like a long time ago.  Actually I struggled with those two holes the previous day, so I was trying to get them back a little bit.  No. 4, I hit a perfect tee shot.  I had I think 113 to the hole and hit a sand wedge in there probably, I'm going to say maybe 15 feet pin high left of the hole.  Hit a great putt, so right in the front edge.

No. 5, hit a great tee shot down the right hand side of the fairway and I think I had maybe 161 to the hole.  I hit a 7 iron right up against the wind, and never left the flagstick.  Kind of landed maybe one pace, about three feet just beyond the flag and I had a 12 footer right down the hill.  Will Mackenzie, who I played with today, actually putted his ball from the front of the green just past my mark.  So I got a perfect read on that putt.  I actually had misread that putt until I watched his putt.  His putt broke left at the hole and I was thinking it was going all the way.  Without that read I probably won't have made that putt either.
Q.  Was he eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich?
JASON BOHN:  I need to give him a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.

No. 10, I hit a 2 iron off the tee just to try to play for good position there, and I think I hit 7 iron in from 155.  I was trying to hit a cut up against the wind.  I probably had 25 feet    20, 22 feet and there again, Will Mackenzie hit it over the green, chipped it past where my mark was only by about two feet and gave me another perfect read.  I mean, I've got to pat him on the back.  He gave me a couple of great reads today.
TODD BUDNICK:  And bogey, bogey, bogey.
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, actually on No. 11, I hit a great tee shot.  I was trying to hit a 4 iron in there and I hit it right where I was looking and it just landed just over the bunker but then bounced back down in the bunker.  I hit a good, spinning bunker shot maybe three feet just above the hole.  I read my putt to go inside the left edge, I hit it right where I was trying to, and the ball broke left on me and spun out.  That wasn't such a bad bogey.

But then No. 12, I hit driver and drove it right in the fairway bunker on the right side.  Kind of hit a thin 9 iron over the green, pitched it to probably six or seven feet and didn't hit a very good putt there.

13, hit a good tee shot, I hit 6 iron in from like 188.  Probably hit a good second shot but the wind kind of grabbed it and moved it a little bit to the left.  Bounced just off the green and I think I caught a terrible lie there, one of my kind of poor breaks, actually.  I really had to hit a hard chip shot going down the hill just to get through the lie.  Ran it probably 12 feet past.  I actually misread that putt.  So my green read doesn't sound too good today, so I need Will Mackenzie to putt in front of me on every hole.

15, hit a great tee shot right down the middle.  I was in between eight and 9 iron, and I decided to hit just a little soft 8.  I flew it in there and had maybe six feet coming down the hole.  Hit a great putt.  Good read.

Then 16, the par 3, I hit a 5 iron.  Kind of hit it a little bit heavy but I knew it was enough to carry the water.  It landed just over the green and chased it back about six feet just beyond the hole, another good read and made that.

17, I hit a 3 wood off the tee.  I had 123 in.  I hit a sand wedge out to the right of the hole trying to catch the slope and spun it down in there about    I was about two inches from LPGA's ball.  He hit hit putt and had rolled off to the right and I made my putt.

19, great tee ball, carried the bunkers and the spotter said it hit like a cannon and took off racing down there, and I had 201 in.
Q.  How far on 17?
JASON BOHN:  Couldn't have been four and a half feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Jason.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT