DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2005
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How is the golf course playing today?
JASON BOHN:  The golf course is in great shape.  It's a little bit less rough than we had last year.  So I think it's very scorable out there.  It's fun to play, the greens are perfect, you can make a lot of putts and I think that's why we're seeing lots of low scores.
Q.  You went to Alabama?
JASON BOHN:  I live in Atlanta now.  I was born and raised in Pennsylvania, but yes, I went to school in Alabama.
Q.  What are your thoughts about the tragedy?
JASON BOHN:  It's unbelievable.  You want to do so much.  You're sitting in a nice hotel room with power and electricity and you just feel so bad for those people.  You put your thoughts and prayers with every one of them.  Luckily I haven't had any family or friends that were affected by it, but I know that there are many people that are.  I don't know.  I'm praying for every one of you, I promise you.  It's tough.  It's a tough thing to see.
Q.  You've played that course there, so I know you've been to the town of New Orleans.
JASON BOHN:  Absolutely.  New Orleans is a great town and they are great people.  I'm an optimist.  I believe they are going to pull through it and I believe the town is going to come back, better than it ever was.

So it's going to take a while, but we'll do what we can to try to help and pray and whatever we can do for the people.
Q.  What do you think about this weekend?
JASON BOHN:  I played pretty solid for two rounds.  You know, when you have those names like Tiger at the top of the leaderboard at 6 under, I think the golf course is a little bit more difficult in the afternoon, but I think it's hard to predict.  He's a phenom, he could go out and shoot 10 under today.  But the golf course is in great shape.  It's hard to predict what's going to happen.  I think I'll have to shoot between 15  to 16 under par.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT