BUICK OPEN
July 29, 2005
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Jason Bohn, 3 under par 69 today, 10 under for two days.  Just maybe talk a little about your continued good play, I guess a little bit of a carryover after your win at B.C.
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I'm still playing with a ton of confidence right now.  Today was a little different than yesterday.  I hit some poor shots today and managed to make some great pars.  I made a few bogeys today but I didn't get a great night's sleep last night, so I was a little more tired I think today.

I'm playing with a ton of confidence.  I'm firing at flagsticks and I'm rolling my golf ball great right now.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Something keeping you up last night?
JASON BOHN:  No, just    I don't know why I didn't sleep real well.  I had two beers; maybe tonight I'll have three.  (Laughing).

No, I woke up at like 3 o'clock and couldn't go back to sleep for like an hour and had to get back up at 5:00.  I'm not used to these early times, 7:27; I'm used to 9:27.  So that extra two hours is a big difference for me.
Q.  You talk about your frame of mind being smiling all the time, being on cloud nine, how much does that help being in that frame of mind when you're out there?
JASON BOHN:  For me personally, it's everything.  The more I don't get frustrated myself, the more it's time to say, almost like a who cares kind of attitude.  When you hit a poor shot, just go try to find it and hit a good shot from there.  I think it's everything for me.  Some guys, it might not work as well.  Some guys, they are focused and they get hard on themselves and they hit better shots.  For me, I realize that the happy go lucky, I play my best golf that way.
Q.  Sometimes you hear players say it's hard to follow a really low round with another one.  Did you run into that at all today?  Was that on your mind with the 65?
JASON BOHN:  No, I never really think about that.  I just kind of look at how guys are playing out there.  If the scores are tough or if they are going low, you know you've got to fire at flagsticks.  It is hard to follow a low round with another low round, unless you're Vijay Singh or Tiger Woods, and I think that's just because, you know, when you shoot a low round, you've got a couple good breaks, like to make a 25 footer here and there and you've got to hit it in the trees and have a clear shot right to the green.  Or then you'll chip out or 3 putting that 25 footer, and I think that's the game of golf.
Q.  You just recently started getting the better tee time, the early year tee times?
JASON BOHN:  Yeah, actually last week was my first week of so called premiere tee times, so category one.
Q.  Does that make it more intimidating to be chasing down    inaudible    than to be chasing down someone else?
JASON BOHN:  To me it's not intimidating, to me it's you've got to play more aggressive.  When you get the caliber of play like a Vijay that's at the top of the leaderboard, he's not going to make mistakes.  He's going to continue to make birdies.  So for you to catch him, you're just going to have to make a few more.  But I don't think that's    I think when you've got somebody like that in the lead, they are going to be making birdies and you're just going to have to fire at every flagstick.  There's no middle of the green and hope you can hook a 30 footer.
Q.  How much talk is there in the locker room about Tiger going 1, 2, 1 in the first three majors?  I know you were not out here in 2000, but are people amazed by it?
JASON BOHN:   Winning that many majors before he's 30, it's incomprehensible to most of us, and you know, to go two wins in the three majors, it's just    I mean, the guy is so able to elevate his game when he needs it, and that's extremely impressive.
Q.  Is there concern, maybe not concern, but a view that that kind of run by him, not that it's going to happen anymore, he struggled a lot in '03 and last year, did you ever wonder if he was capable of putting together that kind of run again?
JASON BOHN:  I never wonder about Tiger at all.  He's a phenom.  There's no question.  The guy    I can totally see him winning, you know, the next ten majors.  I mean, it's totally possible.  Just his talent is phenomenal and his mind is even better, and I think that's where he beats the majority of the players out here.  He's gifted with his talent and he works hard, but I think his mind is as sharp as anybody's out here.  I know he just controls    I would want 1/100th of his career, I'll tell that you.
Q.  You talked earlier about intimidation, not being intimidated by a Vijay or a Tiger, but do you think some players are intimidated, whether it's what he does, is that intimidating in itself or is it just more motivating, I guess?
JASON BOHN:  Well, the way I kind of look at it, for me, personally, is I'm the underdog, so I've got nothing to lose.  If I chase one of those guys and end up coming out on top, it's just a great accomplishment for me.  For me it would seem like there's more pressure on them to not lose to some young guy coming up or chasing them down the stretch.

But, so, I would never look at it like that there's pressure to beat those guys.  I would never be    I think it would be intimidating to play with some of the galleries, some of the other stuff that goes along with that, but I don't think that I would be intimidated in the sense that I can't beat them.  I would say, if I did beat them, it's going to hurt him a lot more.  That's kind of the way I look at it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  A couple good days for you, Jason, what has been the best part of your game?  I noticed four sand saves the first couple of days, you're making pars and saving something, anything particular working well?
JASON BOHN:  Probably this is    my bunker play probably this week has been the best it's been all year.  I've had four great bunker shots.  I'm putting my golf ball great right now and I really feel like I'm driving my golf ball great.  Made a few poor swings today, but I think that's the key to this golf course.  If you can drive it out there and get it in play and not be punching out in the limbs of these pine trees, you've a great chance here to make a lot of birdies.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT