BUICK OPEN
July 28, 2005
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Jason Bohn, one shot off the lead through 18 holes, a few players still left on the course, but you're in great position heading round two.  Let's get some opening comments.
JASON BOHN:  I enjoyed my day once again, still on cloud nine from a couple of weeks ago.  Just having a lot of fun playing golf now.  I think it's carrying over into the shots I'm hitting.  I'm playing with a lot of confidence and I played really well today and I think I made six birdies, or five birdies and an eagle.  I didn't make many mistakes.  I made a couple 6 footers to save par.  It was a fun day, actually.  For me, being my second year on TOUR, to be able to go out and play with Stuart Appleby and Steve Flesch, these are guys that I watched the last few years on television.  So it's so much fun to meet these guys and learn their personalities.  I'm really enjoying myself now.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Looking at the statistics, last week you played in Milwaukee and you led the field in total driving, and you were first in driving accuracy and tied for fifth in driving distance.  Kind of an unusual combination in today's game.  A lot of guys are straight and short, or long and crooked.  You seem to have a pretty good combination; that's got to be really helping your game.
JASON BOHN:  Absolutely.  I've driven the golf ball the best I've driven it in a long time.  I'm really controlling it, working it right to left in some of these crosswinds, and that enabled me to hit some fairways.  That's the No. 1 key out here, you've got to drive it in the fairway first, and then you can start attacking flagsticks to make birdie.

If I can continue to drive the golf ball which I've done over the last, actually, the last couple of weeks, I've driven it great.  It puts me in such a great start for each hole.  I can go right at the flagstick.
Q.  You said the win came out of the blue, but I imagine this is less of a surprise?
JASON BOHN:  My roller coaster is going up right now, and I'm just riding a great high and I'm playing with a lot confidence.  I think that's the result of hitting good golf shots.  I think that, you know, guys that are playing well, you know, playing with a lot of confidence, hit good shots.  I felt very confident with my putter.  It felt like I could make it anywhere off the green today.  That's a nice feeling.  That's a lot better than grinding it out trying to make cuts on the number and missing seven out of nine cuts or whatever I did previous to that.

I really give a lot of credit to just playing with a lot of confidence and feeling great.
Q.  You have you had a lot of fun, and you're smiling, what was it like before that when you were going through that rough stretch?
JASON BOHN:  It wasn't like this, trust me.  I've always been the guy who is glass half full.  I've always been an optimist and I realized that I was just blessed to be on the PGA TOUR.  Even though there were times that were kind of rocky, I might snap at my caddie every now and then, but still, at the end of the day, I realize that, you know, I'm very fortunate to be out here just playing golf for a living.  My caddie I think enjoys it much more now because I haven't said a mean word to him in probably the last three weeks.

Yeah, it's hard, and that's the part of golf, when you're down, you have to learn how to try to pick yourself up.  For me, it took me playing well and sneaking out a win.
Q.  The first four or five holes on the back nine here are really you can make up a lot of shots, how important was that and the eagle at 13 to jump start your round?
JASON BOHN:  It was unbelievable, I think I birdied    I believe I birdied 12, just parred 10 and 11 and birdied 12.

On 13, once again, it's pretty neat because I think that maybe in a situation where, you know, six or seven weeks ago, I might have laid that shot up.  But my caddie and I both looked each other and we said, "Would Vijay or Tiger lay up from here?"  The answer was no.  So I took a 2 iron, fired it right at the flagstick and ended up landing it 15 feet from the hole.  For me it was a good start today, is really crucial, because those holes are fairly easy and you have to grab a few birdies to go through that stretch.
Q.  When you talk about getting off to a good start, as you play in the afternoon like you did today, do you watch the score board at all and see how the morning group has finished up and have an idea of what you're shooting for?
JASON BOHN:  You know, actually, I do.  When I tee off in the afternoon, I only look at it about once or twice in the early part of the round just to see how the scores are.  Going, if everybody is shooting 4  or 5 , 6 , 7 under par, you know that there's some accessible pins out there and you know just to stay patient.

You know, it puts a little bit more of an aggressive mind set at you if you see guys shooting low numbers.  You know it's out there so you need to be attacking flags.
Q.  Have you had a stretch like this before on the Nationwide Tour, or last year; I don't think you were ever this hot.
JASON BOHN:  Last year I never played as well.  I played more consistent, made a lot of cuts but always finished around 30th.

On the Nationwide Tour a couple of years ago, I did, I got off to a great start.  I didn't even join the Tour until maybe mid July and I ended up earning my TOUR card in October.  I had that stretch of a few months where I played great, one once, lost in a couple of playoffs and I was kind of riding that same high.  I was just enjoying myself.  I think that's how I play my best golf is to have fun.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let's go through your score card.  You started off on the back side, and as you mentioned, No. 12, you hit driver.
JASON BOHN:  I did.  I hit driver on 12 and I think I drove it probably had 63 or 64 yards to the hole.  I hit it in there about 12, 15 feet, right underneath the hole and I hit a little lob wedge in there hoping to get a little skip.  Actually came up short, hit a much better shot but capitalized on making the putt.

14, actually I hit driver there, too.  I tried to drive it up in the left corner by the bunker.  I chipped it, thought I hit it a good chip, carried it about three or four yards past the hole, skipped by another 12 feet.

18, I hit a good tee shot off of there down the left hand side of the fairway and the wind was in and off the left, and I think I had like 182 to the hole.  I tried to hit a big cut 6 iron in there and I hit it probably about ten, 12 feet right above the hole.  I got a great read off of Stuart Appleby off that putt.

2, I drove it down the left hand side of the fairway and I kind of had a little tree there sticking out, so I punched a little 7 iron in there probably about 15 feet right underneath the hole.  Once again I got another great read from Stuart Appleby because he was on the complete opposite side of the hole.  I got a lot of good reads from those guys today, and that helped hitting it just barely inside of them, so that kind of helped me.

7, I drove in the middle of the fairway and I went at the green in two.  Hit in the left front bunker hit a nice bunker shot probably six feet just short of the hole.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Playing with guys like Stuart Appleby and Steve Flesch, did you find yourself doing anything different than you were when you in the quote, unquote rookie category?
JASON BOHN:  I don't find myself doing much differently.  I find myself looking a lot more and watching how these guys manage their games, because they are multiple winners.  I talked to my caddie quite a bit about it today and said, look at some of the aspects of what they did and what I did; and, you know, some of the aspects of my game that I think I can really improve on and saw the shots they were hitting in there from different yardages.

Still quite impressed.  I know they didn't make all of their putts, I think both of them, I don't know how they finished, a couple under par, but they had some good looks, and their short games are really impressive.  So it's nice to see the things that I need to go home and work on.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Jason, good luck the rest of the week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT