FRYS.COM OPEN
October 18, 2015
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So close.
JASON BOHN: Yeah, I was a little bit disappointed actually in the way I finished the last three holes.  It was tough.  Maybe a little bit of nerves.  I was fairly focused on 16 there where I just kind of laid the side over it and chunked it.
Kind of really throws a shock into the mind because you know you're not thinking anything like that.  There's times when you think that, trust me, when you're out there.  Oh, don't chunk this one, but this wasn't one of those times.
Kind of rattled me a little bit.  Then I didn't hit a very good -- to make a bogey from, you know, 40 yards short of the green is pretty unacceptable when you're trying to win a golf tournament.
Q. Looked like that ball was lying a little thin.
JASON BOHN: It is.  I mean, the grasses out here are slightly different.  Sometimes like a little Bermuda sandy, you know.  But, I mean, I looked at the lie.  Didn't think it was going to really do much to it.
I think I just kind of peeked.  Wanted to see where it was going before I made contact.  Dumped it and chunked it.
Q. You come to the last and still have a chance to put yourself in a playoff.
JASON BOHN: Yeah, I was trying to hit it over there where Kevin hit it.  I thought that was the play, to try to get it in that right rough.  Kind of squirted out of that first cut a little on me.  Went a little too far right.
Yeah, I didn't have the best lie over there where I dropped it, but I would like to have had less than 20 feet for my shot foe sure.
But I had a chance.  I always say if I can have a chance to win on the back nine on Sunday then I've accomplished my goal for the week.
Q. You've captured a couple of these things out here.  This is not a bad way to kick the season off.
JASON BOHN: No, this is a great way to kick the season off.  I really felt like coming down the stretch that this one was mine, and I kind of let it go.  I know if I could have just made a birdie or two coming in I just think I could have clinched it.
But there is next week.  I'll go work on it and focus on it and take what I did positive this week and go try to get it done.
Q. Come up just a little bit short but gave yourself a chance in the end.  What more can you ask for, right?
JASON BOHN: Yeah, that's right.  You try to have a chance to win on the back nine on Sunday.  If I can do that every week, that means I've accomplished my goal for the week.
It was really kind of disappointing coming in there.  You know, 16 I had, I don't know, 40, 50 yards.  Just lay the sod over it and chunk it.  I mean, just one of those moments where it rattled me.  I'll be honest.
I wasn't expecting that to happen.  I didn't look at the lie and think -- it was a little bit thin, but I never thought that shot was going to happen.
Then when I got rattled I didn't hit a very good next pitch.  To walk away with bogey from that point, I really felt like at that point if I could have made a birdie or two coming in that the golf tournament was mine.
I just kind of let it slip away.
Q. You mentioned a couple of days ago that you're just trying to hang with the young guys out here.  Let me preface that by saying I think you're a young guy.  You did that this week.  What does that mean to you, to know that you've got the game like they do?
JASON BOHN: I think this golf course kind of suits my game.  I drove it very well.  I drove it in the fairway, on the proper sides of the fairway.  Whenever you don't have to bomb it, when the golf course got firm, I really like that.
My golf ball can get out there.  I can hit the little chase draw out there and it kind of runs for a little while.
This is the kind of golf that I like to play, so I have to really play well in these type golf courses.  Some of the big golf courses I can't carry the bunkers at 285.  I have to work around them.
But I mean, all in all, first week of the season, I can't be too disappointed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT