THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2015
Jason Bohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, a round of 6-under today, best round so far, how good is it in your opinion?
JASON BOHN: I played pretty nice today.  I hit a lot of fairways and I had a lot of looks actually early in the round.  Kind of struggled coming in grinding for pars.  I made six birdies and no bogeys, and to be honest, I had some opportunities out there to make some more.
Totally pleased.  This is a golf course where if you're out of position, you can make a double-bogey in a heartbeat.  I was pleased with the way I kept the ball in play and I was able to attack a few flags.
Q. How well does this golf course match up to your eye?
JASON BOHN: I don't know, there's a lot of blind shots, so your eye is not really seeing too much to be honest.  But it's a good golf course for me because it's about placement of your golf ball.  So when I'm hitting 3-woods off tees and not really worried about driving it out there.  Normally I've got to hit driver.  I'm a short hitter, so I have to hit driver all the time.  Just being able to place my golf ball is fun and I had a lot of wedges in my hand.  My wedge game was a little bit better than yesterday.
I like it.  I don't think it suits anybody to be 100 percent honest.  I think you've just got to place your golf ball and create the angle to attack the flags.
Q. Sounds like you have to manage this course.  Does that give you an advantage, especially heading into the weekend?
JASON BOHN: To be honest I think the thing that's most challenging about this golf course is the mental process that you have to go through because you know you're going to hit a decent shot and you're going to get maybe a very poor bounce that's going to suck back off the green into a bunker.
I think managing your expectations and managing your emotions is probably the challenge.  So the guys that do that the best are going to come out on top.
Q. 6-under par, bogey-free.  How did you do it?
JASON BOHN: Well, actually I struck my golf ball really nice, probably through the first 15 holes.  I really didn't have much of a chance to make a bogey.  I hit some poor putts where I was making some three-, four-footers for par.
But I kept my ball in play and that's the key out here.  I don't know that I hit it -- I can't really think how many times I hit it out of the rough today but I know I was kind of close a few times.  But I mean, it's just positioning your golf ball out here and just trying to create angles and really keeping the ball in the fairway.  As it firms up and gets a little breezy, it's tough to hit the fairway.
Q. This year, a couple runner-ups and Top-10s, you're healthy.  What's the key now coming into the Playoffs?  How are you feeling?
JASON BOHN: Physically I feel fantastic.  Mentally and emotionally I am excited because this is so far my best year I've ever had on the TOUR.
I don't know, I'm excited to get out and excited to play golf.  I just feel comfortable.  I shot 1-over par yesterday.  I was a little bit out of sorts and not very comfortable, but it didn't bother me like maybe it used to, where I felt like my game is kind of sharp and I can come out and shoot a pretty decent score, and I was able to do that today.
Q. You've seen all the courses we play.  What is the challenge from your perspective with this golf course here at Plainfield?
JASON BOHN: The biggest challenge is the mental challenge to be 100 percent honest.  There's a lot of slopes on these greens and you're going to hit a decent shot that's going to carom off in a way, and you're going to have some really difficult putts.
I think it's just realizing, hey, everybody is going to get it.  You've just got to kind of suck it up, deal with it, try to make some 3- and 4-footers, and just know you're probably going to make a bogey.  But if you get too far out of position, doubles pop up pretty quick out here.
Q. Some wind coming up this afternoon; how hard is this golf course getting?
JASON BOHN: With the breeze, the golf course gets very difficult.  I think the greens are still very receptive and I think they need to be.  I think low humidity, a little bit of breeze, they are going to dry out this afternoon.  To be honest, I'm glad I'm going to eat lunch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT