U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Matt Parziale
Herbie Aikens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, Matt, describe that last hole, your second shot in.  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, it was obviously windy out there, picked up the last few holes especially.  I had a pretty bad lie.  I was in a divot, but it wasn't horrendous.  I knew, if I made solid contact, got it bouncing, it would hopefully stay up in that bowl.  I was fortunate, it stayed about six feet behind the hole.   
 Q.  There wasn't much break on that putt, was there?  
MATT PARZIALE: I actually over read it.  It barely snuck in.  I thought it was going to go a little more, but I played it enough on each side with a little margin of error.  So fortunate for it to fall in.   
 Q.  Herbie, that was a high quality match.  Everybody is winning holes with birdies, not pars.  Have you been in a match like that before?  
HERBIE AIKENS: I have, but not of this caliber, with these players.  When you've got this guy on your team, it's a nice feeling.  He's always there in the clutch.  He's a great teammate.  It was fun.  We were all feeding off each other.  Started right away with a birdie on 1, and you had to birdie to win.  It wasn't going to be given to you.   
 Q.  What's it like, now you're making the quarterfinals, and I know that you guys were in this before and didn't even get to match play.  What's it feel like now?  
HERBIE AIKENS: It feels good.  I think we're where we should be.  I think we put a lot of -- we didn't really know what the numbers were going to be in the other one, so I think we pressed a little bit too hard and didn't just play our games and now we've gotten back to playing the way we play and having fun.  It's awesome.  Doesn't get any better than this.   
 Q.  Is the excitement level still there?  When you're playing by yourself and you win a match like that, it's all on you.  Here, it's a team thing.  What's the excitement level like?  
MATT PARZIALE: It's always exciting to compete, but it's a different feeling when you're out there by yourself.  It's a different strategy.  You don't make birdies like this when you're playing individually, because more mistakes -- when one person makes a mistake, the other guy can still make birdie.  So this is fun.  It's a new experience.  We've only played stroke play, but this match play is pretty fun.   
 Q.  Obviously, the wind is really picking up.  This afternoon, it's going to play a big part in the match.  How do you see the wind playing into this?  
MATT PARZIALE: You know, we had the windy days early in the week, and we did pretty well on that second day of qualifying, where we were kind of behind the 8 ball after a poor first round.  In that wind, we were able to play a good round.  Hopefully, we can keep that going into this afternoon.   
 Q.  Herbie, finally, the wind, you can see it's really picking up now with the clear skies.  How do you feel it's going to play out this afternoon?  
HERBIE AIKENS: Yeah, it's definitely going to dry the greens out a little bit more.  We'll have to keep playing our game.  That's all we can do.  This golf course is pretty cool.  You can hit some great shots and maybe not get rewarded and hit some not so great shots and be in there close.  You've just got to stay patient and keep giving yourself opportunities.   
I think the key and the wind is going to be for both of us to be in double all the time, and that would be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT