MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 2, 2018
Matt Parziale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Well, good afternoon, everyone. It is our great and sincere pleasure to welcome to the interview room for the very first time the 2018 U.S. Mid‑Am champion, Matt Parziale. 
It is truly an honor for us to have you in the field, and we appreciate you being with us here today, Matt.
MATT PARZIALE: Thanks for having me.
THE MODERATOR: Matt hails from Brockton, Massachusetts, and is a full‑time firefighter, and all of us greatly appreciate your dedicated service to our country. 
Would you please share with us how you keep your focus as a first responder as well as prepare for the Masters.
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, so when I had won the U.S. Mid‑Am, I end up having to take a leave shortly after from work, just to be able to prepare and didn't want to take the risk of getting injured before the tournament. 
So the city's been great, the chief's been great, and I couldn't do it without their support. So hopefully my job's still there when I go back. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please? 

Q. How many requests have you gotten from the firehouse for merchandise, et cetera?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, they‑‑ there's been a few. So I'm going to try and take care of them as best I can. But they have been so great, and everyone's excited. Firefighters from all over the country have reached out. So it's been a lot of fun. 

Q. What do you recall‑‑ after you won the Mid‑Am, I believe you went right back to your shift the next day. Can you take us through the time lapse of that in terms of how much time you had off, how early you were in, and what you were doing immediately the next day. 
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, so I think we left Capital City Club around I want to say five o'clock, and then we hit traffic in Atlanta. So we missed our first flight and got pushed back to about ten o'clock flight. That got delayed. I think we landed in Boston around 1:00, 1:30. Got home around 2:00. Then I was at work at 7:00. So it was a quick turnaround.

Q. Do you remember what you were‑‑ what your duties were that day?
MATT PARZIALE: Just normal. Just normal day. So, yeah, it was‑‑ actually wasn't working in my own group. I was working in a sub for someone because they had worked for me when I was down in Atlanta. So I couldn't take the day off because I owed someone a shift. So I was trying to get a day off, but couldn't happen. 

Q. What is your schedule in the Crow's Nest since you've been here? Any nights there at all?
MATT PARZIALE: Tonight's my first. So I'm going to go to the amateur dinner after this, and then stay at the Crow's Nest tonight. 

Q. I'm just curious, have you‑‑ you must know other past amateurs who have stayed up there. Have they told you any funny stories?
MATT PARZIALE: No, I haven't heard any funny stories. I think whatever happens there stays there. So I haven't heard anything yet. 

Q. What's been your "wow" moment since you've been here? 
MATT PARZIALE: Just the course. It's just such a special place. People have asked the first time I came, you see it on TV, you have high expectations, usually things don't meet those expectations. This exceeded them. So it's been so much fun playing it. I've been fortunate enough to play a few rounds and just trying to find the best way to play, and it's been a lot of fun preparing. 

Q. A little bit more on that, on preparing for the golf course. What kind of things‑‑ what kind of steps have you undertaken in terms of who you've consulted and caddies and all that kind of stuff?
MATT PARZIALE: I had a great local caddie for all the visits that I took. He's been here I think 12 years, and we had five days together. And he was terrific. So we did a lot of work those days, 27‑hole days. But since the week started, been cutting that back and then just kind of playing the course and getting the lines down. And, yeah, it's been good so far. 
And then I've talked to all of my friends who have won in the past, and they love talking about it. So I got some advice from them as well. 

Q. I wanted to ask you, I read stories that had your age as 30 or 31. I just wanted to ask you. 
MATT PARZIALE: 30. 

Q. Thank you. Can you just speak to the emotional part of having your dad as your caddie, what it was like when‑‑ I don't know if you had to ask him or if it was just assumed on both sides, or just a little bit of how that went and really what golf has been for the two of you as you grew up?
MATT PARZIALE: So we were taking a shower after I had won the Mid‑Am, and the first thing he said, he said, I don't think I can caddie at the Masters. And I said, What do you mean? And he said, I can't read the putts. But he hasn't read a putt for me in 12 years, so I don't know why he thought he would start now. 
So, no, we have had a great time together. He's probably been doing it 15 years for me. So it's a blast. We don't really talk about golf out there, just other stuff, and we have a lot of fun. 

Q. You were a pro and got your amateur status back, correct?
MATT PARZIALE: Correct.

Q. Did you imagine coming here when you were a pro? And when you decided to become an amateur again, did you think at that point that those hopes of playing here were over?
MATT PARZIALE: Well, we have one chance a year with the Mid‑Am. So it's a difficult tournament to win, obviously. It's a hard week. It's seven, eight days of‑‑ and you have to play well every day because it's match play. But you've always wanted to play golf at the highest level possible, and that's just kind of what's kept me going, preparing. And even when I've been playing bad, I've never stopped enjoying it. 
So that's kind of always had the goal of playing in the Masters, playing the U.S. Open and really the highest level possible. 

Q. Two questions. One, why did you choose to become‑‑ what motivated you to become a firefighter? And, two, people talk about the pressure of golf and hitting putts and being here on this stage, but this would seem not pressurized at all compared to fighting an actual fire, which would be a little more dangerous. So if you can just touch on those two things. 
MATT PARZIALE: So my dad's a firefighter. He actually just retired in November. And he worked 32 years. And he never missed any hockey game I had, so I figured it was a good schedule for me to play competitive golf. Being around the guys growing up, I always enjoyed going to the station and spending time with them. And I knew most of them before I got on, and it's such a great group of guys. We have such a good time. 
But I don't think it affects golf in any way. I put a lot of work into preparing for tournaments, and just because I fought a fire doesn't mean golf's any easier. But it's different, though, too, where in a fire you're there with 30 other guys sometimes and you rely them, they rely on you. So on the golf course you're by yourself. So it's two separate situations. 

Q. Can you go through a little more details about your mini‑tour career and what it was like? And I know you said you had abandoned it because it wasn't really financially feasible, but what was it all like and were there any moments where you thought I'm about to break through and go on a higher level?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, so I played all the mini‑tours you can possibly imagine, Monday qualifiers. And I enjoyed it. Yeah, there was always a chance. I was playing well. I didn't really have many times where I thought I was playing that bad. But I wasn't making any money. 
So, yeah, it was just a decision I made, and it was‑‑ I never regretted it. Someone asked me is this a second chance. I said no, I never stopped enjoying to compete, and so I never looked at it that way. 

Q. Do you have a most dramatic firefighting story? Have you been in something where your life was‑‑ you were a little concerned? Or what's your best stuff firefighting story?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, it's a dangerous job. So we get in all different situations. But I was able to fight a fire with my dad before he retired, so that was probably the best thing that's happened so far. But we don't talk about the other stuff, so... 

Q. Oh, okay. 
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah. 

Q. What was the episode that convinced you that you needed to take a leave of absence, and is there‑‑ what is your schedule as far as getting back to your regular job?
MATT PARZIALE: There's no schedule. The city's been great. I obviously have the U.S. Open, the U.S. Amateur, and then a wedding this year, too, so it's a busy year. And what was the first part? 

Q. The episode that kind of led you to leave, I needed to take a leave of absence?
MATT PARZIALE: The scheduling, to be able to prepare, and also the risk of getting hurt. Usually every house fire we go into, you leave a little banged up. If you leave too banged up, then you could be out for a year. So I've already missed five months from work because of a knee injury, or four months, so you never know what's going to happen. 

Q. You mentioned the other firefighters sending you messages. I'm curious, what was the most memorable one you got, and what was the sendoff like from the guys in Brockton?
MATT PARZIALE: So a few of them, a few guys from all over the country, guys I never met, firefighters, hey, would you like me to come caddie? I would love to go to Augusta. So it's just funny. They're just trying to especially had. It was entertaining. And they were great, though. 
So my home club, Thorny Lea, they did a little party before I came down a couple weeks ago, and some firefighters made it there. So I actually think I got an e‑mail the other thigh that Thorny Lea is allowing the firefighters to come and watch the Masters at the club. So I think there will be a good environment there during the Tournament. 

Q. You've seen‑‑ we have seen some mid‑ams do well here lately, and you said you talked to some of your buddies. What confidence do you take from their performance in recent years?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, so I'm good friends with Stu, and he played incredible last year. That was fun to watch. I'm just trying to get their advice, but at the same time it doesn't have any bearing on this week. Things are different. But it was great to see him play well last year. 

Q. Did you, in fact, pick a new wedding date? If so, when is that? And when were you out‑‑ this is separate, but when you were out on the course today, you said that was your wow moment, just seeing the course. Any moments you can speak to in the practice rounds being out here, just anything you saw or that really‑‑ that really has stuck with you or made you stop and really take notice?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, so we changed the wedding date. We moved it up two weeks. But it all worked out well. The venue didn't change, and Ali's happy, which is good. 
And so the wow moment was in November when I first got on site. So that was just the first time on property, seeing it all. Since then it's been about preparing and trying to compete. 

Q. What about today? Just so what did you think of the course today?
MATT PARZIALE: Oh, today, yeah, the course is getting better by the day. It's firming up. Greens are getting faster. Fairways are tighter. So it's going to be in good shape this week. 

Q. You talk about a couple of the firefighters from around the country sending you notes and whatnot. Do you feel like you're trying to send a message, or do you feel like you've got any kind of extra weight, given your backstory and given kind of the attention that you've gotten because of it, playing this week? Do you feel something different because of that maybe?
MATT PARZIALE: No, I don't. I do this because this is what I love to do. It's just cool that everyone else ‑‑ someone to root for this week. And I think that everyone's having fun with it, and that's great. 

Q. What's your firehouse, like what's the number or whatever of your firehouse? And two, what do you love about Brockton? Describe what you love about Brockton. 
MATT PARZIALE: So I'm at Station 1 in Brockton. That's just all it's called. We have six stations. Brockton is home. It's a tough city, though. It's gone pretty downhill since my dad was a kid, but I love it there. I'm building a house there, so we're staying for a long time. But it's good. 

Q. When I talked to you the other day, you were talking about trying to sort some practice rounds out, and you were hoping potentially to try to get out with Tiger. I'm wondering if you had any luck with that and what your next couple of days look like. 
MATT PARZIALE: So I think I'm playing with Brendan Steele tomorrow morning. And possibly Tiger Wednesday morning. But he's in high demand, so we'll see if that happens. And I understand if that doesn't happen. 
But he did reach out. He sent me a letter after I had won. And that was incredible to receive, just because I had I grew up watching him. And, I mean, I played competitive golf because I was able to watch him growing up.

Q. Did you connect with him at all this week or through his people at all to try to connect something?
MATT PARZIALE: Not this week, but I ran into him at Medalist about six weeks ago. And I just wanted to say thank you for sending the letter. But we didn't talk about anything Masters related, just thanking him for the letter. And he was great to talk to. We talked for a few minutes, and he was fun to talk to. 

Q. I would actually just follow up with the Tiger question. You're obviously a fan, then, or you have been. So for you being here this year and he's also back, I mean, has that‑‑ is that exciting for you just to be in that same field and the Tiger effect in a sense?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I mean, it's great to see him playing again. He's playing well, too. It's great to see him healthy. So, but I wouldn't approach it any differently for me. Still just trying to compete. But it's good for golf, good for everyone that he's back again. 

Q. Following up, I don't know if you see it as significant or important that you set an example that you don't have to grow up in a country club environment and be wealthy to play this game very well. Is that‑‑ how often does that come into your mind?
MATT PARZIALE: It comes into my mind‑‑ it never comes into my mind. I look at this game as if you put the effort in and‑‑ I mean, you can make what you want of it. That's kind of the way I look at it. I don't look at it any differently. Yeah, I just put a lot of work in to get here, so that's all I see it as. 

Q. Were there guys‑‑ when you were playing the mini‑tours, how many guys would you play with that went on to the PGA TOUR or bigger and better things?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, quite a few. A couple good friends, too. Jon Curran and Keegan Bradley, we all grew up playing at the same time in New England. So great to see them doing well. Jimmy Renner, he was injured, but he's getting back out there. And then a few guys that I wasn't close with but they're playing well now. So it's good to see guys from the Hooters Tour and E‑Golf Tour doing well now. 

Q. You talked about this, and I'm just curious from kind of a firefighting question, you say a lot of times when you go into house fires you get banged up. How does that happen? I mean, obviously, I know it's dangerous and I can sort of see, but I'm just wondering, when you say you always come out of it a little banged up after you get in a house fire? 
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I mean, we're pulling walls, ceilings, cutting holes in roofs. We're pretty much destroying the house is what we're doing. But you got to make sure the fire's out. Because you're trying to find the fire. It gets in the walls and the attic. Yeah, you have stuff flying everywhere, people swinging tools everywhere. A lot of things can happen. You can't see a thing, so might as well close your eyes. 

Q. Really?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, it's pitch black. It's not like the movies. 

Q. You ever been able to pinpoint what it was, what part of your game that you feel like held you back from being able to make a career at it as a pro?
MATT PARZIALE: No, I've always‑‑ yes and no. I feel like my game's always been pretty well rounded. Last year I started hitting the ball a little closer to the hole with some irons, shorter irons. But that didn't mean I was hitting the irons bad before, just maybe a little more control. So last year that was the biggest thing I improved on. So, yeah, I guess that's it.

Q. And what are your goals this week?
MATT PARZIALE: Just to compete. And I've had so much fun preparing for this event, and I'm just really looking forward to competing at the high‑‑ at the highest level that I can compete at. I'm not big into goals, I'm not big into expectations, I just really enjoy the competition of‑‑ that this brings. 

Q. You can tell we have obviously loved this story. If you kind of‑‑ can you stand apart from yourself for a moment and like what would you make of it if somebody told you there's a firefighter from another town that he's going to the Masters?
MATT PARZIALE: Oh, yeah, no, it's incredible. But like you said, I don't see it that way. Because I've obviously lived it. But, no, it's a great story, and I understand why there's so much attention. And I had fun with it. I enjoyed the stories, the video. So it's been a lot of fun. It's been long at times, but I never stopped enjoying it.

Q. Who do you want to play you in the movie?
MATT PARZIALE: I don't know. Me. 
(Laughter.) I've had a lot of practice these past few days.

Q. Your hometown has produced an interesting and colorful collection of sports figures, including Herbert Warren Wind, obviously. Have you thought of him a little bit when you played Amen Corner, and are you prepared to be on that list of people that like somebody might want your autograph or take a picture with you or something like that?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I had to do a few autographs yesterday for the first time in my life. So that was for the Drive, Chip & Putt. That was kind of cool. Yeah, Herbert Warren Wind, he learned the game at Thorny Lea, and he coined the phrase Amen Corner. So we have a tournament named after him at the club, and he's‑‑ he's the history of the club, up until we had some guys start winning some state tournaments, and now the club has evolved into one of the better I want to say competitive like state and national competitors in the state of‑‑ and even in New England. We have guys that win state ams all the time, compete at USGA events. 
So it's‑‑ that's where I learned to compete, there, from the guys that are older than me. So it's been fun to be a part of the club. 

Q. You talked about your dad was a firefighter. It's not uncommon for sons to follow their‑‑ second generation, third generation, cousins, uncles. Why do you think that is? And why do firefighters often stay in towns that have fallen on some tough times and seem to love the town more than almost anybody else?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I think‑‑ well, I can only talk from my own experience. Just growing up and watching him love his career. And it's‑‑ I enjoy it. It's a great career. But to stay in Brockton, yeah, it's home. It's not‑‑ it's not the best, but it's just where home is. And I feel like a lot of firefighters in the city feel that way. There is a residency rule, too, for seven years that you have to live there. But a lot of guys stay. Some move out, but a lot of guys do stay in the city. 

Q. How do you‑‑ over the years, how have you kept your golf game in shape during the winter when you're living in Brockton?
MATT PARZIALE: I skied. No, this is the first year I've played all winter since I stopped playing mini‑tours. My fiancee, she ski raced her whole life, so we ski all the time in the winter.

Q. Where do you ski?
MATT PARZIALE: Loon in New Hampshire.
So, yeah, there's no golf. Usually after the Mid‑Am, I usually don't touch the clubs until the snow melts and‑‑ well, April this year, sometimes March. 

Q. I think I know the answer to this, but do you‑‑ when you're fighting fires, I mean, do you enjoy that your life has worked out like it has? Is there ever any time that says, well, I wish I was just a golfer, I wasn't in the middle of a fire where I'm tearing down a wall? Or do you like how things have worked out for you?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I make all decisions with no regrets. I don't look back. So, yeah, I enjoy where I am. I'm very fortunate enough to be able to do two things that I love doing‑‑ playing competitive golf and then have a career that I really do enjoy. 
So, yeah, I never once thought that. 

Q. In the finals of the Mid‑Am, when did the chance to play Augusta National start to go through your mind?
MATT PARZIALE: If I say never, you're not going to believe it, but it really was. The night before it went through my mind, before the finals started. Your mind wanders. But that day I was in the moment the whole day, and I only felt more comfortable as the day went on. I know that's very cliche to say, but that was‑‑ I felt that way the whole day. 
THE MODERATOR: Well, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank you for being with us, and we wish you the very best of luck this week.
MATT PARZIALE: Thanks so much. Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT