U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2017
Matt Parziale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got to the 10th hole and you said...
MATT PARZIALE: I'm just going to try and play a good nine holes.  He hit it to two feet; great shot.
Then 11 I got one to go.
Q. How far was that?
MATT PARZIALE: Probably 20, 25 feet.  It was a good putt.
Then I birdied the next two actually.  Then he actually birdied 13 as well after I made it.  It was a good putt on his end.
Q. How did you make the birdie on the par-5?
MATT PARZIALE: I was just right -- two-putt from the fringe.  Yeah, I hit 2-iron up there from I think it was 244 just to the front.
And then on 14, we traded pars.  He had a really good up and down.  I thought I was in good shape to win the hole and he hit it to three feet.  Great shot by him.
Then 15, I hit a good shot in there and he was in the bunker.  His putt lipped out.  If that goes in, I'm probably going home right now.
Then down the stretch hit a really good one on 16 first.
Q. What club did you hit into 16?
MATT PARZIALE: That was 7-iron from 175.
And then he hit a decent shot.  Just trickled off the edge.
And then 17 was a big putt.  I mean, that was -- drove it in the right rough and flew the green yesterday from the same spot, so I took a little off and it stayed.
The putt was dead center the whole way, so felt good about that one.
Then we both hit good shots on 18.
Q. 18 it looked look your putt was going in there.
MATT PARZIALE: It did.  That broke a lot more.  Felt good about that stroke.  I wasn't disappointed there.  Felt like a good stroke.  Just broke across the hole.
Then 1 we both hit bad shots.  You saw 2 there.  Once he flew the green I went down a club just to hit to the middle, and was lucky enough to two-putt.
Q. Yeah.  I mean, what's this say about you?  To win five out of seven holes in a quarterfinal situation, I mean, what's that say about you?
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah.  I mean, I haven't really thought about that.  I was just trying to hit good shots.  That's all I can do in that situation, try to hit the next one good.
Maybe got a little head of myself early, but I am proud that I was able to get myself back and respond.  Even if I didn't win, I was proud to get it down to 18.  I just kept seeing the board.  It was like, All right, it's 5.  Let's get it to 4; let's get it to 3; let's get it to 2, and then all of a sudden it was all square.
Q. Did your focus get better as the match went along?
MATT PARZIALE: I don't think so.  I think early I was a little ahead of myself.  Not that I wasn't focusing.  I was maybe, I don't know, trying too hard, trying to make it happen.  I think I smothered a couple short irons to go long left.  Just horrible shots.  Maybe I was a little bit, I don't know, trying too hard.
And then you get back and (indiscernible), and it all came together there at the end.
Q. When you started the day, since you have not been to the quarterfinals before, did you feel any pressure, nerves?
MATT PARZIALE: I wouldn't say anymore than I did yesterday or the day before.  I hadn't won a match until this year.  I lost last years first round.
Once I won the first one, I mean, that was kind of, get that off.  But I felt the same on the tee.  I mean, I try to make it just golf.  I know that sounds cliche, but I really try to just go about it and -- like I said, I got a little ahead early, but in the end I am proud that I got it back.
Q. What do you think you're doing the best this week to get to this point?
MATT PARZIALE: You know, keeping out of trouble.  Not so much in the rough.  I've been in the rough a little bit.  This is a tough golf course.  You've got to hit it long and straight.
I've been around the hole with chances to make pars or birdies.  I think that's been the key.  Been putting well, too.  They're not all going in, but they all have a chance, which is all you can ask for.  Some are going to fall and some aren't, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT