U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2017
Matt Parziale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Has to be a lot of excitement, because not only are you going to play for this championship but, you're going to play for a U.S. Open berth.  
MATT PARZIALE: Right, yeah.   
 Q.  How does that feel?  
MATT PARZIALE: It's amazing.  That was a great announcement the other night.  Try not to think about that.  Got a long way to go.  These are long days.   
So just on to the next tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is this the peak right now of your golf career?  Where does it fall?  
MATT PARZIALE: I mean, yeah, it has to be.  This is the one all the mid-ams want.  I'm excited to be here and I'm excited for the opportunity.   
 Q.  Obviously you work as a fire fighter.  When you're working a tough it job like that on a day-to-day basis, does your mind wander to playing in these things?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I'd probably just rather play in these than working.   
But, no, I love my job.  I enjoy it.  Great group of guys.  It allows me to do this.  This is what I love, so...   
 Q.  Considering what you had to go through this morning coming from way back and to get off to a good start this afternoon...  
MATT PARZIALE: Right.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you feel like there was momentum there?  
MATT PARZIALE: It was, yeah.  I was a little more relaxed starting.  And then -- but even down stretch, you don't want the same thing to happen to what happened to Brad there this morning.   
Just tried to stay in, and thankfully it worked out.   
 Q.  Early on, won three of the first four holes.  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was good about what you did there in those opening holes?  
MATT PARZIALE: You know, I hit bad shots on 2 and 3 but got away with it.  Got a couple good 2-putts.  He hit a really good shot on 2.  I thought it was going to be really close, and went over the green.   
I was fortunate enough to win that.   
And then the birdie putt on 4, I had a good read there and hit a good putt.   
 Q.  How long was that?  
MATT PARZIALE: Maybe 18, 20 feet.   
 Q.  Did you have to play that in three or did you get it up close?  
MATT PARZIALE: No, yeah, I played it in three.  I haven't even tried going for that this week.  It's a little too far.   
 Q.  At least in the holes that I watched, it seemed like you were always giving yourself not hard looks there for par.  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, that was kind of the goal.  He hit it in some bad spots.  After he did that, I just tried to give myself an opportunity to have an easy two-putt or make the birdie, you know.   
 Q.  There are all these other things that maybe could be distracting with possible invitation to the Masters and all these different things that come with winning tomorrow.  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah.   
 Q.  How are you going to keep your mind focused?  
MATT PARZIALE: I haven't thought about it all week, so shouldn't change tomorrow.  Just because tomorrow is last the day doesn't mean -- I could've been thinking about that on the first day of stroke play.  Just trying to keep the same mindset from the whole week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT