U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Matt Parziale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So the run had to end sometime and it ended today.  What was it like out there?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, you know, I didn't play bad but I didn't play well enough to win today.  Andy played really well.  Solid tee-to-green.  When he missed a green he hit a good chip.  He was pretty much mistake-free and I was only able to make one birdie to try to get it back.   
Then I made a mistake by flying the green on the 15th hole to go back to 2-down.  A little too much to overcome.  I had a blast.  Great course and a lot of fun.   
 Q.  When you equate your game now with where it was maybe even earlier in the year, where does it stand?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, that's a good question.  It's up and down right now.  It's like good and bad.  It's so close to being good though.  I feel that way.  It's too bad this is one of the last tournaments of the year.   
I was playing well earlier in the year, at the U.S. Open, and then the month of July, and then not that I was playing bad, but just sloppy.  I felt like I got it going this week and last week at Pine Valley.   
Yeah, it's disappointing to end this way, but I definitely wasn't sharp enough.   
 Q.  Is there an adjustment for you having not played this much golf because of your job, and now all of a sudden, this year in particular, you've played a lot more this year?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, definitely.  I think before the wedding and just after the U.S. Am, that break, I was going along so much and I was just into a rhythm.  That break kind of stopped everything, and then it was tough to get going again and get the feeling back.   
That's why I've felt like I'm close right now, but it's just disappointing there is not much to play in the rest of the year.   
 Q.  Then just looking back at this whole year, the last 12 months, how would you describe it briefly?  I know there are a lot of different things that happened and you got to meet a lot of different people, not just golf people.  
MATT PARZIALE: Right.   
 Q.  What would you say the highlights were?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, obviously playing in the Masters and U.S. Open, those are at the top of the.   
But you're right, the people I've met on and off the course, never thought that I would -- I mean, Tom Brady, I talk to him on the phone; was able to play with Tiger Woods; met Jack Nicklaus.  I mean, guys I always looked up to and watched them play their sport and had fun watching them play their sport.  Not so much Jack.  Highlights at least.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
MATT PARZIALE: No, it's been incredible just being able to compete at these levels.  I was a little disappointed with the Masters and U.S. Am, but I felt good here and at the Open.  It's disappointing, but just keep moving along.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT