MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Matt Parziale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was the difference between playing it today in competition versus practice rounds for you?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, it was a little firmer and faster, but not too much. I played is quite a bit so I had a good feel for the course.   
   
 Q. Overall, I can't imagine that's the score you wanted, but just give us a little bit of what the challenge was and what were some of the rough spots?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I had a bad lie on 7 in the bunker, made a double there. It was a bad drive I hit on 7. But I feel like I didn't play that bad. I drove it in a divot one of the holes and couldn't get any spin and it went over the green. So couple misclubs, couple shots in the water, 81, you know.   
   
 Q. That being said, how would you rate the experience?  
MATT PARZIALE: Frustrating. But it's so great to play here, but just frustrating that I played bad.   
   
 Q. Was there a high point? One of your favorite shots?  
MATT PARZIALE: I hit some good shots, I hit a good shot on 3, hit a good shot on 4 ‑‑ I'm sorry on 4 and 5.   
   
 Q. That was the birdie?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah. Hit some good shots on the par‑5s. I drove it well pretty much all day. So I was pleased, it just, that's why I'm a little frustrated right now.   
   
 Q. Are you eager to come out tomorrow and put a better score up?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, that's the plan.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q. How did the round with Tiger come about yesterday?   
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, that was fun. I've been texting his caddie Joe there a little bit, we have a mutual friend, so it worked out great. We had some weather issues, but other than that, we got it done.  
   
 Q. So you went nine holes yesterday front nine?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah. It was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q. What was more pressure, playing with Tiger yesterday in a practice round or actual round today?  
MATT PARZIALE: I don't know if pressure's the right word, it's two different situations. It was fun playing with Tiger. Today's a tournament, so it's two different things.   
   
 Q. What was it like, the group of fans kind of they all had their white hats and they came from home and did you hear much, were you aware of them much, were you able to see them?  
MATT PARZIALE: Yeah, I heard them. They were great. I wish I could have played better. But it was fun to have them out there.  
   
 Q. What does it mean to you that so many of them made the trip and what does it say about your connection?  
MATT PARZIALE: No, this far from home, it's been incredible. A lot of faces I saw there. It was great to have them here.  
   
 Q. Being with your dad, you kind of made some jokes about him reading putts or whatever, but did you guys have a good time out there or was he a sounding board for you at all with some of the frustration?  
MATT PARZIALE: We played bad rounds before, so it's just another bad round is what it is, which is frustrating. But we have been here before. It's not the end of the world. We're going to wake up tomorrow, hopefully.  
   
 Q. What's your usual kind of, if you have a disappointing round, what do you think mentally tonight you'll do to kind of put that one away and come back tomorrow?  
MATT PARZIALE: I'm not disappointed in the way I played, just disappointed in the score. So not much is going to change.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT