MLB WORLD SERIES: CUBS VS INDIANS
October 25, 2016
Corey Kluber
Roberto Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Chicago Cubs - 0, Cleveland Indians - 6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.   
 Q.  Corey, there's so much emphasis on your strikeouts, but how much of a role did Roberto play tonight just in the game-calling and framing the pitches, that side of the game?  
COREY KLUBER: Oh, yeah, that's huge.  I mean, he did an unbelievable job.  It's almost like he knew what they were looking for.  He had them off balance for the majority of the night.  Really the only time that they got hits was really when I didn't execute a pitch.  If I did what he asked me to, then it worked pretty well.  But that's how he always is.   
 Q.  Corey, did you recognize when Francona came out in the 7th that part of that is a big-picture decision about how often you might have to get used in the series, and what do you think about that potential burden of maybe having to go short twice, if the series goes all the way?  
COREY KLUBER: I mean, I'll pitch whenever he asks me to.  I think at this point in time it's all about doing whatever we can to get four wins before they do.  If that means pitching on short rest, then I'm more than willing to do that.  I don't think you'd find anybody who would turn down a chance to go out there and pitch right now.   
 Q.  Roberto, what does it mean in your first World Series game, especially for a guy who is considered a defensive specialist, to hit two home runs in the first game of the World Series?  
ROBERTO PEREZ: Oh, for me, it means a lot.  I've come a long ways.  I'm just playing with a lot of confidence right now.  I'm not trying to do too much at the plate.  I'm just trying to control my emotions.  First World Series experience, and just trying to go out there and compete and try to get good ABs up there, and try to get on base and make something happen.  It's an unbelievable feeling.   
 Q.  Corey, just what have you seen out of Roberto since he was called up, kind of when he wasn't ready yet, and how he's come along since then?  
COREY KLUBER: I think he just said it, I think his confidence.  I think that you can see it growing every game, every series with him, with the team.  I think that it's all right there in confidence and feeling good about himself.  You can see the difference just in the way he feels about himself right now.  He's not out there searching or doing things like that.  It's like you said, he's simplifying it, trying to have good at-bats and it's working.   
 Q.  Roberto, just how much fun when Corey's on his game, like he was tonight, is it to catch him?  And what was working so well?  Especially with the two-seamer it was really effective.  
ROBERTO PEREZ: I think his ball was moving too much today.  But, I don't know, man, he's so consistent.  Every day, every five days he gets up there, he always gives his best.  He's a gamer.  I think he's well prepared.  We stick with the game plan, and he was just making pitches.  I think, like he said earlier, we got guys off balance the whole night, and I think they hit mistakes.  So we didn't make that many mistakes tonight, and I thought that was the game right there.   
 Q.  Corey, I asked Tito about this, and he said you're good all season long, but in the postseason you've been really, really good.  A different approach, a different focus, what can you put your finger on as to why you've been so dominant in the postseason?  
COREY KLUBER: I don't know.  I don't know if there is one thing you can put your finger on.  I think that it's obviously there's more riding on each game.  So, not that there is less importance on a regular season game, but it's almost like you have that extra level of intensity or focus and stuff that it's not really something you can replicate.  If I had to guess, I'd say that.  But I'm really just trying to treat it like any other start.  Just trying to go out there and get outs as quick as I can and try to go deep into the game.   
 Q.  Roberto, you mentioned controlling your emotions.  How did you do that given the backdrop tonight with everything with you guys, the Cavs, just the entire city of Cleveland and the night they were having?  
ROBERTO PEREZ: You know what, I think there were a lot of fans out there tonight.  But after the first AB I kind of wanted to get that out of the way.  I think I was swinging too hard.  But after that one I was just trying to get that one out of the way and be myself.  I needed to trust myself more.  I mean, Lester, we have a lot of respect for him.  I mean, he's been an unbelievably good pitcher.  So I was just trying to get good ABs and I was seeing him really well.  But after that, like I said, I was trying to be myself and trying to put the ball in play.  I probably had too many mistakes, but I couldn't believe it.   
 Q.  Roberto, I just wanted to ask you, what was your feeling after the second homer?  How long has it been since you had a night like that?  
ROBERTO PEREZ: Oh, I don't think I've ever had a night like that.  It was huge.  I mean, getting more runs, kind of, it didn't give more pressure, you know?  Cody Allen, I think you don't want to pitch with 3-0 game.  I mean, put a couple of runs on the board in the ninth, and seal the win, I think that was huge.  I think that was the game.   
But I think everybody, Kluber, the bullpen guys, Miller, Cody, they did an outstanding job tonight, and hopefully we can keep going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT