ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 15, 2013
Leonard Hamilton
Michael Snaer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH HAMILTON:   North Carolina was a tough match‑up, we could not keep up with Reggie Bullock and P.J. Hairston.   Our game plan was to not allow them to get out in transition and get those open looks.   They got such great range and they get it off so quick if you're not there on the catch contesting hard. 
Obviously we had‑‑ I think we had nine turnovers the first half, gave them 14 points.   But even with all that, we had that period in the first half where I think we might have been down two and we missed two layups or three, turned the ball over, four free‑throws.   They hit two three's, made a lineup on our turnover and that's the 10‑point game and we dug that hole for ourselves and couldn't ever get back out of it.   Once they got their momentum they played freer. 
We still had a difficult time locating the shooters.   I thought Marcus Paige did a good job of getting the ball to their shooters, 10 assists, our Achilles heel was we had 17, 18 turnovers, but I thought North Carolina had a lot to do with that. 
Once we got behind I thought they played with more confidence and we were somewhat anxious and not quite as efficient as they were.   The best team tonight won.   They outplayed us and I think getting off‑‑ having two guys that we couldn't seem to keep up with.   When I play that back over in my mind, we got 'em in half‑court we were fairly solid but we couldn't find 'em in transition and that, I thought, did us in. 

Q.   I don't know if you noticed Michael but when you fouled out a lot of people stood up and applauded, basketball fans in general, not just Florida State fans.   Could you sum up your ACC career? 
MICHAEL SNAER:   I noticed it a little bit but at the time I was frustrated about the game and the loss and just the way the game went in general.   This is the sum of my career in the ACC has been a long one, fun one, at times it's been where we had up's and down's but just being a part of the Seminoles, there is a level of pride that comes with that and a level of toughness and the young guys on our team, they're getting a taste of what that feels like now and getting a taste of what it means to be a part of the Florida State basketball program and to play under Coach Leonard Hamilton.   I think they're going to be good, they're a young team, they're talented and now they know what it's like to play in the ACC.   I couldn't have picked a better place to come to. 
We got a chance to make history a lot and I've been fortunate enough to be a big part of us making history at this school.   That's one of the main reasons why I came to Florida State and one of my main goals and I'm proud I accomplished one of my main goals. 

Q.   P.J. Hairston is a good shooter but he's not that good of a shooter this year against you guys.   Is that just something, some guys play well against teams?   He was 13 of 21 from the three against you guys. 
COACH HAMILTON:   Sometimes that's the way it goes.   And we have been known to be a pretty good defensive team.   It's not like we have been poor defensively over the year.   I think he's a good shooter, P.J. Hairston might be a little more of a rhythm shooter but you look at his statistics and his percentages, they are pretty good.   He's capable of doing what he did tonight. 
Against Duke those jump shots didn't fall, they had the same looks tonight that they did then.   That's the way the ACC is.   You might have a guy that's streaky because they are developing and growing and maturing, but there is something about when that first one goes in it gives you a certain level of confidence and I thought that's what happened to us tonight.   Those guys made a couple and we had turnovers that gave them transition baskets, and you make a couple and get your confidence and you get going, that's what good shooters do.   I don't think it was a lack of effort on our part, I think those guys got pro range and they have quick releases and they're both athletic and they have a guy like Marcus Paige who is lookin' for them and moving the ball.   Their system works for the type of team that they're putting on the floor now and if they shoot that way, the way they shot against us tonight they're going to be a hard "out" for a lot of people. 

Q.   Coach, what do you think your postseason will be now? 
COACH HAMILTON:   I have no idea.   I don't get caught up in the‑‑ it's become a sport within itself trying to figure out who is on the bubble, who is not on the bubble, who is going to the NCAA Tournament, who is going to the NIT, the CB‑‑ whatever.   As I approached this year's team I knew we would be very young, somewhat inexperienced and we would have to learn and grow up kinda by fire. 
I didn't expect to be void of our leaders.   Terrance probably played the most minutes in the last couple of games since Jan and it's March.   We've had to play our freshmen, who have gotten very valuable experience and I think it's going to pay dividends as we move forward.   So I am more focused on just trying to develop‑‑ like Michael said the mentality it takes to compete at this level with these guys.   I think we're talented tonight.   Our two big guys didn't play tonight but before they leave they're going to be the best two big guys league.   The match‑ups tonight just didn't give us an opportunity to play them because McAdoo is such a mobile guy.   He is a power forward with small forward skills.   We didn't feel it was to our advantage to play with our centers tonight, because we tried to match up with them, but our focus is developing this team, playing as well as we can and trying to teach and develop know is that the future is bright and any opportunity we have to play that we are invited to, I'm sure it will be a tremendous opportunity for our guys to continue to play more games and get better.   We are going on a European tour this year so we have those 10 days of practice and we will play against some people and it will give us an opportunity to get better as we approach the next year's season. 

Q.   Could you talk about what Mike has meant to the program over the last four years and his impact going forward? 
COACH HAMILTON:   Well, Mike brought a work ethic and a mentally tough spirit that I think has been helpful to our team.   Fortunately for him, in his first three years he always had some mature guys around him that kind of fit his focus and mentality. 
This year I think has been his best year even though maybe we have not had as good of a team and we have not accomplished as much as we had in the past.   I thought his role changing from being a guy that was a finisher, kind of a defender, a stopper, a guy who made shots for us, but now he had to accept the role of being a leader, a mentor, a guy who is trying to not only finish, make plays, now he's a leader and facilitator, trying to create for others, when up until this point he has had guys creating for him and I think he's accepted that role and he's done a fine job communicating with youngsters. 
Sometimes it's hard to lead when the guys who are supposed to be following don't know exactly what they're supposed to be doing.   It's a challenge.   Sometimes you lose patience and sometimes you have to challenge them and after all the things that he has gone through this year and he has maintained effort and attitude and he's done a great job representing the University and his family, and our basketball team. 
So he is going to be missed because he's going‑‑ when he came it was different.   He decided that if I'm going to get into the lineup and I'm going to play I need to learn how to guard somebody.   He didn't start the first few games as a freshman but his defense was so good we had to put him on the floor and not very many High School All‑Americans will do that, they want to shoot, have an offensive mind but he turned it around and said I know I can score but let me make my mark and give the team what they need, a defensive stopper.   That's going to be something he carries with him into the future, and he will always be a representative of the type of mentality that he brought to the program and he's leaving with a lot of accomplishments. 
When we recruited him he knew he could go to a well‑established program and he could be part of making a difference.   We needed somebody that had the mentality, I don't want to be like everybody else, I want to do something different and make a contribution.   So that type of individual is rare.   A lot of guys want to go where it's easy, he went where he would have the opportunity to contribute, and I think he will be better as a result of it and we have been better as a result of his participation in our program. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT