U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
William Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We'd like to welcome Will Gordon, another quarterfinalist at the U.S. Amateur.  A long day but a successful day.  Could you sum it up for us?  
WILLIAM GORDON: Really up-and-down match, lost the first hole, won two and three, and was kind of bouncing around the rest of the day.  Didn't have my best stuff, but glad I got the job done.   
 Q.  When that happens in match play, sometimes the other guy is struggling at the same time, but sometimes guys who don't play as well as they can and they have to grind don't always give themselves enough credit for how well they played.  Is that a case of this?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I played solid through the middle of the round, the first couple holes and the short one on 16 were kind of the rough spots, but yeah, overall it was still an okay day.   
 Q.  Do you think playing Mr. Mouw was something that was an advantage to you since he has played so many extra hole matches and you didn't have to do that?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I don't know about that.  I mean, I think every match kind of has its own life, so I was just trying to beat him.   
 Q.  What does the sound of your name and U.S. Amateur quarterfinalist mean to you?  
WILLIAM GORDON: It means a lot.  I mean, I think everybody knows how hard it is to advance in this golf tournament.  Just trying to keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  Will, I heard this rumor, I'm not supposed to tell you how, but I heard that you've become friends with Steph Curry since you live in Davidson.  What's your match play record against him, and what's it like hanging out with him, and have you learned anything about sports from him?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I haven't hung out with him in probably three or four years, but while he was at Davidson his first couple years, we used to play a lot, but I'd beat him probably eight times and he beat me the last time, and he never called me again.   
 Q.  That's what you learned about sports from him.  
WILLIAM GORDON: I think he got what he wanted.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT