U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
William Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about your round today.  Pretty good showing again, especially on the backside.  Played really well.  
WILLIAM GORDON: Yeah, I kind of got the ball in the fairway a couple more times on the back.  Par-5 play wasn't where it needed to be, but it was a good day.   
Got some putts to go in, which is a big help.   
 Q.  What would say about the two rounds you put together here?  
WILLIAM GORDON: They were solid, really solid.  I chipped and putted it pretty well.  Like over the next couple days just got to get the par-5 play a little better, and that will provide me a little bit more consistency.  That's about it.   
 Q.  Tell me about the birdie at 13 and then 16 and 17.  
WILLIAM GORDON: Yeah, well, 16 and 17, 16 I hit a great drive.  Was in the first cut; hit pitching wedge like eight feet and made it.   
17 just hit it -- I hit 5-iron, chunked my 5-iron down the middle of the fairway, but hit the approach shot to like a foot and tapped in.   
 Q.  What was your yardage and club on the approach?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I was 131.  I hit 50 degree.  Yeah, it was a good day overall.   
 Q.  This is your third straight Amateur that you've played in.  
WILLIAM GORDON: Right.   
 Q.  How much is that experience helping you this week?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I think it's helping me a lot.  I think just in stroke play you kind of just make sure you're hitting confident shots to conservative targets.   
I think also like our college tournament we played -- I played Pebble a lot.  Be back here in two weeks.  I think that helped me out a lot yesterday just being able to stay poised and know which holes you can that golf course in; trying to learn this one the best I can.   
 Q.  Since match play is on Pebble, what have you learned about Pebble over the years?  
WILLIAM GORDON: I think there is an obvious premium on the fairway out there.  Just picking your spots on certain holes and knowing where you can get birdies and where you need to kind of play smart.   
So, yeah, hopefully helps me over the next couple of days.   
 Q.  Obviously everyone goes back to zero when we get to tomorrow.  
WILLIAM GORDON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you feel pretty confident after these two days?  
WILLIAM GORDON: Yeah, yeah.  I feel good about my game.  Just continue to get better at what I'm doing.  That's all I can control.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT