DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 23, 2021
Jasmine Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Jasmine, congratulations.  Do you mind telling us in your words what happened recently.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Well, I mean, I don't know what to say.  I mean --
Q. Were you expecting an engagement at all?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Kind of.  We were talking about it.  I actually picked the ring myself, but he didn't say when it's going to happen or how.
But I was just like playing golf and I don't really think about it.  Next thing you know he just sneaky just like that.  (Laughter.)
Q. How long ago did you pick out the ring?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   I think it was last year, like December, so not that long ago.
Q. Did your fiance mention at all that he was waiting for 2020 to end and for it to be the new year?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   No, he didn't mention.  He didn't say when or anything at all.  Not at all.
Q. After the proposal, how much did he tell and you how much did he tell you about how much he planned?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   He did talk to couple of my friends, you know, back in Virginia, but they were all like very secretly.  Like I have no idea, but they act very secretly.  Like what are you guys talking about?  Oh, nothing.  Nothing you need to know.
Q. Can you take us back to that moment when he got on the knee?  What was going through your mind?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Well, Mike himself, he's very nervous and I can see it.  I just -- I kind of expected, but not this soon.  It's just -- you know, it's just right.  You know, like when you -- someone asking, of course yes, I will say yes.
We were looking at the ring and finally he asked.  I'm like finally.  (Laughter.)
Q. Congratulations.  Normally if something like this happens a person might do it on Sunday after you're done for the week because of emotions.  Were you sort of like, Gosh, you couldn't wait until the golf tournament is over, or were you okay with it?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   I think because he asking a lot of my friend like what kind of person I am, and I feel like it might be better with personal, you know, proposal.
He's like, I don't know if I be able to do with the media and everything or go smooth.  Like he was worry about it, he was nervous about it, too.
He's like, well, better be personal and then we post a picture and stuff.  Yeah.
Q. And you did keep it quiet until it showed up on Instagram.  I don't think anybody knew.  Was that intentional?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yes.
Q. Can you tell us about him?  What's his name?  What does he do?  How did you meet?
A. Well, his name is Michael David Thomas, full name.  He's an IT engineer.  Work for Dominion Electric way up in Virginia.
We met online actually.  Been talk to him for almost two months without seeing each other like online until we met.  It takes a long time and a lot of patient nowadays with online dating.
I was like, Okay, this guy is decent.  But the thing is like I told him I'm not a golf.  I told him I'm event coordinator.  I travel.
Q. Oh, my gosh.  This is awesome.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yeah, so we been talking online for a month and a half and I say, Hey, I got something to tell you.  I said, Here is my Instagram.  Check it out.  He like look around and saying wait a minute, you're a golfer.
So he was surprised about it.
Q. So he never Googled you?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   No because in online dating I never put like my real name, my full name just to be smart about it.  I said I am event coordinator.  I travel around the world.  That's what I put on there until I find someone decent, and, okay, we been talk for a while.  All right, this is my name.  Here you go.
Q. Now that you're engaged, can you tell is what is your online alias?  What was the name that you used it?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Oh, just Jasmine.  Like on Bumble or whatever you don't have to put the full name.  Just Jasmine.  And all the picture was just like casual clothes, no golf clothes as all.  Nothing on the golf course.
Q. Does he enjoy golf and has his game improved since meeting you?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yes.  Because he don't really play golf.  He did grow up play golf when he was ten, and then become nerdy and all about IT and stuff, so stop playing golf.  Playing tennis instead.
So when we met I did bring him to the golf course, you know, teach him how to play golf, blah, blah, blah.  Then I think he almost play like total of 20 round of golf.
So, yeah, it's getting better.  His short game is pretty good though.  He can putt.
Q. How long was it before you guys met?  When did it happen that you actually met physically?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   So let's say we start talking in January.  We met in March.
Q. Okay.  It's been two years?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yes.
Q. Wow.  I'm just fascinated by this.  And do you and other players talk about this online dating situation where you need to kind of keep secret who you really are?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Every time people ask me like how you guys met I say the same thing.  Don't tell your full name.  I would say I'm event coordinator, something else.
Yeah, I talk to couple of friend that they do online dating, and they never really say they're professional golfer.
But the men's is different.  Like I see -- I did see some men in -- well, on Bumble, but I don't really do anything.  I see the guys say that I'm professional golfer.  You know, in approximate Australia you can see it pop-up because the men's there.
But for the women I feel like it's safe for us not to say that, because people can Google that real quick.
Q. Right, right.  Well, congratulations.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Thank you.
Q. When is the wedding?  Do you know?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   We don't know that yet because with the COVID and stuff.  Yeah, just we'll see about that.
Q. Do you have the ring?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yeah.  (Showing ring.)
Q. Did you play with it?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   No.  Don't want to lose it.
Q. It's beautiful.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT