AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2020
Jasmine Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 4-under par, any day at Royal Troon, is a spectacular display of golf.  Summarise your emotions, I know you're fresh off the course?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   I just do my best today to be honest.   I don't really feel good the score.  I feel like you just play your own game and make some putts, make some birdie and you can move on and if you play good today, you deserve it.  The golf course was not that easy, so if you play good, congratulations.
Q. Did you ever look at what the scores were?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   No, I'm just with Michelle, just look for opportunity to be on the green and fairway and have a look at birdie chance.
Q. Fantastic run of birdies from 4 to 7.  What were you thinking on the 10th hole heading into the back nine?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   My caddie just said, you know, "Jasmine, you play well this week, just keep hitting fairways and green and you just going to make some putts, anyway, so just play your game."  I'm pretty like relaxed out there with Michelle.  I mean, that's how I just play golf.
Q. Certainly looked like you were both having a great time.  You changed your ball at one stage in the round.  Were you trying to reset your mind and find birdies on the home stretch?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Well, normally change every nine holes.  But again, after hole No. 10, I had a couple bogeys and I feel like, you know what, just hit a new ball just for fun and just come back and make two birdies to finish today.  Pretty good.
Q. Overall, it's been a very intense week in this bubble environment, first ladies major of the year.  What's coming up next for you?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Well, I'm just going to remain bubbles and keep distance with people and fly out to States tomorrow, Monday morning.  We'll play Arkansas.
Q. Couple of difficult holes in the middle but you gave it a really, really good go.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   There's a lot of up-and-downs.  I feel like I had 3-putts which is a little sad for me.  But I may be had some rain, little windy but today I feel like I did really good.  Hit a lot of good shots and made a lot of putts and overall I'm happy about this week for sure.
Q. You look like you're enjoying it out there.
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Yeah, you can't be any happier playing Royal Troon in Scotland, one of the best course and I mean, out there, you talk a little more, why not have fun, right.
Q. Back to four years ago, the rehab you went through, to be here contending in a major, it's an incredible achievement in itself?
JASMINE SUWANNAPURA:   Before I had surgery, my doctor said don't even think about not doing it because you'll be in a wheelchair no matter what.  I just go with it and I didn't even think I would play golf and to be able to come here, win, in 2018, 2019, finish second this week, I'm grateful to be here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT