PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Igor Andreev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/I. Andreev
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions please.   
  
  Q. Unusual playing a semifinals indoors? Was it hard to get used to the lights, different conditions?   
 IGOR ANDREEV: Well, was same for both of us. But, yes, very unusual. Was a bit different game. Maybe court was a bit slower than outdoor. Indoors, gives you impression that the serve going faster, the ball's going faster.   
 Well, what I think for the match and for condition to change so fast, played well and I'm happy with the match today.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the difference in the two tiebreakers?  
 IGOR ANDREEV: I think, well, in the first he played like he was more aggressive. He was leading the game in the tiebreaker, in the first one. In the second, I felt much, much better in second set, especially at the end. I had few set points. Tiebreaker maybe was a bit unlucky because, like, played few balls with the frame, maybe like change wrong direction.   
 On the second one, like, I think is more my fault. Of course, he played well, but it's more my fault. On the first tiebreaker, he played really good. So I didn't have many chances.   
  
  Q. Obviously you would like to win the tournament. With it raining, waiting maybe till Sunday to play a final, is it almost better to get it out of the way?  
 IGOR ANDREEV: Well, I think there is no big difference. Now we're at the end of the week. One day more, one day less doesn't make big difference. I don't think if they play final tomorrow, they start Monday in New York. They will still have one day rest. Me the same. I have to play on Monday. I play on Monday. I now have one day rest.   
 I don't think is big difference here. You can have all facilities, not many people now left, so you can practice. Even if it's raining, you can practice indoor. New York, it's so crowded now. I think now it's not a big difference.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your play this week. Are you satisfied with your game heading into the Open?  
 IGOR ANDREEV: Yes. Generally I'm happy with my game. Especially win three matches in a row, it gives you good confidence. I'm not feel tired after matches I play, so it's also good thing.   
 Yes, I think I'm ready for New York. There, just have to be concentrated again and try to keep doing same things, and hopefully they will work there.   
  
  Q. Do you like the US Open or is it a difficult tournament to play in because it's chaotic?  
 IGOR ANDREEV: Once you get in the court, you try to concentrate on the game. Last year I played really good there. Probably I played one of the best tournaments in the year. I hope to do this year the same.   
 But, again, first you have to be concentrated from the first match and don't think too far.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT