PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Igor Andreev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. ANDREEV/L. Mayer
  6-4, 6-7, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about the match. 
 IGOR ANDREEV: Well, I'm happy to be through to the semifinal. First time here after three quarterfinals. Was tough match today. Was not easy to, like, come back after I had very good chance to finish the match with two match points in the second set, and I was serving for the match. I couldn't like close it. 
 And then after all this, you just try not to think too much what happened and keep going. And happy that I won third set. 

 Q. Not closing it out, was that on your end or did he step up and make some great shots against you?
 IGOR ANDREEV: Well, I made two double-faults in my serve. So, for sure, he played good two points, but then I just miss very bad. Like this you can't play. 
 But this year I had couple of matches more same like today. So that's very good thing, very important that I went through this and won after that second set.

 Q. What do you do what that happens to get yourself back? How are you able to bounce back?
 IGOR ANDREEV: Well, first you have to try to forget what happened and try to start from the beginning, like nothing happened. Of course, it's maybe not very easy. But if you can make it, you win. If not, then for sure it's gonna be tough, tough to win. 

 Q. Look ahead to tomorrow, can you talk about Verdasco or Melzer, what your thoughts would be on either one of them?
 IGOR ANDREEV: They are both lefties. I don't know. I think last matches I play against both, I won against Verdasco in US Open and Melzer in Basel. 
 But it's always not easy to play with a lefty, especially for me, to return the serve. So I have to be very concentrated, especially on my serve, not to break myself like I did today. 
 They are playing good. Either of them gonna be a tough match. 

 Q. Where do you feel your game is compared to a year ago? How do you feel about your level right now?
 IGOR ANDREEV: Now? 

 Q. Compared to last year at this time. 
 IGOR ANDREEV: Last year maybe I play a bit better. I was a bit more confident 'cause I had, like, better results, especially like from the second part of the year. But now I'm feeling it's getting better. With every match, you get this confidence. Maybe you start to think less during the point, and just things coming out without thinking, without doubts.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT