DAVIS CUP FINALS: RUSSIA v U.S.A.
December 1, 2007
Igor Andreev
Nikolay Davydenko
Shamil Tarpischev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  (All answers through translation unless otherwise noted.)   
 THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Nikolay, this is not about the match so much today, but Roddick seemed to set the stamp on this tie by winning the first match against Tursunov so soundly.  Having played him and seeing him play today, can you say that he is a guy who you expect will resurface in the Slams as far as having another chance to win another slam?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I think as long as Federer is the leader, it's going to be rather difficult for him to win a slam.   
  
  Q.  I would like the coach's assessment of his team and his tactics.  And also, how much did not having Safin here hurt the team's chances?   
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV:  First off, I want to congratulate the American team for a well-earned victory.  They played very well.   
 As far as our team goes, the chances we assessed were confirmed.  I predicted they had a 65/35 chance of winning.  Yesterday we were counting on a victory from Youzhny.  If that had happened, tomorrow, the guys who are sitting here would have been playing.   
 But since that victory was not assured, Blake played very well.  Basically today on this surface, the American team was stronger.   
 As far as Safin is concerned, we had the four strongest players available here.  The one thing is Safin might have strengthened the doubles team, but he didn't end up being here.   
  
  Q.  Igor, you played really great in the first set.  Well actually you both played really great.  You were very close, on the same level with the Americans.  What happened in the next two sets?  Was it psychological problems or what?   
 IGOR ANDREEV:  (In English.)  Well, they just -- they're much better doubles players.  So we could maybe do well during sometime as we did in the first set.  Like we could play till tiebreak.  But then it was -- every service game was harder to keep our serve.  So early break in the second, that's what, I mean, changed all the games.   
 I think if we can go in the set as deeper as we -- like in the first set, then in tiebreak we could have like some chances.  But if we -- they make early break, then it's very, very hard to break them.  So that what made a difference, I think.  Well, plus they're much better.   
  
  Q.  Shamil, this weekend was another example of how hard it is to repeat as Davis Cup champions.  Is this a trend you see continuing with different nations emerging every year to win the Cup?   
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV:  Undoubtedly, this will continue, because if you take not only the final eight, the final group, but if you take, for example, other countries that have risen up, like Australia and Switzerland with Federer, who have come into the first line, the opportunities -- they've been very close to one another, and the opportunities will arise.  A lot is decided by the condition of the players at the specific time.   
 Especially since Davis Cup comes right after the largest tournaments, a lot will depend on the condition of the players and which ones are present and the opportunity to choose the surface.   
  
  Q.  Igor, you guys were unable to break serve.  What makes these two brothers so difficult?  Is it because they're at the net all the time or they played together so long?  What is it about them?   
 IGOR ANDREEV:  (In English.)  Well, first of all, I think when we were playing and was already second set, I realized that this is the first time that I returned the second serve.   
 So only in the second set I have chance to return second serve.  So can you imagine if the guys serving always first serve, it makes so difficult because you cannot control the ball.  You cannot do anything on the return.   
 So, well, I mean, they just great.  If they serving well, they have unbelievable volleys.  And this makes much more pressure on other team because you know you don't have any chances on their serve, so you have to like play excellent on your serve to make the game, to make at least fight.   
  
  Q.  Nikolay, it was a tough year for you.  What will you do now until the next competition?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I've set down my racquet until December 10th.  I'm just going to get ready for the next season in December, and we'll see what comes next.   
  
  Q.  Nikolay, are you relieved that this season is over?  You can go away, not be in front of press conferences?  In your mind, is the investigation finished or is it ongoing?  Do you expect to have more meetings with the ATP or other officials?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yes, of course.  It is a relief for me that the season's over and that I remained fourth in the rankings, and I'm not going to hear anything from the press in all of December because I'll be in Thailand, where they can't get at me.   
  
  Q.  Is there more that you expect in the investigation in the next few weeks?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Well, in point of fact, it's lawyers and managers who are handling this, so it's their affair.   
  
  Q.  Considering this American team is so committed to playing Davis Cup, do you think there are more championships for them down the road, even though it's difficult in this day and age to win multiple Davis Cup titles?   
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV:  As I've already said, the result depends a lot on where you're playing.  And so if the draw falls to a team that's playing on the harder surfaces, then the U.S. has a very good chance.   
 On the other hand, if it's going to be a natural clay surface, then you could name a number of teams that they could lose to.   
  
  Q.  Nikolay, this year some nice results on court, some high rankings, but, of course, some tough developments off the court.  How in your mind do you assess this year for you?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I assess it just as positively as the two preceding years, '05 and '06, with the fifth ranking.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  (In English.)  I finished top five.  It's great.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT