U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Tom Werkmeister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's a good round.  
TOM WERKMEISTER: Thank you.   
 Q.  Well played.  Tell us what you did the best today.  
TOM WERKMEISTER: I probably had like the best range session I can remember.  My coach and caddie, Mike, kind of worked on a couple things.  We thought we had it yesterday.  Kind of got away from us.  Today, I was just striping everything on the range.  Usually that's a bad sign.  Usually the opposite happens.  But today for whatever reason kind of kept it going for most of the round and made a few timely putts.   
 Q.  Up-and-down finish there.  
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yeah, a little squirrely, but that's all right.   
 Q.  Does it feel like this championship is your home a little?  You played well last year, you're playing well again here, going into another weekend?  
TOM WERKMEISTER: I only played two majors in my lifetime for Tour events, and I made both cuts.  Bigger and better things, a building block maybe.  It's really cool, kind of close to home, maybe hour and a half away.  I had a lot of support out there, which is fun.  It's going to probably get a little hectic tonight with all these guys.  That's all right.   
 Q.  How many folks do you think were out there, estimate?  
TOM WERKMEISTER: 60 maybe, off and on.  Yeah, we had -- we sold some T-shirts not for profit, just to show the support, and we sold like 50 of them.  I think most of them were out here today in their light blue shirts.   
 Q.  Got your own hashtag going; I think I saw that.  
TOM WERKMEISTER: #teamwork.  Yeah, just kind something we came up with.  Me and my wife or whatever, we came up with it, and it kind of stuck.  It's fun.  It's been a fun experience.   
 Q.  All your days as an amateur and obviously you've played well in USGA events over the years.  Did you draw on any of that experience?  
TOM WERKMEISTER: Absolutely.  Certainly felt comfortable.  It was a process, my whole amateur career, and got a little better each year.  My game has come back a little bit, but I had a lot of experience to go from.  And it certainly helped me, since I turned pro.   
 Q.  And the conditions, did you feel the wind changing at all as you went through the round today?  
TOM WERKMEISTER: It was hot, obviously.  It was pretty comfortable for the most part.  I'm exhausted.  But the wind was a little tricky off and on, but overall it wasn't too bad to play.  I think both days it was pretty good.  And the greens held up amazing.  For having 140-some-odd players go through these, they were hardly bumpy at all.   
 Q.  What did it mean to you to hear the crowd just go absolutely bonkers for you at the end?  
TOM WERKMEISTER: It's crazy.  Try to block it out but it was unavoidable.  Especially the last two holes, I made that putt on 8, and then up-and-down on 9.  It's pretty cool.  We're going to have some fun the next couple hours.  Hopefully not too much fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT