USGA MEN'S STATE TEAM CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2016
Tom Werkmeister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tom Werkmeister, part of Michigan's championship team, and also the co‑medalist the final round 67. Take us through your card today or just take us through the round in general. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yeah. Funny, I didn't warm up very well. I wasn't hitting it very good. But it's not uncommon, so didn't bother me.
So got to the first tee; hit a good shot; hit a good second shot. Just missed the putt. Missed a couple other putts early in the round, like less then ten feet, for birdie.
I'm like, Well, at least I'm hitting it close. I've got chances, right? And then the putts started falling and I started kind of getting in the groove here. 
Got a few under and then I birdied 10. Got me to 4‑under, I think. Then got a little wrapped up in the whole‑‑ mind started wandering about what was going on. I was getting updates from Ken, which is fine. I want to know what's going on. 
Had a couple wayward shots, but short game kind of saved me. Hit a big putt on 17 which was good. Felt really good about our team at that point, even though I bogeyed 18. Prior to that I had heard Evan had birdied it, so I knew we were in a good spot.
It was just really, really cool, the whole waiting for the last groups to come in, hanging out with our teammates, you know, fist bumping and hugging and slapping high fives. You know, at that point I thought, Win or lose, this is really cool.

Q. Sure. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: And to end up winning is awesome. 

Q. Great. So you talked about the putts starting to fall. Made a really nice par save on 8, I think about a 12 or 13‑footer to save par. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yes.

Q. Is that almost bigger than any of the birdies you made?
TOM WERKMEISTER: Those par putts are like making birdies. Didn't have a very good tee shot; hit an okay second shot; but I had a really good feel on the green and was able to get it started on line and it dropped.
So, yeah, those par putts are just as important as the birdie putts. 

Q. Sure. 17 is one the hardest holes on the golf course. You made three there. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yeah.

Q. Tell us a little bit about that. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Just a good drive. A little bit blocked out by a tree, but not bad. Good 9‑iron; pulled it a little bit. Had about maybe 18 feet, but I had, again, a good feel. I could tell what the break was going to do.
Just got started on line. It was an uphill putt, and hit it right in the center. 

Q. Got it. And then 18 you made bogey, but like you said, you already knew you were in good shape. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yeah. Made a bunch of bad shots and made bogey, but fortunately didn't cost us.

Q. You are co‑medalist as well. From a team perspective, what's it like to bring the championship back to Michigan. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Oh, it's great. I mean, each time I've played in this I've seen other states getting recognition for being previous winners or seeing the pictures with them celebrating and stuff.
It's like, I want to do that; I want us to do that. This is big for the state of Michigan. Really big. 

Q. Sure. How many times have you played in this championship?
TOM WERKMEISTER: This is five, I think. So in 12 years, five. I missed one, so I played five, I believe.

Q. Got it. So finally nice to come out on top. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Yes. 

Q. Congratulations. 
TOM WERKMEISTER: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT