NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2018
Bryce Meredith
Yianni Diakomihalis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








141 POUNDS
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Yianni Diakomihalis from Cornell.  Questions?
Q. After the match, you pointed to your head.  What was different?  Why was it more important to use your head there?
YIANNI DIAKOMIHALIS: So Mike Grey, he's my coach all the way through.  And ever since I got there, he always said you have the skills and the ability to be a national champion, but if you don't have the mind, it doesn't matter how skilled you are.  And when you're in a situation where you need to take down the win, you need to stay composed after not getting a reversal.  That's all about tapping into your mind and no matter what the situation is being ready to do more, give more, put in more.
Q. You got that reversal to -- you get the escape, put it into overtime.  And talk through what that mindset is in overtime going to get that score.
YIANNI DIAKOMIHALIS: II knew if I got to the right leg I was going to finish.  And he's really good at hiding that back leg from you.  It's his left leg, but it's my right side.
And same thing, I was here, I showed one thing.  He gave me the right reaction.  I knew I was going to get to it when I needed it.  And I needed it there.  So I went to it, got my takedown and that was it.
Q. You just avenged the only loss you took this season.  Does that make it extra sweet?
YIANNI DIAKOMIHALIS: Yeah.  Yeah, for sure.  That one hurt a lot.  And you know there's no extra hate for him.  He's a good kid.  It's just I really wanted that one back.  And the brackets came out and I knew I was going to catch him on the semis and I'm happy I got that one for me.  But there's still one more.
Q. What is it about Cornell and true freshmen?  What is it about the Big Red that prepares you guys to be so outstanding as you come out your first year?
YIANNI DIAKOMIHALIS: You know, we have a phenomenal coaching staff, coaches with a really wide range of knowledge.  You've got guys like Coach Koll who just have all these really weird feels.  You've got guys like Damion who are great with big guys, guys like Mike Grey.  If anyone can teach you about being tough and doing the right things, it's Mike.
And he's done a lot for me this year, helping me do everything to the best of my ability.  And I just think our staff offers a great group of people who allow you to love it, but at the same time get the most out of you.  So, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  We're joined by Bryce Meredith from Wyoming.
Q. Bryce, what is it about you that Joey McKenna would not go down against you?
BRYCE MEREDITH: I actually had a weird feeling that I felt that he wasn't going to go down, just because if you look at a lot of my matches this year, I haven't really been that dominant on my feet.  And I've done a lot of my winning or at least getting myself in the position by getting ride-outs.  And it takes a lot out of you.
I know if I'm getting rode I almost become claustrophobic.  It's not a good feeling, so I guess I game planned saying a takedown will win the match.  And ultimately I stopped him from getting a takedown.  I wish I got to mine again.  But a win is a win at this point.
Q. Talk about the last 30 seconds, where McKenna is trying to lock up that cradle.
BRYCE MEREDITH: That last 30 seconds I shot in on a shot and I was almost a little bit too lazy honestly.  I think I could have finished the shot.  But sometimes, that short time you kind of get in there and hold onto a leg and let the time go.
And I knew I was in a pretty comfortable position.  There was maybe, like, a couple seconds where I was, like, uh-ho, I better start paying attention so I don't give up a takedown.
But ultimately wasn't even sure where the clock was.  I think we both were surprised that when we heard the ref blow the whistle we looked up and it was zero on the time.  And I think I saw it in his eyes too, oh, that's the match.  We thought maybe there was going to be at least five more seconds left.
But ultimately it's always smart to get in on somebody's leg when you're on the defense.
Q. Bryce, looking back at that first time with Yianni, getting a rematch.  What was the difference the first time and what do you have to do different this time?
BRYCE MEREDITH: First time I was surprised by his ability, his flexibleness, his ability to wrestle in certain positions.  I remember I shot in in there and we got in a minute-and-a-half scramble that I probably wasn't mentally ready for it, my fourth match in December.
So now just going into it I felt his unorthodox feel.  He's a really unique wrestler.  And I'm just looking forward to it.  That's been my one loss of the year.  And it really did break my heart a lot more than losses have in the past.
So it will be fun to go try to get that back on the national stage.
Q. I know you talked -- I think it was earlier this morning -- about wanting one of those pictures with the headband and the bloody forehead as the national champ.  Talk about the headband and the hair and swagger that you kind of walk with and the confidence that you walk into the NCAA final?
BRYCE MEREDITH: It's all fun.  Everyone thinks I'm all about my looks in the pretty sense, but I love the war sense.  I love looking like a warrior, I love -- when you see pictures of somebody that has blood and they're just looking awesome, you know, I get jealous of those guys, I'm like, I want a picture like that.  I want to be able to post a picture like that.
So it's fun that I have the head tape on right now, blond hair going all wild.  It's fun.  I want to just look out and I want people to look out and see something different because wrestling lacks personality sometimes.  I want to be somebody with a lot of personality.
I want the cameras, whatever it may be, I want people to look up to, I want kids to try to help grow wrestling because of a hairdo or a super match, whatever it may be.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT