U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Jacob Sosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, Jacob, do you consider this one of your bigger wins in match play ever?  
JACOB SOSA: Absolutely.  Huge momentum.  Winning the match versus Jackson Van Paris was really nice.  It was a tough battle.  I mean, both one of the top seeds, and obviously top players in the country.   
Fantastic, and just a pleasure playing with him.   
 Q.  He was up on you early but how did you get going with the comeback?  
JACOB SOSA: I just played my game.  I didn't change my game plan throughout the whole day - from stroke play actually.  This course is rewarding if you hit good shots, but also penalizing if miss the fairways or hit bad ones.   
So I just hit fairways, hit greens, and 2-putted, and that's really all it took.   
 Q.  Birdied par-5, 8 to draw even.  How did you do that?  
JACOB SOSA: I hit a driver down the right side of the fairway and then I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
JACOB SOSA: Yeah.   
 Q.  And then won some holes with pars.  
JACOB SOSA: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Birdied 16 to close it out.  How did you birdie 16?  
JACOB SOSA: Trying to remember.  They all go back and forth.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JACOB SOSA: 16, oh.  Just hit a normal hybrid down the fairway.  Past couple days I've been hitting 4-iron but it was into the wind, so I hit hybrid.  Came up about 20 yards short.  Then I had about 165 in.  Figuring that the wind would probably play about 10 to 15 yards longer, so it was kind of in between clubs right there.   
But I just gripped 2 inches down and swung a little easier and it came out straight and nice.   
 Q.  And how close were you?  
JACOB SOSA: About 10, 12 feet.   
 Q.  This is your first USGA championship.  What were your expectations coming in?  
JACOB SOSA: I have high expectations for myself, but also I understand that we're playing against some of the best competitors in the country here.   
So I'm just happy to be here.  It's a real blessing.   
 Q.  Obviously it's getting a little breezy and supposed to pick up this afternoon.  Obviously being from Texas you're used to playing in the wind.  Do you think that will be to your advantage this afternoon?  
JACOB SOSA: Possibly.  I tend to flight the ball a little lower and hit a lot of knock-down shots.  I think that's to a little bit of an advantage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT