CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2016
Ying-Ying Duan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/Duan Ying-Ying
6-0, 4-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. You had a competitive game.  How do you feel about your performance?
DUAN YING-YING: Today I had quite a normal performance.  This was my first time to feel the faster, heavy balls.  It was really difficult for me to deal with.  I was not quite familiar with her skills.
On the court, I found it really difficult to get her balls back.  She really hits deep.  It was very hard for me to stay with her.  After that, I feel that she's really good on her serve.
In the third set, I was not as skilled as she was.  I really had quite a normal performance.
Q. Anything you are going to try to improve on in the future?  Are you going to make changes according to this game?
DUAN YING-YING: She's one of the top 16 players.  I was more of a student.  I compared her skills with mine.  I decided on improving the skills of myself.  I could learn from her.  I could learn a lot from her.
Q. I interviewed you a couple of days ago.  Do you have some goals based on your performance?
DUAN YING-YING: To become one of the top 100 players is one of my small goals.  After that I'd like to become one of the top 50 players in the world.
Q. In the Wuhan Open, you talked about the distance between you and the top players.  You did not perform well.  Could you give us some more details about the distance.
DUAN YING-YING: On the court, in front of the competitors, they are really brave.  They have a strong attitude.  I'm more hesitating to serve.  I am kind of conservative.  That is a big difference between me and the top players.
Q. You talk about more training, improving your skills, learning from the other players.  Do you have specific plans?
DUAN YING-YING: In today's game, compared to my opponent's, I do find as difficult as she was, she didn't feel any pressure from my side.  I'd like to be stronger and play with an even harder serve.  That is my goal.
Q. We are coming to the end of the season.  You've received some honors and awards.  In the Wuhan Open, you were one of the qualifying players.  Give us your experience about the good parts.
DUAN YING-YING: From Wimbledon to the Wuhan Open to the Beijing Open, I find that I experienced a lot.  I was kind of depressed.  I also went to the U.S.  It seems to me that I went from the bottom and moved gradually up and up.  I talked frequently to my coach.  I became more positive.
A month ago I became one of the top 160.  I talked to my coach and he encouraged me to move up bit by bit.  I calmed down, tried to learn more, have a more positive attitude.
In the beginning of 2017, I'll try to make new breakthroughs.
Q. Are you going to participate in the Tianjin Open?
DUAN YING-YING: Of course, yes.  I'd like to make a new breakthrough.  I'd like to become one of the top players in the Tianjin Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT