U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Well, sir, how about if we start off with the  state of the game and the state of the course.  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, the state of the game is good.  I am not  talking about my game, however.  My game is -- it is improving.  Whether  it is ever going to make it or not is questionable, but  it is improving a little, and the golf course is in  excellent condition.  It is very good.  There is still  the same old thing about Pinehurst Number 2 that are  traditional and have been the same since I first came  here in 1947 and played.  The difference, I suppose, is  the roughs are -- some roughs now, which back in those  days it was when you left the fairway you went to sand  and pine needles.  Today, you go to rough and then sand  and pine needles which is the major difference in the  golf course.  Some of the sand traps have been changed,  but basically, they are pretty much the same.  The greens, the ones that had been  changed had been mostly minor changes but they still all  go off and there is no -- I don't know of a green on this  golf course that if you go to the edge, whether it be  right, left or back, that the ball doesn't go off.  And  of course, the secret to that is, I think, is just  keeping your putter in your hand.  I think if you start  trying to pitch the ball to these greens you really get  --  that is when you get in trouble.  You might get away  with it for awhile, but I think in the long run you are  going to have to putt the ball up those slopes to the  pin.  I don't know whether I said it, it is in  good condition.  And it is playing probably a little  longer than I recall back in the early days.  Of course,  I am a little older too, but I can remember a lot of  shots that I hit through the years on various holes that  are maybe a club longer or two clubs longer in some  cases.  


Q.  Are you getting any run in the fairway?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Very little, and that is what the difference  is, I think, Bob.  The fairways are very good and very  lush, and the ball is setting good on them.  So, I think  everyone would rather have the little extra distance and  the condition of the fairways as they are.  In the old  days, they were never that lush.  The ball would roll  further and do more, and that is exactly what has  happened.  


Q.  You mentioned that your game wasn't going  particularly well.  Could you elaborate on that?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Actually, my game has been horrible for -- the  last time I played really good golf was about five or six  years ago when I won up in Richmond Virginia in the  Senior's Tour, and that is really the last time I can  think that I played the kind of golf that I would accept  as being reasonable.  The other day at -- in Detroit, at  the Players Championship, Jack came over and we -- and I  had just played with him, and we were talking about my  game and what was wrong and of course, some of the things  I knew and we were trying to get to the bottom of what  was basically the problem.  And of course, one of the  things that we decided was that I was swinging around  myself rather than up and taking the club up and down,  and I have -- I have worked on that and on what we  discussed that day, and I have seen some difference.  Now, whether I have seen enough difference to make a  difference in my play, I can't say.  Yesterday I played  here and it was enough difference that I played 18 holes  and really sort of tried to just keep track of scoring  and see how I would play the golf course without anything  unusual or exceptional.  I think I must have been a  couple of over par, which is not very good.  But on the  other side of that, I hit a lot of greens; didn't get the  ball real close to the cup, but I hit a lot of the greens  and that -- hit the green and kept it on the greens, and  that in itself is an improvement over what I had been  doing.  And I drove the ball longer and better for the  most part.  So, some encouragement, and there is  enough to keep me from just not playing at all.  So, I  will -- you know, I will take -- I will play here and  then probably take the next couple of weeks and -- I  haven't really taken any time off in a long time from  everything and I really -- other than maybe doing some  golf course work, I plan to take a couple of weeks and  not do too much; maybe work on my game a little bit and  that is about it.  


Q.  You just played your last U.S. Open and you  alluded to the fact here that what keeps you going, and I  was curious; what does keep you going in terms of play if  you are not getting a whole lot out of it?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  What keeps me playing?  


Q.  Yes.  On the tour, especially.  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, a lot has to do with the fans, the  people who are continually insisting that I play.  A lot  has to do with my enjoyment of playing, even though it  has not been very satisfactory nor satisfying to me from  a scoring standpoint, and that is -- that is going to  take it's toll in the near future if it doesn't get a  little better.  That is why I say I am encouraged by  yesterday's round and what I said earlier about Jack and  I talking about it, and talking about what the real  problem is and has been with my game.  


Q.  Could you elaborate on the first times that  you played here?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  I came here in the fall of 1947.  My father  who started coming here in -- I think he made his first  trip here in 1939, and he being a golf pro, came with  some of the members of our club in Latrobe and he fell in  love with Pinehurst.  He just thought this was the  greatest place in the world and he loved to play golf.  So, they made about two trips a year here; one in the  fall and one in the spring.  And I was then a freshman at  Wake Forest, and I came down to see him and play a round  of golf with that gang.  That was the fall of 1947, and I  think the next trip was the Southern Conference  Championship here which I came and played in, won on the  Number 2 course, and then I played in the next -- in the  ensuing years I played in the North/South Amateur a  number of times.  Well, actually, I played twice; got  beat in the semi-finals -- I am not sure what the  sequence was either the first year or second year.  I  played Stranahan in the semi-finals and he beat me 11 and  9, I think, and the next year I played -- and he won; he  beat Harvie Ward in the finals that year.  And then the next year I played Harvie  Ward in the finals -- or in the semi-finals, and he beat  me comfortably, like 5 and 4, something like that.  And  then he beat Stranahan in the finals.  Those were my two  experiences there.  But I continued to come and play with  my father who came as long as I was at Wake and then of  course, the years after that, I came here to play in the  various tournaments that were played here over the years;  whether it was at Pinehurst or Pine Needles or over at a  country club in North Carolina or where ever it might  have been and never really stopped coming.  


Q.  The first time you came, did you play number 2  with your father?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  That is the first golf I played, yeah.  


Q.  I know you don't associate basically with  bogey golfers, but what would be the single most thing  they should do to improve their game?  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, geez, you know, a lot of things flash  through my mind that they might do without knowing what  is wrong with them, but I suppose the most important  single thing they can do is keep their eye on the golf  ball.  I think a tendency for bogey golfers is to move  their heads.  That is why I am making bogeys now because  I am moving my head and that has a lot to do with it.  But keeping your head still would be my answer to your  question.  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Anything else?  


Q.  It has been a couple of weeks since Oakmont  and that was a very emotional time for you and I think  for a lot of people that follow golf.  Could you just  talk about the last couple of weeks have gone for you  kind of --  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Since Oakmont?  


Q.  Right.  How people have responded to you and  the things what happened there.  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, it is the most amazing -- you know, I  have heard from more people that I hadn't heard from in a  lot of years and of course just generally a lot of people  that I have known for years and years and years and some  that I haven't known and the response has been probably  as great as it was at any golf tournament I have won.  I  mean, there was more nice mail and letters of just "don't  quit," that kind of thing; "play somewhere, we don't care  where it is, but keep playing," that is sort of  encouragement.  You can't believe -- and everybody is  sending all the articles you wrote over that weekend, so  I have got just about everything that has been written  throughout the United States and some in other  countries.  It has been amazing.  My autographing  situation has increased a lot since then also.  That  means people want autographs and memorabilia and that  sort of thing.  It has increased my workload quite a lot  but it is very pleasant.  It has been very nice.  


Q.  Has that been kind of a big boost for you;  something you really kind of needed to re --  

ARNOLD PALMER:  I don't know whether it is a boost or not.  It  makes-- it just comes to make me realize that you know,  that I am getting close to the end of a career that I  have enjoyed very much and every bit of it.  And of  course, it is just another highlight in that career that  has been super and of course, what promoted the whole  thing was just things like this that the people -- the  people have been very, very supportive and that is why--  and that is probably part of the emotion; why it came up,  I was tired and of course all the things that happened  but it was quite nice and it has been quite nice.  

ARNOLD PALMER:  Thank you.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT