WORLD GOLF HALL OF FAME INDUCTION
November 2, 2009
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ARNOLD PALMER: Well, first, I'm overwhelmed with the opportunity to introduce Dwight David Eisenhower into the (tearing up) World Golf Hall of Fame. I can say that this is an opportunity that I welcome very much, and to say that the President, or Ike, or whatever you'd like to call it, The General, if there was anyone that really should be in the Golf Hall of Fame, I think he should be.   
 He was an avid golfer, and the part of his life that he had the opportunity to play golf was probably as happy a part of his life as he had ever spent. I had the opportunity to be with him, play golf with him, and there were times when we just sat and talked, and he enjoyed conversing about the game of golf and the things that I had done in my career, as I enjoyed listening to him talk about all his exploits in his life, from being a soldier to coming through his life to a five-star general to the President of the United States.  
 He was not one to elaborate too much on that. He was very conservative in his conversation. But when I pried, he was willing to talk about his exploits and some of the things that he did during the war, before the war. It just happened that he and I for some reason hit it off pretty well, and we had a lot of things in common.  
 I don't think many people knew that he was a pilot and flew airplanes and might have gone on to be a military pilot, but other things took the place of that as he went through his life. And when he finally got to golf, it was something, as he did everything else in his life, it was an obsession with him to do it well.   
 I remember talking to him about a game of golf one day, and he used to ask me what I would suggest to tell him about his game. Well, it happened to be a day that we were playing a heart exhibition in Merion in Philadelphia, and I said, "Well, Mr. President," I said, "If you kept your right elbow in a little closer to your side, I think you could get a little more power into your shots." Never thinking what was going to happen. But as you probably remember if you saw any of the military people, they always wore their belts to the side on their right side. And I suggested he keep his elbow in. I had no idea that he was going to do what he did. He kept it in so close that when we finished practicing and playing, his elbow was all bloody from keeping that elbow in close.   
 But that was how intent he was on playing the game of golf. And he loved to just sit and talk about what things I did in playing golf, and we exchanged. I, of course, would ask him questions about his military career and being Commander in Chief, and as I say, he didn't exploit them; he was conservative in his conversation. But the things that we talked about were fantastic. I remember a lot of them that were really very interesting.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your relationship with Bob Hope and President Eisenhower.   
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, of course Hope was a friend. If you see the movie downstairs, you see it started at an early age for me by appearing on his show, and he was -- he just became an instant friend, as Bob Hope did with a lot of people. Through the years I had an opportunity to play quite a lot of golf with Bob, and I played in the Hope Tournament from the inception of it. Then I won the Desert Classic in its first year, which was 1960. And then from then on, it became the Bob Hope Desert Classic, and I won it five times.   
 So I was close to Bob and I was close to the tournament and spent a lot of time in Palm Springs with both, and of course the President, or Ike, had a home at El Dorado, and he spent a lot of time in the desert, also. Actually when his health got bad and he couldn't play golf anymore, I used to go and sit on the front porch with him and talk about golf and talk about Bob Hope as a matter of fact and the tournament, and that was fun.   
 And of course the President, or Ike and Bob Hope, before he got to where he couldn't play, had played some golf in the desert. And I think they both enjoyed that, the President enjoying Hope's humor, if you want to call it that. And of course the things that they did together -- I won't say it was constant, but frequently they would go out and play a little golf.   
  
  Q. What part do you think he played in help popularizing the game? I lot of people saw him as an every-man because he had been in the military and not the son of a rich guy.   
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, first of all, I think the President, when he started playing golf, really took to it in a hurry. As you know, the putting green at the White House and many things happened, and of course knowing Bob Hope was one of the things. I had no idea what was going to happen would happen, and that was that there was a relationship that -- my first trip to Augusta I had no idea that there was a relationship between Cliff Roberts and Dwight D. Eisenhower, and it was a very close relationship that I don't think a lot of people were aware of. But they conversed a lot on the phone.   
 I think that Cliff Roberts handled some of the President's financial wares on Wall Street and so on. I don't know the details of that. But I do know that that was one of the things that happened. And I know that they became friends, and of course Ike played a lot of golf at Augusta with Cliff Roberts, and they became friends.   
 And of course one of the things that happened was that the President called Cliff during The Masters Tournament in 1958, and he said to Cliff Roberts, "Cliff, do you think it would be possible if I came to Augusta? I could play with the champion of this year's tournament?" And Cliff said, "I'll arrange it. The only thing that you have to do is get approval from the player that wins." Well, no one had any idea who that was going to be at the time.   
 Well, as it turned out, when I won, Cliff Roberts very early after the tournament ended came to me, and he said, "Arnie, the President wants to come and play golf with you tomorrow if you can get your schedule straightened out." And I said, "Well, if he can get his schedule straightened out, I think I can get mine straightened out.   
 It happened, and we became, in one day, pretty close. We talked about things other than golf. We talked about everything. And of course among the things that we talked about was getting together and playing golf in the future. And of course I made a commitment to him to make sure that we would be able to do this according to his schedule.   
 So that was how it really started. It was a very warm relationship from the beginning.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ARNOLD PALMER: So regular, it was hard to imagine that he did all the things that he did in his life, he was so regular. Everything he did he excelled in, from being a soldier to being a commander, a leader. He did all those things well. And I can tell you that if he had started golf a little sooner than he did, he would have been a really good player. He enjoyed the competition, he enjoyed the things that happened in his golfing career, and we played a number of exhibitions together for the Heart Association, for the Heart Fund, and he really enjoyed that.   
 The one that we played at Merion was against Ray Bolger and Jimmy Demaret. And of course they put it together as an alternate shot exhibition, and I can't help but remind myself and you that the first hole at Merion was a slight dogleg to the right and a little uphill. I hit my tee shot, and Ike hit one, and we walked down, and I thought that he would play my shot up to the green. It was up pretty close to the green. And he said, "Arnie, I'll hit your shot to the green," and it surprised me, and I said, "that's fine."   
 We got to talking about it, and I said, "Well, wait a minute, you're a good putter; why don't you let me hit your shot to the green," and then he liked that idea. I remember him smiling. I hit his shot on the green, and it was about 15, 18 feet from the hole, and he had a Cash-In putter, and I remember him putting it in the hole. You can't imagine the joy he got out of that. He just really thoroughly enjoyed that. And the day from then on was really a very enjoyable day and a very successful exhibition.   
  
  Q. Could you give us a scouting report on Ike's game?  
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, you must remember that he was getting pretty old, and he had a heart condition when he was playing golf. But he hit -- the tee shot that I hit to the green at Merion, he hit it good enough that I hit like a 6-iron into the green, and we made a gross 3.   
 We played enough golf in the early '60s, I guess, mid '60s, he could -- one day, I'm not sure where we were playing, might have been Latrobe or Laurel Valley, and he had a chance to break 80 from the regular tees. He got so doggone excited, I think he got nervous and blew the 80, shot about 82. But he was so excited about the possibility of breaking 80. And I don't know that he ever did.   
 He was pretty normally around 85, and he'd have a good round and get down to the low 80s occasionally.   
  
  Q. How many presidents have you played golf with?   
 ARNOLD PALMER: I don't know.   
  
  Q. Was he your first President?  
 ARNOLD PALMER: He was the first President I ever played with. And I played with ones that played golf up through the years. I missed Kennedy. Actually I was -- I'm trying to think where I was. I think I was somewhere in the South, and I had a call from his guys that said that he was coming to Palm Beach to play golf, and he would have loved it if I'd come down and play with him. I said, sure, I'll do that, I'd love to play with him.   
 The day was arranged and everything, and the day that we were going to play in the morning, I had a call from the White House, and they said that President Kennedy apologizes, but he had hurt his back and he wasn't going to be able to play, and we never played.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ARNOLD PALMER: Oh, I played with Clinton, two Bushes, didn't play with Carter. I don't think he ever played. If he did, I didn't know it.   
  
  Q. Nixon?   
 ARNOLD PALMER: Nixon, Ford, yeah, a lot with Gerry Ford. Did we mention Clinton? I played with him numerous times.   
  
  Q. President Reagan?  
 ARNOLD PALMER: Yes, I played with him in Palm Springs a few holes one day.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, that set of clubs -- is that the set you're talking about, that I have? Yeah, those belonged to him, and he kept them at Gettysburg when he retired. The guy that caddied for him there, who was the pro, was a very good friend and a nice guy, a great guy, and he at one point, and I can't recall exactly when it was, called and said, would I like the President's clubs? He said he'd like to give them to me. And he gave them to me, and that's the set.   
 Is that the answer to the question? Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT