U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Arnold, how would you describe the experience of the last two days?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Aw, shit (laughter).  Can you print that?  No, you don't want to say that.

Well, it was    you know, it was a great thrill for me because of the fans.  They have been just so supportive, and my golf was so lousy that I expected them all to go home about noon.  But I think the going is great.  I think that everything that I experienced here in the last    well, this week, has been fantastic.

I had the pleasure of staying in the Wright Brothers house at Hawthorne Hill, and this was a great thrill in itself.  Then to come out    I played with two good guys, and that was fun, but it's not fun when you play as poorly as I'm playing, and of course, as you see, my tournaments are really getting down to the very few, and it will get more and more that way.  Mostly the things that I will play will be something like The First Tee program or some charities that I feel like I can help make them successful.

But as far as trying to compete in a major championship such as the Open and other tournaments, this is it.  I'm through doing that.  I will not be doing it anymore.
Q.  I think you can sense that the people of Dayton are really pleased that you came and made this appearance for them?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, and of course that was part of the enjoyment this week.  The people have been just fantastic, and NCR with their hospitality, which I enjoyed through the week, was fantastic.  I had an opportunity to go to the Air Force Museum, which was a great thrill.  That was the thrill I had this week.  Instead of my golf, I got into the flying.  That was fun.  I suggest everyone goes to see that museum if they haven't.  It's really a wonderful show, and it's something to see.
Q.  Why did you choose to play in this tournament this week?  Was there one particular reason that you chose this tournament?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I've been talking to the USGA for one thing, and of course I've talked to the local people connected with the tournament, and they wanted me to come and play.  And, of course, Jack the other night had his little night off, and as I said to him, he went fishing and I came out here and sweated my ass off (laughter).  That means he's just a little smarter than I am.
Q.  What iron did you hit into 18?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  I hit a little 6 iron.  I just choked on it and gave it a little...
Q.  You changed clubs right before that.
 ARNOLD PALMER:  I was going to hit a heavy 7 iron, and I've been hitting it heavy all week, so I decided to hit a light 6 iron.
Q.  Are you emotional about this or is this something you embrace to put this behind you and move on?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Am I emotional?  Certainly.  You can't not be after being on the Champions Tour or the Senior Tour for 25 years.  I feel very fortunate to have lived long enough to be able to do that.  That in itself is very    has a lot of sentiment to it.  The fact that these people come out    I won one of the early Open championships for the Champions Tour or the Senior Tour, and to see the crowds and see the enthusiasm that was shown here this week does me a lot of good, and it is very emotional.
Q.  Any shots today that stand out that you'll maybe take with you today?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  I didn't hit very many good ones.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT