U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2005
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did it go out there, Arnie?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I just played awful.  I was trying to push it a little bit more than I should because of the distance, and it just didn't work.  But my swing is a lot better (laughter).
Q.  You could feel the real love from this whole crowd out here?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Oh, the fans are wonderful.  Of course they have a lot to do with why I'm even playing.  The fact that they've been so supportive.  Plus the USGA and the fact that my association with them has been very good over the years, I thought it would be nice to wind it up on 25 years.
Q.  How do you feel about playing the Champions Tour?  Will you be playing very much at all?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  No.  I will play next week for a lot of reasons in Minneapolis, and I'll play Houston because of my association there and probably the 1st tee at Pebble Beach, and that's it.  That's all I'll play.
Q.  Have you thought about next year?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  I have no intentions of playing at all, maybe a few charity events, and that will be it.
Q.  No Champions Tour events?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I won't say no, but it's not likely that I'm going to play very much.
Q.  There was a time not that long ago where this Tour was playing courses that were like 6,600 yards.  Now you're playing stuff that's 7,000.
 ARNOLD PALMER:  And it should be.  The players and the field has grown young.  I mean, that's really what it boils down to.

You know, the guys that are hitting at this golf course are great.  In the day the course was too short for him.  He was laying up half the time.  But the golf course here is very good.  It's very playable, it's a good course for this tournament, the condition is wonderful, and you have to think, you know, they've got to use their head and play a little bit as they get around this golf course, and that will get on more and more as the week goes on.
Q.  Do you get frustrated as you bogey or can you shut that out?
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, you can never shut it out.  Sure, I got frustrated.  I was probably foolish in thinking that I might play reasonably well this week.  But I've changed my swing a little bit, and it just didn't take effect.  It wasn't working.  But I'm encouraged that will work for whatever I play in the future.
Q.  I saw Fuzzy tried to pump you up out there on one hole.
 ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I should have been playing with him.  We play about the same.  You can quote me on that, too.  Maybe he'll come and get me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT