SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2005
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How are you feeling?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I feel good.  I'm tired.  It's a long walk.  I haven't been playing tournaments and to walk as much as I did today, it works on you.
Q.  Feel better    feel good about your round?  What's your general feeling after the round?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Oh, I feel terrible about my round.  But, I get tired of saying that.  I say it so much any more.  I didn't hit the ball good.  And mostly off the tee.  I hit the fairways, but I didn't hit it long enough.  It's too short.  And on a golf course like this, that makes it difficult.  I'm hitting woods    I wore my fairway woods out, or my metal fairway woods.
Q.  What do you think of the reaction you're getting from the galleries?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Oh, if it weren't for the support the gallery gives me, I wouldn't be here.  I would be watching.  They are wonderful.  They are very supportive.  And of course they make it fun for me.
Q.  How do you approach tomorrow?  Is it just another round of golf, just go out there and do the best you can?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, no, I'm going to come out and play as good as I can play and try to play good enough to make a good round out of it.  And I'll probably give every effort I have into that round.  There's some things pending on that.  If I don't have some encouraging shots now and in the near future, how much tournament golf am I going to play?  I got to be encouraged.  And right now I'm a little more discouraged than I have been.

But I have continually said I enjoy playing.  And I enjoyed today.  But I don't enjoy shooting scores like I'm shooting.  And I'm    and I don't enjoy not being able to get the ball up on the greens after a tee shot.  That's the biggest thing that's worry I can me right now.
Q.  Anything encouraging today?  It looks like you had some moments out there.
ARNOLD PALMER:  You know, I had a couple good shots.  But I'm still, my major threat is that I'm not driving it long enough.  And that's something that I have to start doing if I'm going to play any competitive golf in the future.
Q.  Can you talk about a few holes that stood out for you?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, where do you want to start?  It was all 18.
Q.  Well, one or two.
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I started on the back nine and of course I made a good par at 10 and then I rattled off three bogeys in a row and that was discouraging.  And that's what I mean exactly.  Not driving the ball far enough to be in position to get it up on the green and do something about it.  And then there were some holes like 18 and 1 and a few others where I had some pretty good putts for birdies and didn't make them.  And when you get a shot at a birdie, you have to make it.  Particularly as close as those were.  I only made one birdie all day.  And that was at the sixth hole, where I hit a fairly good iron shot into the green about a foot from the hole.  That was the high spot.

But I'll go out and see if I can't make a few birdies tomorrow.  I don't think it's possible to make the cut from where I am, but you never know.
Q.  Would you run through number 6 where you made birdie.  What club you hit and what and how long the putt was?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I hit a bad drive.  And I hit a 5 wood out of the rough and I hit an 8 iron in about a foot from the hole.  And I made that putt.
Q.  After here do you know when you'll play again?
ARNOLD PALMER:  I do not.  I have entered The Open, but I am not, if I don't spruce up a little, that may be a question mark.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT