UBS CUP
November 21, 2004
Arnold Palmer
Gary Player
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What do you think about three victories in the UBS Cup?
ARNOLD PALMER:  I think one thing that you have to know is the matches and the atmosphere was fantastic all week.  The competition was great.  The guys really played -- if you think, if we talk about, look at Stadler, he started like eagle, birdie, birdie, birdie, birdie today, you never see that kind of thing.

Of course, the rest of the guys, the matches, I watched -- I went out on the course and watched them, and they were playing as hard as you've ever played for any title or anything in your life.  And what I said at the presentation and what Gary said is the nicest thing about it, these guys have really tried and played as hard as you could play.  And the fact is that they sat in there after the whole thing was over, had a beer and talked and laughed and enjoyed themselves.

But the bottom line is that everybody wants to win.  But the fact that when it was all over, they were good buddies, and  you just can't beat that in this world today particularly, the way things are going.
Q.  Are you going to continue to return to be captain as long as you win?

ARNOLD PALMER:  I'm not making any predictions.  My golf is, as Gary says, "You've got to get it back further, Laddy."  And I'm not getting it back far.
Q.  The atmosphere around the event, is it more like the Ryder Cup than the other international competitions before they got to be such intense affairs around the world?

ARNOLD PALMER:  I don't think there's any question.  But I would like to see this atmosphere become contagious to all sports, not just golf.  The things that are happening in sports, like over this last few days, was very bad, and I'd like to see these guys play hard.

Sure, we want to win, but just remember, you are playing a game.  And you've got to enjoy that game.  Play as hard as you can, but when it's over, be friends.

GARY PLAYER:  I think that as far as the Rest of the World Team is concerned, I think we did pretty well.  You know, when you think of the numbers that we've got to select from, as compared to what the United States has got to select from, I think we did extremely well.  They had about as strong a team as I mentioned from the beginning of the week that you could possibly have.  Now, I don't care if you've got Tiger Woods here, he can't play any better than Stadler did today.  Nobody in the world could start better or play better than he did.  It's not possible.

I think that if we could get next year, if we could get Vijay Singh and we could get Nick Faldo and Mark James and Romero --
Q.  Nick Price maybe.

GARY PLAYER:  Nick Price, and those five guys onto our team, we could really make a big difference.

But, you know, these guys like Vijay, are getting these astronomical sums in other places at other events.  It's hard to get them to come.  It's hard to get them to come.  I just wish that they would.

I think the whole series, I thought at the end of the match when the series is over I thought what Stadler did -- and what Hal Sutton did today; Langer put it in there five feet, he put it in there 20 feet, and they are all tied, he gave him the putt.  It wasn't the deciding putt, but it was a really nice gesture.  And I think that what you said is really correct.  This is how sports have got to be played.  I really think if they could take this series and condense it down to gravity and have other  sports look at this, they would see and they would learn a lot.  I think that's important.  Particularly when you've got millions of viewers watching, I think it's very important for these guys to be role models, which they are all are as far as I'm concerned, the whole lot of them.

As I said at the prize giving, John Chillas, and this is really indicative of what has happened to throughout my career.  When Bobby Locke came in, they said, "Well, who is Bobby Locke?"  Well, he won seven out of 11 tournaments.  He beat Hogan and Snead.  And then we had other fellows, Roberto De Vicenzo and Compton and this year Mark McNulty comes up and they said, "Who is Mark McNulty."  There are so many players, that you in the United States, the average person has never heard of in their lives, and when they come over here, they really perform well.
I thought John Chillas was the man of the match from our side.  There wasn't one person that didn't say to me, even the players, "I've never heard of John Chillas, but he can compete."  Never mind the public.  He comes over here, wins these first two games and he ties the best player we've had on the Senior Tour, Hale Irwin.  That's really a tremendous effort.

And a lot of the -- not sufficient recognition is being given to the players outside of the United States.  Arnold Palmer has always been preaching this, and so has a host of players, but really they have got -- I think they have done very well.  I was very proud of what they did today.
Q.  What would you say to a Vijay Singh or a Nick Price, when you tell them could get them to come here?

GARY PLAYER:  First of all, I don't know whether it's my job to go -- we live in a world today of big money.  It's not like with when Arnold, Jack and I played.  We traveled around the world, we would go to Australia for $15,000.  I mean, Arnold Palmer is going to Australia to be president of the Australian Open for its 100th anniversary; and I would have gone, but I have to play in the Nelson Mandela event this coming week starting tomorrow.

It's hard to go to people that are inundated with all of these large sums of money.  I am delighted to see there's so much money.  I really am not envious of the fact at all, because I didn't play golf for money; I wanted to be a champion.  But I hope golf is not going to be hurt by the large sums of money, and the players won't forget they have a responsibility to uphold as well as playing for the big money.

It's not easy, on the other hand.  They all have itineraries to go around the world and they have all of these different offers and things.  But maybe I'm being just a little selfish and say I wish they would come along and play in this event because this has been a very special event.

I'm not being critical.  I want to make sure that I'm not being critical at all.  I'm not being critical at all.  I'm just hoping that they would come along and play.
Q.  Are you feeling at all snakebit both in this event and against Arnold as a captain at this point?

GARY PLAYER:  No.  I look at it in a very positive way.  Give me an example what you're referring to.
Q.  Just that you're 0-3-1 in the tournament so far.

GARY PLAYER:  I look at it in a very positive way.  When you think of what we've got to draw with and what the United States have got to draw with, I think we've done very, very well.  This match could have very easily changed.  We played the wrong ball on No. 9 yesterday, which was a massive turning point.  Mark McNulty, 3-up with three to go, you know, the odds are he'll win.  The odds are yesterday that we would have won.

So, you know, it could very easily have gone even a little closer, and I think it's encouraging to see that.  And last year, they tied.  So, it's encouraging.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT