SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 23, 2004
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mr. Palmer joining us now to receive the Dave Marr Award.  You know, Shell and golf and television go back to the early 60s. Can you talk a little bit about the importance of corporations like Shell to the development of the game of golf as we know it today?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, Shell has been a very important part of the promotion of television and golf and with the Shell series it's been going on a long time.  It has really made some great contributions to the game and it's created a lot of interest in people watching it, going back to Sarazen and Demaret and all the things that happened a long time ago, and of course traveling around the world exposing people to various places in the world, golf courses, countries, seeing what happens in golf in other places, other than just in the United States.  And of course, here, they've done a great job with the work they've done in promoting golf, and, of course, helping promote Shell.
Q.  Arnold, you've inspired millions of people over the years, and it really has nothing to do with birdies and bogeys.  You have a decency to help others, and you readily give credit to your father Deacon for instilling that virtue in you.
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, my father was a fairly tough task master, and of course I could say that I owe a great deal of whatever I have done in my life to his teaching and to his perseverance in hanging in there with me, but that would be a little unfair to give him all the credit.  My mother was also very important in the things that happened, and she helped give me the confidence I needed to go and play and do the things that I did.
Q.  How much of an honor is it for you to receive this award tonight?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, it's a great honor, particularly when the trophy or the award is in the name of a man that was a very close friend and a good friend for many, many years.  We did a lot of things together, played golf, had a lot of fun, and Dave was a particularly good friend, and the things that we did were serious sometimes, but a lot of fun, also.  He was a great guy.  He had a sense of humor that was unparalleled.
Q.  You played a lot with him.  I know back in 1965 he was your partner in a Ryder Cup match.  What are some of your fond memories of Dave Marr?
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, we don't have enough time in one evening for me to tell you all I could tell you about Dave Marr, but certainly you've mentioned one that was a big thing, and you mentioned the Ryder Cup and the fact that he and I played together, but there was more than that.  In 1965, there was the PGA Championship at my club, which Dave Marr won, and that was one of the great moments in my life, when someone else won a golf tournament that I really appreciated the fact that he did, and of course, no one deserved it more than Dave Marr.
Q.  We're just a few weeks removed from an emotional 36 holes of golf, to say the least, down at Augusta.  I'm sure maybe the cheers have stopped ringing in your ears, but I'm sure that the warmth that you felt in your heart that was extended by those fans is still there today.
ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, as you probably know, part of the reason that I still play and part of the reason that I played 50 Masters was for the love of those fans and the people that have rooted for me all those years.  Without the fans, I don't think that my golf would have been as good as it is or that I personally would have had the energy to do the things that I've done.  It was their support and their cheering and constant letter writing that has kept me going and something that I hope will continue.

But certainly up to now, the fans and the people who have given me all the support they've given me are part of the reason that I've done what I've done.
Q.  Last thing, Mr. Palmer, can we get a scoop here?  51 in your sights at the moment?
ARNOLD PALMER:  No, I'm through.  I will not participate as a player in the Masters again.
Q.  But you'll always be there in spirit and heart, and hopefully as an honorary starter, which would make millions and millions of people very happy.  Congratulations on your award.  Dave Marr is looking down and I'm sure he's very proud that you're going to be receiving his award tonight.
ARNOLD PALMER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT