BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2004
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  As nice a round as you would have hoped in terms of the people following you?
ARNOLD PALMER:  I thought I could play a little better than I did both days.  Yesterday was just a disaster, but today was a slight bit better.  I'm just not hitting the ball real solid.  I did hit a couple good ones on 18 and that kind of helped make my day.
Q.  What's going through your head when the other guys are playing well?
ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, both of them played very well.  Mark had a couple of bad breaks and missed a couple shots coming in, which hurt him a little bit.  But he played very well and he's hitting the ball very well.

Chad Campbell is about as strong as I've seen out here lately.  He played very well and was never really in danger.  He just looked like it was either going to be a birdie or a par every hole with him and he's driving it long, putting himself in a good position.  10-under par, I would think that's a pretty nice position to be in.
Q.  Is the course easier or are guys just playing better this year?
ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, the course is good.  The greens are not as hard as they have been.  I would say that the golf course is about as ideal as you could get it to play and score.  It's tough.  It's a tough golf course.  But as you see, they are shooting it up.  But there's not any golf course that if you put these guys on it, they won't shoot it up.  They are very good players and it's going to show.
Q.  Any particular thoughts going through your head as you're walking up to the 18th green?
ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, I suppose that I can't deny that I was thinking about this is probably the last time I'll do that.  That's tough to think you're finished playing on the PGA TOUR as a competitor.  I may play a few Senior events here and there, but as far as the TOUR is concerned, Augusta will probably be my last.
Q.  How much will you miss all of those ovations, 18 of them, coming up the fairways?
ARNOLD PALMER:   That's nice.  The people and those things are the reason I played as long as I have.  Without the thoughts that they give me and to continue to tell me that they want me to play, I wouldn't be here now.  It's nice and it's been nice through the years.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT