MARCONI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 21, 2001
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I really asked the guys if they would prefer not to mess up their game, so I gave them the choice, and certainly it was a privilege. 

Q.  How tough is it for you, this course, this tournament? 

ARNOLD PALMER:   Of course, I was very aware before this happened that I probably shouldn't have played, and because of the fact that they gave me an exemption and didn't cost anyone else, and a lot of the field and the people that I know local, they are all out here  -- relatives, brother, sister.  And OF course, I was also very aware that my game was not very good.  I said that before we ever started  --  not very much competitive golf.  I've really scaled back that.  And I'll continue to play, and if I get myself into a little better playing condition than I am.   I've had kind of a bad year from a playing standpoint, and I suppose one of the reasons is that I've been trying different things and that has affected me.  And the other thing is I haven't really stayed with the competition out here, and you can't play the way I've been.  You really have to stay with it.

Q.  You look like you're limping a little bit?

ARNOLD PALMER:   My back is sore.  My back is very sore.  I won't  -- that's not the problem, however.  I wish I could say that that was my problem, but it isn't. 

Q.  Talk about having a Tour event in western Pennsylvania --

ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, I'm just pleased as I can be with everything that's happened, with the exception of the weather delay yesterday.  That set us back a little bit, but the golf course couldn't be better.  It is in excellent condition, and the players have all been really very gracious with their comments.  And to have Rocco up there on top at the moment is great.  This is a good golf course for him.  He plays the kind of golf that suits here, and he'll do well.  He could very well win this tournament.

Q.  What do you think winning would be  --

ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, I don't know.  I mean, knowing that this has all happened  -- I just hope he can keep it up.  I think the reception that we are getting and what has happened is an indication that it will work.  Once the people get used to the fact that we are going to have a tournament like this, it's something that will, I think, be very good. 

Q.  Maybe part of the healing process? 

ARNOLD PALMER:   Well, I don't know.  I think that the President made an absolute wonderful speech last night, and I think that he told us what we need to do, and he told us what he's willing to do and what the Congress of the country is willing to do, and I think with all of that, we just keep grinding away, we'll get accomplished what he wants to accomplish and keep America what it is and what it always has been and protect the freedom that we have, and I think that's what it is all about.  That's why we're here. 

Q.  One of the reasons you continue playing is a sense of feeling and commitment to the people that are out here?

ARNOLD PALMER:   There's no question about it.  I know a lot of the people came out to see me play, and that is a lot of the reason why I played. 

Q.  When was the last time you walked so many holes in a day?

ARNOLD PALMER:   I can't remember the last time.  (Laughs).  It's been a while.  29 holes  -- it has been quite a while.  I could go another 29, though, if I have to.  (Laughter.)

Q.  You played this golf course a couple of times.  To go out, not 100%, you know your game is not  -- how does that feel inside, to not be able to play the golf course the way you used to play it? 

ARNOLD PALMER:   It hurts, not to be able to do what you know you have to do to play this golf course.  But, you know, I've spent years here redoing this golf course, and I've had something to do with every hole on this golf course, individual golf holes, and I know what it takes.  And I knew before I went out there, what you have to do and how you have to play the golf course.  That's why I think Rocco can do very well.  He's got the kind of game that suits Laurel Valley, and he's long enough off the tee and he's got the high iron shots into the greens, and that's what's necessary.  Of course, I can't think of what I had.  A bad hip, I guess. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

ARNOLD PALMER:   I had something to do with the green on that hole.  I had everything to do with it. 

Q.  You weren't happy with that coming into it today  -- (inaudible)?

ARNOLD PALMER:   I wasn't unhappy.  I'm still walking. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT