U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2001
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was the difference today in your round and your play?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I played a little better.  I really played horribly yesterday.  So it was, in addition to playing poorly, I made a lot of mistakes out there.  Today I got off to a good start.  I had a chance to go 3-under par at the par-5 from about six feet and 3-putted.  And of course in the position I was in, that really shot me down.  If I make that putt and go 3-under for the round, then I feel like I have a chance to make the cut or do something that I haven't done recently.  But that quickly evaporated.  I suppose I was still trying, but it just wasn't the same after I 3-putted that short putt.

Q.  Could you describe the birdies, was it 11, 12, or 12 and 13?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I birdied 13. I birdied 12 to go 2-under. And at 14 I had it for a birdie again and 3-putted.  That was the short hole, the par-5. And then I recall never quite recovered the rest of the day from that, because I knew the cut was going to be somewhere around 10, 9 or 10.  That was right on my number.  I was over that.  So I had to do some pretty fancy playing.

Q.  How disappointing is it to you at this stage?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, I'm disappointed.  But I'm getting to the age where that isn't unusual anymore.  My scores have not been good.  I keep feeling like I might pick it up and get it going.  But as of yet that hasn't happened.  So I'll go home and watch it on TV.

Q.  How much does it mean to you that the crowd so obviously loves watching you play?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, of course if it weren't for the crowds and the support that they have given me, and particularly here they've been wonderful, I wouldn't be playing.  They are the real reason, aside from the fact that I enjoy it and I enjoy playing golf, the crowds are the very reason that I'm participating.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

ARNOLD PALMER:  I'm going to play there.

Q.  What is your relationship with Billy?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Billy has been a young friend of mine for many years.  He went to Wake Forest on a scholarship that I helped put together, and we've been good friends since he's been out on the tour.  And when they put this tournament together a couple of years ago, he asked me, and I really was kind of backing off a little bit.  But this year he asked and he asked if I would play with him. So that's how it all came together.

Q.  He got on his knees to ask you.  He joked about literally dropping to his knees to beg you.

ARNOLD PALMER:  No, I don't think he had to do that.  He asked if I'd play.  That was it.  We put it together.

Q.  In addition to that tournament, what other tournaments will you be playing in this summer, Arnie?  In addition to that tournament, what other tournaments do you plan to play this summer?

ARNOLD PALMER:  Well, after this performance, they're going to be few and far between.  I am going to the British Senior Open. Other than that, I really don't have any plans at the moment.  My game will have to pick up a little before I'll be playing much. Okay.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT