BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2008
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THOMAS LEVET: I had a good round and made two silly mistakes, on 7 and 14, two bad drives that cost me two bogeys but the rest was very nice. I like that course, so I know I can shoot low. I've played well in the past here, and it's always in the back of your mind, and I always come here with that good impression of the course.  
  
  Q. And your game plan on 16 today?  
 THOMAS LEVET: I hit driver and it passed maybe a foot from the pin and hit it to 15 feet maybe. Missed the eagle putt, but nice.  
  
  Q. And your game play at the last?  
 THOMAS LEVET: You know, the same way that France played in Euro 2008; a little sideways and never in centre.  
  
  Q. Very nearly a cheeky birdie.   
 THOMAS LEVET: Nearly, but I got lucky on there.  
  
  Q. And you'll have to go very low tomorrow I assume to give Kaymer a bit of a run.   
 THOMAS LEVET: I know I can make a lot of good birdies here. I've got a lot of good yardage for me, and it's a course I like. I've got something in the back of my mind, and I know it's possible here.   
 It's tough to win tournaments when you lead by so much by yourself, because you don't have a fight at the start and suddenly you can make one or two mistakes and the guys come back to you. You have so many eagle chances, and in six holes you can be back with the other guys just making pars.   
 So, you know, I could be there tomorrow.  
  
  Q. French Open next week, that's exciting for you.   
 THOMAS LEVET: Yeah, it's exciting, and busy.   
  
  Q. Because they all love you so much?  
 THOMAS LEVET: Yeah, too many fans. You know, that's what it is, success. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. Going to be an exciting week for you?   
 THOMAS LEVET: Yeah, it's a very busy week. I haven't played very well in the French Open in the past because I got so many things. You look at my schedule, it looks like a Ryder Cup schedule next week; because I'm not living in France anymore, so I don't see the people very much.   
 So I have a dinner every night and a prize ceremony on Wednesday for the Thomas Levet Challenge which is 112 in the region in Paris, and I've got some other things going on. I have so many things, it's a joke.  
 It's big and all it's missing at the moment. The players are coming along because the prize money is so long and you can't afford to miss it because of The Ryder Cup. So the goal they had is getting there, and I hope it's going to become even bigger.  
  
  Q. What's the secret to playing the Golf Nationale?   
 THOMAS LEVET: Hit straight, putt well, like every week.   
  
  Q. It's a great course, those last few holes are very dramatic.   
 THOMAS LEVET: Yes. (Laughing).  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT