BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2005
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THOMAS LEVET:  We are in the process of moving house so things have been very busy. We are moving to Florida. I have been playing very strangely this year, either very good or very bad. There is no middle. It is kind of stressful. If you play good of course you are in the hunt but if you don't, then you miss the cut. Even from one day to the next I go from 64 to 76 which is a little strange. But the game is not far off as I do some low scores but some days it just doesn't go at all. The problem is that sometimes everything is great and others, it has all gone. It is not one part of the game that is very solid all the time and another is bad. It is all or nothing. I have to put things together.

But it is nice to be back here and playing a course I like. The last two tournaments I have played here I have had a top ten and I am looking forward to this week. Hopefully the weather will stay good.
Q. Have you still got you house in Bracknell?
THOMAS LEVET:  We do for the next five weeks but then it will be sold. So this is the last year that this tournament will be a home venue. I know the course well as I have played here a lot. I know what to expect and know the greens very well. It is the type of golf course I like, very long and demanding in some parts. I always feel confident and at home here. In the Match Play Championship I beat Mike Weir here and played really well and almost did it against Padraig as well. I have good memories of playing here and that is what makes it special. When you play well in big weeks you have a tendency to come back the year after and play the same. Even if you are off form you find it that week. That's the way it goes in golf sometimes. When you have good memories you tend to like the place and when you like the place you tend to score well.
Q.  How are you finding playing both Tours?
THOMAS LEVET:  The weather has been terrible in America. In a two-week spell in Los Angeles I only played five days of golf which is not much. It is different. I took last week off when I came over here so the jet lag is finished and I am looking forward to a big week.
Q.  What is your schedule?
THOMAS LEVET:  I am playing the Memorial and then the US Open, then the French Open. In July I play only Europe. I will play Scottish Open, British Open and then Deutsche Bank and then take a week off. Then go back to America. I do long spells rather than doing one week here and one week there which is impossible. Playing both Tours at the same time is very difficult. But I try to support The European Tour as much as I can as that is where I come from. That's where I have had my success and it is good to come back and see the friends and everyone I know here. It is always nice. I will support the Tour as long as I can physically and hope to win here again soon. This one would be nice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT