SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2005
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
What went well for you today?
THOMAS LEVET:  I hit it good down on the range, and I kept it going today.  I found a bit more in my drives than I did yesterday because I drove it really bad yesterday.  It was due to the early morning I had, 7:00 in the morning, I didn't find the rhythm at all off the tee, so I was in trouble most of the day yesterday.

Today was a little bit better, and I got some lucky breaks, like on No. 8 where I hit it over the green and I putted from the fringe, and my ball hung on the lip, but it was so close from ten seconds that we had to call an officer over, and everybody said it was okay that the ball dropped inside ten seconds, so I got lucky there to save a stroke.  Plus I made a bunker shot on No. 6, which doesn't happen every day, but that's a good break, too.
Q.  How far were you on No. 6?
THOMAS LEVET:  I was about ten yards from the pin.  Little breaks like that make a good score.

I got lucky once or twice.  No. 9 I had a really huge drive and I could have reached, but I finished like inches in the rough, and I had to hit a 9-iron out.  You have some lucky breaks and sometimes you don't have some.  But I love the course.  When you're inspired by a course, that's maybe when you play your best golf.
Q.  Playing with Maggert you obviously had a large crowd because he's a local guy.  Did you like that?
THOMAS LEVET:  There was a little crowd.  It was not large, not like Vijay's, but it was nice.  The weather was nice.  Jeff yesterday played really good and I struggled a little bit, but they carried me over today, and I kind of tried to follow what they were doing.

You need some momentum in your game, and when your partners are playing well, it kind of pushes you to play well, too, and that's what I did today.  It was nice.
Q.  Like that putt on No. 8, you made a point of sitting there counting and stuff.
THOMAS LEVET:  It's like, you know, the other guys told me, no, no, you counted too quick, and actually I checked it out, and actually my ten seconds were probably six, so it just gives you -- you need to reach the hole and that's something I didn't know, either.  You need to count ten seconds with probably a watch, and I didn't know that.  Next time I'll know.
Q.  Did you think it was going to drop?
THOMAS LEVET:  I didn't mind (laughter).  It was a great putt, and I could see the ball moving a little bit.  It was like oscillating on itself because it was really on the edge, so I felt it was still moving.  We couldn't do anything.  If I mark it, you feel ridiculous if you take the pin out to hit the ball, so it was kind of wait and see and just kind of tough luck there.
Q.  Did you think there was a chance you were going to --
THOMAS LEVET:  I didn't mind.  I was playing well.  If you make par or birdie, it's still good.  When you play well -- I didn't mind.  I got lucky there.  To make par or birdie, for me it's the same thing.  I played the same way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT