HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2004
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You enjoy this match play game, don't you?
THOMAS LEVET:  Yes I do, I'm not too bad at, no? When we restarted this morning, I played a lot better than Mike did. He struggled a lot from the tee, which made it really hard for him. He has one of the best short games in the world but you cannot keep hanging on if you are missing green after green like that. I was on the greens all the time this morning so there were not many holes I could have lost. He didn't hit the drive well on the 15th, he hit it in the bunker and then missed the green, but he chipped and putted for an unbelievable four -- I was on the green and two putted.

Then at the 16th he hit another bad drive into the bunker and had no lie and made five, I was in the middle of the fairway, middle of the green, and two putted for a 4.

Then at the 17th, he got a bit lucky with his drive which was going out of bounds but bounced back in play, and then he hit his second shot out of bounds, the ball went up in a tree and was lost so he gave me the hole after he missed the green with his fifth shot. He didn't play good enough but kept in the game as much as he could with his short game.

I am playing well, so it is nice to do that and every time I come to Wentworth it seems like I take my A game with me. I hit a lot of good shots with all my clubs which has not been the case for the last two or three weeks to be honest. I didn't play that well the last two weeks, I scored okay but it wasn't pretty golf. Now it is just the case of keeping in shape because it is a long week, a tiring week when it is wet and it is difficult to play but I am all set for the second round.

I was up at 5:30 a.m. today, hit my first ball at 7:00 a.m. which was not too bad.
Q. Thoughts on Harrington in round two?
THOMAS LEVET:  I know him well obviously and know how he is playing and all his strengths. It should be a good game but it is very difficult to judge any match. Everybody here can beat anybody else so it is just how you perform on the day, you never know.
Q. You are continuing to wear your Ryder Cup waterproofs for luck?
THOMAS LEVET:  Yes indeed, it is working too! They also keep the rain out, too, which is a bonus!!


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT