ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THOMAS LEVET:   I played very solid today, even the bogeys I did today were just unlucky bogeys.   I had two of them, I hit pretty good shots off the tee and just to end up hitting a slope next to the pins and end up in the rough or things like that, it's just a very, very good round, I putted very well and just missed a couple of short putts.   But the rest was very, very solid.

Q.   And it's beautiful in the sunshine, dazzling on your white shirt, but still very tricky. 
THOMAS LEVET:   Yeah, I dressed today, I dressed in red and white, just as the sponsors, just to tell them thank you for the week. 
It's trick even if it's like today, that sun here makes the golf course really hard, rock hard and it's very difficult to control the ball, lots of sideways greens and lots of run‑offs and you never know your ball is going to finish.   It's very difficult, you have to be spot‑on every time.

Q.   And different to what we see on many other occasions?
THOMAS LEVET:   Yeah, it's totally different.   We used to play, an example I give you on No. 8 is a bunker, 295 yards from the tee box and in the past I used to hit driver, not a problem.   The ball was going to run about two or three yards, not a problem for me, I couldn't reach, I was like 15, 20 short of the bunker.   And this week is more like 2‑iron, 3‑wood, and if it's 3‑wood, take it easy, because that bunker is in play. 

Q.   But you like the challenge and you like the creativity that's involved. 
THOMAS LEVET:   Yeah, the problem is those second shots are really difficult.   Because another example, I had a 9‑iron today on No. 12 and the pin is at the back of the green and the problem is that it's downwind, so you need to carry the water before that downstroke behind the green.   The 9‑iron bounced about ten yards. 
So you're like hoping it gets the right bounce and hits on the plateau and jumps on the plateau and stops, because if you pitch on the top plateau, it's gone, it's gone way back behind the green, and that's the difficulty out there. 

Q.   A few occasion where is it looked like the game was coming together and looked like the scores would come, but has not materialised, so is this the proofthat ‑‑
THOMAS LEVET:   I've played pretty good this year.   I didn't drive the ball very well, but the rest was very, very spot on.   I was very happy with my iron play and short game, so I just was waiting for a bit straight off the tee and I would be all right. 
There are some weeks I played okay, and never happened, nothing happened for some time, like four, five tournaments in a row, you come out and you missed the cut by one shot, you make the cut and finish last or 60th, but you played decent golf, nothing happened. 
Last week, I played four rounds, par and under, and for four days, nothing happened.   So when things happen on the greens or you get lucky bounces, suddenly you're on top of the leaderboards. 

Q.   How good of a move is 67? 
THOMAS LEVET:   Very happy because that course is a monster.   It's not designed to be played in dry conditions and bouncy, and some holes, you hit two great shots off the tee, and the second shot, you still finish in trouble.   It's so difficult.   Even that little 15 today is downwind, I hit 3‑wood, I thought I hit it perfect, middle of the green, everything right.   It almost went in the water like 20 yards behind the green, 326 yards from the tee box.   So it's very difficult to control your ball, and that's why that course is very difficult.

Q.   You haven't been at your best this year, 30 your best finish so far, have you felt this performance coming? 
THOMAS LEVET:   You know, I've been struggling all year, that's for sure.   But I've been fighting with my game a little bit, but the scoring was never right.   You look at my performances this year, I played much better than they show.   It's been a long time, my caddie has told me, just be patient, keep your game like this, it's going to come and it's coming this week probably. 

Q.   It's often said that players like yourself, proven winners, know how to win when they get a chance; do you agree with that? 
THOMAS LEVET:   Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT