CHRYSLER CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2003
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thomas, 153rd on the money list, not a serious push, how do you feel right now, emotionally spent?

THOMAS LEVET:  I feel tired because I played a lot of weeks in row.  I am happy the way I finished the season. It's unfortunate that I started playing (Inaudible).  The putting is getting better.  But this week I missed too many long shots this week to be in contention for the win.  And I got the putting and short game working really well.  But you know, I'm okay with the week.  It's a bit too late is all it is.


Q.  Regardless of the results, is this the type of week, the experience, that builds character that allows you to test yourself and your skills?

THOMAS LEVET:  Yes, I have done this before in big tournaments.  I'm just a bit disappointed.  I hit it all over the place. You can call me Sergio No. 2 because I hit it everywhere.  It was ugly and not fun to watch. I think the chip on 15 was a good birdie. 

It was the second chip I had on this hole, yesterday as well.  So it's fun to see that I can compete.  So next time I will be there. 


Q.  Two years ago you were a whisker away in the British Open, it's the nature of this business on how difficult it can be?

THOMAS LEVET:  Yes, you know, this year I had a long season.  Last year at the British Open was something exceptional.  Something that always remarked from golfers.  This year is like a 4-by-4 dodge with bumps and sand and bushes.  So it was a bit longer year, a 4-by-4 doesn't run that quick any way.  So it was long and I am tired.  I enjoyed it.  I enjoyed my time in America.  It was very, very good.  Hopefully  I will be back next year. I will definitely be back on this tournament.  I think it's the greatest course we had all year, except for maybe Canada. 


Q.  Will you play at Q-school?

THOMAS LEVET:  No, I think I'm 150.  I'm directly exempted.  (Inaudible)?


Q.  What have you heard about Q-school?

THOMAS LEVET:  I have been there in '94 before.  I have been there in Europe three times, I think.  I know you have to be patient.  It's just a golf tournament, you know.  I have a big advantage over the other guys.  I don't play my life over there.  I got my spots in Europe.  I'm exempt.  No big deal if I don't make it. 

Anyway, I don't know how I will finish, maybe I can enter a few tournaments on the PGA TOUR and do good in one or two of them.  You can get your card back easily.  So I will be there.  I will be around.  I was crushing it, straight shots.  So it's just the golf.  You have to look.  Play good, play bad, play ugly.  That's what I did this week. 


Q.  What did you like about the golf course?

THOMAS LEVET:  It was very narrow, very demanding.  Every shot is difficult.  If you don't think about the shot you are going to play and you leave yourself downgrain you are pretty much dead.  You got to think about every shot.  Every one is difficult.  You got to think where you are going to put that shot and the next and the next.  I did a few but I managed to make only two or three in the week where I seen some guys playing with me, they made more  bogeys.


Q.  You played with a lot of composure out there, that will serve you right in Q-School?

THOMAS LEVET:  Yes, I'm pretty easy-going.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT