ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2013
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THOMAS LEVET:   Yeah, it's pretty nice, it's going to be quite crazy with the French crowds, they are really behind the French players, and it's going to be quite nice.   
Obviously when I won two years ago, people remembered that, and even today on the Pro‑Am today, they came on the first tee to see who I was, and it's pretty nice to come back to Le Golf National.   
   
 Q.   In terms of Le Golf National, it seems to have developed wonderfully as a course and fitting venue for The Ryder Cup?  
THOMAS LEVET:   Yeah, it's a really tough course.   The rough is pretty high.   If you miss your drives, it's going to be a nightmare to come out of this rough.   Probably sometimes dropping the ball will be the best option you have, because it's so big.   Let's hope we escape from it a lot, because it's not very narrow, but it's demanding, you know, and when the wind blows, it's a really, really tough course.   
So if you keep it together, it's possible to shoot low scores, but you need to hit the fairways, because otherwise, no chance.   
   
 Q.   A few weeks ago at Madeira, you were saying that your game was looking good and you wanted to play there and keep things going.   It has not quite developed, but you're playing all right, aren't you?   
THOMAS LEVET:   Yes, of course, I'm not playing so bad.   My putter has been behaving very strangely.   It is totally on or totally off, and you saw some scores like in Munich, 67 day one, 75, day two.   I didn't play that differently.   It's just it was just the putter was not very good, and one bounce here and there, it gives you a different score.   
All I'm waiting for at the moment is the luck to change a little bit and the putter to keep stable for a week.   It's been really, really strange at the moment, but just too many 2‑putts.   There's not too many 3‑putts like it was at the start of the year, but too many two putts.   Nothing goes in and you don't score, and on that tour, you shoot 71, you don't go anywhere, so that's what it is at the moment with me.   
But I'm there and I'm fighting for the cuts at the moment, but I miss by one, by two; I made the cut in Austria, I made the cut in Madeira, things like that.   I played okay at Wentworth.   
So, you know, I'm looking forward to a nice week.   I know it's going to come; when, I don't know.   That's the beauty of that game, you never know when good things can happen.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT