THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2009
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THOMAS LEVET: I played solid golf. It wasn't genius golf but it was solid golf. My putter was good, as well. Every time I missed a green, which was very rare, I got up-and-down. So this is why I'm standing at 11-under. 
 I think we got very, very lucky with the weather today. It was unbelievable. 

 Q. How does an experienced player like you figure out what is a good score when conditions are changing like that?
 THOMAS LEVET: You know from the start, even this morning when I was raining at the hotel, I knew I could do some low scores and the guys in the morning did. There were some 5- and 6-unders, because when it's raining, the greens soften a lot and then you can be aggressive a lot more. 
 For example on my second shot on 6, I hit a 3-iron and it stopped within three feet. So it shows you like yesterday, I would have probably been over the green with the same shot. 
 So the targets get bigger and it's a lot softer, plus you can control your ball a lot more off the tee because it's not bouncing as much.

 Q. You've finished runner-up in The Open Championship and so we know you like wind and links, tomorrow is supposed to be really ugly; what do you think of that?
 THOMAS LEVET: It's good. We'll see, it's going to be a tough day for everyone. So whoever is going to hang on the most might come out in the lead. But you know, with high winds, sometimes you need some luck. 
 Of course, I played very good today. It's just no bogeys for 36 holes, that's a really nice record. Plus I had quite a few birdies, as well. It could have been better. I missed a few putts out there, but you can't make everything. 
 I think with heavy wind coming on the weekend you might see different faces and different scores on the leaderboard. You know, today we got so lucky, and we didn't even know where the wind was coming from, it was so little. We got really lucky, plus the setup of the course I thought was very, very easy, probably the easiest we've ever seen on a links course. So that's why the scoring is so low. 
 We have not seen the face of Baltray actually. Tomorrow will be a lot tougher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT