NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2014
Tony Ramos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 133 POUNDS
  TONY RAMOS 
  
THE MODERATOR:   University of Iowa, national champion, Tony Ramos.   
   
 Q.   Tony, I guess, first, how does it feel to finally accomplish this goal?  
TONY RAMOS:   It's awesome.   I'm excited.   I can't wait to get out of here, go take that drug test, and then celebrate with my family, get my bracket, and go home and put it on the wall.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of celebrating, was that planned from the get‑go?  
TONY RAMOS:   Oh, yeah.   You always have something planned.   They're the closest people to me other than the wrestling team, Tom and Terry, the other coaches, and I wanted to see them as quick as I could.  
   
 Q.   You might be the first NCAA champion to come in with a national champion hat.   Whose idea was that?  
TONY RAMOS:   My brother has got ideas for everything.   I didn't even know he had it.   He just put it on my head when I was over there.   Pretty cool, though.   
   
 Q.   You and Graff were staring down each other the beginning of the match‑‑  
TONY RAMOS:   He went down.   He went down.   He gave it away right away.   He can take it all you want.   He knows when he made the mistake.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about that flurry there and the tie‑breakers that you were able to get the near fall points?  
TONY RAMOS:   I knew he liked to roll.   As soon as he hit that roll, I was just finding some way to score.   I caught that arm and I was like, you know, if I just fall back a little bit, did a quick calc, just glad I got it this year, unlike last year.   
That's why you don't roll.   For young kids, never roll.   Solid wrestling always wins.  
   
 Q.   You've been confident this whole tournament.   Do you feel you wrestle to your capability?   Obviously you got the result you were looking at.   
TONY RAMOS:   I won the national title.   I got the job done.   That's all that matters right now.  
   
 Q.   Can you contrast this to the feeling a year ago, coming up on the short end?  
TONY RAMOS:   It's a lot different.   But this year, the review was to see if I won the match or not.   Then when I actually had time to wrestle, you know, I knew in my head I had it, but you never know what's going to happen with those refs.   They can do whatever they want.   
But I was ready to go if I had to go another minute.   I got through his legs in that first period, didn't finish.   The next time I just had to finish it.  
   
 Q.   What's that moment of uncertainty like when he was going to look at the screen?  
TONY RAMOS:   Stay calm.   Don't let your emotions get to you.   Be ready for anything.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT