NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Tony Ramos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, Tony Ramos of Iowa, 32‑1.   Can you tell us about the takedowns?   
TONY RAMOS:   I felt him wearing down after the first period, and he wanted to come out and get a takedown.   That's what he wanted, and I was going to run, run, run.   I got tough guys that I work with that are hard to get to.   So I thank them for helping me out there, working for a score, pushing that‑‑ I wasn't planning on it, wrestling with him a lot.   
So I knew I had to go and to go, and I got the takedown.   The pressure was on him.   I knew I might get hit again, so I was ready for him to come and had to get my takedown.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what was going through your mind when you got in the early deficit?  
TONY RAMOS:   Nothing, who gives a‑‑ who gives a butt.   He had a takedown.   So, if you want to beat me you got to take me out two or three times, maybe four or five, because I'm going to keep oncoming.   
   
 Q.   What about Logan Stieber in the finals?   
TONY RAMOS:   See you guys back here Saturday night.   Hard wrestling.   No game plan.   Everyone has a game plan and a strategy.   You got to go out there and you gotta fight, fight, and keep on fighting.   That's how I'm going to win.   
   
 Q.   Did you get frustrated in the second and third period and the first couple of overtimes?   It seemed like you were backing off.   
TONY RAMOS:   Can't get frustrated.   If you do that, you're letting other things get into your wrestling, getting into your thoughts.   I just worry about scoring, worried about moving my feet and my hands and heavy pressure.   He was breathing hard.   
   
 Q.   As you were waiting for the 125s to get done, what thoughts are going through your mind?   
TONY RAMOS:   I'm the best, building, building, building.   Terry tells me before every match, build your legs, build your match, build your turn amount, build your points, build your lead.   There is nothing better than that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Tony, congratulations, good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT