KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Charles Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 59, Kansas State - 44
Q. (No microphone.)
CHARLES JONES: It's pretty tough to lose these games in a row, so I feel like we're still resilient, and we still keep on fighting.  This hurts.  I don't think anybody has been a part of this kind of thing on this team, but we're going to keep fighting.
Q. Did you expect to get the ball more today than you did?
CHARLES JONES: I don't really know.  We just expected to play our game, and we made a couple of turnovers and had a couple of penalties, so, you know, we can't do that.  Can't shoot ourselves in the foot.
Q. Did you feel like you got in a rhythm in the second half?
CHARLES JONES: Yeah, I definitely felt like we got in a rhythm with the run game, and the offensive line was blocking their butts off.
Q. Were they presenting something to you the first half that made you guys want to throw it a little bit more?
CHARLES JONES: I don't really know.  I can't even answer that question.
Q. What was the biggest reason for the slow start by the offense?
CHARLES JONES: I don't know.  We just wasn't taking advantage of opportunities, you know, we just didn't come off too hot.  Sometimes that happens.
Q. Does the offense change its game plan a little bit when all of the sudden you're out there and you're suddenly down by one or two touchdowns?  Do you guys try to stick to what you were planning on or do you change your plan at that point?
CHARLES JONES: When you're down by 14 it's hard to continue to run the ball, and I feel like we tried to catch up a little bit, and it kinda messed up our game plan just a little bit.
Q. Where do you feel like this team is at from a mental standpoint, knowing you have to win three straight to make it to a bowl game.  Is that any sort of conversation that's taking place right now?
CHARLES JONES: That's definitely the goal, that's the goal, win three and go to a bowl game, but it's frustrating losing six in a row.  But, like I said last week, we have a lot of leaders, great leaders that keep us positive and keep us fighting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT