ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 1, 2012
Jason Hartmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON HARTMAN:   I'm just an all‑in type person.   I just made sure that I kept my routines and stuff, just really tried to focus on getting as ready as possible. 

Q.   This will be your eighth marathon.   This will be your third marathon in 2012.   What has that been like with that many long races in the year?   Any points in the year where you've been tired or really energized?
    JASON HARTMAN:   Well, the most important thing when you're running a couple marathons a year, I think you do a good job of recovering.   Meb is one of the most consistent marathoners in the world right now.   Very meticulous.   Doesn't need a huge buildup.   He has a lot of experience. 
    With age comes experience.   The more marathons you do, the more you train, you understand what works for you and what doesn't. 
    Like for me, after Boston, I took a brief period of downtime, then slowly built back up, then I started training for this. 
    I got banged up after the half marathon in Duluth.   My Achilles flared up.   It was kind of forced rest.   But now I've had a good block of training and feel really recovered from Boston, the trials and stuff.   Really just emotionally invested in this race, so... 
    I feel as I step to the line that I prepared myself the best I could, and the results will be what they will be.   If I have a great day, I prepared myself really well.   If I didn't, I did everything possible.   So I have no regrets at all what will happen on Sunday. 

Q.   How long was that block of training?
    JASON HARTMAN:   I'd say about 10 to 11 weeks.   10 weeks ago I was really in a lot of pain.   I was like, Holy crap, I don't know if I'll be able to get ready.   Had some great people that worked with me to get me back to health, cross train like a madman. 
    As far as like under the circumstances I just feel really confident where I'm at. 

Q.   Achilles can be a tough one.   Anything you did other than cross train? 
    JASON HARTMAN:   Just stretching, cross‑training, getting work done on it.   Those are all elements that kind of led to me recovering. 
    But there was a time where I was like, Holy crap, I don't know if I'll be able to make it.   But kept positive, tried to be as smart as possible under the circumstances. 
    As far as right now I feel really ready to go and ready to compete, so... 

Q.   What does that mean for you on Sunday to compete?   Where does that put you in this race?
    JASON HARTMAN:   Hopefully as high as possible.   I like to base myself in my races off competing first, then times will come.   So having the right strategy to allow myself to compete, I think a lot of young people, especially high school kids, they think competing is going out and sprinting like Prefontaine, but you're not giving yourself the best strategy to compete. 
    Anytime I line up, I like to have a good strategy, get to certain points in races where I can compete against the people around me and run a great strategy, maximize my performance. 
    For me to have a top performance, it just depends on the course and stuff.   My number one goal is to maximize my performances, just staying within myself, allowing myself to compete when that time comes. 

Q.   This is your first race since Boston.   Are you noticing the week of the race that you're thinking about it differently or your confidence is different than it has been leading into other marathons? 
    JASON HARTMAN:   No.   I try to relatively stay the same, just try to be as relaxed as possible.   Being younger, you're all like really stressed, you don't know what to expect.   Now I'm much more relaxed and I know what to expect.   That is a sense of comfort and confidence, I guess, just going into the event a lot more relaxed.   I've done enough to know what works for me. 

Q.   What goes through your mind when you see these guys around you, about to line up with them?
    JASON HARTMAN:   Just respect.   Those guys are world class.   If they could beat me up, I'd probably be intimidated.   But as far as like athletes, world class.   It's exciting to compete against them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT