U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Brett Boner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the match?
BRETT BONER: On this current match?
Q. Uh-huh.
BRETT BONER: I actually hit it very solid.  I was really surprised.  I wasn't sure how my body would react.  Obviously I'm tired.  Running on adrenaline.
But I hit it really solid.  I didn't make many putts again, but I finally made a birdie putt on 12 and then I made one on 13.  The stroke felt good after that and I hit it in the right spots again today.
Q. You took a 2-up lead on and with pars.  Talk about those a little bit.
BRETT BONER: Yeah, he didn't hit good shots unfortunately.  Corey is a great player.  He didn't have his best game today.  And what a story.  He couldn't find his clubs for a couple days and here he is in the top 16.
You hate to beat a guy like that.  He's such a great guy and great player.  I was impressed he got this far.  He didn't have his best stuff.
Q. 12, 13, 14, birdie, birdie, par?
BRETT BONER: Yes, birdie, birdie, par.  Yeah, he went par, par -- yeah, something.  I went birdie, birdie, par and was able to get to 4-up.  Right?  Yeah.
Q. After a marathon match in the morning, coming into this match is it hard to stay mentally tough?
BRETT BONER: Uh-huh, it was.  I took a shower, changed clothes, new pair of socks, couple Band-Aids.  And, yeah, once I got really off the first tee and hit a solid tee shot, I'm like, Just stick to your routine.  My whole thing this week has been routine, commit and, accept.
So whatever happens after I commit, as long as I commit, I don't care.  It's done me well.  That's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.
Q. Do you think it played a factor that you're playing in front of a bunch of friends and family?  Do you think it helped you get through this match?
BRETT BONER: I don't know.  It's hard, too, because you want to play well for them.
Q. Yeah.  So it's kind of both.
BRETT BONER: My son came out from school and he's rooting for me so hard, so you want to play well for them.  Maybe a little add pressure, but I was really comfortable out there.  I know the golf course, I know where to put it on the greens, so, yeah, it helps.
Q. Quarterfinalist means you're exempt into next year's Mid-Am.
BRETT BONER: Cool.
Q. How does that feel?
BRETT BONER: That's great.  That's great.  You know, not have to qualify for one of these things is a treat.  I got work to do and I got a goal.
Q. I know it's hard out there.  What's the key to kind of getting through these matches?
BRETT BONER: I think solid ball striking.  I don't pay a lot of the attention to what my playing guy is doing.  I just think solid ball striking and putting it on the right part of the green puts a lot less stress on you.  Right?
If you're not hitting it well you just put so much stress on your game that it's hard to get up and down all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT