U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Brett Boner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys were a little back and forth there.  After the lost Hole 9 you won five of your next seven holes.  
BRETT BONER: Yeah.   
 Q.  What caused that momentum?  
BRETT BONER: The main thing was I made a bunker shot on No. 11 for birdie after he had hit it to like seven feet.  He ended up making the putt, which is just a great putt by him.  But it was huge for me.  I just pulled even, and so we stayed even after that bunker shot.   
Then I just hit it solid today.  Hit a solid shot on the next hole and made the 15-footer for birdie.   
Almost jarred the 5-iron on the next hole.   
And then he hit it in the rough a couple times and he got penalized.  That's part of this golf course unfortunately.  So it helped me, but, yeah, it was back and forth.  A lot emotions.   
 Q.  I know you said yesterday you felt more pressure.  Did you still feel the pressure today?  
BRETT BONER: I did, but it's getting better.  Yeah, I'm getting more comfortable.  Ton of friends out here following me.   
I think you asked me about match play yesterday.  It's a different beast.  You forget about it.  You don't play to a whole lot, right, and you kind of forget about the emotions and you're not really wanting to pay attention to what he's doing because you want to stick to your routine.   
At the same time, last few holes I need to see what he's doing so I don't do anything stupid.   
 Q.  And now on to the round of 32.  
BRETT BONER: Yeah.   
 Q.  What it's mean to go to come out and play this well in your home state?  
BRETT BONER: Like I said yesterday, means a lot.  It's been a goal for two years, and huge goal this year.  I'm very, very thankful and blessed that I'm continuing to play solid golf.   
I believe in myself and I know I got the ability.  Just going to be a matter of staying calm and trusting.   
 Q.  Heading into tomorrow's match, anything you're looking to change?  Kind of stick to the same game plan?  
BRETT BONER: I'm going to stick to the exact same game plan.  Like I said yesterday, my targets are the same out here.  The shots I want to hit off the tees don't change.  My lines are the same.   
The USGA puts some great hole locations out there today.  Be interesting to see what they do tomorrow.  It's tough.  It's tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT