EASTERN WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Sam McPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 56, Eastern Washington - 10
Q. I thought you did some really good things on offense.  I know it was a tough day, only scoring 10 points.  You kind of ran into a bit of a buzz saw with Texas Tech.  What were they able to do defensively that held you guys down?
SAM McPHERSON: They were pretty disciplined.  I mean, they held their gaps well, the D-line did.  They did their job, and we just didn't execute as well as we needed to.  I thought our game plan was great coming in, we just needed to execute better.
Q. You can learn a lot off watching film.  You have North Dakota State coming in next week into Cheney.  What are the things you'd like to see this offense improve on between now and next week?
SAM McPHERSON: We've just got to drive the ball.  We've got to stop making mental mistakes.  Other than that, I think we're going to be solid.  We're staying positive through this.  We're going to be just fine coming in.  North Dakota State is going to be a really good team, maybe even possibly better than them, who knows.  But they're going to be ready, we're going to be ready, too, and come out and be good, be ready.
Q. Coaches have talked about what you've done in spring ball and fall camp.  You've really been outstanding.  You and Antoine Custer, you have a nice combination in there in terms of being able to run inside and outside.  Do you see yourself really helping this offense out in terms of moving forward from a running back standpoint?
SAM McPHERSON: Definitely, me, Antoine, Tamarick, we've got like four or five guys that can play anyplace.  Yeah, we definitely need to step up, too.  We definitely need a running game.  Our passing game is going to be just fine, but we need to establish a running game to help with that and help the team.
Q. You guys talk about EKG, an Eagle kind of guy; with your leadership and with the things you guys have going, do you see this football team taking some steps forward and improving?
SAM McPHERSON: Definitely.  We just didn't have a good day today.  We're going to be fine.  We're going to bounce back.  We're going to be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT