NYC HALF MARATHON
March 15, 2012
Ed Moran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I want to catch up with you from everything that's happened since New York.   We really haven't talked to you significantly.   Did the results of that race surprise you at all?   
ED MORAN:   I was a little surprised.   At first I was surprised how well it went, just being the first marathon, everyone saying how difficult the New York course was, but then you take a step back and you evaluate what type of work you've done going into the marathon and then how the marathon played out, and you just kind of deconstruct it step by step, and then I wasn't as surprised.   It was one of those things where I was very, very satisfied with the result, but then at the same time it felt like I left some time out on the course, which is always positive, because it gets you excited to do it again.   
   
 Q.   But then some people wondered if you might do it again in Houston and you decided not to.   Talk about that decision.   
ED MORAN:   That was a difficult decision because when I first was going into New York I was like, there's no way I'm going to do it, I don't care how successful New York goes, I'm not going to run the trials.   Then immediately after, you wake up the next morning, you go, okay, I can do this, I can go back and run the trials in what is it, about eight weeks.   So for all of the "I am not going to do it," I got married the week after the marathon and did really make an attempt to come back to run the trials.   I think the excitement with how well New York went, I got a little ahead of myself, got a little over ambitious in my training and kind of that beginner's hubris snuck up on me, and I was like, okay, I feel great, I'm going to be able to do this.   Little did I know that great feeling only lasts so long if you don't give your body enough time to recover.  
About three weeks back into training, small little injuries started to creep up, fatigue level increased, so it was one of those, okay, let's not overdo it and then have a negative experience at the trials and then really dig myself a hole and have no shot at making the trials team.   
   
 Q.   After the marathon I know you got married a week later.   Certainly you took the first full week off.   Did you run at all on your honeymoon?  
ED MORAN:   I did.   I ran a few days actually the week of the wedding, kind of just to decompress and kind of keep in the routine, and then when we went on the honeymoon I kind of ran a few days here and there, not much, but just enough to stay active and keep everything loose.   And it's so easy to run when you're in Hawai'i.   It's just so beautiful there.   It doesn't feel like a chore at all, even when you're hurting after the marathon.   
A couple days I actually ran with my wife, and we always joked that we got to save a baby seal that had beached itself.   We were the first people running by, so they have these flags that you're supposed to put out when a seal beaches itself.   So we ran up and we flagged off the seal on one of our runs.   It's kind of funny because everyone came up like we were experts.   We didn't know what we were doing.   They were like, can we take photos?   Can we walk by the flags?   It was like, all of a sudden, yes, you're the expert.   Take photos but no flash photography, please.   The seal is napping.   
   
 Q.   Now, you were in Kauai and Maui?  
ED MORAN:   Just Kauai.  
   
 Q.   Was it as good as you thought it was going to be?  
ED MORAN:   It was.   We spent half the time on the north side of the island, half on the south, so we got to see a little bit of everything.   It was just beautiful.   They had to drag me off the island at the end of the week.   
   
 Q.   That's the right reaction.   Anybody who says I couldn't wait to leave, I wouldn't trust them ever again.   About when did you decide that you wouldn't do the trials?   When did you finally decide you had to pull the plug on that idea?  
ED MORAN:   It had to be mid‑December, mid to late December.   
   
 Q.   Did you just wake up one day and decide, this is just the wrong thing to do?  
ED MORAN:   Yeah, because it got to the point where I was starting to beat myself up over the day‑to‑day.   Training wasn't going well, didn't feel particularly good, and it was one of those, okay, I'm going to really maintain my sanity and just pull the plug on it.   All the conversations that I had with my coach up to that point was, if it happens organically, it happens.   If not, don't look at it as a failure.   It was going to be a bonus, if anything.   
   
 Q.   How much attention did you pay to the trials when the day came?   Did you consider following them online?   Were you wondering what was happening?  
ED MORAN:   Of course, yeah.   I was following it online and watched some of the TV coverage afterwards.   And it was just an exciting event.   I would have loved to go and just watch it and be there but didn't end up going.   It's pretty hard not to be excited.   It's one of the more exciting days in U.S. distance running every four years, the marathon trials.   It's the only trials event going on that day, and everyone gets excited for it.   The running world revolves around the marathon trials on that day.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first half marathon?  
ED MORAN:   It is, if you don't count the midway point of the full marathon.   
   
 Q.   So when it comes to your distance debuts, New York is just the place to be, I guess?  
ED MORAN:   It really is.   I love coming to New York just because of the excitement and the exposure of the events.   I've always felt like I'm a person that kind of performs to the level of the competition and the atmosphere of the event, and I've always had a lot of success here in New York.   I mean, I would say one of my breakthrough races as a professional was the US 8K Championship, which was in Central Park, which was in '07, and that really kicked off either‑‑ could be considered my best season ever or definitely the second best season I've ever had, then come back with a healthy kidney, where up until I won the U.S. 10K Championships, that was my 10K road PR, and then of course the New York Marathon was a great debut for me.   
New York treats me well, so I like to come back as much as possible.   
   
 Q.   Well, you're certainly going to get a PR on Sunday, aren't you?  
ED MORAN:   I hope.   
   
 Q.   So you're looking now toward the 10 at the trials?  
ED MORAN:   I am.   10,000 is going to be the primary focus.   I'm probably going to run both the 5 and the 10 just because of how the schedule sets up with the 10 being on the first day.   
   
 Q.   So you'll be back on more familiar territory back on the track, I guess?  
ED MORAN:   Yeah, I've really enjoyed the stint on the roads over the last about eight months.   There's something romantic about the track, just the rhythms and‑‑ I don't even know how to explain it.   It's very comfortable and it's very exciting, and once again, the crowds are right on top of you, so it's really easy just to get into a good rhythm and run a good race.   I'm looking forward to start doing some track workouts again.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you'll do a marathon in the fall?   
ED MORAN:   Definitely.   I'm definitely looking to do a marathon in the fall.   Like I said, after New York, I really felt like there was room for improvement.  
   
 Q.   Are you still living in Williamsburg?  
ED MORAN:   I am.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT