NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Derek Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE  MODERATOR:  Derek Moore, finalist at 141.   
  
  Q.  What does it means to you especially after last year not to be able to finish the tournament because you were injured and now getting into the finals this year?   
 DEREK MOORE: It's a mind-blowing experience.  This year I've been battling so many injuries.  I've been out over half of the year, elbows, knees, 22, 23, matches out.  After last year's injuries, I've been working hard all season.  And then my freshman and sophomore year,  I was one away from All-American.  UC Davis has been working hard to get an All-American and get their name on the board, you could say.  Being the first All-American at UC Davis is great, as well as the first national champion.  It's great for the team, the coaches.  I've been dreaming of this ever since I came to college, where I wasn't sure I was going to go there from high school, and it's paid off finally and I've loved every bit of it.   
  
  Q.  Morgan got a first takedown.  How critical was it you got points on the board that first period?   
 DEREK MOORE: What I've seen from wrestling Morgan, his mind kind of comes into his game play during his matches, so him coming out of the first period with a 2-0 lead which keeps him on a roll and me being able to score.  When the clock, 29 seconds were left, I told myself, I have to make something happen here.  I was more explosive than I usually am.  So I kind of got up and started rolling around and luckily caught him and got something, got ahold of the legs, I didn't know I had the takedown.  I didn't know they gave it to me.  I was pretty stoked about that.   
  
  Q.  You're from California and a lot of people who come out of high school in California tend to leave, what would you say to anybody graduating from high school in California and looking to go to college here?   
 DEREK MOORE: Talking to them, I would tell them to watch more college wrestling and look at what some of the California schools are doing.  We're starting to come up, especially Davis, the whole school is transitioning to a Division I program.  Coming out of California, staying in California was my only option because I didn't do so well in high school.  But a lot of guys in high school don't do so well, but are really hard workers and they don't get recruited.  I had to walk on at UC Davis my first year.  I didn't get a scholarship, I didn't get any money.  I joined the ROTC, and went to college.  I have go into to the Army after this.  Go to college, walk on if you have to, get the money later, but UC Davis, I love it here.   
  
  Q.  Does it strike you as ironic this year because of your injuries and the fact that you're wrestling out west you've flown under the radar nationally and now because of the Lang and Rider match, you might fly under into the radar even going into the final match.  Is this about proving something to the national wrestling scene?  Are you making this personal or is it just about you winning the national title?   
 DEREK MOORE: It's not just about me, but it's a lot about everything that I've gone through the first two years, and last year's injuries and all injuries I've had through my college year, just coming through that and kind of being like one of those dream story things, keep working at it and it will happen, it's kind of played it's way out for me like that.  My career has come to this tournament, now in defeated in the national finals.  I still don't believe it, it hasn't hit me yet.   
  
  Q.  It sounds like this dream has been awesome for you.  Do you have to win a national title?  Is it a nightmare if you don't or are you already so excited it's hard to think about it?   
 DEREK MOORE: It won't be a nightmare at all.  It's not the thing.  I'll be devastated but it's not over by any means.  I'll be upset for a little while, I'm sure.  But I'll come out of this with my head high.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT