UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Lowell Narcisse
Carlos Strickland II
Carl Austin III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTSA - 31, Rice - 27
Q. Lowell, you had your best passing performance as a road runner tonight. What was different from the first two games for you?
LOWELL NARCISSE: We've been working for this, man. We've been right there. The last couple of weeks, you watch the games, we wasn't far from having a breakout performance, and we just kept believing. We did a good job of putting guys in position to make plays, and those guys made plays tonight. Congratulations to those guys for helping me out and putting me in position to make those things happen.
Q. Lowell, especially after halftime you seemed to get going on offense. Is there anything you adjusted to hit your stride as a group?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Just settling in, and we had a couple drives early in the second half that was kind of backed up for us and put ourselves in tough situations, so I just told the guys, just settle in, we're getting all the things that we want, getting the looks that we want, now just go out there and execute. Carlos did a great job of putting us in position and making plays, so I just thank those guys for helping me out tonight.
Q. Are you starting to feel more and more comfortable? Looks like your body language is different, a little more comfortable. How are you feeling out there?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Obviously there's always room for improvement. I felt we played good. We left a bunch of plays out there, and I still feel like we could have kept a lot of plays alive. I'm excited for the team, and we knew this day was coming, just to be able to go through this, especially on homecoming night, for Carlos to be able to enjoy this moment. I'm just glad for those seniors to be able to enjoy their homecoming night and for us to be able to get the victory.
Q. What was it like handling the back-and-forth nature of the game? You were out there for critical drive after critical drive. How did you handle that?
LOWELL NARCISSE: I've faced adversity my whole life. To be in this situation, I look at it the same way all the time, you've been here before, you know how to talk yourself into it, you know how to rally the guys around. So I felt like we did a great job of that. The guys fed off my energy, and we just made plays.
Q. Carl, can you talk about the mindset of the defense? When you score, here they come across midfield, they got down to about the 25 or the 26, then you had the big sack.
CARL AUSTIN III: Yeah, we prepare for those plays and those drives all the time. The defense and the offense, the team as a whole is ready for those tough drives and tough plays. Just the coaches put us in the right spots to make plays, and we made those plays today. We figured out a way to win. Those games in the past, we didn't know how to win yet, but tonight we figured out a way to get that W and finish strong.
Q. Lowell, can you take me through that last drive where you were pretty good passing the ball, and did you hurdle a guy? Just run me through that whole drive and that play specifically.
LOWELL NARCISSE: Honestly it wasn't really a read play, but we got some things called clean (indiscernible) rules; you get to clean it, you get to pull it. I liked my leverage with the backer kind of tucked inside. The Car actually was blocking a guy to the ground and I just happened to jump over him. Like I said, guys helped me out to make plays. Carlos did a good job of winning the man-to-man coverage on two critical 3rd down situations and put us in position to make those plays.
Q. The touchdown drives late in the game there, what did you see on those drives and what was the key for your offense overall to get going today?
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: We just kind of just stayed poised the whole night, even when we were down, and it was, like y'all said, a back-and-forth game, and I think it was the biggest thing just staying poised, and even before the game, guys were locked in and focused, and you could tell we were ready to play tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT