SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2006
Seimone Augustus
Pokey Chatman
Scholanda Hoston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH POKEY CHATMAN:  When we were coming in, there were several things we needed to accomplish to experience some success.  You look over the last few years, Ole Miss has been a team that has gotten to the free-throw line the most in this particular conference.  We thought that our ability to defend in a disciplined manner, but also transition to the other end of the floor.  We ran some good offense, couple of ball reversals, and establish ourselves in the paint, would go a long way. 
 So that the best stat on the stat sheet is the fact that we got to the free-throw line 20 times and only committed eight personal fouls.  I think that established ourselves early on and the team was able to carry it out to the tune of shooting almost 55% for the game. 

 Q.  Pokey, you talked about the need for Sylvia to be more dominant and kind of play up to her capabilities.  Did she start to do that today?  Did she approach that? 
 COACH POKEY CHATMAN:  I think so.  You look at the fact that the looks that Scholnda was able to knock down on the perimeter, it's a correlation.  Sylvia's activity would draw so much attention, if we get a paint touch, Scholnda can get her feet set, so it all works in unison. 
 Also a couple of blocked shots, the fact we had 58 points in the paint, she secured the rebounds.  I haven't seen our deflection chart yet, but I thought she did a pretty good job of being active deflecting the ball, denying the basketball, and she just played big in all facets of the game. 
 Q.  Pokey and Seimone, you probably don't realize, but she tied your LSU SEC tournament record for scoring today, 30 points.  I was wondering if you were aware of that.  I assume that's not why you took her out.  I was wondering about that. 
 COACH POKEY CHATMAN:  Honestly, I didn't know I had any records left to break.  No, it's not.  The hope is to continue playing, getting some fresh legs under some people.  It does seem like a pretty smooth move on my part. 
 Seimone's game often gets written about like it comes easy.  You think about the double teams, the (indiscernible), she manages to be an unselfish player and stay off, which ties into Sylvia getting the touches because she garners so much attention.  That attention wouldn't be the same if she wasn't an active, unselfish player.  Today you saw typical Mone in action. 
 Q.  Her 30 points tied you.  Would you mind talking about that, tying her record. 
 SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:  I think she took me out on purpose (laughter).  Coach is a very competitive person.  No, I'm just kidding. 
 I mean, I'm just glad to just be in that company with coach.  She set the standards for LSU Tiger basketball.  Most of my points came off today, like coach said, just moving, reading the defense, doing the little things, setting screens, to get people open and hoping that my defender had the help of somebody else.  I got open shots, maybe drive to the basket. 
 Q.  Pokey and Seimone, you must really like this building.  You're 4-0.  Last time you were here, you won the SEC title.  Are you going to petition to keep it here?  Is it special for you to come here and play well, knowing there's thousands of people living in this state displaced by the hurricane?  Are you aware of that?  Did you feel a strong fan contingent here? 
 COACH POKEY CHATMAN:  Yeah, extremely strong fan contingent.  We're well aware of the aftermath of Katrina because we're still living in the midst of it.  Yes, we've experienced some success here.  There are other teams that are about to shoot it up, start the next game.  That helps you get back to reality really, really quick. 
 It's extremely important for us to play well because there were some things that we didn't do particularly well at the end of the season.  You know, this conference will humble you.  It's imperative that you correct those things. 
 SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:  I agree with coach.  I think we sure play well because SEC doesn't let you have the opportunity to kinda sit back and relax and think about the victory you just had.  You have to focus on the next opponent, the opponent after that.  Besides, this is post-season.  You must be ready to play. 
 Q.  Scholnda, it seems you played with some energy that had been kind of absent since the Tennessee win and the Georgia win.  How much have you looked forward to the post-season?  Is that kind of what you needed to get your energy level back up to where it was? 
 SCHOLNDA HOSTON:  You know, this is the time of year that you get excited about.  This is a lot of fun.  Every game you go on, it's going to be big competition.  You got to go out there and step your game up.  It's exciting.  I think that's why we have a little bit more energy.  I just hope that we continue to carry that out throughout the rest the tournament into the NCAA tournament. 
 Q.  Coach, what did you tell your team at halftime to sort of cut down on the amount of turnovers that you had in the first half? 
 COACH POKEY CHATMAN:  I said, "Cut down on the amount of turnovers we had."  (Laughter). 
 No, it was one of those things where I thought Ole Miss might want go to a press to get us out of rhythm.  Then we gift wrapped it for them and they stayed in it for several possessions.  I wanted them to be aware of what role we played in it, what role Ole Miss played in it, and be more in attack mode.  Couple ball reversals, the gaps get bigger, attack and punish people for wanting to apply pressure to you, to understand that we control that.  I thought we did an okay job in the second half - a better job, not near where I want to be. 
 Q.  Scholnda, it was a very back-and-forth game in the first few minutes, then you hit three straight shots that broke the game open.  Talk about that, the start of the game.  You got the open looks, help from Sylvia.  Talk about that stretch, what you were feeling, how good it felt to get back on track offensively. 
 SCHOLNDA HOSTON:  It felt real good.  A lot of credit to my teammates.  They did a good job of reversing the ball, penetrating in the gaps and kicking out to me when I was open.  I just tried to step in the gaps and knock them down. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT