ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 18, 2013
Clint Rice
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CLINT RICE:   It was good to come out and play well after a solid round yesterday, throughout my front nine, I hit a lot of good shots and then had a couple stumbles on 7 and 8, and then 16 and 17.   Similar trend.   I made a couple of soft‑ish bogeys.   But I managed to recover after the first couple bogeys and made a couple of birdies.

Q.   Certainly had its moments and presumably you're aware of your position and nobody getting past you or anything like that. 
CLINT RICE:   Yeah, absolutely.   I know it's tough out there for everyone. 
So I started to get a bit hard on myself and then I had to stop and think, it's hard out here for everyone, so if you make a bogey, don't be too hard on myself and just keep sticking to my process.   A couple of sloppy pre‑shot routines, which is something I'm really focusing on, and that was the result, a couple of bogeys.

Q.   I appreciate essentially it's still early in the competition and you're a deft hand at being in contention right down to the Sunday, but did you have a restful night?   Did you actually sort of just think about where your position was? 
CLINT RICE:   It's hard not to think about it of course, and there's a lot of scenarios that go through your head. 
So I managed to get some sleep but to be honest, I wasn't too worried that if I didn't get a sleep, I knew I would have a bit of adrenaline running today to keep me away.   I didn't lack energy and I didn't feel tired; but this afternoon, definitely have a nap and get some energy for tomorrow. 

Q.   You're probably tossing and turning and hoping you didn't miss your alarm call; it had to be so early. 
CLINT RICE:   It's funny, I checked my alarm to make sure it was set three or four tiles.   I thought, the last thing I want to do is not have my alarm set or have it on PM instead of AM, do something silly.   But I was awake before my alarm so that wasn't a problem in the end.

Q.   And you're guaranteed a lie‑in. 
CLINT RICE:   Yeah, should be good.   Do a bit of practice, might even get to the gym and have a nap.

Q.   You finish as the afternoon starters are getting to grips with things, what are conditions like for them?
CLINT RICE:   We noticed it started to get up in those last half a dozen holes.   16, 17 play into off the left with the wind, and they were pretty challenging.   They are challenging at the best of times without that wind and then 18 into the wind.   So the wind has picked up a little bit but it's definitely a test out there without any wind. 

Q.   You probably wouldn't wish ill on anyone, but do you hope it blows? 
CLINT RICE:   I just hope it's a fair competition.   I've had my fair share of bad sides of the draw, so it shouldn't get too windy so it should be nice afternoon for them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT