ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2013
Clint Rice
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pleased with the way you played, given you're on top of the board at the moment? 
CLINT RICE:   Yeah, played quite solid.   Turned up here Monday and started planning pretty precisely how to play this golf course.   It's definitely a challenge to play this golf course well. 
My first look at this golf course, I walked the course with my yardage book.   I just thought, as opposed to playing it with a couple of mates, walking with the yardage would probably get a little more attention to detail with certain parts of the course that I wanted to get better at playing.   That was probably‑‑ that set up the week quite well there. 

Q.   So this week has been your first taste of the golf course?
CLINT RICE:   I played it last year.   A bit under‑prepared last year.   I flew from China and didn't really treat the course with enough respect I guess.   Just sort of turned up, played a practice round and expect to play well in the tournament which didn't happen. 
So took a different approach this year.   And last week was a big help, playing the Western Australia Open.   I picked that out instead playing a tournament that's worth ten times the money in China, because I knew last week, it would be a similar setup to this week.   Instead of playing in Asia and coming here and expecting to adapt quick.   I thought, well, I can spend a week over here playing the Western Australia Open and hopefully that flows onto this tournament.

Q.   How did you get on? 
CLINT RICE:   I finished 20th.   It was sort of a‑‑ I did some work with my coach the week before, so that was sort of a week of implementing a few new things and developing‑‑ working on my game pretty hard last week.

Q.   What did you do well today? 
CLINT RICE:   I drove it really well.   I got a new TaylorMade driver in the bag, TaylorMade plug.   It's the SLDR driver, and it's just fantastic.   I just look at it and it goes.   It's just‑‑ yeah, it's a great driver.   Obviously if you can get off the tee well, it sets you up to play the hole well, and fairways and greens stats were quite high today.

Q.   There weren't too many blokes today that went bogey‑free, you must be happy with your consistency?
CLINT RICE:   Yeah, any time you go bogey‑free, you're always going to be thereabouts.   I had a few testing par saves throughout the round and just putted well when I needed to.   It wasn't an outstanding putting day.   I certainly had a lot more opportunities around my second nine to shoot a low number, but I guess everyone, most people can say that sort of thing.   But to stay bogey‑free, had a   attitude and stayed pretty calm.   I guess that helps.

Q.   You said you didn't play well last year in the event; did you miss the cut? 
CLINT RICE:   I did.   Like I said, played well in China the week before and turned up and didn't prepare, and this is a golf course you can't turn up and play it.   You need to know what's going on and where to hit it on the greens.   You need to be able to putt‑‑ it sort of stems back from the hole.   You need to know where the hole is from the tee, so you can hit it in certain spots to play from certain parts of the greens.   So sort of each tee, you're standing there working out backwards where you want to play your second shot from and where you want to putt from. 

Q.   You spent the year on the Canadian Tour?
CLINT RICE:   Yeah, I played a few events over there.   I played the Canadian Tour the last five years.   It's been , through the middle of Australian winter, go there and play a full run of tournaments.

Q.   How do you approach tomorrow? 
CLINT RICE:   Same process as I went through today.   You know, whether you're ten in front or ten behind, I still turn up and play the same process.   Obviously you heard it all before, one shot at a time and one process at a time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT