NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 22, 2020
Goran Dragic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was the last two days of preparation physically and mentally inside the team, and how is the atmosphere in the locker room about Game 4?
GORAN DRAGIC:   It's great.  We feel good.  We did our job.  We prepared well, and now we're going to see tomorrow how we do.
Q. This is always going to be a defense-first team, a defense-first franchise, but when the talk has been you've got to start better, does that mean there has to be a little extra emphasis on the offensive end as well?
GORAN DRAGIC:   It starts with the defense, like you said.  We didn't defend well, especially they made those big leads.  Of course when we're defending well, that helps our offense, too; we can get in the open court a little bit.  We just need to do our job, try to come out aggressive and smart on defense, help each other and from there on, hopefully it makes it easy on our bench, too.
Q. I just asked Jimmy about the bench and the lack of production that has happened during the series.  He mentioned it was up to the starting five to provide some energy there for them to kind of feed off.  Would you say the same thing or would you say Boston is doing something to take the bench out of their normal rhythm?
GORAN DRAGIC:   It's hard when you start games bad and then make a lead 10, 15 points and then the bench comes in and you expect them to return us to the game.  We need to do a better job as starters, come out and defend and play together, and from there on, try to make it easier on our bench.  We're not taking away the credit of what Boston did, but we know what we can do, what we are capable of doing.  We just need to start games better.
Q. We saw you guys playing with a basketball like a soccer ball.  How long have you guys been doing that together?  Is that something you've been doing all year?
GORAN DRAGIC:   I don't know.  But Jimmy loves soccer, I love soccer and usually we watch some games together, especially in the bubble.  We watched the finals of Champions League.  But it just happens.  We like to be around each other as a team.  We enjoy ourselves. That was just one of those moments, having fun.  Try to enjoy this moment because we know that tomorrow is going to be a tough day.  Tomorrow is all about business.  Today is the day that you need to prepare yourself, but at the same time you can enjoy, too.
Q. How much does it help the chemistry that you guys have just given the fact that I know none of you would have preferred to have three days off between games, especially coming off of a loss?
GORAN DRAGIC:   Chemistry means a lot.  If you want to make a good result, you need to have a great chemistry.  We really enjoy spending time together.  We enjoy playing together on the floor.  You can see that energy transfers to the floor.  That's why I think it's very important.
Q. In regard to the defense, in Game 3 it seemed like Boston put Bam's man in the corner to kind of take Bam outside of the paint on some of the possessions.  How much pressure does that put on perimeter defenders just to contain the ball with Bam not protecting the rim as usual because his guy is in the corner?
GORAN DRAGIC:   Yeah, that was smart of them.  But it's tough.  Bam is our soul and heart of defense.  When you have Jimmy and Jae Crowder out there, it helps a lot, too.  So we just need to do a better job of containing the ball and try to defend as a team.  I think we need to help each other.
Q. Adam Silver said today on CNN he doesn't see next season starting until at least January.  How tough is it when you have a body that's on an NBA schedule now for about a decade to sort of know that next season will be disjointed, as well?  And also, as someone who played in so much international competition, how tough do you think it'll be for NBA players who might not be able to either try to qualify for the Olympics or now play in the rescheduled Olympics?
GORAN DRAGIC:   I don't know.  I'm retired, so I don't care about that question, if I'm honest.  (Laughter.)
But if I go back to myself, for me it's not going to be nothing different.  Even when it's the offseason, I still work.  I still maintain my body.  It's going to be the same this time.  I didn't know about that, but if the season starts in January or February, I'll try to get home and work out and be ready for next season.
Q. Right now Game 4 will be the most important game in the series; how important is it for you to win this game?
GORAN DRAGIC:   Really important.  Every game is important, of course. The opponents already know each other real well.  It's all going to come down to execution and how you defend.  It's going to be a tough game.  We know that.
At the same time, we want to have fun.  I think we're working hard to come to this stage and to compete, and this is one of those games that we'll need to get.
Q. What are you communicating with Kendrick Nunn right now?  For a rookie who started all season and then as soon as you get in the bubble and here in the Playoffs his minutes have evaporated, he's struggled shooting the ball.  As a veteran and point guard, what are you telling him right now?
GORAN DRAGIC:   He's been great.  He's coming every day to practice.  He's putting the work in.  He's always trying to improve.  We encourage him, keep your head up because you never know.  Maybe he's going to be the guy who decides this series, that spark from the bench; suddenly he can make some shots.  He's a great defender.
We need everybody.  We always say that as a team, we have a deep bench and everybody can produce. That's why he just needs to be focused, and sooner or later that jump shot is going to open up and he's going to start making shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT