NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 19, 2019
CJ McCollum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  CJ, getting down three in a series it's going to be tough.  How do you guys re-focus?  
CJ McCOLLUM: I think you just sit back, watch the film, figure out what you can improve upon.  Obviously the third quarter has been a point of emphasis for us where the last three games we've been up or blown a lead or allowed them to get back into the game.  Just continue to focus.  It's an elimination game now we're facing.  Every night is an elimination game, so we have a lot -- take it one possession at a time, understanding that you just can't kind of control everything but you can control your execution and your plan, being in the right spots game-plan wise, defensively being active, offensively trying to execute.  Hopefully that's enough for us to get a win on Monday.   
 Q.  What did you see from the film in the third quarter that stood out to you?  
CJ McCOLLUM: I think it was like 26, 27 possessions, somewhere around there, and I think we got pretty good shots every possession.  There was probably two or three possessions that we could have gotten a better shot maybe had we forced the action a little bit.  But besides that, I thought we got great looks.  We hit the middle, got guys out to the weak side, got some open looks, had a couple floaters that didn't drop.  Besides that, I think they did a good job defensively, and we didn't do such a good job of just finishing plays.  We had looks, but we didn't knock them down, and then defensively not getting everything back in transition resulted in a couple easy baskets for them.   
 Q.  With regard to Dame's [Damian Lillard] injury, can you imagine having to play through that and what he's thinking right now?  
CJ McCOLLUM: I mean, there's not much you can do to increase my level of respect for him.  I understand who he is as a person to the core, so it's an unfortunate situation and injury to have to fight through, but he's a strong person, and understanding what's at stake, we're in the Playoffs right now, so there's no excuses and there's no way I feel like he can sit out of a game or anything of that nature.  So we've just got to keep pushing forward, and as I said say, we can rest in the summer.  We'll figure it out, get through it, and we'll rest in the summer.   
 Q.  Have you seen it affect him at all?  I imagine he isn't talking about it --  
CJ McCOLLUM: Yeah, I'm sure it hurts.  I don't know what it's like.  I mean, I've had like back spasms and stuff and stuff close to the ribs, but I don't know what it's like, obviously.  I would imagine it's painful.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow night?  
CJ McCOLLUM: Play hard, man.  That's the biggest thing.  Go out there, play hard, have fun, try to execute the game plan, and that should be enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT