NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 17, 2019
CJ McCollum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mentally this team has been pretty good at rebounding, some bad losses were from adversity.  What is your sense of where you guys are at?
CJ McCOLLUM: We're good.  Every game is different.  Obviously we would have liked to win yesterday, but the reality is that we didn't. So coming home for Game 3, continue to tighten some things up and work on some things that we could have done better, and continue to do the things that we did well, well again, and we'll be okay.
Q. What did you think of the defense last night overall?
CJ McCOLLUM: I thought it was solid.  I mean, they're going to make shots.  We've just got to make it difficult.  Continue to pressure them, continue to force turnovers and take advantage, and then from a pick-and-roll standpoint, try not to give up uncontested lay-ups and dunks.
Q. When you watched the film, anything stand out about the last three minutes of the fourth as far as the offense?
CJ McCOLLUM: We were fine.  We just missed some shots.  It happens.
Q. Given the adversity you guys have overcome, the way you've come together as a team to get those wins in the other series, does that give you some confidence despite being down 0-2?
CJ McCOLLUM: Yeah, I think we're a confident group regardless of what we've experienced in the past.  You've got to be confident in yourself, and I think that past experiences help, but this series is a little different.  The team we're playing is different.  The execution that we have to have down the stretch is different.  But I like where we're at right now, and I think that coming home will be good for us.
Q. You still like your shots in the fourth?
CJ McCOLLUM: Yeah, yeah, I'll take them every day.
Q. I know it wasn't the outcome you wanted, but what have you thought of Seth and Steph kind of battling back and forth?
CJ McCOLLUM: They're brothers, so I know this is important to them.  It's probably fun for them to be able to play against each other on this stage, being so close to the NBA Finals, and they're both playing well.
Q. You guys obviously made adjustments from Game 1 to Game 2.  Are you happy with how those adjustments sort of turned out, even though you guys weren't able to get the win?
CJ McCOLLUM: I think there's some stuff we can still tighten up, but overall I think we did a much better job of being active on both sides of the ball and executing a little bit better, and I think it was a better product on the floor.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT