NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 21, 2018
CJ McCollum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We're happy that the NBA game in South Africa with Basketball Without Borders is very popular and something you have taken part in. What message do you have for young guys out here in Africa?  What can you tell them in terms of improving and learning the game of basketball?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: I would just tell the kids out there to work hard every day, take advantage of your time, and still understand that you're young and you're a kid.  So you have to really enjoy your youth, because life comes at you fast.  Once you get older, you have more responsibility.   
So my advice would be to enjoy being a kid, work hard, learn the fundamentals and take advantage of your time.   
 Q.  How big has the bench been for you guys, especially with that winning streak?  You know, guys like Ed Davis, Zach Collins, Shabazz Napier, how big were those guys in helping you?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: The bench was huge, and they've been great all season.  Extended leads for us, figuring out ways to contribute, whether that be from scoring, rebounding or defending.  I mean, even last night against the Rockets guys stepped up and were aggressive and made plays and impacted the game.   
 Q.  CJ, we all know about the caliber of teams in the Western Conference Playoffs and the pedigree of teams like San Antonio under Gregg Popovich and Golden State and Oklahoma City come playoff time.  How important is it to finish strong and get a good seed? We also see NBA games across the pond in London. Would you like to see an NBA game in Dublin, Ireland, in front of 70,000 Irish fans?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: Definitely.  I'll answer the second question first.  I'd like to see an NBA game played in Ireland at some point.  I spent some time in Ireland four years ago, and I loved it.  It was a very unique, eye-opening experience.   
In terms of securing a spot in the playoff, this upcoming playoff, I think that it's important that we get home-court advantage.  I think we're two games ahead of the No. 3 seed right now, and looking forward to trying to take advantage of these last 11 games.   
With how good those other teams are, with the winning pedigree of the Spurs, obviously, top of the conference, looking at the Houston Rockets and Golden State Warriors, they're very good teams.  It's hard enough to beat them in a regular game let alone on the road.  So the more games you can play at home, the better.   
 Q.  You just mentioned the Rockets and the Warriors.  Compared to those other teams, your team seems to be flying a little bit under the radar.  What is unique to the Trail Blazers compared to the other teams, and how might that help you to make more noise in the playoffs?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: I think what's unique about our team is the fact that we started the season off up and down.  We weren't playing our best basketball.  We had some home losses.  Then as the season progressed, we continued to get better.  We got healthy and just figured out ways to win games.   
I think defensively we've done a tremendous job being top 10 in defensive rating and defensive efficiency.  And offensively, a lot of guys have stepped up and played well.  So that's been the difference in this season from the first half of the season until now.   
 Q.  You've won 13 of the last 14 games, but in the last 11 games of the season that you have left, what is the biggest aspect of the game that needs improving?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: I think we can improve on our late-game execution. Figuring out ways to get stops and second-chance opportunities and being a little more sharp down the stretch in games.   
That's going to be the difference in advancing in the playoffs and having a long playoff life compared to essentially losing early.   
 Q.  Have you ever been to Turkey and do you plan to visit your brother [Errick McCollum] out here?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: Yeah, I've been to Turkey three times.  I usually go when the season ends every year, and I've enjoyed it.  I've enjoyed my time out there.  It's a beautiful country.  Has a lot to offer -- great weather, great shopping, great fans.   
I'm looking forward to potentially getting back out there once our season ends and being able to see my brother play.  I've been to games at Essex, I've been to games at Galatasaray, I've been to games at Fenerbahce and on the road at some other places as well.  So I think it's a very beautiful country, and I look forward to visiting my brother.   
 Q.  As good as your team has been so far, can you talk about stepping up in the playoffs and what you guys need to do to make a run?  
CJ MCCOLLUM: Yeah, I think winning in the playoffs, the best teams in the playoffs execute late in games and defend at a high level.  And it really comes down to who wants it more.  Because the scouting reports are in place.  You're only focusing on one team.   
I think that obviously having home-court advantage helps and makes a big difference.  So I think that's what we're headed for.  That is the direction. We're striving for home-court advantage.  If we can do those things and defend at a high level, we give ourselves a chance to advance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT