NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Dwane Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  These All-Stars have big platforms.  Can you talk about responsibility on speaking on social issues.  How big is that?  
COACH DWANE CASEY: It's huge.  It's very huge because I lived it.  I lived through the '60s, I lived through the '70s, through the Civil Rights era.  I understand what's going on, and I see a lot of similarities that were happening back at that time.   
Anything that's happening now, I've already seen it happen.  That's what's disturbing.   
 Q.  What about more players speaking out?  
COACH DWANE CASEY: I hope so, because they do have a platform.  It starts with our leadership with Adam Silver, the league.  It's great to hear Pop [Gregg Popovich] and Steve [Kerr].  I've lived on the other side of it, so I understand what it is, how it is and what it feels like.   
It's great that our league represents diversity, whether it's race, gender, or whatever it is.  I think our league does a great job of advertising that and promoting that.   
 Q.  What's it like for you coaching here?  
COACH DWANE CASEY: It's good.  It's my third time, I think it is.  Twice with Seattle.   
It's bigger and better.  As a head coach, it's an honor for our organization.  Larry Tanenbaum, a long time ago, and Masai [Ujiri], since he's come back to the organization, that vision, it's fun to see it grow.   
It's not like we've gone out and signed superstar free agents.  We've done it through organically growing and developing our young players.  The rewarding part is people questioning the whole time what we were trying to do and how we were trying to do it.   
We're not there yet.  I'm not saying we've arrived to where we want to go to yet, but we've done it the ultra traditional way.  Where a lot of guys now are partnering up, and I'm not throwing shade on that at all, but some teams have done it by adding superstars, superstars and superstars, where we've done it by developing our young players, starting with DeMar DeRozan.   
 Q.  Are you the best team in the East?  
COACH DWANE CASEY: I don't know.  The record says we are, but for me to sit here and say we are the best team -- we have confidence, but I'm not going to sit here and say we are the best team.  Right now, we're number one.  The numbers say that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT