NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2016
Dwane Casey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pregame Interview:
Q. Was there much to look at in the film in Game 5, or -- it seemed like evaluating it, there wasn't much to evaluate, so how much did you spend watching that game?
DWANE CASEY: We showed the guys the level of play that Cleveland played with and the level of intensity that we -- we were trying, but we weren't trying.  I mean, they were a step fast in everything they did, whether it was running in transition, loose balls.  Everything they did they were a half step or a full step faster than we were.  From that standpoint, there wasn't anything redeeming from it.
We saw how we don't want to guard situations where we hadn't talked about.  We were able to pick out a lot of our mistakes we made.  The positive was that [Jonas] Valanciunas got a chance to get some conditioning in, game conditioning, which was huge for us, because he's an important part of what we do.
Q. Where would you put Valanciunas now in terms of how he's feeling?
DWANE CASEY: He's feeling well.  He's feeling good.  He's not 100 percent conditioning-wise, but there's nobody right now that's 100 percent.  He's trying to get his rhythm back.  I thought he looked pretty good offensively the other night.  Defensively he's got some timing issues.  You take off three weeks or whatever, you're going to have some timing issues.  Being in the right place, where he's supposed to be defensively, is where he's got to get up to speed.
Q. Is there a difference between how you guys felt when you came back here after Game 2 as opposed to now?
DWANE CASEY: No, there's no difference.  One point, 40 points, again, you never want to lose and get demoralized like we did or get beat up the way we did the other night.  But it's one game in a seven-game series.  Someone asked the other day, have you seen the playoffs like this?  In my years in the NBA, it's rare that I've seen this many lopsided victories and losses.  But again, it's about resiliency, bouncing back, coming back, whether it's us or them.  I think both teams have done that.  We've got to protect home court.  They've protected their home court, and that's where the series is right now.
Q. Do you have a theory on why we are seeing so many lopsided --
DWANE CASEY: I don't know.  I think the players are probably smarter now -- okay, we've got tomorrow night or the night after.  I don't know what it is.  It used to be that guys were so afraid to lose that you'd play -- maybe win the close games.  I really don't know.  It's a phenomenon that started I think in the early rounds, not just this round.  In the early rounds, there were some blowouts and teams bouncing back.  It's a mystery.  I'm sure there's a reason, but I don't know what that reason is.
Q. Is it easier for you as a coach to get your team where it needs to be after a game like that than a one-point loss?
DWANE CASEY: No question.  No question.  We know what we didn't do and what we need to do, and it's up to us to get it done.  Talking about it isn't going to do it.  We've got to get out and do it.  I thought we were saying all the right things before Game 5 the other night, but going out and doing it was a different story.
And again, too, we're learning.  We're learning the moment.  Cleveland has been there before.  They understand the moment, and I think we're getting better at it.  But they're doing a good job of understanding the moment, and our guys are recognizing, seeing, oh, this is how hard you've got to play.  It's a different level, and we've taken it there in our last two home games.  But you've got to do that same thing on the road.
Q. How do you think a guy like LeBron James helps teams, because he knows them and he understands not to panic, to remain calm?
DWANE CASEY: Well, that's just what I said.  This is his, what, sixth, fifth time fighting and going for The Finals?  He knows.  He understands.  Plus, he's got the ability to do something about it a little bit.  I think he has a chance in this league [Laughter].  I remember going against [Michael] Jordan in '96.  He has that type of mindset, that razor-like focus that you've got to fight against and you've got to overcome.  That's the level that you've got to reach to beat them, his level, because they're going to go the way he goes.
Q. What was the main point of difference for you between your performances in 3 and 4 here and 1, 2 and 5?
DWANE CASEY: We were a half a step or a full step in some instances late.  Just our reaction time, understanding what the situation was, our schemes, carrying out the job on specific plays.  They were just beating us to the spot.  They were amped up, and our level didn't get there.  Then once it got out of hand, all heck broke loose.  I think that they did nothing special, nothing totally different.  Kevin Love had a tremendous game.  That was a difference, but it wasn't any set play or anything that we hadn't seen, hadn't talked about, hadn't worked on that we were surprised by.  But it's that level.  We've got to get up another half a step.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT