U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2017
Elizabeth Moon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was your goal heading into today, or for the championship I should say?
ELIZABETH MOON: Well, for the championship my ultimate goal was to just make it to the round of 64.  Like for a long time, I've known of this tournament and I never could like qualify into it, and this year was my first year that I actually qualified into the tournament, so I was like, it would be just awesome to even make it to the round of 64, and I did that.
Q. And now what do you think?  Are you just having a lot of fun?  What's your mindset now?
ELIZABETH MOON: I'm just kind of overwhelmed that I won matches that I didn't think that I would win because like they were against really great players, and I just -- like I played great this week, but like I didn't think I would be able to get this far, and I'm surprised.
Q. How are you winning?  What's working for you out here?
ELIZABETH MOON: Well, for my first few matches, I wasn't striking the ball too well, but I was putting pretty decent, so it kind of evened out.  And then for my last few matches, my ball-striking got -- it got a lot better, so I was hitting more greens, and that really helped, so that helped me to make a few birdie putts to take an early lead.
Q. What do you think was one of your key holes on this round of 16 match?
ELIZABETH MOON: Let's see.  I would say birdieing 7 and 8 consecutively.  That gave me a 2-up lead, and I think that was a really big boost right there.  And also a really big hole for me I would say would be 16, the last hole, and I had like a 44-foot putt for par to win the hole -- well, not win the hole, halve that hole to win the match.
Q. That's big, so you want to keep going on and taking chances.
ELIZABETH MOON: Yeah, and just somehow win it.
Q. Have you ever played on TV before?  Is this your first time?
ELIZABETH MOON: This is my first time.
Q. What do you think about?  Does it add extra pressure?
ELIZABETH MOON: I actually don't realize it whatsoever.  I guess I just don't pay attention.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT