DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 11, 2020
Laurie Canter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. 66 today, 30 to the turn including four birdies to start, a stunning shot into the par-3, 4th.  Tell us what it was like.
LAURIE CANTER:   It was great.  The range warmup session went not great, to be honest.  It was weird.  And then I hit it right off the 1st, which was kind of a shot I had on the range, and just got away with it, and T-Wall gave me a heads up that it was just out of a bush.  It's just funny how stuff like that can happen.  Then I hit a great shot from there, and for whatever reason I seemed to start swinging a little better from there.  But it was one of those golf moments where it could have gone either way.  Sort of got on the right side of it and then got off to a really nice start.
Q. Folks at home will listen to that and say, I had a terrible warmup and I know I'm going to have a bad day.  As a Tour pro, when it doesn't quite go to plan, what do you do on the first tee to allow yourself the chance of turning it around when you hit the golf course?
LAURIE CANTER:   I think the good thing about the golf course, it's going to force you to hit shots, so the brain can actually pretty quickly get into what you're doing.  That's a good thing.  I just start to really get into the shots out there.  This course kind of demands some different stuff, to be honest.  Yeah, I was able to do that, and that's probably -- like I say, that probably helps you because you probably get out of your own head a little bit and just hit shots and see where you go.
Q. A couple of near misses this year, not an unusual position for you to be where you are right now, in the thick of it going into the last couple of days.  What have you taken from those experiences that you think gives you a better place to come from going into this weekend?
LAURIE CANTER:   Well, I've taken loads from them, really, especially Italy.  I hadn't realised how much effort it takes out of you being in contention, like especially all four days.  I've also had like a back-door win but I've kind of been around it, but leading is different.  It's difficult.  So I took so much out of that week.  The position I find myself in, I feel kind of comfortable with it because I'm just kind of into what I'm doing, not thinking too much beyond my next shot.  I think, obviously, as much as you can do that, stay into that shot, into that moment, you're going to have a better chance of kind of playing well, aren't you.  So that's kind of going to be the mantra the next couple of days, hopefully the rest of my career.  If I can keep doing that I'll be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT