ITALIAN OPEN
May 31, 2018
Laurie Canter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Terrific round, 5-under through your first seven holes.  What was the secret to that?
LAURIE CANTER: I just got the shots really close, and then a nice shot from the left semi into the par 57, a straightforward eagle putt, and kind of just happened, really.  Nothing was forced.  It was there and I hit some nice shots and kind of just all happened, yeah.
Q. What's the mind-set when you get such a brilliant start?  Is it don't make a mess of this or take it as deep as you can?
LAURIE CANTER: I still have to work at that, because I've had times in the past where I've got 2-, 3-, 4-under par and as good as that is out here, that doesn't often make that much of a dent.
Yeah, I think you've got to just try and stay out of your own way as much as possible, and you know, keep focusing on that next shot, the old clichés, everyone falls back on them and that's all I try to do, really.
Q. I understand you got into the tournament pretty late.  You were not qualified for it until last weekend.  Tell us about that?
LAURIE CANTER: I just got a call Sunday night, a Member of The European Tour staff was up late on a bank holiday Sunday and he gave me a ring and said, "You're into the event."  That was a nice bonus.  I was just putting some meat on the barbeque.  I was over the moon.
Obviously in the Q-School category, if you get something like this, this is a great opportunity.  So you know, I was kind of hoping I would get in, thinking I would travel as a reserve, but obviously to get in Sunday night and prepare Monday through Wednesday knowing I was going to be in, I was really, really excited and ready to go today.
Q. That's a fantastic opening round, a 63 and you got off to a fantastic start, as well.
LAURIE CANTER: Yeah, I got off to a nice start.  Hit it close on the first.  Made a couple of nice putts on the par 3, 4th there, and then a nice shot into 7, the par 5, just kind of holed a nice putt up the hill.  It was a great start.
Q. What's the main part of the game that's come together best for you today, do you feel?
LAURIE CANTER: Do you know it was all pretty solid.  My iron play was nice.  Obviously the greens are receptive, so you can kind of go at a few pins, even with your longer irons, they are going to stop fast.
So I hit some really nice iron shots.  I think I played the par 5s well.  Kind of as you'd hope to, you need to be 2- or 3-under par on those because they are really good scoring opportunities.
Then just solid for the rest of it, really, through the bag.  I was really pleased.
Q. You were late getting into the tournament because of your category, so how pleasing is it to get off to such a good start?
LAURIE CANTER: Yeah, delighted.  It is a great opportunity for the guys in the Q-School category to get into those Rolex Series Events.  You try and play your best every event, but obviously it's nice if you do get into an event like this and you put yourself in a position to play well and have a good finish come Sunday.
Q. Obviously three-time Q-School, a good finish with the extra points this week would be a massive step for you getting full privileges for next season?
LAURIE CANTER: Absolutely.  That's the goal from Qualifying School, first thing you think about is getting the playing rights back, something the last couple of years I haven't quite done.
I feel like I've improved out here as a golf and a player, so you have to take that and just keep working on your game, and days like this, obviously they are an affirmation to yourself that you are getting better and what you're doing is kind of working.  It's a good day today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT