NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 22, 2019
Chris Armas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NY Red Bulls - 2, Vancouver Whitecaps - 2   
 Q.  Seemed a weird, uneven game where the first half, you had them under a lot of pressure.  They seemed maybe fortunate to not go into halftime with a deficit, and in the second half, it seemed like they -- I don't know if they changed their tactics a little bit, but they seemed to force you under pressure with their counter.  They seemed very dangerous on counters.  
CHRIS ARMAS: How you're describing it is exactly how it went, and for us, it was -- that was the case in both halves; that it was going to be transition, and we knew that going in.   
So knowing that a team is going to sit back, four in the back, we suspected and we saw them play five in the back recently, so we knew that structurally, what it could look like, but tactically, that they would plug up spaces and yeah, try to catch us on the counterattack, which they did throughout the game.   
So in nights like that, in games like that, going into it to know exactly the play -- and it's a game plan for that, and then meet the demands of that, right, which takes discipline.  It takes discipline when you know exactly what it is and now can you execute.   
Listen, we probed all night long.  I thought if we stuck to it even more, attacking flanks, getting guys on the move, challenging their back line, it's going to take some guys making plays.  It's about quality of the run, quality of the ball, is it pull it back, so you don't set up a counter-cross, reframing the box.  There's a lot of little details that go into that that we work through and talk through, prepare for.  We thought it was going to be there for us when we saw at start of the game.  And credit them.  They made some plays and made it hard for us.  Made it hard for us.   
 Q.  Just on the last play of the game, did you have too many players forward to give up that counter, or was someone in the wrong position or what happened there?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, look, we try to be aggressive in general.  So on set pieces, it's why we are among the leaders of goal scoring because we commit a lot forward, and we are looking at Kyle on the play, and he was the last guy back and we're saying, be careful -- they didn't have anyone up initially, but it quickly transitioned.   
So it's how we design our set pieces but then it has to be quick transition to recover or counter press the ball.  So yeah, listen, I would say I'd have to look at the way we have it exactly structured on the play or in our spots, but our guys are pushing.  We're trying to get the game winner, and we had to put out a big fire at the end there.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys have done a great job throughout the many years that you've drafted or the academy, did it look to you at times like Sean Nealis looked like -- or should I say that Vancouver kind of focused themselves to try to get him.  Did he seem to struggle at all tonight in your mind?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Well, the first thing I have to say about Sean Nealis is we put a big demand on him.  We knew it physically, it was a quick turnaround for him.  We knew that going in that that would be a challenge.  That's why a lot of the guys got the night off.  So the starting point, yeah, and then seven backs on our team, generally get put into difficult situations, transition moments, big spaces to deal with, clever attackers.   
So that's just not easy.  So, of course, we say the defenders get judged for their bad plays, right, so he putts out 20, 30, 40 fires tonight on plays that he does well on, maybe a couple slip.  But he's such a -- he's a young player, but he gives a lot.  So we'll always look and try to learn from it, and he is -- that's why he's out there.  He's got courage and he's growing quickly.  But then, you know, should it be a yellow card early?  That putts him in a tough spot, too.  Listen, we're happy with Sean.  We're happy with him and we put a lot on him and we thought, yeah, it wasn't our best night as a team, all of us.  He's going to be a good player for us.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the first half --  
CHRIS ARMAS: A team like Vancouver, they defend well and they are comfortable in a deep, deep block and crowding their -- even you look at the way that they defend free kicks, a wide free kick, there are a lot of teams in the world, they sit at the top -- they put everyone in the box.  They are very comfortable attacking the ball, not getting turned around, attacking the ball, and yeah, so now when we get into those wide areas, we knew that they gave up seven penalties this year.  That's a lot.  You often go a whole season without that many, so we're asking, be aggressive.  We don't have to just cross the ball, think about the timing of the runs, the quality of the ball.   
So yeah, there's a lot that goes into getting clear looks.  The way Brian scores a header, it's a lot of traffic, you have to almost make a play; can you anticipate.  And for me, it's you've got to keep at it.  A lot of time, when you watch the Man City's of the world, you think it's never coming, but it always comes because they stick to it and you can make a play.  It's quality that oftentimes, yeah, there might be a certain decision or an extra touch or taking a touch.   
Listen, I've said before and I'll say it again now that games like that, I think are going to help us.  We'll take a hard look and we'll get those reps.  We're going to see that again.   
 Q.  This was a game where you guys seemed to control possession, first half, certainly.  What is your general reaction to it right now?  Are you -- is there a promise from your perspective, because you seemed to get unlucky with a penalty kick goal on one play, or is it frustration because Franco -- maybe you can create a lot of chances what's your perspective right now?  
CHRIS ARMAS: I think my perspective is that, yeah, we knew we would be a challenge.  Said it before the game that they make it hard, they will.  We knew that.   
But the perspective, we try to create a perspective from our guys to get excited for this.  You don't always have the ball pushing to use back, but now, were we in control or were they in control, right, they are very comfortable, with us having it, and they can catch us.  At some point, I must say, this is perfect, perfectly executed.  The game plan is working right and we're saying, you know, we can do better.   
So now, again, when you have -- when the night's going to set up like that, games now, how good can you be at moving the ball, moving the opponent, is it sideways, is it bringing them out.  Is it really running hard in moments, recognizing, here is a big chance out wide; a 1B1, putting you on your heels, or is it a 2B1 and can you get the timing right.  That's a fun challenge.  You can hear -- can we get some chips with guys running behind us, all the scenarios we work on and talk through.  It's there.  I saw the guys trying.  We tried.  It's just easier said than done.  I don't know if we had 20 shots tonight or so I think.  Yeah, I think it could have been 30 shots, if we really can stick more to it.   
 Q.  Are you satisfied with the amount of time that he had the ball or should the team have been looking for him a little bit more?  
CHRIS ARMAS: I didn't think about that.  It wasn't going to be a nice that Kaku could get a lot of space essentially.  It wasn't going to set it up.  It was going to be about the quality of his touches and can he make a few plays with what he has.  It's just not a night where there's going to be a lot of space where he operates.  I actually thought he found the game, and he setup a bunch of really good plays and I thought his set pieces were very good and I thought he maintained a real control on the night.  He found good situations.  You look at the pass he gives Kyle Duncan at the end, it's right there.  That's what you ask from your play-maker, right.   
Be disciplined, stay up the field, let the game come to you a bit and now understand how to set guys up and make guys around you better.  It was good to see his sharpness keep getting there and he gives a lot to the team.   
So yeah, we think he was -- we were happy with his performance.   
 Q.  Has he seen the ball enough?  Are other players finding him as much as you'd like him to?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, I think in what the game presented, you've got to take what the game gives at times.  I think we found him as much as we could.  You might find one time where he comes for the ball and a guy sees something different.  We always look for him, so that's part of our -- of how we try to unlock teams, find Kaku, he can make final plays.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT