NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 28, 2018
Chris Armas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York Red Bulls - 1, Orlando City - 0   
 Q.  Seems like your guys were more business as usual.  Is the team focused on not replicating the past?  
CHRIS ARMAS: That's the first I've heard of anything.  Like that sounds negative.  It does.  Like it does.  I'm just saying, you know, unless we're trying to, but we're not thinking of the past.  We'll learn from the past; we have.  We have a good team.  We're not thinking of to repeat the past.  This team is focused on what's ahead and we continually just trust in the process and one game at a time.   
Yeah, you know, we'll go right now and enjoy, and we'll get back to work pretty soon.   
 Q.  Talk about the shot that Derrick took.  Obviously it was blocked originally.  He took the penalty.  What were you hoping for?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Derrick, one of his best qualities is that he has a lot of courage and self-belief.  In those moments, it's easy to see -- we don't determine who takes out of the sideline.  We have guys lined up every day in training and they hit one in the end.  Derrick regularly buries his penalties.  He hit one low, really decisive about it and the goalkeeper made a really good save.   
Like we said to Kaku a few weeks back, take it again.  And that was message at half time to him and in the second half when he came over one time.  Calm yourself down.  You don't have to make up for that.  Sure enough, he gets another chance and shoots it low and does just enough.   
 Q.  Did Jesse Marsh, how much is he still a part of the team?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, he's here and with us in so many ways.  That's why I acknowledged it out there.  I've said it a few times along the way, I don't think he gets enough credit.  No one does it for the credit but Jess, again, it's a success story, the job that he did when he got here, the culture change, the way people work changed.  In every which way he took this thing on and we were right there with him.   
There's so many people that are a part of it.  Yeah, to not acknowledge Jesse, the work that he's done here, and then when he leaves, yeah, we're ready to run with it.  We're ready to run with it, and the team is primed to do that.  As a coaching staff, we've now put our stamp on things in many of the same ways, but you know, with our taste.   
So Jesse is part of this whole thing, right.  We all know that, but shouldn't be afraid to say that.   
 Q.  You guys set a record for points in a season, most points by a team in MLS history.  What does that mean for you, and following up, what's the biggest difference last year to this year?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Listen, it's tremendous.  We haven't talked about the breaking the record for points.  Like towards the end of the year, when we were asked many questions about the Supporters' Shield, the result of getting better each game would be you put yourself in this spot tonight you know, to end up with 71 points, something that maybe stands for a bit, you know, talked about some great teams.  But we know there's real work to do for the ultimate prize.   
What was the other part?   
 Q.  Making a difference for this year's group.  
CHRIS ARMAS: I think it gives us another year to see if we can better at who we are, which I think we are.  I think adding Tim Parker to the team has been a big plus.  Kaku comes into the team.  Certainly there's a difference there.  We can still see how great Sacha is.  We've added Kaku.  Different spots, we're younger this year.   
We believe in young players, no secret.  We keep seeing guys come from the academy -- yeah, there's some obvious additions we've made that have secured things.  We're healthy right now and we're hungrier than ever.  We're chasing the grand prize.   
 Q.  Did you notice on Darren's penalty that Sacha was pointing to the side and Derrick ended up shooting --  
CHRIS ARMAS: Someone said it from behind.  I didn't notice that at the time.   
 Q.  Is that something -- did Sacha take penalties with Derrick in training or is that just a better move?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, I washed Derrick taking a hundred -- I see it go to the left, I see it go to the right.  Sacha had a hunch on that one, you know, sniffed that one out.  Good for him I guess.  We'd all try to do the same thing if we think we can help our goalkeeper out.  This is part of it, right.  We'd do the exact same thing, part of the game.  Part of trying to win the game.   
Imagine if Sacha knew and didn't say anything?  (Laughter) it's perfect.  Good job.   
 Q.  You've gone into the Playoffs as top seed, you've gone in bottom seed, somewhere in the middle.  How does this affect what you're doing going forward to be at the top?  Is it a matter of chip on the shoulder that we've heard in the past or is it a matter of just nose to the grindstone?  What do you look for in training going forward?  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, you're right.  We have come in at different seeds coming in.  Some say, you know, do you want to win this -- is there a curse -- last year, we're the best team all year.  We beat a really good team tonight, has been incredible.   
That goes out the window in many ways.  What remains, the work that's been done, every game we try to improve, and now with the runs in the Open Cup and the Champions League, and learning from the past what those games require.  The beauty is the last few months, we're constantly playing in big games, trying to keep pace against teams that are fighting to make it in the Playoffs at home, away.  It just been really difficult/perfect, right.   
So we just think that we're ready.  It almost, it does reset and we just have to now understand that it's a home and away, and where things are so level, you just have to not waste one minute and meet the demands of the Playoffs.  We're really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your feelings of winning the --  
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, you know, I'm thrilled inside.  I don't show much emotion, you know, and I did a little bit on the field tonight because it's a culmination in the first part of it here.  But I'm so happy for the organization, and the players, they meet the demands every day what's asked of them around here to show up, be good people and to work hard, and to play the way we played, it's a big ask day-in and day-out.   
To see the guys get rewarded it justifies everything.  You can't take it away.  It's a massive accomplishment for the guys, biggest lead after 34 games.  It's incredible.  Really they are an incredible group of guys, players, and people.  That makes you good to feel part of that, right.   
Again, we've talked about everyone has contributed to this culture of relationships and people, so to see these guys, to accomplish something that you can never take away, incredible for them.   
Then lastly, you know, for our supporters that I said it, 23 years, they come out and they support us and we know they want the Cup, and this is the first step.  Some say the Supporters' Shield, it's amazing, and -- but they want the Cup and that's the first step.   
So it's the Supporters' Shield, and to give that -- to be part of the group that has given that to them makes me more proud.   
 Q.  You talked about some of the new additions before, and obviously, the season's been a little bit -- there's been a bit of change with the coaching change and obviously some new players.  So how do you achieve something like this, setting a record points total with a little bit of changeover like that?  
CHRIS ARMAS: We saw it be done.  I mean, how do you do that?  Honestly we didn't get too far ahead, ever.  Even our sporting director, Denis Hamlett, said in the locker room, we enjoy the night but we just understand what has got us here.   
We all know, this is a humble group of people and players.  I mean, I've said before, look at the way Bradley Wright-Phillips shows up every day, Luis Robles, the rookies -- you get to see it and you understand how special a group of people and players we have.   
That is incredible that they can then go out and show the belief and leadership and go after it the way they do.  So how does it happen?  Listen, the guys, we prepare as a staff with a philosophy and with the players that bring it to life.  They bring it to life.  You know, we guide them in the process and then game by game, step by step.  Don't get too ahead with the wins and down get too down with the losses, and really try to improve.   
What we do a good job of around here, after the games, the staff, the work that they do and the work that we do, to come in the next day, try to improve, look at video, team stuff, really get on the same page, more on the same page, every single time, and that's kind of how you get to success, you know.  You start and you keep building, and you might take a step back here and there but you keep going with the most humble approach and leave nothing left.  You work as hard as you can and I think that's been the formula.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT