NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 28, 2018
Chris Armas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 2, Columbus Crew FC - 3
Q. You guys obviously put a valiant effort in the second half, but pretty much gifted them three goals in the first half and they were the better team in the first half.  What happened and what went into your decision with the lineup?  Seemed to be out of sorts the first half which is what got them off to a good start and you guys in the hole?
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, look, we looked closely at Columbus in the last few weeks, and a lot of what we looked at was the last time we played them.  Our typical 4-3-2-1, and their system and their style of play challenged us on that day.  We thought we got exposed at their place that way.
The second half of that game, if I remember, yeah, it was 5-1-3-1, the exact formation we started with tonight and we had to really put things on our terms at their place in that same structure.
Tonight was opposite.  Sometimes, yeah, it's hard to explain it but when you're -- no matter what formation that we're playing in, if we're late to plays, a step late, if we're not up for that part of it, they can just pick you apart.
They are probably the best passing team in the League that way, so we were hoping for them to play out of the back and if we were really good on the day, maybe like the second half, it looks one way.
So in the end, in the run of play, you know, I'm not sure -- yeah, it was four shots they had in the first half, four shots.  They had three shots on goal a night.  You know, when you start to really look at it, yeah, it doesn't always feel good when the other ball, but possession ended up being 50/50 I think.  Depends on which half we're going to really focus on here because the second half we were really good.
Q. Sean Davis, obviously you subbed him out at start of the second half.  What did you say to him when he obviously putts the ball into his own net to make it out of reach somewhat?  What did you talk to Sean about like around half time?
CHRIS ARMAS: We didn't speak about anything.  You know, Sean's been awesome for us.  He was in many ways good in the first half.  It was a lot for him to do and as that lone six, there's just a lot of work.
So as normal, I congratulate him.  He gives everything.  He's put in a lot of work this week, Sean Davis, and the year.  It just ends up being a big demand for him and a few guys.  He performed admirably, and goals like that happen where it skips off your head.  That's it.  No big deal there.
Q. And also, talk about Derrick, obviously he's very talented, we all know that.  It seemed like he kind of struggles a little bit up top.  Did you see anything there that once you put Bradley in, you switched things around, a little more withdrawn in the midfield?
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, look, Derrick, he's done well and he always gets himself in good spots, even in the first half tonight.  It's not easy to play against big, athletic centerbacks and that was a tough test for him and he still put himself in good spots where he looks dangerous.  He flirts with line, he runs behind.  He put a lot in.
Yeah, Brad comes in and then there's a real push, so there's some different types of looks for Brad.  Derrick we think can be effective up high and in wide spots, so we're okay there.  We're happy with Derrick.
Q. Obviously the midfield, there was changes in the team.  We've seen a couple times in year, Davis playing alone in the center midfield, or in the defensive midfield.  Seems like it has not worked a lot of times and Tyler playing out wide, that's a bit of a change for him.  Just wanted to get your thoughts moving forward, what you think of the middle field, how do you plan on getting this midfield with a lot of talented players to work moving forward?
CHRIS ARMAS: Yeah, well, we think we're seeing it now.  It's not the first time we saw Tyler in that tilted role, where he's not a winger, he's playing tucked in off of Sean's shoulder, and now it's one of the ways we talked about when we played Mark and Sean deep and Tyler in that role where he just helps out.
So yeah, it's always a challenge of how you can get your -- certain players on the field at the same time, but with Tyler, you have a lot of flexibility because he's intelligent.  He can close spaces down wherever he is.  Yeah, it's a good question but we -- this wasn't anything new for us tonight.  Tyler, a little bit tilted.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT