KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2012
Sun Young Yoo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   You're up there near the top of the leaderboard, can you take me through the day and what was working for you?   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   Yeah, I've been hitting it so good since Phoenix.   I was hoping that I could make some more putts today, but I didn't make any.   I have two days to go, I have a great feeling and I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Everyone's been talking about the difficulty of the greens and getting the speeds down.   How tough has that been for you?   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   Even though I had a chance out there, I had some tricky putts, so it wasn't easy to read.   I just tried to get it close sometimes.  
   
 Q.   You played with Yani in the final group last week, and you've been seeing how well she's been playing.   Probably not surprising to see her name near the to top of the leaderboard again this week?   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   Yeah, everyone knows she's playing great these days.   But it looks like I'm going to play with Yani tomorrow so far.   I'm looking at the scoreboard.   So I've been knowing her a long time, so I enjoy playing with her and look forward to it.  
   
 Q.   What's most impressed you this year about her game?   She played well last year, but this year she seems even more confident.   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   Yeah, I played with Yani last year, and she has such confidence.   She's hitting it so good and she's making everything.   So I was pretty impressed.  
   
 Q.   It's major championship week.   Every victory means a lot, but what would a major championship like this mean to win?   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   It would mean a lot.   But I don't want to go get crazy about it.   I just want to remain calm and play golf the next two days.  
   
 Q.   What is special about this week and this specific event?   
SUN YOUNG YOO:   Everybody's saying it's a major.   Good spectators out there, and it's nice and cool.   So it's always good to be here and enjoying it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT