US OPEN
August 31, 2003
Tamarine Tanasugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  That match was actually a lot closer than 6-2, 6-2, wasn't it?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah, actually, it was  -- every game was deuce, was really close game every game.  Today is really, you know, I have to give Amelie very, you know, respect, you know, that she's  -- last couple matches we playing and she's playing today unbelievable well.  She serve very well today.  She don't make any unforced error today.  Seems like today she was really like, you know, in the beginning of the second set, you know, my rhythm, you know, my time is getting back.  You know, and she always never give me a chance to come back to the game.  Yeah, she playing very well today. 

Q.  One of the big differences in the match seemed to be that she won her breakpoints and you didn't. 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  That's true.  And also, you know, today my serve doesn't, you know, doesn't help me at all today, doesn't work.  But, you know, yeah, I'm happy of my results in this tournament, yeah.

Q.  Does she play particularly well on those breakpoints?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah, she played well.  Today she was playing very smart game today.  You know, for me, I was trying to change it up all the time, you know, like  -- playing like change, loopy, try attack, even like dropshots.  It seems like everything that I do, she, you know, she ready for that and she won the points.  So, you know, I really have to give Amelie credit today.  She playing very well.

Q.  Is that the best you've seen her play?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah, since we've been playing, this is her match  -- playing against me, yeah, this is her best match, yeah, uh-hmm. 

Q.  Got to the fourth round of the US Open.  You must be very happy with that? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I am.  I am very happy of my result this year, yeah.  But for me, I just, you know, still have more tournaments to go so I just trying to improve my game and, you know, be ready for next tournament, yeah, uh-hmm.

Q.  You seem to be in very good shape at the moment.  Have you been working harder?  What have you done? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Well, probably I start working out a lot with my physical so, you know, that's helped.  Just beginning.  It's right like this, so...  Hopefully, you know, working the right way and, yeah, it's work, yep. 

Q.  Back in Thailand, do you know if they followed the match?  Did they follow the match back in Thailand, like for Paradorn's games? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I think so, yeah, because I talked to my mom the other day against the match that I play with Daniela.  That time, it was showing at like 6:00 in the morning.  I asked my mom, was like  -- after my match, she said, "I'm going to go sleep."  I said, "What?  You haven't sleep that night?" She said, "No.  If I sleep, I couldn't wake up, you know, to watch your match at 6:00 in the morning."  I was like, "Wow, mom.  You're really ready for that match."  It was good match and it's been very  -- have very good support, you know, from Thailand and even from the Thai people here, you know, it's really good support.  I think, you know, me and Paradorn, we're trying to do our job as best we can.  I try to, you know, good for Thailand, you know.  It's really  -- we're very proud to be Thai, yeah, yep. 

Q.  Have you heard anything, have you gotten any support from the royal family like at Paradorn's matches?  Have they contacted you? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Actually, not yet.  But, you know, but even I heard that, you know, the king was, you know, supporting us.  And was really proud and I was very happy that he is following out me and Paradorn.

Q.  You said "not yet."  Do you expect to have a visit to the Royal Palace like Paradorn did last year?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I don't know.  I don't know.  Yeah, we'll see, yeah... Uh-hmm. 

Q.  Can you talk about going on to your next tournament.  There's nowhere more different from New York than Bali?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah, it's so different, yeah.  Yeah, my next tournament's going to be in Bali.  Bali is a very great tournament. The way I'm playing right now, you know, and, you know, I'm kind of happy.  Hopefully, I'm concentrate and getting my games to be like this all time and be stable.  It's gonna be good, yeah.

Q.  It will be your third visit there.  What do you like most about that tournament?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Bali is really very nice.  It's really good to be there.  The cultures, it's also like similar like Thailand.  I'm very feel comfortable to be there. 

Q.  When you came into the tournament, did you set any goals into which round you wanted to get? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Actually, my first match, I just  -- doesn't really set, "I'm gonna be in fourth match."  I don't set that.  I just go one at a time.  That's the thing, yeah, uh-hmm. Just try to break my own record.  But I couldn't break this time.  But hopefully next Grand Slam I can make it, yeah, uh-hmm. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT