US OPEN
August 29, 2003
Tamarine Tanasugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  How many games does it take to win a set? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  (Laughing).  Actually, I am very, very embarrassed right now.  I think, you know, I was just so focused and thought that game was 5-4.  I always think to myself that every  -- my game serve is very important, so I try to hold my serve all the time.  That's, like... After that, I started to, you know, like  -- like I was really laughing about myself, too.  I just said that, "Oh, if I gonna finish this match and won it, I'm gonna jump more than the one before."  So I was like, "Yeah." Yeah, I'm kind of happy the way I played today, yeah.

Q.  One of your best wins, isn't it?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yes, yeah.

Q.  Mauresmo at Wimbledon was the only bigger one.

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah, so...

Q.  What do you think you did well?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Like this week, I have like very good focus, you know.  You know, like I work out, involve my physical, and that works.  I just enjoying playing tennis, you know, playing my games and try to do best as I can, yeah.

Q.  Your tactics tonight?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN: The most important thing, like, it's my game serve, you know.  I try to hold it.  You know, like I try to, you know, like move Daniela around and be aggressive.  And it's work today, yeah.

Q.  You had a tough match against Mauresmo in Indian Wells.  How could you beat her next round? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Like last couple tournaments, Amelie playing so well.  You know, her game is, you know, coming back very strong.  And, you know, Amelie is very, you know  -- everybody knows she's very tough and very strong.  I just gonna play my games and try to be focus my game.  You know, we'll see.  Yeah, I think it's gonna be good match, yeah. 

Q.  What happened out there, did that put extra pressure on you to close it out right there afterward? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  No, no.  I just, you know, like try to focus one by one, each point.  You know, that's what I said.  I was kind of having fun on myself, you know, "If I won the match, I'm gonna jump more."  I think that was, you know... Also made me relax, too.  Not to, you know, like  -- try to focus and, you know, yeah... It's good, yeah (smiling).

Q.  Did you say anything to her at the net when you shook hands?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  You know, like I just said, like, "Tough match," "Good match," yeah.  Something like that.

Q.  Did you feel it was important to get that early break in the second set?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I think so.  I try to be aggressive in the beginning of the set and, you know, try to focus on every point, yeah.  Uh-hmm.

Q.  You are not affected to lose the match and be so sad after be so happy? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  No, you know.  For me, win or lose, it doesn't matter, you know.  I just go out there and enjoy my tennis and play my best. So, you know, and  -- you know, fourth round US Open is really good.  You know, I mean, fourth round in Grand Slams...  So my next step is gonna be next step, yeah.  We'll see.

Q.  It was a very tight second set.  Did you get nervous you might have to go to a third?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  A little bit.  But it's good.  In the last game I'm not nervous.  I just go out there and play, you know, and hit the balls, be aggressive. So, you know, my 30-all and ace, that's really give me game confidence for that, yeah. 

Q.  What did you expect from her?  I don't know if you saw her previous match, but she'd actually got quite emotional and had a tough time.  What were you expecting from her tonight?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  You know, like Daniela, she's -- actually , in the second set she played very, very well and be more aggressive.  And, you know, she never give up.  She try to come back, you know, to win the set or, you know... I just, you know, tell myself that it's not gonna be over yet and she's playing much, much better.  So I try to be like focus and, yeah, be more aggressive on that, yeah. 

Q.  Were you surprised in the first set of the difference between you and how well you were doing against her? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Actually, I played pretty well, you know.  I didn't, you know  -- I play a good shots in the right timing.  You know, like I think in the first set, her first serve not really, you know...  So that's give me opportunity to come back. But, yeah, uh-hmm...

Q.  Do you sometimes feel anxious or nervous on the court  - or never? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  It's normal for people, you know, you get nervous, you know.  You have to deal with it, yeah.  You have to deal and you know you have to deal and fight for it, yeah, uh-hmm...

Q.  I don't know if it was noticeable from being on the court, but up high there was a lot of mist coming down, half-way down the stadium.  Could you see that from the court?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Again, please? 

Q.  The fog. 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  The fog.  I think the first set I see the fogs, but I just, you know...  Just doesn't really bother me.  But it's really humid today, yeah.  You know, like my grip is a bit slippery.  But try to dry it out, yeah. 

Q.  Did the ball feel different at all? 

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Actually, it's  -- it was a little bit windy today, like just one side blow.  But, you know, you have to deal with it, yeah. 

Q.  Do you feel you've got any kind of rivalry with Paradorn because he's doing well, so you want to try and match him?  Is there any of that feeling?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I don't think so.  I just try to break my own goal and try to improve myself.

Q.  You and he both seem to really enjoy your tennis, whatever the result.  Is that a sort of national characteristic, or is that just something you two have in common?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I don't know.  Thailand is Buddhist, though.  So normally we've got kind of easy-going, you know, and enjoying your life, you know.  Probably that's the thing. But most important thing is enjoying.  Don't push yourself too much, you know, or, you know, just be happy the way you are, yeah. 

Q.  You are Zen?  You have the Zen attitude?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  No, it's different.  Buddhist in Thailand  -- oh, long story (laughing). Yeah, no, it's Buddhist, but it's different kind of  -- yeah, Buddhist.  Zen is Japanese, I think.  I don't know, yeah. 

Q.  Do you think that some more emotional players on the tour could take a lesson from someone like you, who manages to stay calm and happy?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Again, please?

Q.  A lot of players get more emotional.  Do you think they could take a lesson from you and Paradorn and be more relaxed about things?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Actually, everybody's different.  I think everybody is trying to improve.  So I don't know how everybody's gonna do.  But for me, I just happy the way I am, yeah.  It's hard.  It's not easy, yeah.  Depends on everybody, how they, you know, they kind of improve them self, yeah. Everybody's different, so different kind of way.  I don't know, yeah.

Q.  It's easy for you?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  It's easy for me?  Sometimes (smiling).  Sometimes works, sometimes not.  But, yeah, uh-hmm.

Q.  Who was there among the supporters for you?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  What is that? 

Q.  Do you have family and friends that were there?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Yeah.  Actually, my aunt's here and she's staying in New York.  So they're all here.  Yeah, my dad and my mom, also my coach, yeah.  So, pretty good, yeah.  So hope, you know, yeah, they can see my match today, yeah. 

Q.  Is this the same thing like Paradorn where, you know, half a country is staying up through the night to watch your matches?  What sort of reception do you get when you get back to Thailand?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  I'm not sure, but may be live.  I don't know.  Yeah, depends. But I think my mom, she said she's gonna watch me on the TV live.

Q.  It's a big deal?

TAMARINE TANASUGARN:  Uh-hmm, yeah.  Yep (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT