U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Brendan Borst
Thomas McDonagh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you guys think, what do you think about your partnership here?  Are you guys playing well off of each other?
BRENDAN BORST: We're trying.  We work five days a week, so we're just trying to do the best we can.  We're having a great time though.  It's nice to play with him, he's got a lot of talent.  So I just try to hang in there.
Q. What do you guys do professionally?
BRENDAN BORST: I work at PNC Bank, and Tommy works at Weeden & Company, as a sales trader, I think.  So, yeah, we're working now five days a week.  This is a little more stressful than work.
Q. Where did you guys qualify, the state college?
BRENDAN BORST: Penn State.  It's our home college course, actually, which is fun.
Q. Okay.
BRENDAN BORST: So we made it on the number, actually.  We were actually at our friend's wedding in Puerto Rico the day before, and flew back in that night, and went up and stayed at my in-laws and somehow made it.  It was fun.  We're having a good time.
Q. I mean, gosh, anything else you want to say about tomorrow?  Two 36 holes tomorrow, which is a long day?
BRENDAN BORST: Hopefully.  If we get to 36, that would be great.  Yeah, looking forward to it.  It's been a fun week.
Q. Tommy, just what was it like out there today playing two guys from Ohio State that were the No. 1 seed?
THOMAS McDONAGH: It was just kind of like any other match.  We've played together a million times.  We know that we have the fire power and we can make a bunch of birdies and we could do it.  So it was just kind of see who we're up against in the first couple holes.  We thought we had a shot, and I guess the rest is history.
We both played pretty well.  We didn't really let them come back.  We got off and then stayed the whole time which was key.  There were a couple opportunities they had to jump back in on us and we kind of hung tough.  Surprising for old guys.
Q. You're not old guys.  So, just any key birdies in the hole that you and Brendan made?
THOMAS McDONAGH: Yeah, I think the key shot in the match might have been the par putt that I made on 13 they had two looks at birdie, we were chipping for birdie, and then neither of us really had a great putt for par.  They ended up missing, and then making 15-foot for par, and that kind of kept the momentum in our favor.
Q. That's great.  That was 13?
THOMAS McDONAGH: Yeah, that was 13.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT