ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: TCU v WISCONSIN
December 30, 2010
Lance Kendricks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's your preparation been for this game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think our preparation is the same as always. Be consistent, practice hard, and hopefully the results come out the way we want them to as far as blocking our scheme well and running the ball well, and being able to catch the ball and make plays.

 Q. How does Wisconsin match-up against TCU? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think we match up pretty good. We're athletic guys as well as they are. We make plays as well as they do. So I think we actually match up pretty good.

 Q. Being down here at the Rose Bowl and the weather, what do you think the field will be like on Saturday? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Definitely a lot better than the field in Madison. It's snowing back there. So anything better than that will be fine for us.

 Q. No concern about the sogginess or the length of the grass or anything? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: No. Well, what we've heard is that it's not really supposed to rain on Saturday, so hopefully that stays true and hopefully we don't have to deal with that.

 Q. What does it feel like to be down here at the Rose Bowl, just the whole experience of it all? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: A great feeling. It's kind of weird. You walk around and see stars just hanging out at the mall or whatever. It's kind of crazy. It's a great feeling just to be here.

 Q. Talk about the traditions here at the Rose Bowl. Of course this is going to be one of the first times that a non Big 10 or Pac 10 school is going to be here. What kind of feeling is that for TCU some?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: No certain feeling for us. For us it's just another team. How we looked at it is it's just the mechanics opponent on our schedule. I think if we look at it as that as we always have been, you I think we'll be fine.

 Q. TCU is saying they are the underdogs coming into this game. What is your take on it? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I really don't have a personal take because we've been called the underdogs as well. So I don't even know who the real underdog is. 
 But like we always say, it's another opponent on our schedule and that's how we always looked at it and that's how we've been looking at it all season. It's the next opponent and we've got to prepare for them just as we would anybody else. Hopefully we come out on top.

 Q. They're also representing not only their program, but the whole non-AQ debate. Is that added pressure for you guys then to prove that the Big 10 is as good as it is, and the remaining conferences are? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Not really. I think they're just as good as any team we'll face than any other team in the country. As long as we play how we're capable of playing, we'll be fine.

 Q. What do you think is at stake for you guys? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Nothing really. I think just keeping the Rose Bowl tradition at Wisconsin. We're known for going to Rose Bowls and winning Rose Bowls. I think that's all. Just keeping that tradition alive and winning the Rose Bowl. 

 Q. When you're in a game like this, obviously as players you want to keep it to the game, is it a little more of a game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: At the end of the day, we're representing everybody from the state of Wisconsin, all the alum, all of the great players that came through and played at Wisconsin, all the Barry Alvarez teams and the great teams that have played in the Rose Bowl. 
 So, yeah, it is more than just a game. But also you want to play for yourself and your family and play for each other.

 Q. A lot of times when you look at bowl games, the team that wants to be there the most wins, and some teams are disappointed or whatever and they don't play very well. What is your guys' motivation? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: For us it's just coming out and being focused every day. Our coach always talks about being focused no matter what the case is, no matter if we're in practice or in meetings to stay focused and stay on the task at hand. That will help us, I guess, get confidence and be able to execute our offense or defense better.

 Q. That truly is what makes this team that attitude? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, definitely focused. Guys are great. They come in, and no matter what's going on off the field, they leave it all off the field. The guys come in and work hard. The young guys get it. The young guys are staying and the focus is what's going to take us in the long run.

 Q. Everybody's billed this as speed versus power. Do you see it that way? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think that's way overrated. We have just enough speed. I think that showed last year in our Bowl game. They had a lot of speed, but we had speed as well. I don't think that's the case at all.

 Q. There's been a lot of rain out here. If the field is water logged, might that help you a little bit? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: It might help, but it won't hurt us. We've been playing back home in the snow and all that stuff. 
 So I think weather-wise, we'll be fine. I don't know about them or what their take is on it. But for us we're just happy to have a little warmer weather than what we've had.

 Q. Have you been on the field at all? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Not the last day, but the day we got here.

 Q. Have you had any brushes with TCU, the players? How's the interaction been? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: There hasn't really been any interaction. We saw them a little bit at Disneyland, but that was it.

 Q. That was it? Do you have a sense that playing against them Saturday, you're not kind of chummy with them? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, we have to kind of keep our focus.

 Q. Do you think this program will take a step up after this? Everybody talks about TCU, do you feel (Inaudible)?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Definitely. I think our guys are well prepared. A game is just as much hype. We came on the field, ready to play and we're focused. I think guys are ready, and I think it can help our program out a little bit.

 Q. You're a special-teams guy. Could this game turn on special teams? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah.

 Q. Could it turn on special teams, do you think? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Always. For example, again, the O state game. Gilreath runs it back from the very first opening kickoff, and I think that set the standard for the rest of the game. Yeah, I think special teams can make a difference in winning or losing. Coaches always talk about it.

 Q. Do you go to any special teams meetings anymore? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I still go to kickoff return.

 Q. Do you? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, still do.

 Q. How does Kerley look to you? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Kerley the returner. Pretty good. He's very fast. I haven't looked at him a ton because I'm not on the kickoff unit. But I have watched him a couple of times and he's pretty fast.

 Q. Do you like David? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Of course I like David. David's the clutch guy. He's been there, done that all the time. So of course I'm going to go with David.

 Q. You'd like to see a repeat of Ohio State?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, exactly. We do too.

 Q. A long build up from the end of the regular season to this game. Where are you guys right now? Are you I having to get the game going? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, I think that's exactly where we are. We want to get going and be out there and prepare. Like you said, we've been preparing for the longest, and I think we're just ready to get going.

 Q. Everybody in this room probably has a different thing they think is the key to the game come Saturday. For you, what do you think is the most important thing in this game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: For me or the team? 

 Q. For the team?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Just execute what we've been practicing. I think that's what we did well all year. Coaches gave us a plan, and we've been able to execute that plan. I think if we stay consistent to that, that we'll be fine.

 Q. What's been the best thing, most fun thing, the thing that sticks out in your mind most since you guys arrived out here? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I would say the most fun thing is we went to this comedy show. I think that was great. That was awesome. But other than that, I think just being able to practice and go over the different things and just knowing how fun the game plan is, and what we prepared for and seeing how it's going to turn out is just exciting too.

 Q. It seems like even though it isn't, you have to treat it like it's another game. How difficult is that and realistic is that to do? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: It's tough. All the media and all the fans and our family, friends from home calling you every day. It's tough. At the end of the day, you've got to stay focused and prepared. You've got to stick to the game plan. Guys in this room have been doing that.

 Q. You mentioned all the people and everybody talking to you. What do you expect come game day in terms of how much Badger red do you expect to see out there? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: A ton. I know we'll have a ton of people out here. It will be almost like a home game for us. It will be awesome. Coach B. said, I think, 8 thousands alumni got here yesterday, and they'll be at the pep rally and everything. 
 So I think that support and that fan base helps us with our confidence and just knowing that we have support like that, it helps us in the long run.

 Q. I forgot to ask you about your brother. What's his name? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: The oldest one? 

 Q. Yeah, the one that's out here in San Diego?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Donte Kendricks.

 Q. How old is he? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think he's 40.

 Q. So how long has he been down here? I assume he's coming to the game and everything?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, he'll be here. I think he's been out here for I want to say ten years.

 Q. Have you seen him yet since he's been out? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: No, he actually got into town today. So I'll probably see him later on today.

 Q. Did he go to King too, or not? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: No, he went to Custer. He went to Custer back in the day.

 Q. So are you looking forward to seeing him?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, definitely.

 Q. When was the last time you saw him? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think I saw him for my grandmother's funeral in like August, September, that was the last time I saw him.

 Q. The TCU guys said in the last week of practice, they didn't practice well. And it carried over into the game. You guys were playing at such a high level before the end of the season, how has practice been? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Practice has been great. Coach B. was most excited with practice yesterday. I think I guess what they said is true, practice kind of falls and determines the game: We've been practicing well. Our offense is going fast. We were right on with Scotty. I kind of just can't wait to get out there and see how this preparation's going to pan out.

 Q. I was going to ask you that. If you know you're practicing that well and you have a good feeling about how it should be and to be able to execute? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, and that's another thing I think with the penalties. For us, I think that's why we don't have that many penalties per game because we prepare very well to the point where we just know what's going on. If it's on two, we know not to jump. We know who is on the line and off the line, just the little stuff like that. That's what helps us out in the long run.

 Q. What do you think is at stake for this team? You guys have accomplished a lot. If you don't win this game, what do you think is at stake? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I don't think much is at stake. I haven't seen anyone really nervous about this game, which is good. I think to the guys it feels just like another game. Maybe an away game, I don't know. 
 But guys are just focused on the task at hand and no one is overwhelmed. It was like that before we got here, but once we got here everybody was calmed down and adjusted I would say.

 Q. When do you get free time? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: After the pep rally, I want to say. After that we get free time.

 Q. So what are you going to do with your free time? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yesterday I went bowling, which was cool. We went to Lucky Strike.

 Q. Did you like that? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, it was pretty cool. Then we went to the Improv, went to Disneyland. I've been shopping like crazy at the mall. That's always fun.

 Q. So what mall are you going to? Century City? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, we went to that one, and then we went to Beverly Center. I think after the game we're going to try a different one. So it's kind of been all around.

 Q. Parents have any idea what they want to do?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I haven't talked to them yet. They just got here at midnight last night, so I'll talk to them today to see what they're doing.

 Q. When you shop what do you look for? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Just basic stuff. Jeans, shirt and shoes. Yeah, because back in Madison, they don't really have much. They've just got the basic things, so out here you see thing that's you don't see back home, so you want to get the stuff here.

 Q. Are you excited to be here and be asked the same questions over and over again? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, we just had a media day the other day. It's just part of the game. It's part of the preparation for the game many we just kind of go along with it.

 Q. When you got up this morning were you thinking, my God, can we just get to the game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, we were thinking that yesterday. After practice we were like let's just play this game and go home. Everybody's just kind of ready to play and kind of get it over with, but everybody's excited at the same time.

 Q. Obviously, as a senior you bring a lot of experience. I was asking Scott. Two years ago you guys had a 7-6 season, now you're in the Rose Bowl. What lesson did you learn that season? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think this year we just have more leaders. Leadership has just been a big part of this senior season for us. You know, the younger guys are following. They understand what is at stake, and they understand just what it takes to be here. 
 So I think we've got that engraved in them early. You know, the results show.

 Q. Media day way back in August, everyone's expectations are sky high, and you guys are saying all the right things and now you're here. Realistically, in August did you think you could get to the Rose Bowl? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I thought possibly and that's because of summer conditioning. Guys really worked hard. I think the young guys really stepped up and worked hard and showed that they have a spot on the team and they deserve to be here. 
 I think from the leadership that we had and the young guys working that hard, I think it kind of led to, okay, we have a chance. I think we can do it and we did.

 Q. Now that you guys are here doing game related stuff, the defensive coordinator of TCU said it's going to be a battle of a Ferrari versus a dump truck. The offense and their speed, is that a fair assessment? What is your take on it? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: It's a kind of fair assessment. But I don't think we're all about just being big. We have athletic guys that can make plays as well as they do. 
 It's going to come down to execution and guys being able to make plays, or guys not being able to make plays. Whoever makes the most plays will win the game.

 Q. Is today the day you wake up and say, I wish today was the day of the game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: That was yesterday. That was yesterday. Yesterday guys were like, man let's just get this game done. 
 But I think everybody's just excited and anxious to play. That's all.

 Q. That's a day earlier? All of this stuff has been fun, but now you can start focusing more on football after today?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, I think it's kind of coming down to the wire now. Guys woke up today with the mentality of it's kind of getting there. It's kind of getting close. Let's focus in.

 Q. Talk about TCU. Everyone's saying they're carrying the weight of the small guys on their shoulders. Do you guys -- are you carrying the weight of the BCS Conference on your shoulder? Maybe you guys can stand up, you're not going to let the little guys push you over? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think even more smaller and condensed. I think we're representing more Wisconsin and just kind of the alumni and the tradition of Badger teams being here and representing the Rose Bowl and winning. 
 So I think we're more so representing just kind of the Wisconsin nation and just everybody that's been rooting for us, and all our friends and family back home.

 Q. What is scary, the Badgers offense or TCU's defense? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think the Badgers offense is a little more scary. I think it's kind of hard to stop our run game, and it's hard to stop our guys from making plays. I think that's what's been good about us. We've been able to execute and just make plays. 
 All the guys around from the receivers to the tight ends to the running backs, everybody's been able to make plays.

 Q. You see the trophy, do you stay away from it? Is it like the Stanley Cup?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I haven't been over there. I asked them about it. I haven't been over there, but I do want to go look at it. I probably won't take a picture with it. But I do want to go look at it and see what it's all about.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Exactly. We're all excited about being here. It's a great feeling.

 Q. The moment you committed to Wisconsin, was this day on your mind? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think so. When I was younger, I remember watching the Rose Bowl at home saying it would be awesome just to be there and to get that experience. Now I'm here and it's kind of overwhelming.

 Q. We've been talking to a lot of veterans from the 99 team, their advice was have fun. What do you take from their experience? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, Ron Dayne spoke to the team, and a couple other guys prosecute the '94 and '99 team spoke to us. I think you're right on with it. A lot of guys have been saying take in the experience, but also take care of business at the end of the day.

 Q. Some of these past BCS games where it seems Boise or Utah beats Alabama, there was a sense that the bigger schools were always kind of deflated. Has that changed? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, I think we know when we have a stake. We understand the bigger picture. Although it's a non-AQ team, we still understand they have the number one defense in the country, and they have good players. I think guys understand that. We're going to go in and be kind of passive and understand what we need to do in this game.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Not at all. We've been the underdog in a couple of games this year. For us it's just another game. That's how we look at it. It's just the next team on our schedule. That's how we've been looking at it all year. That's worked for us.

 Q. I'm not sure TCU has seen a tight end like yourself this year. Have you seen areas you can exploit on their defense? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Obviously their line is a little smaller than our line. It starts up front. If we can get the ball going we'll try to make something happen from that.

 Q. Where are you from? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Milwaukee. I have a brother that lives in San Diego, and a cousin that is a Highway Patrol officer. I've been hanging out with them the whole time. It's been a good time.

 Q. Do you have a favorite spot? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think the Improv was the best for me. That was fun. The comedy club, I guess. We all went to that, so that was cool.

 Q. What is it like to be up here under the lights in this Hollywood, California stuff? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: It's a great feeling. Still a little overwhelming, but I think it's finally starting to calm down. Guys are starting to get tuned into the game.

 Q. Do your fellow players have fun with you a little bit and give you a hard time for being up in the museum exhibit? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, they're all sitting right behind you. They tried to catch a front row seat. So hopefully I won't embarrass myself too much.

 Q. Gives them something to aspire to?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, exactly (laughing).

 Q. Are you having a great time? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Oh, yeah. We've been enjoying ourselves the whole time we've been up here.

 Q. This gives all the rest of the players something to aspire to, to get up here?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Right. The younger guys are working just as hard as the older guys, which is great. That is what you want. You want the younger guys working. That's what's been good about our team all year.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: It's going to be a challenge, of course. Like you said, they put eight in the box all the time. For us to be able to run the ball, it will be a challenge. That's what we do and we do well. We're still going to try to run the ball. I think nothing's going to change as far as what we do and we do well. We've just got to execute. 
 The running backs might have to make a guy miss or whatever the case may be. So we'll just do what we do and hopefully it will come out well.

 Q. Play action everyone knows might be the key to the game (Inaudible)?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Right, exactly. The run sets up good play action, and that's what we've been able to do all year as well. So hopefully that goes well for us.

 Q. It seems like Wisconsin football, we're playing Wisconsin football, we're going to run the ball. That seems to be the attitude?
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, it works for us. You never want to change from what you've been doing all year. That's been our attitude all year and we're doing a good job at it, so why change it? 

 Q. Being a guy from Wisconsin and Milwaukee, is this something as a kid you thought about playing in the Rose Bowl? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, definitely. I remember watching the 2000 Rose Bowl on TV back home when I was younger. I remember saying to myself it would be great to be playing in a game like that. 
 Now it's here and I'm getting excited to play. Hopefully it will come sooner than Saturday, but it will be here when it gets here though.

 Q. Is it what you thought it would be? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, of course. It's been great. The guys have been taking care of us well. The whole Rose Bowl committee and our coaches and everything. We've just been having a good time out here enjoying it.

 Q. When you say Saturday, how do you put all of this stuff in the back ground and start focusing? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: You know what's good about our team is guys are able to focus. They do a good job at just kind of putting everything to the side for when we get on the field. I think it will be easy for our guys to adjust.

 Q. You've had some tight games this year. What was Scott like there in the huddle? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, he's always calling the huddle. He never has a moment where he's nervous, which is good because he's the leader. Whatever he does is a reflection of what we do. So for him to not be able to, I guess is good for us.

 Q. It's your last game. Have you thought about that at all, or have you put that off? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I haven't thought about that yet. But I guess it is here. I'm just going to enjoy every moment of it.

 Q. Do you think you're going to get weepy? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Teary eyed? No, I doubt it. Hopefully I won't. I doubt it. I have a bowl right around the corner, so I'll still be in uniform for a little bit. I'll just make sure I enjoy my time with the guys.

 Q. That's what J.J. was telling us too. It seems like you have a really tight relationship with the guys. How many times over the past month have you answered the question about TCU's defense? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Probably about 20, at least 20.

 Q. Are you getting tired of answering that? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yes, very tired.

 Q. I won't ask it then. Going forward, this is a team that played once back in the '70s, and nobody really remembers that game anymore. Essentially it's a clean slate. You guys have no experience with these guys. How is it different than going up against like Ohio State? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Just film. Film study has been a major deal. We've been watching film, basically the same film over and over. We have a familiar understanding of what they're going to do and that's about it.

 Q. Watching the film over and over again, what do you have to be ready for when you take the old field on Saturday? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I would say the thing that stands out about them the most is them being able to make plays and do it consistently. They run their scheme and run their defense and do it well. I think that's what's been standing out most.

 Q. Are you looking forward to getting out there? I mean, have you had a chance to drink it all in and soak it all up or are you just ready to get the tension over with and get out there and play the game? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, we've been able to enjoy it. We've been here since Saturday, so I think guys are ready to get the game going. We were just saying that yesterday. We ended practice yesterday and guys are like let's just get this game going, you know. So everybody's kind of just anxious to play. We can't wait on to get out there, get on the field and see what happens.

 Q. Talk about practice, have you been practicing hard? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: The first couple of days we've been going pretty hard. Yesterday and today will be a lighter practice. So just to get guys legs back and everything like that. It's more of a mental day than a physical day.

 Q. Anything else? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Nope.

 Q. How does it feel to be here? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: I think for me it's about enjoying the whole experience, the media, the fans, all of it.

 Q. Take the whole thing in? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: Yeah, exactly. Just take it all in.

 Q. What do you expect to be the key to the victory? 
 LANCE KENDRICKS: No penalties, no turnovers and just executing our offense like we always do. For us it's just going to be execution. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT