SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2012
Mika Miyazato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER:   We'd like to welcome Mika Miyazato into the interview room.   Congratulations, a 12‑under par put you at the top of the leaderboard.   Early in the day, take me through the round today and what was working well for you out there. 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   I had so much good today also, because I had bogey‑free round today.   My second shot was very well.   But I had so much frustration on the putting on the front nine, but I made three birdies on the back nine.
KELLY THESIER:   So it went well.   I asked So Yeon about this too, but the weather was so different today than yesterday.   How did that change things for you at all going from the extreme heat of yesterday to playing in the afternoon, to the cool, overcast today? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   Yesterday was so much hot.   I played afternoon tee times, but today was very cold and more heavy so cold.   And half club was different compared to yesterday.   So I tried to think more half shots and quarter shots I hit.

Q.   Playing with So Yeon who has also been playing well, she said you guys have known each other for a long time playing on National Teams when you were on the Japanese National Team and she was on the Korean National Team.   How much fun is it when you're playing with someone who is shooting that well too?   Do you guys feed off of each other and kind of both get on a roll at the same time? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   When I was 16 years old, 17 years old I played her, but she's very consistent.   I almost everywhere made a birdie.   I got on the green.   So I played the last two days, but she's played pretty good the last two days also.   But she made five birdies on the front nine, so... 
KELLY THESIER:   Did that get you motivated to do well on the back nine when you saw how well she was doing on the front nine? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   Yes, it's very good motivation for me.   Yes. 
KELLY THESIER:   You've put together such a great string of golf over the past couple of months.   We talked about how well you played at Shoprite and Wegmans and had you some runner‑up finishes in there.   When you come so close over the past few months to a victory, what have you learned from that?   How close do you think you are to capturing that first victory on the LPGA? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   I have so much good experience the last four or five events.   But I don't know how much closer to win the tournament.   I tried to focus on my golf game one shot at a time, so I don't know.

Q.   Are you getting more comfortable with your name up there at the top of the leaderboard because you've been there so often over the past few weeks? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   Much better comfortable.

Q.   You're ready to win now? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   I'm always ready (laughing).

Q.   You and Ai are friends, right? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   Yes.

Q.   When you see how well and how many times she wins, how do you react to that when she's doing well? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   I think it's good motivation also.   I tried to more focus on my game.   I'm really ‑‑
KELLY THESIER:   I'm sure there is a lot of respect level between the two of you.   And how long have you known Ai and how long have you two competed against each other?   Was there always‑‑ I know you guys get a lot of questions if you're related or if you're sisters.   But how long have you two known each other and how long have you played against each other? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   How long?   When I was 10 years old.   I'm 22, so 12 years. 
KELLY THESIER:   Did people always ask if you guys were related?   In Japan do you get asked that or is it just here in the U.S. when you're asked all the time? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   No, everybody asks me.   "Oh, you are Ai's sister?"   Always. 
KELLY THESIER:   Do you take it as a respect question?   Are you trying to get into your own?   Are you hoping people start to recognize you as Mika and for all of your success and not relate you to Ai, or does that not bother you? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   No, I don't care.   It's okay.   I think everybody knows Ai, so I don't know if somebody knows me, I don't know.   But I think it's lucky.   Same last name, just different first name.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MIKA MIYAZATO:   I saw her struggling recently.   But I am to her coming from behind me, and it makes me more motivated.   I'm really happy to see her playing good this week.   Yes, a good friend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT