INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Mika Miyazato
Ai Miyazato
Sakura Yokomine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KRAIG KANN:   A lot of smiles up here on this stage for Team Japan.   They clinched the top spot in Pool B with one of their victories today.   We have got Ai Miyazato and the rest of Team Japan sitting here.   We'll take some questions.   I would like you to get hands raised if you have any. 
But let's just start with some big thoughts on the victory.   I'm going to start right down the line for you Ai.   You and Sakura, with your victory today, what did it mean for you?   What does it mean to be advancing into the singles tomorrow? 
AI MIYAZATO:   It was huge two points I think that we took today.   Wow, it was just a really tough day out there.   Na Yeon and I.K. played really solid and I thought we were going to play 18, another 18 holes today or something.   That match was really tough. 
But Sakura, she hit so many good shots out there and she got two eagles on the back nine and that was huge.   It just kept the rounds going and that's why we got the two points, I think.   It's because of you. 
(Laughter.)
KRAIG KANN:   For those who don't know, before I ask Sakura for some comments, could you share with everybody here just what type of player she is, because there are a lot of folks‑‑
AI MIYAZATO:   Sakura? 
KRAIG KANN:   Yes. 
‑‑ that are not familiar with her game except what they have seen on TV this week.
AI MIYAZATO:   Okay.   Are you guys ready for two hours or something? 
(Laughter.)
I know her a long time.   But she is always like laid back, even on the golf course or off the golf course.   It doesn't matter.   She's always like really the same, calm person.   She's not too excited.
KRAIG KANN:   She doesn't look too excited right now.
AI MIYAZATO:   No, right.   But she's really happy girl.   She's always smiling.   Even when she made a mistake on the golf course, she's still smiling and saying something positive. 
What else?   And she's tiny, but she can hit it long with the driver and she can putt, and her chipping is amazing.   So she's just a great player, I think. 
KRAIG KANN:   Sakura, do you have some thoughts on your play over the last few days? 
SAKURA YOKOMINE:   First day we played well and then we won.   The second day, we started down and then not a big down, but then came back with all square.   That was good. 
And then today I thought about it against Korea, so I thought about it, that the game would be long.   But we both played well, so that would be good for tomorrow as well. 
KRAIG KANN:   Mika, playing tomorrow and what this opportunity means to you to be able to advance to Sunday and to have a chance to win the crown now. 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   After three days playing with Mamiko, I really had fun.   Then for tomorrow, we're not playing together.   We have been doing so well, we played well for the past three days, so we will continue playing the best of our play. 
KRAIG KANN:   Any questions? 

Q.   For Ai, looks like we're going to have the top two seeds in the wildcard sudden death playoff.   Does that say something about maybe the overall LPGA?   There's such a close margin between say the 1st place team and the 8th place team coming in here that it's really wide open and there was no real favorite. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, it's only eight countries this week.   I thought that it's going to be really close to each other.   It wasn't really expected that we could take eight points this week because we thought against any country, it's going to be really tough.   If we could get one point every day, that would be great, I thought. 
I don't know the other players, how they felt this week, but still it's really tough matches every day.   I know we tried our best and the other countries did the same thing. 
But it's just match play.   Match play makes a huge, huge difference than normal, normal tournament.   So everyone feels a lot of pressure on the golf course and they're using a lot of energy.   Sometimes you try your best, but it just results don't follow.   So you have to accept it and move on. 
It's just a tough week overall. 
KRAIG KANN:   Get some thoughts from you on the week.   Three days are now done and tomorrow you'll play for the crowns and the trophy.   What's it been like over three days for you?   What's the experience been like?   Can you put that into perspective for us? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, it's been just amazing.   It's an amazing feeling.   We're having this super great experience so far.   It doesn't matter how we're going to play or not, it's just a great atmosphere and we have seen good crowds on the golf course. 
It's an amazing feeling playing for my country. 
I know it's going to be a big day tomorrow, but still, I'm just really happy that I'm part of this team and I'm playing for my country this week.   I just really appreciate that we could have this opportunity. 
KRAIG KANN:   One final question and you can answer it on behalf of everybody.   Where are you all going to dinner and will there be any good fun tonight?   Maybe ping pong or anything else? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Just straight going to the bed for tomorrow, I think. 
(Laughter.)
KRAIG KANN:   Going to bed? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Yeah, we did some table tennis yesterday, did a competition, and we went to dinner and we had a great time.   But we're just so exhausted, so we need to rest for tomorrow. 
KRAIG KANN:   Tomorrow will be an exciting day. 
Congratulations on advancing out of Pool B and good luck tomorrow in the Sunday singles.   Team Japan.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT