THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Chris Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you have fun out there.
 CHRIS WILSON: We had a good time, absolutely. I didn't play anywhere near what I'm capable of playing. You make a few mistakes on the golf course and it will get you pretty quick, which I did

 Q. What were some of the things that were trouble and how do you get it fixed for tomorrow? 
 CHRIS WILSON: I warmed up really nicely this morning. I hit it great. Just hit a few errant shots on the golf course. Missed at the wrong spot pretty much. And maybe tried to be a little too cute on my recovery, didn't make my bogey. I'll just hit a few more good shots and hit the right putt tomorrow. 

 Q. Optimism for tomorrow given that morning rounds tend to get low numbers? 
 CHRIS WILSON: Yeah. It wasn't too hard out there. It's going to be even softer in the morning. Think we should get some low scores, yeah. 

 Q. You're so locked into doing what you have to do. Are you able to see family and friends out here, notice anybody like that? 
 CHRIS WILSON: Here and there. But we're out here to do a job. We're so caught up in the numbers and what the wind's doing and selecting a club. You really don't have any time to do any of that other stuff, yeah. 

 Q. Talk about what you felt when you heard you were going to get into the tournament and your emotions before the round today. 
 CHRIS WILSON: When I heard I was get in the tournament, I didn't believe it. Then I was like super excited. Coming into the tournament is something I've always dreamed of is playing here. 
 My emotions this morning, they weren't -- I wasn't nervous. I was excited. I was ready to go. I played in the -- playing in the practice rounds with some of the guys who had a decent following helped a lot. Calmed some of the nerves. 

 Q. Did it play differently than all the other times you played? 
 CHRIS WILSON: No. Hole locations were more difficult. You expect that. 

 Q. I mean, aside from the score, the first experience, though, how was it? 
 CHRIS WILSON: It was good. It was a good first experience. You've got to have a first experience sometime. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT