BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2019
Seungyeon Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Today we have Seungyeon Lee with the KLPGA. Can you tell us about the round today? The weather wasn't very nice. Can you tell us how you did today.   
SEUNGYEON LEE: Towards the second half of this year, I was not hitting very well, until very recently. Last week, I thought that I was hitting better, so I did not expect to do so well in the first round.   
As you said, the weather conditions were quite tough, so I really stayed focused on trying to keep my scores low.   
 Q.  I would like to ask your goal coming into this event. You have one win in your rookie year?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: I think to do well in this part of Korea and this region, so I came looking forward to this event. But this being an LPGA event, I was focused, really, rather on building experience rather than doing very well. But I'm very happy with how the first round went.   
 Q.  I know this is a bit early to ask, but do you have any long-term plans as to when you would like to go to the LPGA?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: Of course my ultimate goal is to play in the LPGA, but even if I win this event, I think I would really think hard about whether I would like to go immediately to the LPGA.   
The KLPGA has a lot of good players, and I think that I can benefit from building more experience on the Korean tour before going to the LPGA.   
 Q.  So you were in the same group with Jessica Korda. Did you have anything to learn? And also, you actually played better than her today. What do you think you did well today?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: I think that everybody who had the best condition that day plays well and I think I have a lot to learn from her and her experience. For instance, when she got a missed shot or she made a bogey, then she seemed more relaxed, and I'm sure she doesn't remember me, but I was in the same group with her at the third round of the KEB Hana event last year, so having played with her once before, I was very comfortable.   
 Q.  You've been on LPGA events. What would you say are the strengths of the LPGA Tour players and what can Korean players learn from LPGA Tour players?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: Like I said before, anybody can play well on a good day. I think the difference comes on how you can overcome days when you're not playing so well, how you handle that and how you strategize.   
I think the LPGA Tour players seem to be more relaxed and take things more in stride, and sometimes I think they play more simple golf and that can be an advantage.   
For Korean players, we can have strength in terms of concentration and that's great, but sometimes I think you can benefit from taking things in stride and taking your time.   
 Q.  You are known as an aggressive long hitter. Do you think being a long hitter played to your advantage on the course today? And Jessica Korda is known as a long hitter, as well; can you compare between the two of you? And this is your second LPGA event, do you think you did better today in the first round because the course suits your game better or you are playing better compared to last year?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: I think compared to last year, definitely my game has gotten better considering that I've been on 20-something events on the KLPGA, so I've learned a lot over the past year. Even though this is only the first round, I did good, and I can't really compare how far I was hitting to Jessica. I think we were pretty similar.   
 Q.  You had two bogeys. Did you make the bogey because you were conscious of the fact you were co-leader?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: For No. 18, the pin was in the front, was positioned in the front. There was a wind that was coming from behind with 137 meters to the hole. I thought that if I could aim and get the ball to land on edge of the green, then I would be able to get a good score, and the ball landed exactly where I wanted it to, and I couldn't actually see the ball go in that hole at that point. But I saw the reaction of the gallery and I knew that I did well.   
So I did well and I was kind of lucky on 18.   
On 8, I had no idea I was in the lead on the front nine. There was no leaderboard, so I had no idea. But I was playing into the wind and I aimed a little right, but I miss-read the wind, and that's why I was not able to save par.   
 Q.  Which part of your game do you think you need to shore up to play better?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: I think compared to how big I am, I tend to hit very long and straight. This means that I end up having to play a lot of wedge shots, but I think my biggest weakness are wedge shots within one hundred meters. So I think that if I can improve on my wedge shots, my shorter wedge shots, I can really have a strong weapon in my bag.   
 Q.  So this is the first time an event is being held on this course. Can you give us your general impression on the course?  
SEUNGYEON LEE: I actually came here in July. I had a week that I didn't have any golf, and I came here to Busan and at that time there was no wind and it was hot, so the conditions were very different.   
Today, as you know, it's colder and no wind, so the green speed is much faster; so much so that it reminds us of courses like when we play the British Open. I think there are holes where we could play it short and attack the pin with a putter. I think overall it was okay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT