ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2016
Audra Smith
Nelly Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wake Forest - 73, Clemson - 58   
AUDRA SMITH: Well, I want to commend obviously Wake Forest on a great game.  They had three players that stepped up and was really ready to play tonight.  I can't enough about Milan Quinn.  She did a fantastic job, not only ran the floor in transition but it was difficult for us to guard her, and she took advantage of that.  And of course Amber Campbell who's been Steady Eddie for them pretty much all year, as well as Ariel Stevenson.   
For us, it was a situation where I felt like we dug ourselves a hole too early.  As you can see with the box score, we won the third and won the fourth, but when you dig yourself as deep of a hole as we did in the first and the second, it was really tough to come back when you're playing against a team like Wake Forest that has such good scorers inside and on the perimeter.   
 Q.  Nelly, did you expect Milan to be that active the whole game?  
NELLY PERRY: Well, the first game we played her she was pretty active, so we did expect her to be more active this game.  But we also expected to have -- to play better defense on her.   
 Q.  Coach, there was a stretch there in the middle of the second quarter where they had like four or five straight possessions and they scored.  Did they do anything during that stretch that surprised you at all or was that just the flow of the game there?  
AUDRA SMITH: No, they didn't do anything that surprised me.  It was just the flow of the game, and they're good scorers and they were taking advantage of what we were allowing them to do.  I mean, at one point we were in zone and they were moving very -- they're moving.  They were very active in their zone in terms of their cuts and running through to the baseline, and we weren't covering it very well and they got some open looks.  And then we had some live ball turnovers and they had an opportunity to get out in transition.  It wasn't a surprise.  I just felt like we weren't aggressive enough defensively.   
 Q.  Has it been difficult this season being winless in the ACC and having to kind of overcome that as well as turn things around and play well on a given day?  
AUDRA SMITH: Oh, of course it's been difficult.  I mean, it's been very difficult, but the biggest thing that we've been trying to do is continuing to teach the game to this young group and continuing to prepare them, game in and game out, the teams that we're going to face.  And we've had some situations where we were right there, you know, with some home games where we were right there in terms of winning, and we weren't -- just weren't able to finish.  So hopefully this year -- unfortunately it was an unsuccessful year, but hopefully we can use this year -- we use this year as a teaching year, so going forward we'll have much better results.   
 Q.  What would you consider to be the biggest difference on the boards with Wake out-rebounding you by 24?  
AUDRA SMITH: Well, there was more size.  For us -- for one thing, we didn't go to the glass.  That was one of the things.  We didn't make -- for me, we didn't make enough of an attempt to really go to the offensive glass, whereas Wake went to the offensive glass.  Their post players went to the glass, their guards crashed the glass, and we didn't.  And even on the offensive -- for us on the offensive end, we didn't get enough second-chance opportunities there.  We got 12, but still, two of those were team related.  But we didn't do a very good job of keeping them off the offensive glass.  You see 16 offensive rebounds and they were able to turn those into scores, so we didn't do a good job of keeping them off the glass.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT