THE 146TH OPEN
July 23, 2017
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICHIE RAMSAY: I didn't execute certain of my shots that well.  But sort of played bad on the back nine.  I think the week is summed up by the last hole:  I hit a lovely tee shot on a very tough pin.  It just ran off the back edge of the green and I rolled it down to six feet.  I didn't hit the hole from six feet.   
That summed up a lot.  It was good but not good enough.  But I think maybe when I go away and reflect on it a little bit, I'll be a little bit happier.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It was great to play in the last few groups on the weekend, but the same thing I believe in, if you don't have a sharp short game, and you don't have -- by that I mean chipping and putting, and if you're not strong mentally, that is the difference.  And to be honest, I could hit it as straight as anybody off the tee, I may not be the longest in the world, but my ball-striking can be really good, but it just needs to be way sharper.   
Like 9 is good example, hit it middle of the fairway, I had a 9-iron in there and pulled it left and didn't get up and down.  That's three opportunities to make par.  Should be taking the entire day and being a bit more positive with the second shot.  The chips need to be closer and the putts should be better.  It's as simple as that.  But you do it over four days, it's two and a half shots, that's ten shots.  Simple as that.  It's small margins and that's what it is.  And that's what I need to improve.  The fact that we're in Scotland doesn't probably help that, but that's what you continually fight against.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I mean if you give me 22nd at the start of the week here, I would have taken it.  But I just think that I learned a lot this week.  I'm someone that sets myself high goals.  And the back nine showed a lot of strength and depth and the way I fought.  Sort of one chip shot I had in particular was really pleasing.  That was sort of a turning point where I could have really snowballed and gone a long way.  And I made par.  And then played very solid down the closing stretch.  I seemed to play better on the back nine than the front nine.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I just need to replicate that more from hole one.  To be honest, I felt comfortable out there.  A good tee shot at the first.  Just ran through, made birdie.  On the second I pushed it a little right and didn't give myself the opportunity.   
I think I just played a little bit too conservative sometimes, and the difference is that, you know, you've got to walk with a little bit more of a strut.  And I've got to surround myself with as many positive people as possible.  And I think sometimes that there is some negativity that falls in there.  It's an old Scottish thing.  I won't say it because you'll write it but there are a few things that I think are major things that I won't say hold us back as a nation but hold us back in general.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT