THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICHIE RAMSAY: Well, I thought for a minute it was definitely going in.  I thought it was going to stop and then go straight in and about for three or four seconds it wasn't going in.  And then I just started walking.  It just trickled.  You need a few things like that, because today I didn't feel like I got much out of it.  It wasn't a Jordan Spieth effect round.  ^  my ball-striking at times was not what I wanted, but I felt I drove it really well.  It was just things like I hit a great tee shot on 15, ripped 1-down there, bounced a little bit left.  And I was standing there going, it's a cut 3-wood all day from the fairway, and you don't know how it's going to come out because it's really, really dry.  I hit a beautiful shot and it's just sort of held up a little bit, coming out a little bit spinning, and then I left myself like a 30 feet putt from the front on I ridge, where if you hit it left it goes way left.  And if you hit it right it goes right and it feels like you're putting on top of a wall.  Whereas if it stays in the fairway, I knock it on, and I've got an eagle putt from 20 feet, it's an easy top in birdie.  Very small margins.  I try to remember that and try to /HRA Lou patience.  But it was frustrating there because the scores were there to be had.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, it was a bounce back, great bounce back, obviously caught a flier on the first.  And what I thought was a pretty good chip, pretty shocking putt.  I mean literally.  Great bounce back.  And it was quite steady for the next few holes.  I tried to keep the foot down, tried to play aggressive.  Just little things, like 7 -- 6 I hit a good tee shot, what I thought was over the corner, and caught in the rough.  And a beautiful shot right down the flag, and I pitched it in the bank, pitched it in the flat, and there was like another one.  And that's why the best players in the world are good at finding a way to score.  And I probably didn't do that, which put myself a little bit behind, a little bit behind the black ball there.  But I fought really, really well.  And I'm sure you know, when it gets sort of in a fight I go, I never back down, and that was a fight today.  And I sort of fought then.  And the two birdies were just reward for perseverance, if nothing else.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.) ^ St  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah.  The greens are soft like Ireland.  You could fly it at the flag.  The great thing was my mental attitude was really good.  I loved it out there.  It was really brilliant.  Crowds were possibly the best crowds I've ever played in front of.  The atmosphere in some of the greens was second to none.  And I just -- I just tried to stay patient, but it's tough when your putter was a little cold.  So it was nice to make a couple at the end there.  And like I say it was just perseverance and patience, which was testing me to limit, really.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It would be good, yeah.  You know what, for me, it's sort of -- it doesn't really make a difference who I play with.  I know there will be a lot of -- a lot of support for him, you could hear that when he walked up to the greens behind.  I'll go out and do what I did today, but just putt a bit better and get momentum.  When you get momentum there's definitely a score to be had.  And the way I drive it, especially today I drove it really well.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: No, I think -- I would have been happy with a lot more breeze.  Definitely plays into the hands of the guys who play that sort of -- I don't want to say one-dimensional golf -- but more like where it doesn't get breezy and you don't have to adjust for the bounce and the winds.  It's a fair test out there, very fair, and I've just got to go out there and do my best, give a hundred percent like I always do, fingers crossed I can kind of, if not get in the mix, just do myself justice with a nice another round.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Like I say, just give a hundred percent, pick off my shots, be committed to it.  And I think the result whether be the result at the end of the day.  I've been very good at staying in the process.  And today, like I say, I was tested to the limit.   
But I thought I came through with flying colours.  And under certainly the most intense pressure with the major, with the best players in the world you're trying to chase them down.  I kept a good mindset and attitude and stayed positive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT