ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2017
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Richie, just before you talk about the round in general, how pleased were you to see that bunker shot behave on 18 there?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, really happy.  It was obviously, I hit 5-iron in the par 5 and hit a lovely shot.  Just ran through the back.  It was great to get away with a four.  Dinner tastes a lot better when you make birdie on the last.   
 Q.  How were conditions in general?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: They were tricky.  There's a good wind and it got a little harder.  Temperature dropped a little bit.  Ball wasn't playing just as far as probably it was the last few days but very patient.   
Reeled off a lot of pars and got a nice little run going on the back and that started giving me a nice impetus and made the momentum carry on for the rest of the round.   
 Q.  15 seems to be causing a few problems and you ended up on the bank.  What is it about that hole that makes it play so tricky today?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Visually it's quite intimidating.  It's quite a narrow tee shot and it's off the left and any time you get a strong left wind and the trouble is on the right, it's causing most of the guys a little bit of an issue.  If you can get your tee shot away, it's a good chance to make a three or a four.  I got a nice break there and fortunately took advantage of it.   
 Q.  Tied second last week.  How nice is it to continue that form into this tournament?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It's been very good, yeah, very steady.  Very happy with the way I played.  It was just a case of like staying patient and letting the momentum come.  I enjoyed the round with the two Matt, they are great guys.  It was nice to sort of feed off each other.   
 Q.  Thoughts on an opening 68 in your national open championship.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Very steady, not too flashy.  Just kept the momentum going and got a lovely three birdies in a row.  That just helps to keep going.  It's tricky out there at times.  If you missed a fairway, it's tricky to judge the distance.  We got caught a couple of times but 4-under is a very good start and it's right where you want to be.   
 Q.  As a Scottish player, you get a lovely draw here, what's it like to play with those sort of guys and can you learn from watching the likes of Matt Kuchar with all the experience?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Oh, definitely.  You know, Matt's been around for a long time, and you can see the consistency.  It's really impressive.  You see his demeanour, he's very relaxed and makes the most of his game.  It's interesting to watch.  Especially we're very similar distance, so it's good for me to go around there and see the way he gets around sometimes when he doesn't have his A Game, always puts a number on the board, and that's what you've got to do to be in contention come Sunday.   
 Q.  Wonderful second place finish for you last week, half a million Euros in prize money and you jump from fourth to 18th in The Race to Dubai.  Describe the impact that result has had on you?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It's a massive confidence boost and you're always trying to get that.  The money relates to the ranking and the ranking for me is an important thing, and that's pushed me way up in building a schedule.  Looking forward to some fantastic tournaments at the end of the year.   
But this week, as well, The Scottish Open, it's a major as far as I'm concerned and you're trying to get in contention and feel the same thing that I felt back nine on Sunday in Ireland, and hopefully maybe a little bit better.  Because there's nothing better than practising really hard and coming down the stretch with the pressure.  That's what I love to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT