NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2016
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Happy with a good start?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, really good.  I really love the golf course here.  I haven't been here before.  This is my debut.  But it's a great course to play.  You've got to drive it well, which I did today.  Gave me lots of chances coming into the greens.  It's a little bit of a tricky wind there.  It sort of swirls at times and you've got to be quite accurate coming down the stretch with the clubs.   
All in all, a really good day.  Just need to sharpen up the short game a touch, and bring it into tomorrow and then chase another good score.   
 Q.  I guess you were already aware of how the course can bite you, as well.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It can definitely bite you, yeah.  Just got to stay patient out there.  It's every hole.  The reason it's a great course is that if you play well, you score out there, and the minute you're off your game, it's going to hurt you.   
You've got to stay focused out there and just commit to your golf shots.  That's what I'm trying to do this week, and it worked today, and like I say, I'll bring that into tomorrow and hopefully get in a position where come Sunday, I'm chasing down that Dubai spot.   
 Q.  Not sure how to phrase it, but does it help you that you know you have to focus out there and there's no gimmies out there?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It does.  I think I love courses that are good tests, not just of your game of your kind of mental discipline.  There are some courses where you can get away with a lot, where you can stand up there and open your shoulders and rip it and get away with it.   
This course, it's just not the case.  It's a very well designed golf course.  I can see how people respect it so much and how people want to come back here and play.  And you add Sun City and the whole resort and everything to it and the weather we have, it's a great combination.   
 Q.  I take it you have some knowledge of the place before actually arriving?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I did have.  A couple of my friends have been here before and played the Lost City and the Gary Player, they were very complimentary about it.  And I love coming back to SA.  It's a fantastic place.  I won the South African Open in 2009 and I've come back here on honeymoon in 2012.  It's just a lovely place to come back to.  People are really nice.  The food and the wine is exceptional.  And Nedbank have treated us fantastically well so far.  You know, just a great place to come to.   
 Q.  Are you wowed by the environment?  Have you been to the park next door?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I haven't been to the park because it was a little bit of a trip from Turkey and the rest is up.  I've done a few trips before luckily, and it is incredible to see the wildlife just not in a cage or not in a zoo, just out in the open, roaming.   
I spoke to Joost Luiten yesterday; he had a great picture with the baby lions, which was really cool.  It's just a place that I think we've been down here before and experienced it.  It's a good place to come and have a bit of a life experience.  It's up with anything else you'll ever do in your life.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT