THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How are you feeling now?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I feel miles better.  Like Tuesday from about 11:00 to 7:00 was in bed or I wasn't -- yeah, somewhere else.  I don't know what it was I picked up, but just suddenly felt unwell.  I've never had that before at all.  But fortunately it came on really quick, and the fact was it kind of left really quick.  The next day I wouldn't say I was 100%, but I felt ten times better.  But at one point I was lying in bed and stomach was sort of going, and just thinking, I'm not sure if I'm going to play, because I couldn't even get it down.  I just was throwing up all the time.   
 Q.  Was that kind of a (inaudible)?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Looking at it, I had a really good attitude today.  Great attitude.  To be honest, the first thing was I hit maybe one shot that was sort of below average and it was on the green.  And I played lovely.  I played so steady.  Picked off my shots.  A lot of shots down the flag.  A lot of shots down the target lane.  I just didn't make anything.  Then the back nine's playing really tough, and you've kind of got to score on the front nine, obviously, and make a few birdies to give yourself a little bit of leeway coming back in, and you're going to have to get up and down because there's no way you're hitting the whole nine (indiscernible), and getting a couple of par had 4s.   
Would have been nice if I could have dropped that putt because I had a great drive and great 4 of iron to 15 feet.  But I just never holed anything.  I think level par, probably today once the guys go through the whole course, I think that will be a decent score.  Anything under par is a good score because the back nine's playing long, like really long, and it's not even -- I wouldn't say it's -- there's a little bit of breeze, but it's not strong.  So, yeah, it's going to be testing if you're playing later on.   
 Q.  Health-wise, how are you feeling?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I feel miles better.  I feel fine.  I honestly don't know what it was.  The doctor and Roger from the physio unit came in, and if it wasn't for him giving me meds at like 7:00, I don't know what would have happened.  Because I just couldn't keep anything down.  Walked around and I feel miles better now.  It was just a little late practise this afternoon and then rest up for tomorrow, because I've got to go shoot a good number tomorrow to stay in it.   
 Q.  Tomorrow's going to be so tough with the weather conditions.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I did myself justice the way I played, the attitude I had and picked off my shots and didn't fear any shots.  Because it's easier to play defensive sometimes, especially on the back nine.  And I hit a lot of good shots.  I just needed to hole a couple of putts.  But I'm kind of proud of the way I played and really enjoyed being out there and playing.  The crowds were great.  And around the Postage Stamp, that was brilliant.  I just need to do myself justice a little bit more tomorrow by scoring.   
You can swing it as good as you want and people can put it on video and say, this is textbook, but, you know, 69 holes beats 72, doesn't matter how you swing it.  So you've got to put the numbers on the boards.  And that's what the top guys are doing at the moment, and that's why I need to be a little better.   
 Q.  How complicated was it when you got out of practise?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It is harder, but after Tuesday, I sort of thought to myself I'm going to have to conserve my energy, because I still felt it a little bit on Wednesday morning.  I just said to Colin, I said, look, this is a very strategic course especially on that front nine, and we just came up with a good plan and able to execute today.  It was a little bit tougher because you didn't know.  I wasn't used to how long that back nine plays, and if I played a practise round, I would have probably had a slightly better idea.  But at the same time I played good enough to shoot a good number out there.  If you said to me, you'd teed off and you're fully fit on Tuesday afternoon, I probably wouldn't have believed you.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I think there was a Scottish Amateur here a long time ago.  I played something here years ago.  It might have been a British Amateur maybe.  British Amateur, yeah.  I thought there was some kind of element I've played there.  So some of the tees have changed.  I remember the general layout of the course, but the first six holes kind of not so much.   
You needed a good strategy today.  Hitting irons off tees, and sometimes you're hitting three 5-irons on the front nine because you've got to leave yourself a shot at the pins and stay out of the bunkers.  But that was the walk yesterday that we got.  We got the strategy and conserve the energy.  I felt very good today.  Maybe I wasn't 100%, but I wasn't far off it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT