ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2016
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICHIE RAMSAY: I knew a lot of guys were getting off to fast starts.  Need to keep pace with them.  A steady day but just game wasn't all there.  I probably needed to be a little bit more aggressive at times, especially on the back nine, a little bit more belief.  But I hit some good shots and just didn't make any putts of any length, but I had a couple of nice up-and-downs to keep the momentum going.  The one on the last would have been good.  I thought I hit a pretty good chip but it just rolled on.
Yeah, kind of get out early in the day and try and post a number.  Obviously the guys did it today.  Helps when the weather sort of goes your way but still lots to play for.  I kind of just need a little bit more belief and take that and chase a low one tomorrow.
Q. Was it a conscious decision not to be aggressive?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Well, some of the pins out there were tricky, and a couple of shots left affected my attitude a little bit and struggled with distance control a little bit on 9; I made a good up-and-down.
I need to sort of take that out of my mind and then refresh and start again come the back nine.  That shot on 12, where I know I made a great up-and-down par, just little things like that.  It's not so much the swing, because standing on the range, if you've got a bucket down, I could fill it up with balls from a hundred yards.
It's taking that on to the golf course, is a little bit of belief, and that's what I'm going to work on next week.  That's what I think I'm going to do, try and change things up.
Q. Currently four off the lead.  Do you have the belief come tomorrow that you're right in this?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, if you've got any belief I'll buy it from you.  It's just an attitude thing.  My attitude has been really good.  I stayed patient today which is a big thing and I played smart when maybe I didn't have my A Game, which is good. Yeah, bring my A Game tomorrow and hopefully chase a number.
Q. A couple of early birdies would give you a lift, wouldn't it.
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, a couple early birdies.  I think most guys know that I'm the kind of person that I'll give my all on the first shot and hopefully the 64th shot.  But it's just trying to chase a little bit of momentum.  Anything is possible.  If you get a little run out there, you can start birdieing every hole.  You get the putter hot and hit it in close, then there's definitely birdies to be had out there.
It was definitely really scorable today.  The rain made it a little bit tricky coming down the back nine, but all in all, it was pretty steady, and four off the lead, I probably would have taken that the start of the week.  Just got to post a low one.
Q. 12, near albatross?
RICHIE RAMSAY: 3-wood.  It was about 290.  Hit 3-wood and I thought it had stopped on the ledge on the left.  I got down there, and I thought it was like 20 feet by but it was literally about a foot.  So it must have -- watching it on TV, it must have been really close to going in.
Q. Have you had an albatross before?
RICHIE RAMSAY: I don't know that I have.  I tend to knock them in when there's a prize.  I did look back there and there was no car, and thought, well, just putt for two.
Q. Yesterday's weather tomorrow, best chance?
RICHIE RAMSAY: 6-under in that will vault up the board.  Proper golf that is.  We'll see.
Q. Depends how the guys finish tonight, but do you have a specific number in mind tomorrow that you'd like to shoot?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Not really.  I've got to stick to my plan and my plan is always be the best I can be.  So if I can get up tomorrow morning and prepare well and do my warm up, do my stretching, go out on the range and do that and have a good attitude, if you mix that together, I think potential is limitless.  I just hope that that comes tomorrow.  Just got to try your hardest.  Try 100 per cent, that's all you can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT