ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heading into the weekend, pleased with that?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, definitely.  It was tricky out there again today.  The wind, thought it was going to drop, but then it stayed pretty strong, especially on the front nine.  It's testing conditions, as you can see by the score.   
It's just not easy out there.  You've got to pick your shots off really well, and it helps if you get the putter going.  Holed a couple of nice putts on the front nine and that just gave me momentum and any time I missed a shot today, I was pretty good at recovering.  So again, that just keeps the bogeys off the card and keeps you pushing forward.   
 Q.  With the tees being a bit more forward today, with the wind maybe not quite so strong, was it noticeably easy?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It was more scorable, definitely.  But I would never say it was easy, because I mean, I think I had 120 on sixth, and I chipped a 7-iron, just trying to keep it low to the right flag.  So that gives you an idea how strong it was at points.  It was gusting at that point and there was nothing to protect us.   
It's just very fair.  If you play good, there's a score out there.  But if you're off your game, you're going to struggle.  That's the good sign of a golf course -- and obviously there's a few people watching you wanting a few birdies, as well.   
 Q.  How special would it be to you to win a home OPEN?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Really anybody that plays, especially probably the British events, Irish Open or BMW, Scottish Open, those are like majors to the home guys.  You could retire a happy man on Monday morning if you won on Sunday.   
 Q.  Looking ahead, The Open, is that in the back of your mind, those last few slots?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Not really.  I've just been focusing on The Scottish Open, and try to play well here.  We've got a young daughter, so next week I was going to have off.  I think if I go out in The Open, I'm just going to have to look after her another week.  I was looking forward to just spending some time with her playing.  So it's a win/win situation.  If I get in, great, I can take her down there and it will be her first Open.  If not, then get some family time at home and I get to work on my game and try to get that bit better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT