SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 31, 2015
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on a comprehensive victory over a Ryder Cup star?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah really good. I knew it was going to be very tough today.  Edoardo is a class player and he's done very well in Scotland.  When he gets going with the putter, he's probably one of the best in the world.
But I just played really steady golf.  Played really good.  Made a few putts, which was nice.  I needed to, because we halved three holes in birdies.  And then steady down the stretch, especially when the wind got up and the rain came in.  Very pleased with the day's work.
Q. Good quality play from both of you out there.
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, he hit a couple of loose shots but then he hit some great recovery shots.  Like I say, any time he gets inside 25 feet, you've got to think he's going to hole it.  I made a good eagle on 4 to pull ahead a little bit and that gave me a little cushion which I kind of kept up on the front nine.
Q. Are you feeling better by the day?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I like the way the wind is at the moment.  It switched around from the last few days and I know how to play the course, especially in this wind, because I've been here before.  Taking it game by game, but the attitude is good.  The short game, pretty steady.  Could do with a fraction of improvement.  Yeah, sort of give myself a B for today's work and then looking forward to tomorrow, 36, which should be a good challenge.
Q. Presumably it's good to get a speedy match done today, have a fairly relaxed time and know it could be a busy old day tomorrow.
RICHIE RAMSAY: You have to plan to sort of win and you have to think to yourself, I don't want to do too much on the range afterwards, and 36 tomorrow, if things go right, you get 36 on Sunday.  Just a little bit of food, some nice gym work and maybe a bit of Harvey Specter and Suits to get the attitude right for tomorrow.
Q. I take it you're watching this avidly?
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I enjoy watching it.  One of my good friends always says that if you can laugh out loud once a day, it's good medicine for you.  And definitely when I watch it, I laugh and it's good fun and puts you in the right mood.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT