THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICHIE RAMSAY: Best place to hole a putt on the course, and I got a little bit more out of the rain today but it was a little bit of a struggle, starting three-putting one.  Just struggled with the pace of the greens all week.  I dug in there and made a great birdie on 13, good birdie on 14, and then it's always nice to par 17, and then a great finish.  I was in a slightly sticky position because par today is like sort of 69, 70 is probably level par.  You're just holding ground with that.  There's lots of chances out there.  Some tricky pins if you get the wrong side of them, no doubt, but yeah, I wasn't that far away.  Just needed to putt to get one round, and 66 would be nice to shoot tomorrow and sort of vault up the leaderboard.Q. (Inaudible.)RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I think there's a really low one out there today if the conditions are similar.  It will be a low number that wins.  I'm sure someone will shoot low 60s today.  I see sort of -- there's going to be potential to break 63.  I see that in there, because of the -- the pins are not giveaways because there's a little bit more rain, as well today, it just softened them up a bit more.Q. Were you disappointed what happened to Eddie at 17 today?RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I mean, I played with him a few times, and he got off to a really nice start, holed some good sort of 15-footers, which you need to do, and then continued it on, made a great birdie on 16.  I think just a bit unlucky at 17.  To be fair, he sort of composed himself and made a good 4 with the second ball.  Didn't hit the best second shot until last and sort of a good two-putt up the hill, which is never easy.  That was the only sort of wobble in the day and he sort of composed himself and got it done.  Yeah, it was good to see someone like that who's also a lot of potential to be up there and playing well, and it kind of drives you to do a little bit better.Q. Are you going to watch a lot of (inaudible) tomorrow?RICHIE RAMSAY: I'll definitely see some of it on the TV.  I'm going to get back, get some lunch, do a little bit of practice and chill out this evening, and I might see them on the TV later on.Q. How do you feel your game is generally?RICHIE RAMSAY: It's good.  It's there.  It's a little bit of attitude, from tee one needs to be slightly better, but apart from that, the game is good.  Just staying fit, I had a little wiggle on my right side, but I'll go in there and stretch out and be ready to go tomorrow.  But yeah, great day, but it was summed up on the last hole.  That was brilliant.  Good to be holing a putt on 18 when there's lots of crowds and stuff, so great finish, and carry that into tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT