THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2015
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICHIE RAMSAY: I played some really good stuff today, just the putter -- it was pretty much ice cold.  I didn't really make too many putts, and I missed a few coming in, three-putted 7 and 8, and three-putted sort of 16, but made a sort of clutch five-footer at the last and nice five-footer at 17.  It's a waiting game, and I'll just have to see what happens with regards to the wind. But I'm glad that I gave myself a chance, but at the same time a little bit disappointed I didn't make it quite clear-cut because the way I'm swinging, the way I'm hitting it, especially the way I'm driving it, I'm giving myself a lot of chances.   Q.  The last couple of holes (inaudible)?  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, around 16 or so, at the time I was 1-under and it was inside, and then I think the next hole was level and you could see the difference.  It was teetering, and I was like, well, if we've got any chance I need to hole this on the last, I need to make 3.  And to have a good drive, and for once a great sort of approach putt from distance -- yeah, I remember a similar putt in the Dunhill about five years ago, and I missed it, so I was like a little bit of redemption by holing that putt.  So it was nice to come down and finish the way I finished, but at the same time, like I say, it was -- it was a big opportunity for me to move today.  I think there was a good score out there, and I feel like it's a missed opportunity.   Q.  Did the rain delay affect you?  RICHIE RAMSAY: I mean, this morning was -- I've never seen sort of rain like that, especially on the East Coast.  West Coast I've seen it before, but East Coast, nothing like that.  We got a little bit of a break because just as we teed off, the rain sort of went off, but then the wind picked up and kind of helped us on the front nine, but it started going, and it started to shift, which has made it difficult because there's a lot of crosswinds out there now.  It's going to be tricky, but yeah, that delay was a blessing in disguise.  If we had played even three or four holes in that this morning, it was really, really tough.  Just having a wet glove and holding onto the club was an achievement in itself.  A testament to the green keepers, they did an unbelievable job.  A sand based golf course, the water has drained away, and it's playing pretty fair out there at the moment.  It's just the greens are a good bit slower than you think.  It's difficult to get the ball to the hole.  You add a bit of wind in there, it's tricky.  It's scorable, but it's tricky.   Q.  Did it make for a strange day for you because it's going to be (inaudible)?  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I think if I was like sort of starting out, I would worry the whole night and I would be like, oh, I don't know what's going to happen.  But over the last few years you learn these things.  Things are outside of your control, there's no point in using up your good energy worrying about it.  It's going to be what it's going to be.  Probably going to do a little bit of putting practice this afternoon.  I'll get food first, putting practice, I'll just go hit the gym, then have a good dinner and get to bed early and conserve my energy because if there is an opportunity to get out there, if there's high winds coming, I think that plays into my hands, big time.  I missed an opportunity today.  If I get a second one by teeing off making the cut, then I don't sort of plan to miss that opportunity again.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, it's really good.  It doesn't really surprise me.  I think there's a big one in there for a Scottish player soon.  Evidence would point to Marc being the one to do it.  I think he's due one.  I think he believes he can do it, and he's a great putter.  Yeah, if you can get one going or even be in contention coming down the stretch, it would give a lot of people something to cheer about, because it was great, like the first hole today, I made a nice birdie from about six feet and there's a lot of Scottish people there and walking on the tees and stuff, and it kind of feels like a whole match for us.  Yeah, I think the guys out there who are walking round and come out considering the weather forecast, they deserve someone from Scotland to be up there to share it a bit.   Q.  The back nine yesterday was playing significantly tougher than the front nine.  Was it the same today?  RICHIE RAMSAY: It's playing tougher, but the front nine, they've put almost every pin on a sort of downhill slope, bar the first, when you're playing downwind on those first seven holes.  It's easy to hit it inside like 25 feet, 30 feet, because you're hitting short irons, but it's difficult to hit it to like five, six feet without playing to like a little hill that you just got to miss.  And if you miss it, it runs back down and then you're coming back up and over.  I think the back nine was just a fair test.  It's never easy because you've got bunkers on -- 12 is not playing easy, 13, 14, you've got the bunkers, 15 is probably a scorable hole, and I think they've put the pins in a slightly more forgiving position on the back nine and then toughened the front nine up because it's playing the downwind holes.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT