THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What was it like out there?  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, it was tricky.  Yeah, the wind picked up probably for us on about probably 12 or 13, just probably where you don't want it to.  I just really -- I didn't really hole that many putts and just made -- well, we made a fair bit later on 13 through 14 with a lay-up and went Hell Bunker and had to play backwards.  Hell is in the middle past the fairway, and we needed less club, and caught bunker, played it backwards, hit it on and then three-putted.  So yeah, a couple three-putts in there from distance.  It was just a case of if I didn't hit it in that bunker, make a couple putts, you shoot sort of 3-, 4-under, you'd have a good day's work, considering we went off because -- it was off the right downish on the first, and then it's really picked up.  The guys who are early obviously got a really good run at it, and that's what I've got to do tomorrow, take kind of the shackles off and make a run at it in the morning when it's hopefully going to be calmer.   Q.  Going to be interesting weather-wise.  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, they used it to their advantage this morning.  I've got to use that to my advantage tomorrow.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, well, hopefully, yeah.  The draw can obviously help you around here.  I haven't really helped probably myself today.  Level par is okay.  You really want to be under par, even 1- or 2-under today would have been a pretty good score considering where we set off because there's lots of chances there.  I would say 14, 15, 16, 17 especially there, that's a really tough stretch.  If you play level par there you're picking shots up on the field, no doubt.  But yeah, that's the toughest -- even 13, that's the toughest stretch on the course.  If you can get through there, there's lots of other chances.   Q.  With it being on a links course (inaudible)?  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, you always look at the leader, and you think, whatever he shoots, but it never runs away.  Some guys occasionally run away with it like Rory or Jordan kept going at the Masters.  But you've got to be patient out there because if you get frustrated if you don't hole the putts, you miss a tee shot and suddenly find yourself in a bunker or miss a lay-up or something like that, and then you're in trouble.  There was a couple mistakes out there that I just never got away with.  They were compounded by three-putting and then not getting up-and-down on the other one.  I've played enough of these to know that the biggest difference between the guys who are 3-, 4-under and me is a lot better short game and a few putts.   Q.  How big a factor will the weather be tomorrow and can you use it to your advantage?  RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, if I get out early and play well, definite advantage.  It all depends what happens with how bad it is.  You saw a few years ago, the range of time half six until 4:00 opens it up for a variety of weather.  But that's The Open.  The years where it works for you, you've really got to try and take advantage of it because it might be worth a couple of shots over two days.   Q.  Only six Scots in the field.  Talk about that.  RICHIE RAMSAY: It was good, yeah.  It was great playing the Old Course in The Open.  I felt quite comfortable because I've played here before and played in tournaments.  Yeah, just a little bit disappointed that I just didn't post the number that I feel my play deserves, and that's probably the story over the last two or three weeks, just one or two shots here, and you do that for two rounds and all of a sudden it's four rounds, and it makes a big difference.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT