DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 30, 2015
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You grew up in Aberdeen; it's a little chilly at times.   How many layers do you have on and what do you do to prepare for days like this?  
RICHIE RAMSAY:   You just have to ride it out.   Good attitude helps.   A hot bath and some good food afterwards is always advisable.   It's just tricky.   Got chilly the last few holes and got my waterproofs on but it's part and parcel, you've got to embrace it.   I holed some putts today and the galleries were fantastic out there.   Those kind of cheers, they pull you threw, and you forget about the cold really.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've looked at the forecast, but it's 40‑mile‑an‑hour crosswinds and maybe a little bit of rain.   Is that good for where you are in position to the leader?  
RICHIE RAMSAY:   I hit some great shots coming down the stretch in the wind and if it's blowing, then bring it on.   Rain I'm not overly pleased with but the wind doesn't bother me one bit.   As long as it's not blowing over stands and people, then it's fine.   That keeps me in with a chance to move up the leaderboard.   That's where level par will push you up the board and that's what you have to do on a tough day.  
   
 Q.   Give us a sense of your career, after winning the U.S. Amateur, did you think you were going to play over there and why hasn't it happened to this point?   
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Honestly it's just the World Rankings.   I'm trying to push up the World Rankings.   I had an opportunity two or three years ago and I just didn't play well at the right time and obviously Q‑School changed and then if you're going to do it you really have to go through everything and really spend a lot of time over there.   I spent a lot of time in Atlanta.   I lived there on and off for about three or four years.   But Europe is my home and fortunately my wife has moved over to Edinburgh and we're happy there.   I would love to play in the U.S. if the opportunity arose if I could push up the World Rankings.   Everything has not clicked, but you know, what The European Tour is great and it's a great place to play and build your game and harden yourself for moving up those World Rankings.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on round three, please?  
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Cold.   It was a tough battle out there again.   The wind didn't really relent all day.   Probably the strongest coming down 16, 17, 18.   Really good battle.   Just hung in there, being around the greens on the dunes and stuff like 10 where I nearly chipped in, fantastic response from them.   Just enjoying it.   It's a great battle and really with the crowds out there, it really makes a fantastic tournament.   These guys have turned out in numbers today.   I remember a really good point when I used to go to the Dunhill Cup every year, and used to stand there and if you got a signature, it made your day.   So it takes two minutes to do that and it's an easy thing for me to do.   
   
 Q.   Most of these guys, even though it's windy and cold, better today but still hard work for you?   
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it was warmer from the fact that there was no squalls coming in.   When you get wet, the wind tends to go through you.   It was still a good test.   There was some good numbers on the board.   Max shot 65 and in these conditions, by no way is it easy.   It's just hanging in there.   And when you get an opportunity on some of the holes you've got to attack because you're not going to get every hole playing easy.   It's Irish Open, great course, great fans, and have to try to embrace it.   Tomorrow you're going to have to really embrace it with some really high winds.   
If it gusts here, there's nothing to stop it and it's going to be really tricky.   I would be surprised if they didn't slow the greens down or not cut them tonight.   But yeah, final day, lots to look forward to.   I just want to play the way I did today and have the same attitude I did today, because I hung in there again, some good opportunities and made a nice 5‑down the last which is a nice way to finish the day.   It'll make my hot bath and my dinner taste a bit better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT