DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2014
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy with that? 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, really happy.   Obviously great start, three birdies on the spin, which really, really nice and then played lovely in the middle, a lot of chances.   Just didn't take a few but most important was stayed patient, stayed with it.   Kept on hitting good shots and then took a couple of chances, 14, 15 and then finished off pretty solid coming down the stretch. 
So it was a really good day.   Never put myself under any pressure.   It was just consistent.   It's just the way I like to play.   Just pick a target, hit the shot, commit to it and try to keep it as simple as possible and obviously enjoy it, because the weather is fantastic out there. 

Q.   Good to keep the bogeys off the card on what is a challenging course?
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it can bite you, definitely.   The greens are getting quick.   Anything that's downhill, downgrain is really, really fast, and you've got to really be aware of where the grain is coming out of the greens. 
Like I say, some of the sections and slopes are pretty challenging at times.   So you've got to be good with your second shots, put it in position and give yourself nice looks at the hole, and that's what I did. 
There's a little bit of breeze out there, which makes it a little tricky, especially 17 and 18.   But got through them fine and move forward to tomorrow.

Q.   Are you feeling on song?   We haven't seen you since St. Andrews, really. 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   I managed to slip again in Portugal and I rolled my other ankle this time.   So I've been trying to sort of wrap myself and make sure I don't get injured again.   Turkey was not the best week last week but decided to come here, a lot to play for, I could move up quite a bit and just keep a positive attitude. 
Like you said, I played great in the middle part of the season.   I know the game is there.   Just a matter of staying out of my own way and committing to it.   Great support this week from a lot of friends and family and sponsors.   It's a great week.

Q.   The ankle, great support on that?
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it's good.   Still there.   Making sure I do a little bit of gym work, stay on top of it and just do all the right things.   If you do all the right things, make sure you're prepared.   Then that's all you can do, and you're going to have no regrets if you do that.   So put as much preparation as possible, and days like today are great, when it comes off, winning a massive tournaments against the best players in the world, 5‑under is a really satisfying score.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT