ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2014
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yeah, very successful?
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Nearly there at the end.   It was tough but fair play, Ollie played great coming down the stretch, and you know, worthy champion and obviously changes‑‑ a massive change for him.   His caddie said, you've got to hold your hands up and say, I did my best, tried 100 percent.   Just on the day, I was just a fraction short.

Q.   It looked like momentum was on your side until two holes coming home?
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, just bogeyed 16, 17.   I played 17 really well.   I hit a great putt and it just horseshoed out on the left.   And that's the difference between winning and coming second sometimes.   It's a matter of inches and it was an Inc. Too far left.   Just snapped and horseshoed out.   But you can't sort of dwell on that but I look at the fact that it was a really good week, finishing second here.   Lots of Race to Dubai money which will push me up that board and hopefully that makes me look pretty good for the final three, obviously finish up in Dubai which I would like to get back to after missing last year. 

Q.   Given where we're standing, I take it was pretty special to finish, knowing that you had the opportunity?
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, if you picked any place anywhere in the world you want a putt to win a tournament, it would be St. Andrews on the Old Course.   I thought, you know, I hit a lovely second shot in there.   Just didn't catch the slope and just left me a little bit right.   Unfortunately didn't make the putt, but really good week.   And I fancy my chances in one of these next four or five weeks where I can hopefully pick one off. 

Q.   Portugal next in the sunshine? 
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it's always a good week down there.   The weather is normally fantastic.   I've enjoyed this week.   It's been great.   Good, positive attitude, staying patient and like I say, I've just got to replicate that in the next few weeks and not be too hard on myself because my game is in good shape and if you're patient, you know the win will come. 

Q.   And you touched on the man that has won this week.   You watched him finish.   Quite some fairy tale story, isn't it? 
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, I said to one of the guys, if you're going to lose to someone, you'd like to lose to Ollie.   He's a nice guy, down‑to‑earth and obviously he's gone through a tough time the last two or three years, or even this year.   And to pull that off, at St. Andrews, under intense pressure knowing what it means to him to put him back on The European Tour, it's life changing.   All credit to him.   I just hope one day it will be me in that position.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT