ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2014
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think about your movement on the board overall?  
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   I was really happy with the way I played, very steady, lots of chances, as you're probably going to do out there because the greens are so big.   And fortunately the weather turned around which made it a great day.   Really enjoyable and it's absolutely beautiful now.   We are just saying on 18 tee box, how beautiful St. Andrews looks with the weather now.  
   
 Q.   Remarkable the low scoring with the weather overnight and this morning?  
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   It was very tricky this morning.   It was cold at times.   I think just a little bit of rain softened up the greens which made it a little bit more playable with regards to firing at flags a little bit more.   But you've still got to go out and shoot the score and stay out of the bunkers and read the greens well.   So it's never easy, but it was definitely scorable today and more than happy with 68 and nice position for tomorrow, Old Course, St. Andrews, hopefully be a nice day with a little bit of breeze would be good, I would like that.   Good to be in the final round.  
    I played really well here a few years ago, and I think I'm a different golfer, a little more sound technically and I've just got to take that out and I've got to believe in that a little bit more and go out there and play.   
    Today was fun, and going to try to use that patient and positive attitude that I've had the last few weeks and today, and have it tomorrow.   Regardless of what happens, it's going to be a good day out there.   Just got to try and be as patient as possible.  
   
 Q.   Getting good support?  
    RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it was good.   There's a lot of people out there watching today when the rain stopped, and it's just a great place to play.   The people really respect the golfers and the way that they play and the shots that they hit.   They are very knowledgeable about who they are playing with and who the guys are.   And that makes it even more enjoyable.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT