ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2019
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Windy out there or not too bad?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It was cold this morning.   
 Q.  How would you assess your third round? Was that the toughest test so far of these courses?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, it was a cold breeze this morning. The front nine was a really good test of golf. I think you need to be patient and not conservative, but sometimes two-putting from 30 feet is not bad. Reeled off pars and tried to use the wind coming in and make a few birdies coming down, and obviously managed to do that, three in a row, 12, 13, 14. Settled me down. A great up-and-down on 16 and a great up-and-down on 17 and just kept the momentum. So yeah, really pleased with the day's work, because it was tricky out there. All to play for tomorrow at St. Andrews, because I think there's a lot of guys that are quite bunched.   
 Q.  It's a tight leaderboard and you're very much in the mix?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, always want to be there or thereabouts on Sunday. My goal, really, after a good first round was to be in contention come Sunday on the back nine at St. Andrews because like the thrill of that, there's no better place to come down the stretch when you're in contention.   
I'm just a little bit off the front but not far away at all. If you get off to a good start tomorrow on the front nine, you can get right there. So you know, the plan is going well this week, and as ever, it's a great, fantastic-run tournament. The three courses are in good shape, and it's going to be a real shootout tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's a special tournament, as well, isn't it, kind of gives you that chance with a Pro-Am element to things, as well, and a few different courses, as you say. How do you cope with the kind of Pro-Am side of things, because maybe people are here to have a little bit of fun, but for you, it's still serious business, isn't it?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It's still a job for us. We want to do well. There's a lot at stake for us on the Order of Merit, Race to Dubai. But I've been very fortunate. All my playing partners, and really, all of the guys that I've ever had in my groups have been brilliant. You know, try and engage with them a little bit on the way around because they have all got fantastic stories and successful in business and sports. Good for us to chat to them and pick their brains about a few things.   
Richard was a good partner around today. Had a good chat, and I think he enjoyed it and hit some good shots, as well.   
 Q.  In terms of tomorrow, being a Scot, playing on the famous old links at St. Andrews, how special will that be teeing off on that first tee, knowing you're very much in the mix?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Well, I mean, I first played St. Andrews, I think with my brother when I was 16 as a birthday present. He bought it for me. So we're 20 years on now, and it's a place that I love to play golf. I really understood the way it was designed over the last few years.   
I think it's a brilliant course. With the pins in tricky positions, it can be really tough, but I know there's a score there. I've played well there before. It's just a matter of dealing with it mentally. A lot of it's not to do with how you're swinging it. A lot of it's how you deal with the pressure. I love that. I thrive on it. You want those days where you're coming down the stretch playing against the best players in the world on one of the best courses in the world, and that day could be tomorrow, so I've got to embrace it and look forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT