THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible.)
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Yeah, I wasn't too sure if it was getting
into going home knowing that I could always come back, if I hang
around here -- it was torture.  So I went home and then as I was
getting in, I was kind of trying not to check my phone, but
checked my phone every half hour, and then it started getting
close and then I got in, and I was just praying that it didn't
change, really, to be honest.
I got lucky.  I got very lucky.
Q.  Did you have to change your accommodations?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Well, accommodations for the week, you
have to have it for seven nights.  So being a Scottishman,
obviously, I didn't really want to have it for the full seven
nights, but now I've got the use of it.  I was much pleased with
that as to get in the tournament.
But, no, it was great.  Obviously tough first two days,
and the way I finished, especially in the second round, was
disappointing knowing the shots I can hit and not to be producing
them.  It just gave me another opportunity to get there and kind
of put a round together.  I think every day I've played better,
I've got a better idea of the greens.  But it's really hard out
there.
I thought I played really good today.  If I had a couple
of putts, I would have shot 1-under and I would have been really
quite happy with that.  I think the guys that are teeing off after
one o'clock have got a hell of a job on their hands.  You'd have
to hit -- like 2, the way the wind is, the pin position, you'd
have to hit a big cut in there to hold the green.  And then you
just can't miss it.  In certain spots you can't miss it or you're
going to have like 20 feet coming back.
It's not probably as severe as the first two days, but
the greens are getting firmer and of course the wind is up today.
And it just is a really tough test.  There's no letup and you have
to have all different types of shots.  But the thing is that's
what you've got to do in an Open.  Well, I don't know, but I
imagine they want to test you to all your abilities.
And they've done a great job of that, I think.  This
afternoon the guys, it's going to be entertaining watching them
playing, because they're going to be trying to just get it around.
You par like four holes in a row, and you're thinking to yourself,
I'm probably going to move up.  It's almost not defensive golf,
but you need to be sort of passive aggressive.  The pins are in
certain positions, and you can't miss it some sides.  You have got
to hit it 20 feet right.  So lag-putting, having the pace on the
greens is going to be really important.  Crisp iron shots to get a
ball to stop.
But you've got to get it in the fairway.  The last few
days -- I think I've had two 6-irons yesterday and two 5-irons off
the tees just to get it on the fairway.  And I hit a 7-iron on the
12th today because it was playing downwind.  There's a bunker at
245 and I'm hitting 7-iron.  I'm hitting it and it just thinking,
is that going to bounce and get in the bunker?  You get down there
and it's 25 yards short of the bunker.  Like some of them are just
like runaways, like 12.  14 is not so bad.  15.  15, I hit 5-iron,
8-iron, and it's -- I don't know what it is, it's 470 yards or
something like that, and I still had a 20-footer coming back.
You've just got to be so patient out there.  To be
honest, it's a great test.  You've got to embrace the challenge,
if you don't, it will just eat you up and spit you out pretty
much.
Q.  You've been brought up on links courses, but nothing quite like this?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  It's funny, when you play here, you go
back to the way you used to play in amateur golf, wind off the
right, hard fairway.  Well, you have to cut it in order to hold
the fairway.  You don't stand up there and bomb it right-to-left.
I watched Tom Watson yesterday, it was interesting seeing
him hit off 10.  He tried to cut the wind off the right, knowing
that the ball was going to land softly.  And your target is going
to be a lot wider.  Whereas it can be more one dimensional when
it's soft, because you just stand up and hit it.  And the ball
doesn't land, and if you miss it a little bit, it doesn't kick
off.
So it's just a better challenge.  It brings the playing
field down to a level that like guys, it doesn't matter how old
you are, if you're 15 or you're 50, as long as you put it in play.
Because guys are generally hitting the same clubs into the greens.
Q.  What would you be doing late last night if you didn't make the cut?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Like I mean, after we were
going to go out and grab some food.  And I was going to get up,
going to go to bed early and go to the gym in the morning, because
like I was still kind of -- I went to the physio truck last night
and did like 20 minutes on the bike to kind of get everything out
of my system.  And I was still driving home and it wasn't -- it
was still there.  So I was like -- it's one of those things where
I don't do well like the day after, it's like all I can think
about is trying to get better.  I don't know, I just hate
losing -- look at it and work out why I didn't perform the way I
could have.  And it's like I've got to get better, I've got to do
this.
And to be honest the last thing I think of is going out
and getting drunk.  It's just not -- like I had my uni days and I
enjoyed that.  I've got a wife now, so I don't need to go out and
chat with the birds (laughter).  So, yeah, she can stay out as
long as she wants.  And I'll just go in.
I don't know, that's the only thing I can think of, like
getting better, it's just something that -- I don't know, you
can't really teach it, it's just something that you have.  It's
one of the main strengths that I have.  I'm really not very good
at losing; don't take it that well, to be honest.  I just totally
focused and I just get tunnel vision, and what can I do to get
better?  I need to do this, formulate a plan, I'll work on it and
get better.
I chatted with Thomas Bjorn in the practice rounds.  He's
beaten Tiger Woods, played Ryder Cups.  But obviously had like
kind of a lull in his career, and he came back up.  And he was
like, yeah, it's just about formulating a plan, all about the
process.  You focus on that, and there's going to be an end result
down the line.  And I think that's what I try and work on these
days.
A good friend of mine also says if you're plotting a
graph, and you have all these different points, you've got to look
at the general direction.  If it's an upward trend, you're moving
the right direction.  You're going to get anomaly weak, like the
last couple of weeks, where you're going to plot it on the graph
and it's going to be way down here.  But if you look at it, the
general trend is going upwards.  I think that's what I'm good at.
I think there's a lot of guys out here that can make knee-jerk
reactions, changing coaches, trainers, everything, but if nothing
is broke, you just stick with what you've got.
Q.  Do you try to shrug off anything bad that happens out on the course?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Yeah, that's something that I've had to
work on, because I'm very, like, the two minutes after I'm like
what did I do wrong there.  But if I can produce an answer I'm all
right.  I get over it.  But the biggest thing for me is not kind
of committing to the shot.  If I stand up there and I go through a
pre-shot routine and I hit it.  Like today, I hit it on 13 and I
was trying to hold it into the wind.  I hit it, and I just didn't
hold it enough, it took one bounce and bounced in the bunker.  And
I thought I can't do that.  I kind of cleared that hurdle.  But
it's when I stand up there and sort of double cross it, and I'm
like, why did I do that?  And generally it comes back to mental
toughness, the ability to commit to a shot when you know there's
trouble left.
And if you watch any golf tournament, you see more or
less the amount of guys who go right, it's unbelievable.  And just
down to the last, it's just like the pot bunker left and even
right, there's nowhere to really hit it.  But if you're going to
hit driver, you've got to commit to it.  Like today I forced it
down the middle and that's what I'm good at.  If I do miss it, I
just accept it.  And as long as I commit to the shot, that's the
only thing I can focus on.  And I can be too analytical sometimes
with everything.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT