THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  It was tough out there today?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  The greens, there's only two sets of
greens I've played on quicker, and it's Augusta and Oakmont.  The
guys who teed off after 3:00, you know, have got easily two shots
harder than the guys who teed off kind of before 10:00.
It was just really tough out there.  But it's tough if
you're not playing well.  I made a stupid bogey on 16, 7-iron into
the par-5 for the second shot.  17, I had par, which is like a
bogey and I doubled the last.  It was a killer the last three
holes.  I kind of hung in there and I'm not disappointed with the
score, I'm disappointed with the way I played the last three holes
with the way I didn't commit to the shots, the way I didn't focus
on them.  That was the plan at the start of the day.  And I got
through 15 holes doing that and that was fine.
16 just kind of was just the turn point.  Probably an
example of the whole season.  Everything was going quite well.
Just made a silly bogey.  And then I felt like I made a bogey on
17, because I hit a 7-iron in the par-5 and I doubled the last.
It's just like the season was going well up to Wentworth and there
is pretty much been a freefall after, because I can't commit to
the shots.  It's just incredibly disappointing.
Q.  Where does this rank in difficulty with Open
championships?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  The greens are very shiny in places.
Like all around the holes there's no moisture.  So I was watching
some of Padraig's putts on the side, and they're basically looking
like they were short all the way and then they end up six feet
past.  You can ask him, it was as quick a greens as I've ever
played in.  And then you throw in a little bit of wind and a touch
of slope and before you know it -- they need to water them
tonight.  If they don't, then by Sunday it will be virtually
impossible.  Like, I mean, they need to get the water on the
course I think.  And the tee-off times, I would say is at least
two shots harder.
Q.  What's your tee tomorrow?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  8:00.
Q.  Do you benefit from that?
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Well, tomorrow is just turn up and play.
I'm not going to think about it.  Tired of hitting it really good
on the range and standing up there and not executing the shots,
it's as simple as that.  It's incredibly frustrating because I
know I can do it, and I do it half an hour before I tee off and
then I just -- I get too steely on the course.  That was the goal
of the day to free up and just go and play.  And I did that for
the majority of the round, but then the last three holes just
killed me.  I feel like I'm kind of just losing every fight.  It's
depressing.  It really is depressing.
It was great to play.  I mean, the people walking around
were fantastic, but every time I stand on the golf course, I just
feel like I'm getting hit from either side with whatever it is, a
bounce or something like that, and try and not take it to heart,
but after a while it just gets to you.  And then trying to get
over kind of this hip injury it's a combination of everything,
just kind of feels like it's working against me.  I just need a
little bit of -- not break -- but just a good tournament.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
RICHIE RAMSAY:  Yeah, try and start every day as a new
day and have a good attitude.  And that was the plan of the day.
But it was just depressing, really, the way I'm playing.  I can't
describe it any other way, again, without swearing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT