ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2013
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good rewards today? 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it was nice, I made some good birdies out there, really sort of quite focused when I had to hit shots. 
It's not easy.   I mean, it really is a tough golf course out there, if you don't hit it straight, you're going to struggle to get to the greens.   There's a little bit of breeze this afternoon, which makes it that bit tougher.   But all in all, a great day's work, and I'm quite relaxed out there and enjoying the sunshine. 

Q.   Tough golf course, but it does seem a little easier in terms of the scoring today for whatever reason. 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, I think this morning, the scoring was pretty good, because there wasn't much wind. 
So even though the flags may be in corners, you can access the pins a bit more.   Because you tend to get a lot of crosswind here, which makes it harder to even to go at pins when they are right and the wind is off left‑to‑right. 
So it does make it tricky.   I'm comfortable in the wind.   I don't mind if it gets up tomorrow.   The game feels really good.   Just got to focus my mind and go out and enjoy it, that's what I've done the last few days. 
I'm here, not with any expectations, but knowing that if I go out and play the way I can, doors can open for me in the kind of next two months with regards to WGCs and tournaments I want to get into.

Q.   Are you all the more comfortable because of playing Durban last week and getting four rounds under your belt?
RICHIE RAMSAY:   That was a great tournament.   Volvo put on a fantastic tournament there.   And even if you get off to a little slow start, there's room for maneuver there to get it back over the last 36.   You come here feeling like you've played a tournament, got one under your belt, a little more confidence, a little bit more feel. 
And I've got new irons in the bag from wintertime and a new driver, so from that perspective it was great for me to come out and play.   I know the feel of the irons and distance control and feel the driver and where I can cut corners and where I can't cut corners.   Yeah, definitely makes a difference. 

Q.   You mentioned the possibility of doors opening; in a field like this with so many World Ranking points available, you're in a lovely position to pick some up. 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, that's where I want to be.   Obviously Rory and Tiger playing this week makes it really attractive to come and play and play well.   And I've got Jason Dufner and Rose, two Top‑10 players. 
Yeah, it's back to World Ranking points, and that's something that I've got to take into account a little bit more and build a schedule, which can hopefully aggressively move me up the World Ranking points and the table, because that's what your goals are.   In order to get into the majors and in order to get into the WGCs, you have to get that ranking up.   Having the guys come over and play this week is a massive help in that.

Q.   Am I right to presume you measure yourself against them, maybe even see them on the range and figure out what you're doing compared to them to a degree? 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, it's nice.   It was really good the other day, I said to the boys that I was in the gym and Tiger was in the gym there, so it feels like you're on the right path.   You realise they are doing the same stuff that you're doing. 
And it's one of those things that you just have got to continue on the same path, because that's showing improvement over the last two or three years, and grind it away and slowly but surely, it's weeks like this that you see the results, especially over the winter.   Adds that little more belief in the season; that you can chase downwind No. 3.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT