JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2012
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICHIE RAMSAY:   Yeah, I just stayed patient and picked my shots.   It was a bit of a concern, because I kind of hurt my wrist yesterday morning and today it was fine.   It was nice to get back in the mix.   There were just during the week, I could see probably three, four, five shots easy that could have been back going into the last round and that would have put me more within striking distance.   I was just a little too far back. 
But 4‑under, first week back, the changes I've made‑‑ I definitely think there's a lot more there to be had.   Definitely I felt as if I putted well this week, I could have got more towards that 15 or 16 number that's more what I wanted to get to. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICHIE RAMSAY:   I hit a few putts yesterday morning, and it was swollen and I thought it was strange and‑‑ could still feel it.   I phoned the physio on the first hole and took some painkillers there.   It was all right after and I iced it last night and I iced it this morning and took Ibuprofen to take the inflammation out of it.   I feel it's fine now.   I don't know if I slept funny or something like that. 

Q.   Right wrist? 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   Right wrist.   I think biggest thing is just staying in the moment out there.   I definitely believed that every hole was a birdie opportunity and not getting caught up in trying to force the issue, especially when he's hitting it so far off the tee. 
And a couple of times I started questioning myself on what I wanted to do and backed off.   That was the biggest thing, I just tried to commit to every shot and it's starting to feel really good.   I really feel that I'm strike the ball a lot better and good off the tee.   It's just a matter of the putts dropping.   I felt a lot that were good today but sort of burned the edges a few times. 

Q.   Playing with someone who is banging is so far, did you have to try to fight to hit it a wee bit harder? 
RICHIE RAMSAY:   You do.   And then I said to Mark, my caddie, around the first tee, I said one thing I want to do is not get caught up in what he's doing and just play my own game.   It's a bit like when you play in Dubai in the Dubai World Championship, the course is very challenging off the tee and‑‑ hitting it hard just messes with your technique and things. 
You know, I played with Luke Donald, and I've played with a lot of great players who are not that long and you realise they just play their own game.   I shot 4‑under today, which is a good number.   Not sure what Nic did but never got kind of fussed about how far he was hitting it.

Q.   What was the farthest he hit‑‑
RICHIE RAMSAY:   It was probably 16, because I hit a good drive short of that Berger and I absolutely ripped a 3‑wood and it landed just short of the front edge.   He hit a driver down the left, aggressive line, which is a good bit, probably 20, 30 yards by with a 3‑iron or something like that and he pitched it back of the green; and he was cutting it, as well; it wasn't like a hard draw and I was just thinking, you know, I'm just trying to do my Sunday best here.   I'm not even in the same planet. 
But he's a nice guy and he doesn't‑‑ I think if he plays in The Ryder Cup, he'll do well.   He's got a good head on his shoulders. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT