ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2019
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be pleased with a bogey-free 7-under. Talk us through the round.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Well, just feeding off last week at Wentworth. Obviously a really good finish. Big thing for me was like just keeping my energy, seventh week in a row. My confidence was high and I went out there and played just really steady. Missed a couple short putts early on and made a few lovely sort of 12-, 15-footers are always nice to make. Obviously birdied the last two, which was also a bonus.   
You always look at it and think, if I want to win one tournament, The Scottish Open, the Dunhill are the two that are right there because I used come down here when I was seven or eight and watch the guys play in the Dunhill Cup. It's cool for me to play in it and just proud that I shot a good number today.   
 Q.  You birdied the last two, seven weeks on the trot, to keep that energy and concentration, what are you telling yourself while you're coming down the stretch?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Just try to keep the foot down because there's so many good players this week. With the overnight rain, made the greens a little bit softer, so a little bit more receptive. And just having a little chat, just enjoying it. They are three great golf courses and you look at it and you just hear the views are fantastic. A course that I probably haven't shot the numbers I feel I could have, so it was nice to get a low one in today, and I've just got to keep chasing that and keep chasing more birdies tomorrow at St. Andrews, because I just want get in the mix on Sunday. That's my main goal. Get in the mix on Sunday, back nine, and Old Course St. Andrews, back nine Sunday, those ingredients are just too good. That would be a dream to be there and have a chance to win.   
 Q.  Are you changing much up when you're switching between the courses, and like you said, coming off, as well, that long stretch. Does it feel like you need to always adjust things or are you kind of keeping the momentum and just riding that out?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, just riding that wave that came from Wentworth. I felt like good play comes in like weeks, and it's almost like holding myself back. So the last few nights, been in bed really early. At the same time, I was in the gym at quarter past 7.00 this morning, doing a really good warmup and getting ready for today. But because I held myself back over the last few days, I feel fine now.   
Obviously playing with Richard and Scott today was good fun, and Davey played well, as well. I felt refreshed after getting my head down early, eating some good food, and just trying to soak up sort of the atmosphere of the tournament.   
 Q.  Do you think that helps, as well, with having it a bit more relaxed with the guys?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I mean, I didn't know Richard before, so it was interesting chatting to him about football and managers and things like that. Some of these courses, you can be out here for 5 1/2 hours, so it's quite a long round. I always try and make a point of engaging with the Pro-Am partner and I think every partner I've had, they have got a great story. They have been successful in whatever they have done, and it's good to ask them questions because you can pick up stuff for yourself.   
I've got three mentors myself, and they are of a similar -- a lot of similar stories to what these guys have, and they are all driven guys, but they love their golf and want to be out there enjoying it and shoot some good numbers. It was really good fun today, and yeah, I think Richard's got a good game, and I think St. Andrews would be ideally suited for him. Hopefully good team score tomorrow, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT