ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2009
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Disappointed I'm sure with what happened at the last, but overall how pleased with your final round here?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Very pleased. Just coming off the course with a difficult thing, finishing with a bogey, but I think you have to look at the whole package. I think I played some fantastic golf today. Overall my four rounds was pretty solid. I didn't really whole a lot of massive amount of putts, but some short putts for birdie. I played great down the stretch. I misjudged one shot on 15, that was just a bit of an issue with the wind. And if it had been my day a little bit more on the greens, shaving a few edges, you never know what would happen. 
 But it's a fantastic field, I've come out and played on home soil and the fans were out there and it was just a great day.

 Q. Your best performance as a professional, what's been the difference this week?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: I've gone out there and I haven't cared about the result. I've got a great friend in the States, Dick Gilbert and he put me in contact with Bob Rotella and he said, look, just go out there and play. You have got a putt, and it's either going to go in or it's going to miss. And that's the kind of attitude I've been taking. If it doesn't go in, a putt to make, but if it doesn't go, just hole the next one. 
 I have been more relaxed and not worrying about results. I've literally just checked the results here as I've come in but the whole day I've tried to stay away from leaderboards and have fun. Because you're playing the Old Course in Scotland and probably one of the best tournaments of the year, and you're playing well, so it doesn't get better than.

 Q. This cheque secures your card for next year. How massive is that?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: It's huge. I'm sure my caddie will be delighted he's got a job next year, as well. But it's unbelievable, the support that I've received from TaylorMade and the Craig Group and Aberdeen has been second to none. My coach, Ian Rae, and Phil Kenyon have worked on my putting, have been unbelievable. It's just a combination of a lot of people helping out and me just going out there and putting the hard work in, and the results showed today. 

 Q. Delighted with mental approach as much as anything, I suppose. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: I just started realising myself, coming off the Dunhill Cup, used to watch that as a little kid and I've gone out there, and 5-under, comfortably, wasn't really in any danger out there. Played solid. Obviously I got a little bit unfortunate at the last hole to take a five.
 But the goal at the start of the week was to play good and try to win the tournament, but if I didn't, finish in the Top-10 because I knew that would probably secure my card. And I'm just delighted. 
 Like I say, a lot of people helped me out, the Craig Group especially and TaylorMade golf and Phil Kenyon and Ian Rae who I've worked with on my swing and putting. I'm delighted, first year on Tour, it's a tough gig, but I'm confident that if I go out there and I show my potential like I did today, I can be up at the top of leaderboards and there's no better place to do it than St. Andrews on home soil. There was a lot of people out there watching me today, which is a special time. 

 Q. Had you decided what club to use off the tee on 18? 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: I was going to hit 3-wood but I really liked 3-iron and leave myself back and leave myself with a wedge in. And obviously just got a bit unfortunate. I'm not going to -- I said at the start of the week, try to be as positive as anything, and not letting that Scottish sort of negativity sometimes creep in. 
 I'm going to look at it as a whole, and I played great this week. I could just show up a few more shots lower, but at the end of the day, I finished right up there in a fantastic tournament, and it's -- I just kind of -- I've had a great week and things are falling into place. I feel that this could be the start of something that I need to replicate more often, because we are looking for the of a player to be up there winning big titles and there's a number of players that are kind of knocking at the door, Callum, myself, Steven O'Hara, and if one of us can burst through and make the difference, then that would be brilliant. 

 Q. Should you have gone further or shorter than you went?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: No, I hit it exactly where I wanted to. But if you like playing off Tarmac --

 Q. Your ideal distance wasn't off the road?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Ideal distance was probably just a bit over it. But might not have got the bounce. But even still, if it goes in the road, I mean, do you want to playoff Tarmac or grass? After the wrist injury, don't want to do it again. 
 Chipped it up, got lucky, responded really well physically and mentally to the kind of challenge, and if you can do that out there, there's no reason why you can't do it anywhere else. 

 Q. Competing against the best. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, look at the top of the leaderboard, you're sort of not going to get better players than that. I played with Rory at times as an amateur and obviously I've looked up to sort of Luke Donald and Sergio Garcia, the two players I've looked up to since I've been younger. 
 So it was great to sort of be up there and have my name at the top and give the guys who have come out today to support me a bit to sort of shout about. 

 Q. Talking about rankings, obviously this has got you your card and that will be a big weight off your mind. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Massive weight. Any time you have your job secure for next year, it's nice to have that kind of that comfortable stance, and a lot of people are supporting me in the last sort of few weeks. My caddie.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT