THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2009
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good was that one?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Ball-striking, it was up there with the best. I didn't miss a green, but it wasn't as if I was in it sort of 20-foot. I was inside ten, 12 feet. Really happy with the round, but it could have been one of those ones that got to 6, 7, 8 (under). I missed three birdie putts inside six feet, and a couple of kind of 10-, 12-footers. But I mad a couple of nice ones and got to look at the positives.

 Q. Mixed fortunes in the last few weeks, a couple of missed cuts and some top 20s. Did you come into the week feeling good about your game?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I played lovely in Ireland, and I missed the cut by one, but I was on the wrong side of the draw. I was playing in the rain. So I played great, but I missed the cut by one. So take that out of the equation, I played lovely at Wentworth and missed it by one. 
 London Club, I just said to myself, I've been playing good, so carry on and stick with your game plan, and I played well, and also taking it into Wales.

 Q. Your first year on Tour, how does it compare to your expectations?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: I expected a lot. Obviously seeing the guys coming out here and playing every week, it's great to get out here. Last week was a fantastic illustration; I got to play with Sergio on the Saturday, and he's my favourite player since I've been a little kid, watching him on TV. 
 And to go out there and play with him was brilliant. He's just as good as any of the guys that have been here this week, saying well done when you hit a good shot and stuff like that. So it was fun, and if it can continue like that, I'll be a happy man.

 Q. Any words of wisdom from Sergio; or Mickelson and Woods you've played with in the past in the Masters. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: When you see the guys get around the golf course, they have all got great talent but they can grind out a score when they are not playing so well. They just sort of said, if you've got this far, and if you can win the U.S. Amateur, your game is on the right track and I've just stuck to sort of my guns, and the people that I trust, and it's starting to pay dividends now. 
 So just trusting your ability and believe in yourself probably. 

 Q. Tell me how good it was, a flawless round like that. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: It was great. I struck it great. The irons were really great. Hitting it right over the flag quite a few times. A few putts got away from me but I actually probably hit good putts but just didn't maybe read them that well. It was one of those rounds that could have been seven or eight. But any time on this golf course you shoot 4-under, you're going to be a happy man, because it's not easy at all. 

 Q. Pleasing when you shot a good score and you know it could have been even better? 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I've learned to sort of take the positives of each round more now. Sometimes I can be a bit hard on myself and I still want to do well and practice hard and make sure that I'm going to be up there every week. But I played well today, and like I say, I hit good putts. They just didn't break and hopefully over the next couple of days, if those putts break, I keep on playing the way I have, then I feel as though I can go out there and put up a good number.

 Q. At the halfway stage, are you conscious of leaderboards? 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, you're conscious of them. It's just a nice feeling to have your name up there. It's good to have the crowd out watching. It's just nice to be up there. When your name is on the leaderboard, it always shows your playing well and I'm happy to be up there. I've got nothing to lose, and that's the kind of the way I'm playing it. Tried to clear my head and think about the shot at hand and that's all I'm sort of concentrating on. 

 Q. With losing some of the players who should have been here, this is a very big, significant, tournament, isn't it?
 RICHIE RAMSAY: It's a massive tournament. I think the strength of the fields on The European Tour is huge now. Maybe a few years ago there was a lot more players who were up there all the time, but now you see guys out there playing every week showing that they have got the capability to win. 
 So I think it's a strong field, and playing a Ryder Cup venue is great, as well. 

 Q. When people right about you being up there after two rounds, they are bound to refer to the U.S. Amateur success; what's the difference between amateur and professional? 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: I think there is a big difference from regards to most of the Amateur events. The top ones, the pressure is still the same. That pressure is big and obviously playing in the Walker Cup, I played there and the U.S. Amateur, as well, and playing in front of four or five thousand people, you really get the atmosphere out there. 

 Q. Things changed as a professional for you, obviously you're looking at the money and Money List and things like that. 
 RICHIE RAMSAY: It's always nice. It's one of the things that allows you to maybe sort of take care of some people that have been really good to you over the last few years when you've been an amateur, and it is a massive bonus. But there's no greater feeling than standing at the end of the week and saying, you know, I won the tournament, holding the trophy. Money doesn't compare to the buzz that you get off that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT