ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2019
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7-under through your first two round.  How you feeling?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, happy with that.  Today I played steady.  I just didn't hole any putts to be honest.  1-under's not too bad.  There was an early breeze, whereas on the first day it was quite calm.  It's sort of settled down now.  It's sunny and lovely to play in.  I'm in for the weekend and if you're going to do well or get an Open spot, you've got to be in for the weekend.  Part one is done.  Push on over the weekend.   
 Q.  We've seen some seriously hot scores this morning.  Does that mean there's chances still out there?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I think there is chances, but if you're off the fairway, you don't have the control.  If you're on the fairway, you can be quite a aggressive, just because of that rain, the greens are far more receptive than they usually are.  Monday they were quite bouncy, but that deluge you got, a few heavy mornings, makes a massive difference to the scoring.  Got to take advantage of that.  I didn't do that today but hopefully tomorrow and Sunday I do that.   
 Q.  You're the leading Scot out there at the moment.  Are you feeling support from the galleries?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, it was great out there.  It's my home course, as well.  You see the members when you walk past 14, 15 for me, and I saw a few of them out there watching me today.  It's always nice to have friendly faces in the crowd and just hole a few more putts for them, that would be nice.   
 Q.  The chance of an Open spot, how much would that mean?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, an Open spot would be great.  I think my goal is to try and aim high.  You've got to try and get in contention.  Aim high and sort of -- aim high, and then if you miss the main prize, which is winning, then try and scoop one of those Open spots.  That would be a lovely bonus.   
 Q.  Seeing it's your home course, is it a bit of relief to make the cut?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It's nice to put a score on the board just because I'd probably hear it from the members for a few years until it came back.  Nice to be in the mix, see friendly faces in the crowd and just focuses the mind a little bit more for you to do well.   
 Q.  Are you surprised there has been guys like Bernd who has absolutely torn the course apart and shot a course record?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I don't know what he finished today.   
 Q.  61.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: 10-under is a hell of a score.  I could see sort of 7, 8, but to get to 10 is seriously impressive.  I think the key out here is really par 5s.  They are playing, for the longer hitters, you can get there in two and that's really where the scoring opportunities are.  I'm sure he probably birdied or eagled at least one of them, and that's where you really get the low numbers coming in.   
 Q.  It shows you, doesn't it, that if you have one great or even better round Saturday or Sunday, you can get up there in contention for The Open?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, you've got to think, if Bernd can go out there and shoot 61, that sets the stall out.  There will be a few guys thinking that if you can just make the cut get out, fresh greens in the morning, throw a low round in the morning and the wind gets up and you can vault.   
That's the great thing about playing links golf, Irish Open, Scottish Open, The Open, you can get out early and post a low number and you know the fields can come back to you.  That's what I'll be looking to do tomorrow.   
 Q.  How important, given what's at stake over the next two rounds, how important is it to ignore that and just focus on your golf?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: When I'm on the golf course, I think one of the things I always do is I try to aim small and miss small.  So you could argue that with your targets; if you aim really, really high, focus on that, and if you just don't get there, you're still right up there.  And that's what you've got to do.  You've got to think about going out there and trying to get in contention and trying to win on a Sunday.   
I remember doing that in Ireland one year and I totally forgot about the Open spot, which I managed to get one, which is wasn't until after the round the guys said I got an Open spot and realised they were up for grabs.  So try to take that same attitude into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT