U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2007
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you happy with the way you played today?   
 RICHARD RAMSAY:  I played well but I made some mistakes.  I hit some really good golf shots on the back nine and felt really comfortable with my swing at last.  Obviously with the cut dropping, it is a bit of a heartbreaker not to make it.   
 I think it wasn't today, it was yesterday that really kind of got me quite hard, shoot that kind of number with the preparation that I've got was inexcusable.  I feel like more capable of shooting a lot better number than that.  Just goes to show, when you're not playing well, you've got to grind it out.   
    
  Q.  What were the highlights today?   
 RICHARD RAMSAY:  I think probably just hit a really nice shot into 5.  Hit it stiff with an 8-iron.  Hit the shot and finished that pretty much perfect, a couple feet.   
 When you do that and you know that your game is on and you're working hard mentally to do that -- that was a nice little putt.   
 Unfortunately I made double on 7, but I played it smart and I ended up 3-putting.  I chipped on 8 for birdie and made a really good up-and-down on the last.   
 So I think under pressure coming down the last few holes, I knew I had to do something, and I did it.  I know I'm going to call on that again and hopefully next time it's a different outcome.   
    
  Q.  The experience of playing with Tiger and the defending champion, does that give you any confidence?   
 RICHARD RAMSAY:  It does but this year it's been tough in the fact, the way I swung the club and the scores I've shot, the way I swing it, it looks really good.  But the scores I've shot have been not acceptable.  I'm sure all of you know that on the golf course, confidence is a huge factor, especially on a golf course like this you need to be mentally focused and in the zone.   
 I just need to go out there and show people I'm capable of doing it.  I know that I am, but it's just that I need to sit down and work out what the problems are.  I know I've got the game to compete.  I need to play to my strengths.   
   
  End of FastScripts   
>            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT