BETFRED BRITISH MASTERS
May 11, 2019
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made a little run towards the end of your round yesterday which you would have been very happy with,71 today.  How do you feel where the leaderboard stands and where you stand at the moment?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, more than satisfied with the day because I thought it was tough out there.  The wind seemed to pick up just as we were starting and held that way; it's same as it is when we started.  It's quite strong.  Different direction today which was interesting.   
Pleased with the way I played.  Had a little hiccup on 10 but bounced back fantastic on 11, and just played solid down the stretch.  Obviously tee shot on 16, that could have went in the hole, there was a big cry, just we ever over there to the cup.   
Great crowd today and it was great fun.  Brilliant golf course.  The fans were fantastic, coming out and being rewarded with the sunshine.   
 Q.  Not a cry but a big cheer when you had that massive birdie putt on 6.  Are these the days you live for as a golf pro, tomorrow beautiful weather, beautiful course and crowds around you?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I think sometimes it's easy to forget playing in events, because when I was a little kid, my dream was to play on The European Tour and here I'm doing it.   
Yeah, there's nerves, but I get worried when there aren't any nerves.  I want to get the juices flowing.  You want to feel the kind of butterflies in your stomach.  You want to feel it when you're over the shot, and I just love that.  I love the pressure.  It's very difficult to recreate when you're at home.  That's why it's so enjoyable to play out here against the best players in the world.   
 Q.  Feels like form has been coming to you, as well, last three events, been getting better and better, is that how you feel?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, I feel it's been coming for a while.  Sometimes you've got to stay patient.  I've just kept on doing what I do every day, which is try and be the best I can be.  Work hard.  Be disciplined in my kind of approach.  Going to go out there and sort of give it my all, and if I walk away and I finish 60th -- if I give it my all or same as if I won the tournament.  I just have to apply myself every day and hopefully days like tomorrow, I'll be successful and have chance coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Tomorrow, you'll probably be playing with Marcus and of course Matt.  Matt, obviously very gritty and likes to finish well.  Marcus will want to get his first win.  Do you play the players?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Marcus played well today.  Matt's obviously a world-class player.  I've just got to play my own game.  They can do what they want.  I've got to stick to my shots and kind of pick them off and see them the way I want to and commit to them.   
If I commit to them as much as possible, that's going to be a successful day for me and only good things can happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT