ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2018
Richie Ramsay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not a bad way to start the season today 4-under par?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, very happy, probably the best owing round of the season I've ever had.  Ball-striking was really good. I got four new clubs in the bag, so I love the added distance off the tee and I drove it well which is key around here.  Just very consistent.  Really pleased.  Attitude was good.  Everything was really nice.  I think just coming out here, getting good practise in the nice weather was key to that.   
 Q.  Going into the first round of a season, you've had a bit of a break.  Are you unsure how it's going to go or are you quite confident coming into this week?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It is a little bit unknown.  I to being quite a bit of time off and I felt it was almost too much time, but then last week I was in Dubai, came down to Abu Dhabi early with my coach, Ian Rae, and we worked on some things.  Worked on testing which was really important with new clubs and felt really comfortable.  Worked on my numbers with my distances and all of that built up confident.  I felt ready today and it shows in the way I played.   
 Q.  What part of your game in particular were you most pleased with out there?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: I drove it well.  I drove it quite -- I always drive it quite straight but it was a little bit of extra length there.  I think the biggest thing was there wasn't any weaknesses.  I think I missed one green.  I missed a couple of fairways but everything was very solid.  Great base to start the season and got to think, if this is the starting point, can it get better, and if it can, that's definitely a win in there for the year.   
 Q.  Talk about playing so well in such a big event early on in the season.  
RICHIE RAMSAY: Yeah, you've just got to look at the field.  Field strength is huge, McIlroy, Dustin Johnson, Rose, and then a lot of guys behind them that are between, I imagine, 50 and 150 in the World Rankings, so stacked with World Ranking points.  We get great weather here, and the course set up and condition of it is first class and a great place to start your year.   
I've got a minute commute back to the hotel, nice little walk and it makes everything that bit easier.   
 Q.  You come off a decent 2017 season.  Is it a question of more of the same or do you have certain goals in mind this season?  
RICHIE RAMSAY: It was tough.  I sat down and analysed it and I just had to, just got to look at everything that I did last year, or I looked at everything and just felt I need to increase it by a little bit more, a little bit better.   
The putting especially was the weakness, but my driving is very steady and my irons were good and not much changed there.  Just attitude and the short game.  I just feel like you want to win it.  That's what you want to do. There's no better feeling than that and you've got to chase a win when you get the opportunity.  I didn't do that, or or I haven't done that the last couple years and that's at the forefront of my mind is trying to get one of those.   
There's nothing better than a back nine on a Sunday.  I love it there.  That's the place to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT