PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 12, 2009
Michael Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Welcome, Michael Bradley. Thanks for spending some time here with us. You are the leader so far in the morning wave on Thursday. Why don't you give us some general thoughts on your round today.  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: I played okay. Made some good birdies obviously, made a few putts for par that kind of kept the round going. Kind of kept it out of the wind when need be, and I'm definitely happy with a 67.  
 MARK STEVENS: Questions?   
  
  Q. How do the conditions feel today out there for you?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: It was very Florida-ish, warm and breezy. It hasn't been quite this breezy Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. There was some wind, but not as much as today.   
 But as long as you can -- if you're driving it well and you're keeping it in the fairway, as long as you can control the flight of the golf ball, makes it a little easier.   
 It's not too terribly penal around the green, in terms if you start missing greens, you've got an opportunity at least to get it up-and-down. The opportunity is there that not like in an Open where if you start missing greens you're going to start making bogeys every hole.   
 The course is in really good shape. It's demanding. You gotta play well.  
  
  Q. What's so demanding specifically?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: I think, well, just with the wind, I think it definitely puts a premium on getting the ball in the fairway because now you can get to some pins that might be tough.   
 There's a lot of humps and ridges and moguls and stuff in the green so they start tracking pins. You want to get it on a certain part of the green to get your best putt. You start hitting the rough and having 30, 40-footers up and over hill with the slopes, with the wind sometimes it's tough to two-putt, so you need to really position yourself, especially on the greens and give yourself a legitimate chance to make birdie.  
  
  Q. There's still a lot of golf to play obviously.   
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: A lot of golf.  
  
  Q. What's it going to take to win this thing?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: This is the first time I've played the golf course. I heard 14-under was what won it last year with Kraft, but I heard it was windy all four days. It's hard to say. You've got a lineup of some really good golfers that could win.   
  
  Q. How is your game coming in?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: Contentedly, I played very little. Disney was the last TOUR event that I played on TOUR. And that was the end of last year, so this is the first TOUR event in say three-and-a-half months.  
  
  Q. You're ready to return?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: Yeah. I'm elated. I'll try to go out tomorrow and try to have another good day, hopefully get myself in position for the weekend and see what happens, but like I said, there's a lot of golf left.   
  
  Q. How would you describe the golf course and your experience of being here this week in Puerto Rico?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: It's been great. It really has. I'm being dead honest. It's been great. It's an awesome facility.   
 The course is in very good shape. It really is. I personally have enjoyed it. I can't speak for anybody else, but I personally have enjoyed it. Whether I go out and shoot 90 tomorrow or win the golf tournament, I definitely have enjoyed the four days I've been here. It's a very nice facility.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: Yeah. It's definitely affected today. Like I said, I had a couple good up-and-downs to keep my round going, and that's what you need on days like today because you're not going to hit 14 fairways. You're not going to hit 18 greens.   
 When you do happen to miss a green or whatnot, getting it up-and-down and trying to keep the round going, that's what I did today. You don't always do it, but that's what I did today probably three or four holes where I had good up-and-downs and made four or five, seven-footers for par to keep the round going, and that's what I did.  
  
  Q. Can we count on you for next year?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: If I'm eligible, I'll be here, I can promise you that. If I'm eligible to play, I'll be here.  
  
  Q. What's been your favorite part of being here in Puerto Rico and part of your experience the last four days?  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: It's a beautiful area. The resort's beautiful. It's nice. You got the ocean on the one side. You got the mountains in the background. You can't ask for more.   
 They've treated us very well not only at the golf course, but over at the hotel, so what more could you ask for?   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you, Mike.  
 MICHAEL BRADLEY: Thanks, guys. I hope I'm here on Sunday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT