ROLAND GARROS
October 5, 2020
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/S. Zhang
 6-2, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you talk about today's match, what do you think was the difference between you and Petra?
 SHUAI ZHANG:   Chinese or English?  (Laughing.)
 Q. English, please.  We can do Chinese later.
 SHUAI ZHANG:   Okay.  I think today she played really, really well.  I think everything is tough.  My ball is very short and she opened the court very nice and used a very nice winner, so many.
 So I couldn't play the high quality the ball, the shot.  So I think, yeah, that's I give her points so easy.  I think maybe she feeling so good with my ball (laughing).
 Q. Maybe with the roof it was a little bit different conditions, but have you ever played on court Philippe Chatrier before?
 SHUAI ZHANG:   Yes, one time, many years ago, maybe five years ago, played against Radwanska, yeah.  And yeah, only one time.
 But I feeling little different than last match and Simonne the court, a little bit different, and yeah.
 Q. In terms of obviously making your first fourth round at Roland Garros, getting to play on Chatrier, getting to play an opponent that you respect so much with Petra, and also a pretty good run in doubles as well up until yesterday, how do you summarize your experience at Roland Garros this year?
 SHUAI ZHANG:   Even with I'm lost today but I'm still very happy for this year the French Open.  I think I played pretty well, much better than before every year.
 I played a few good matches and I lost to Petra, she's a great player.  I believe she can win the tournament if she play like today.  Yeah, very good tennis and I like her very much.
 Q. And then what is your plan now going for the rest of the year?  Do you know what you plan to do until Australian Open?
 SHUAI ZHANG:   We still have the one tournament on the schedule I saw, the new tournament in Czech Republic.  It's hard court.  So I'm, yeah, I miss the tour, I miss the hard court (laughing).
 So maybe, depends my body, how to feeling and if I have chance, I want to go there and play one more tournament, yeah.  Because if I go home I have to take the quarantine, the 14 days.  And, yeah, I don't know, I don't want to coming too early to take another 14 day, two weeks.
 Yeah, if I can play a tournament, yeah, I want to play more.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT