DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/Zhang S.   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Did you have big expectations for you and the match?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No, I don't think so.  I played many matches.  I don't have special about any matches, but I think a quiet environment, a quiet stadium is important for players.  Tennis requires a quiet stadium.  It is not a noisy sport.   
Wuhan Open is a high-level one.  We need a stadium without too much noise.  Actually, two times I argued with the referee.  I just wanted to present the facts.   
 Q.  Your opponent had the first break, then you had the return.  For the last service game, it was not very consistent.  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think Konta had a very good serve.  It's similar.  It's similar things when we met in the Australian Open.  She had a very good serve.  She had a good very return.  I was very tired.  I didn't have more energy to receive the ball.  I had no choice.   
 Q.  So for your current game, maybe Konta's way of playing the game is difficult for you.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yes.  She is ranked around No. 10.  This is a mainstream way of playing games.  She has the strength to be ranked around No. 10 or something.  She has the control of the game, so that's why she has very good scores this year and she has a good ranking.   
Of course, I think I need to improve, keep improving my skills.   
 Q.  In the past season, you said you have higher personal targets.  You said you wants to make it to the quarterfinals.  What is your disadvantage from your perspective?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think I have not a lot of space to improve.  A lot of questions waiting for solutions.  Some of them are my skills.  Some of them are my strengths.  Think I had a good performance in the US Open and other tournaments.   
In the past months, I feel exhausted because of the tight schedule.  I just arrived in Wuhan two days ago.  My performance in the Wuhan Open, I'm satisfied with myself.   
Usually a big match requires a long time to prepare and to adjust with the environment.  I made it to the second round in Tokyo and Seoul.   
Concerning my health, I think in the Asian swing I will play in Wuhan and Beijing.  I regard the match in Tokyo and Seoul as my warmup.  But my performance in Tokyo and Seoul is sound.  That consumed much of my energy.  That's why I hope several days more to relax.   
 Q.  You just mentioned you are focusing on Wuhan and the China Open, that you regarded Seoul and Tokyo as a warmup.  In the future will you make some choices about what kind of tournament you're going to attend?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Actually I played very well.  Before the US Open I played around 10 to 12 matches.  Because of the Olympic Games, I had different matches in a row.   
After the Seoul Open, I wanted to have some adjustments in this week.  However, I didn't want to give up the opportunities in Wuhan Open.  This is a premier event.   
After Cincinnati I actually rejected several matches.  For the Asian swing, the Wuhan Open and the China Open are the most important matches.  I will try my best.  For the warmup matches I also wanted to play well.  So I'm very happy about my performance up until now in this year.   
 Q.  What do you think of the tennis culture in Wuhan, what needs to be built up?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I don't have real dissatisfaction.  I accept some small problems during the match.  Sometimes those small problems are encountered.  That doesn't mean we're disappointed with the organization of the event.   
Generally speaking, I'm satisfied with the arrangement of the Wuhan Open in terms of the facility, drinks and accommodations.  Also I only stay here two days.  But I enjoyed it a lot.  I enjoyed the center court, the facilities.  I enjoyed my match on the center court.  I hope for a bright future for the Wuhan Open.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  At the end of the second set you stopped and talked to someone in the crowd.  Would you mind explaining why that was.  
ZHANG SHUAI: A lot of kids were always like (screaming, making noise).  How can I serve?  It's tough to concentrate.   
The chair umpire, when she speaked to English, for sure they don't know what means.  I tried to tell them, Be quiet, just try to stop doing this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT