DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2016
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ZHANG S./Peng S.   
6-7, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.   
 Q.  In the first set you took the advantage.  You had some problems in the second set.  Did you feel a little bit tired and then were not in good form?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Actually, I think I'm in a good state recently.  Yesterday I arrived in Wuhan, so I'm not used to the situation here.  For each tournament, you have different balls, so from Tokyo and Seoul and Wuhan.   
Actually, for the first set, it's always difficult.  Many serves didn't go my way, I didn't have a very good serve at the beginning.  However, I think I adjusted well.   
 Q.  Did your coach tell you you should be more proactive?  You said the way Peng Shuai played, she was very experienced.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Peng Shuai is very competitive and experienced.  She even came back to the court after the injury, but didn't win many games.  She is very talented.   
I need more wins to build up my confidence.  Today my opponent played very well.  She has very distinctive features as long as she has the ball and she served well.   
 Q.  You performed well in Tokyo and said you would give tickets to your fans.  Do you think that increased the task of your team?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think Liu is happy with my performance in Tokyo and Seoul.  Many local fans came to my match and really encouraged me a lot.   
The first set, it is quite difficult for me.  Their encouragement for me was very important.  I really want to thank them.  Some of those fans, they don't have too much money, so I think to come to the stadium is not that easy financially for them.  I don't think all of them can afford tickets.   
I want to allow them to have the chance to watch my game, and that's why I give tickets to them for free.   
 Q.  Many fans, according to their reputation to you, they know you always show your gratitude to your fans.  From your perspective, how do you see how to be a good person?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I think each person has a different definition of being good and benevolent.  Everybody has different standards for being a good and nice person.  I hope through my activities I can give more positive energy to the public.   
I also hope that the public will be happy with me and will be positive because of my actions.  People are more likely to help each other, such as me.  I received financial assistance from others that was important for me.  Because of them I can be what I am now, and that's why I want to help others.   
 Q.  Comparing last year to now, your performance and your skills, your mentality changed.  What are your goals?  
ZHANG SHUAI: For example, I think one year ago I didn't have the chance to play in the Wuhan Open.  My ranking was around 200.  At that time I was quite sad.  I only made it through the first round.   
I got a wild card for the Dalian event.  Today I reached 40 in my ranking.  I am quite happy with the current ranking.  The past year I experienced a lot.  The past year has held a lot of surprises for me.  I even realized my dream in the past year.  The past year allowed me to dream something, the Grand Slam.  I enjoy the current moment.  The current moment I have been dreaming about for a long time so I enjoy every match.   
I don't care about the results.  I hope I can play more matches.   
 Q.  At the US Open, your ranking was around 50.  You were very humbled to be called Big Sister.  Many other players also said to be world No. 1 would give them a lot of pressure.  Now you are the No. 1 player in China.  Do you think you suffer from pressure?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Because of the pressure, I put a lot of effort.  I raised my ranking from 60 to 50 to 40.  I never stopped working.  I want to break my record and reach a higher ranking.   
I hope more Chinese players will receive better rankings.  We have many world-class events in China.  That offers us the chance to improve.   
The WTA has an office in China.  Many people are devoted to help us, devoted to help Chinese and Asian players.  That's why more and more Asian and Chinese players are in the top 200.  Thanks to all who have supported us.  Thank you for your efforts.   
Many years ago when I just began my career, there are few events held in China.  Me and other Chinese players had to play overseas.  Because of those events we had the chance to play in the main draw.   
 Q.  Your next opponent, Konta, you faced here in the Australian Open.  How will you approach this match?  What will your preparation be?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I will be myself no matter who is my opponent.  I will be at my best.  When I play my best, I can defeat many players.   
 Q.  Have you noticed comments you have received in social media?  Is this an opportunity for you to play mixed doubles?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I don't think I got the chance to play with the player you mentioned.  I think the player you mentioned focuses more on singles and Grand Slams.  It may me feel very humble to have a picture with the famous player.  I feel very humbled.  I'm very shy during those moments.   
Many years ago when I was quite young, my coach let me know.  I haven't played much in mixed doubles and doubles.  I focused on singles.   
 Q.  You beat a Japanese player in Tokyo.  What do you think the difference is between the Chinese and Japanese training system?  
ZHANG SHUAI: First of all, I think the player you mentioned, although she is Japanese, she does not play very Japanese.  She has an American style in playing tennis.  She cannot represent the Japanese player.   
I think we all have our characteristics.  Both China and Japan have very good facilities and are holding many good matches.  I think, compared with Japanese players, we have a great advantage in terms of government support.  Because of the support, we should have more opportunities.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT