AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2016
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/S. Zhang   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk a bit about the match today and how you think you played?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Today congrats she play so well.  And very big serve and very -- I mean never mistake. (Laughter.)  For me, very tough.  I already try my best, but it's so tough.  Yeah, she play so well.   
 Q.  And you mentioned after your last match that you were feeling tired because you played seven matches.  How did you feel going into this match this afternoon?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, feeling so tired.  Everything feeling very slow on court.  Yeah.   
But in my heart I'm feeling I already win the tournament because I win seven match.  Yeah, doesn't matter win, lose today, just keep going.   
Have few days off, try working hard for the ready for the next tournament.  Yeah.   
 Q.  What did she say to you at the end?  You had a really lovely embrace at the end.  It was lovely to watch.  What did you say to her and what did she say to you?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, she very nice girl.  We have very good -- she's very good friend of me.  She say, Very good job this two weeks.  Yeah, very happy for me.  Yeah, everybody very happy to -- very happy for I win some match in the Grand Slam.   
Yeah, very nice girl.   
 Q.  How important has the last two weeks been not just for your tennis, but for your life?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, big different, I think.  Give me more confident, yeah.  Actually, three tournament before my ranking already 200; drop a lot.   
I feeling very tough, because in all the Chinese player, the goal this year, we want to play the Olympic Game.  Yeah, this is the big goal.  I feeling like so tough in half year.  I have to win a lot matches, and also from 200 to top 60, this is very tough.   
Yeah, I couldn't think I can reach the goal because only few months.  I have to win a lot match in the big tournament with a lot of great player.   
This is so tough for me.  I think tough for everybody, yeah.  But I did great job these two week.  I'm so happy, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you tell me a bit about your relationship with Sam Stosur?  I know she's been in your box the last couple games as well.  
ZHANG SHUAI: She's help me a lot in my life, yeah, in these few years.  Few years ago she's top player, and we have one time practice together in Charleston; also we play doubles in Osaka.  We playing final three years ago, yeah.   
So we practice sometimes together.  We eat dinner together.  Yeah, she give me a lot the help.  Try to help me going up.  Yeah, so very great player.  I wish she can win one more Grand Slam.  Yeah.  I hope she can come back.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT