AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2016
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ZHANG S./A. Cornet   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Does this feel like a dream to you?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, yeah, like a dream come true.  But I'm looking forward next match, yeah.  I don't want stop right now.  I want to keep win.   
 Q.  How long did it take for you to calm down from the first-round win and decide that you were ready to kind of continue to push through the tournament?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, when the last final round of quallies, I'm so exciting.  Also when I saw the draw, I'm exciting, too.   
Like when I won the first round, very, very exciting.  I think in my life the number one exciting, yeah.  But right now I feeling so tired, yeah.   
 Q.  What was it like for you when you finally won the match and you looked over to your box?  It looked like they were going a little bit crazy, but you looked quite calm.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, normally I'm calm.  Normally I'm not so easy to like very exciting.  Normally I'm very be calm, very quiet, yeah.   
 Q.  Was it hard for your parents to watch today?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Hard?   
 Q.  Was it difficult for them?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No difficult, I think.  No hard.  Give me a lot motivation, yeah.   
 Q.  It's your birthday today?  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Pretty good birthday.  
ZHANG SHUAI: Yeah, very good.  Very nice birthday (smiling).   
 Q.  Li Na was saying that because of all the first-round losses, she would get mad when people would say bad things about you or write negative stories about you.  How aware were you of all of that kind of attention?  What did she say to you about it all?  
ZHANG SHUAI: I try to positive.  In my life, I don't want negative.  I want everything positive.  I don't want to always thinking bad thing, yeah.   
Maybe, yeah, I lost 14 times first round.  Maybe because 14 time give me a lot more energy to work hard.  I won five match already.  I want to thanks for last 14 times, yeah.   
 Q.  Has Li Na been sending you text messages or emails?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No, not yet.  I don't want to check the cell phone right now because so many, so many message.  I'm so tired right now.  I don't have time to check.   
 Q.  Did she call you before the match or talk to you?  
ZHANG SHUAI: No.  We meet in Shenzhen, also in Melbourne, after the final round, the next day, the final round.  We take photo together with another Chinese girl and boy together.  So, yeah.  I think she give us a lot of energy, yeah.  This why we play so well right now, so many Chinese player improve.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT