AEGON CLASSIC
June 13, 2014
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ZHANG/S. Stephens
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Well done.   For somebody who doesn't like playing on grass, you're doing extremely well, aren't you?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah.   Before the tournament I never think I can straight win four match to the semifinal, because in my life I didn't win so much match on grass.
So I never doing well on grass.   I'm actually not so many confidence on grass before tournament.   Yeah, my coach helping me every day to learn how to play on grass. 
And then we learn‑‑ I'm learn every day.   Also my agent help me a lot because she was tennis player.   She play really good on grass.   She helping me talking to me a lot. 
So I'm doing very well.   I'm so happy. 

Q.   I saw your coach, even when you came forward and missed the volley, he applauded you for trying to do that.   Is this how you're trying to play on grass?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Swing volley, yeah.   Yeah, he always give me supporting, and he‑‑ actually he try to change my tennis.   Before I always stay baseline and never come to the volley, so he try to change my mind to more aggressive and then coming to the net, win the point.
Even I lost the point, he's happy to see I'm change. 

Q.   You actually did not make many mistakes.   Do you feel now that even on grass you can play a game where you don't make mistakes?   Is it still possible? 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah.   I feeling so good in this way.   Yeah, it's true, not so many mistake.
And thenactually on clay helping me a lot.   On clay you never can win one point easy, so I think this is helping me a lot.   Yeah. 

Q.   Were you surprised at winning so comfortably, so easily?
SHUAI ZHANG:   I'm surprised Friday still in the tournament singles and doubles, so, yeah, this is first time in like this tournament.   I'm so happy.

Q.   What did you expect to achieve this week, your goal for this week? 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Oh, my goal.   Yeah, now already win four match already, so of course I want to win the tournament.   I think this is everybody the goal.   So I'm also. 

Q.   Last year you did not play Grand Slams. 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah.

Q.   Can you say why? 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Last year Australian Open, before I have injury and then I didn't go to Australia.
So French Open I have to play quallies, but I'm still in the Belgium, Brussels, still in the draw.
So I don't have chance to play quallies, because same week I'm still in the draw.   I can't play two tournaments same week, so I miss the French Open. 
In Wimbledon I have‑‑ my country, China, have the national game, so very big tournament of Chinese player.
So I stay in China play the national game, so I miss the third Grand Slam last year, Wimbledon.   But I come to Wimbledon play doubles and mixed last year. 

Q.   And your record in Grand Slams is no wins and eight losses; that is something you are desperate to change?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah, I lost ten times already.   I never win the first round.   I think everybody knows.   (Smiling.) 
Yeah, I try to working hard.   I try to in Wimbledon win my first Grand Slam, the match.   And I think not only one match, I want to win more and more. 

Q.   You mentioned your agent as a grass court player.   Who is your agent?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah, my agent Meilen Tu.   She's very good player and play very good on grass.

Q.   She gives you advice? 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah, she help me a lot.   She tell me how to‑‑ she said in French Open, she said, Oh, I think you should be very good on grass.
I said, Not very good.   She give me a lot of confidence and try to help me and then helping me go to the Saddlebrook, Florida.   They have the grass courts. 
Actually after French Open I go to there.   Everybody helping me to practice on grass, so this why I feeling happy on grass now. 

Q.   Did you start a little bit nervous today?   Because you weren't shouting as always. 
SHUAI ZHANG:   I'm not nervous today.   I'm very enjoy play centre court.   I talking to my coach before match.   First match start Court 2, Court 3, Court 1, so today I'm so exciting on centre court. 
I try to focus the match, so not always same.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Were you delayed this morning?   Were you late on court? 
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yeah, a little bit late.   I'm in the training room for the warmup, because last two day I have singles and doubles, and then very late last match doubles.
So this morning first match I don't have so much time to prepare, so I need to some treatment locker room. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT