CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2013
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. VINCI/S. Zhang
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   English questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Good afternoon.   There were a few moments in the match where it looked like you were going to really gain some momentum and go on a roll.   Every time that happened, it seemed like Vinci took it back from you.   Anything in particular she did to make that happen?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   (Translated from Chinese)   After all, the opponent is a seeded player whose ranking was top 12.   She's really experienced player.   I think no matter for doubles or singles, when I played against Vinci it's really tough because it's really difficult to find very good opportunity to gain a point.  
To be honest, I'm very much pleased with my performance, because compared with how I performed before, I am very much better today.   Sometimes it seems that I would seize the opportunity to gain points; unfortunately, I failed.   
I think that's where I need to improve.   
   
 Q.   You met with your coach in each set.   Is that a normal process for you, or was that more because of who you were playing?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   Actually, it's normal because it's okay for the rules.   So I will make the best use of the opportunity to communicate with my coach.   
In that case, I would be provided with very good suggestions.   Anyway, the person who stand by might have a better understanding of my problems.   
So therefore, I'm very much happy that my coach can come to me and give me a lot of very good suggestions.   Every time I started to consult with my coach, I think he really successfully gave me a lot of suggestions.   
   
 Q.   Although you lose the game today, you had a very good performance in the first set, and also especially you have really pressed her backhand.   Is that the strategy you got from your coach before the match?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yes.   You know, actually, she is good at backhand chip shot, but I don't think she has very good opportunity to win the points.  
She kept making a lot of changes.   In the first set, for every single shot, tough shot from her, the quality is pretty good.   But second set she tried to change the rhythm and pace and tried to be more aggressive.  
At the crucial moment, my quality, my play decreased in terms of the quality.   I can't play back to the targeted position, so when compared with my performance in the first set, second and third set is more passive.   That's the gap.  
   
 Q.   Is it because of your physical energy?   Especially in the third set your forehand has completely distorted in terms of the position, placement.   
SHUAI ZHANG:   I think like what I told you, it's not easy to fight against Vinci.   She's really experienced.   It's impossible for her to have a ranking of No. 12 otherwise.   
She knows exactly how to press her opponent.   I think she has very obvious strong points.   The quality my ball is somewhat reduced, therefore she can play fully to her advantages.   
So when playing matches with an opponent like her, you have to stay focused for every single ball, and then constantly produce trouble for her during the match.  
Unfortunately, I think I only brought part of the trouble to her.   Unfortunately, I didn't maintain this good momentum until the very end of the match.   
   
 Q.   You have already been playing for four weeks.   You lost this match today, which is something unfortunate.   Do you feel somewhat relieved?   At least you can have several days.   After four weeks, what's your single largest achievement and what is your next plan?  
SHUAI ZHANG:   Single largest achievement is I boosted my confidence tremendously and my ranking has been increased.   Also, my performance is getting better and better.   
For those three aspects, they are very much different from what they were three weeks ago.   
From the psychological state, actually I remain unchanged.   I have a lot of places to improve.   Therefore, I constantly, you know, make continuous endeavors to make further improvement.  
Next I will have two days off and then fly to Osaka.   I have to play qualifications for singles.   I personally feel that I have already overdrawn my physical energy.  
What was your first question?   I forgot.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel somewhat relieved after such a long season?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   I think the matches have been going on for three weeks, and frequency of matches is even more than what I had in the normal two months.   
I feel pretty tired physically, but psychologically happy, because you can't win the game all the time.   Your ranking is constantly improving.   That's something really happy.   
Prior to US Open this year, I don't have much opportunity to play in any tournament.   I physically strong at that time.   I had a very high expectation for the upcoming tournaments.   I expect that the tournament coming as soon as possible, because I can't even wait to jump into any tournaments.   
But after this match, I really believe that it's time for me to have a very good rest, and then highly concentrate on the match in Osaka.   I don't know how to impress.   Can we move onto next question?   
THE MODERATOR:   Last question.   
   
 Q.   This year is tenth anniversary of China Open.   You have participated here many times, and also in 2009 you participated.   Also you have a very good play yesterday.   What kind of meaning does it have to you when you participate in China Open?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   I do have a lot of help from China Open.   I remember the first time I participate in China Open.   Of course I remember that first experience.   
Actually, before the women's single in Quanzhou Open, I told my coach that when people mention Zhang Shuai, your memory will not stay at the day that you win over top player in the world in 2009.   
To be honest, I am fed up with the introduction of me that says in 2009 I win No. 1 player in the world.   I think that was a very good memory; however, it is history already.   
Now it was 2013 already, and past four years didn't I have any big progress or highlights which could be remembered by you guys?   
I don't expect people to remember me for that experience only.   I'm trying to impress people with even better performances and ranking.   
Even for the Guangzhou Open, that was history already.   They have gone.   Starting from today or tomorrow, I'm expecting to have a better performance, to have to better ranking, and then to be impressive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT