CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2013
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ZHANG/S. Peng
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You've been doing very well recently in your past three tournaments.   Talk a little bit about that and what you think is causing your momentum.   
SHUAI ZHANG:   (In Chinese. )   Actually, to be frank, I'm working pretty hard towards the goal and practicing pretty hard.   I just give my best.   This is what I'm doing in the past three weeks.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.   
   
 Q.   First of all, yesterday when I interviewed Zheng Jie she believed that if you continue your performance like this one, you're supposed to be pushed to top 30 in terms of ranking.   Are you confident in this expectation?  
SHUAI ZHANG:   You know my goal this year, first of all, I would push to top 100.   Already scored this goal.   
The second goal is I'm going to top my best ranking, which is No. 73.   After that, my next goal is to break into top 50.   
I hope to realize those goals one by one.   Of course I'm expected to be top 30, top 10, even World No. 1, but it takes time to reach this goal.  
Rome was not built in a day.   I hope to bring my best performance.   Those are my future goals.   I'm really thankful or grateful to Zheng Jie for her nice words towards my performance.   I have to continue to perform as good as I am doing here today, then I will have the chance to live up to her expectations.   
First of all, I have to make sure that for every single match, every single day, I'm practicing and playing with my best practice so the result will come naturally.   
   
 Q.   Your coach said that if you don't give you pressure, then your professional career will end up with nothing.   The result in the past two weeks means your future is coming; is that right?   You did well at Guangzhou.   She said that she thinks that's a very good start.   What are your comments?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   Yes, I hope this is a good start for myself as well.   When I participate into Quanzhou Open, I said that this is never ever the ending part of my professional career.   Just a start.  
That's why I very much would like to see that I'm doing pretty well in Quanzhou tournament.   
So my performance didn't suck when I finished the Quanzhou Open.   Of course sometimes I don't have a very good performance.   It happens.   
But for professional players, this is quite normal.   Just a new start for me to improve myself.   That's why I'm going to continue to make even more and great endeavors.   
   
 Q.   Last year when you participated in the press conference of the China Open, you said that you were just a flower not yet to bloom.   This year you have already very good momentum.   Also, you can lose the match quite easy last year.   At Quanzhou Open, quite often you win the game 6‑1, 6‑2, so people have analogy that you were a flower that is blooming.   Do you agree with this?  
SHUAI ZHANG:   Whatever nickname you're going to give me I don't care too much, to be honest.   Anyway, it's good.   I like that nickname, because this is token that you like me and that's why you want to give my those nicknames.  
You're welcome to give me more nicknames.   Actually I know that many people expect me to have a very good performance, and sometimes they're even more worried than I am.   They're too rushed to exceed more success from me.   
Those nicknames are a very good symbolization of the good wishes from the fans.  
   
 Q.   You mean that had everybody is rushing or pushing you to get more titles.   For many years, did you push yourself to achieve those goals?   With such a wonderful performance, what's your future goal?   You will participate in Australian Open next year.   
SHUAI ZHANG:   To be honest, if my performance is not good, definitely I have potential worry.   I definitely push myself.   I have trepidation as well about my performance.   The good news is that I stay, I hold on.   
For the Grand Slam for next season, I think first of all I'm going to win the first round.   A lot of opponents in the past three weeks, most of them are the professional in the main draw.  
So if I can win over those professional players, I don't think my first victory in the first round of the Grand Slam will come pretty late.   
Sometimes based on luck I can try to win over those top level professional players.   But now I have more confidence that whoever the opponent is, my confidence of winning over them is getting stronger and stronger, no matter I'm going to win the first round our not in a Grand Slam tournament.   
   
 Q.   Actually, previously, after Quanzhou Open, you received the interview that the reason why you achieved this success is not because you are choose to be professional player by yourself, but Li Na said that the reason why the young teenagers don't stand out is because they don't have a professional attitude.   What are maybe the co‑relations between your choice and the success you had so far?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   If you disregard the achievement I have already made the past three weeks, people believe that my choice of choosing to be a professional player is a wrong choice.  
But now I have already got very good performance, so people believe that this is very much related to the choice.   So in that case, Li Na is correct.   And also somebody else might make sense as well.   
I didn't think about that question deeply.   Different persons has different opinion.   And different people has different attitudes towards tennis, life, work.  
For me, I'm always expecting to go beyond myself and overcome my weak points.   I don't see they're relevant.   Whatever way you're supposed to follow, as long as you're working hard you have a chance to be successful.   
So before I chose to be a professional player, I have to bear the travel expenses and also arrange my match schedules.   
But eventually I'm in it.   What is really important is that you have to be satisfied all the time with what you have already got.   Everything means a lot to me.   
   
 Q.   When you participate into singles, I noticed that you have injury that last for 20 seconds.   Seems that you're not impacted by the injury.   Will you bother to make and explanation to that injury?   
SHUAI ZHANG:   Actually, I slipped on the ground.   It pains.   I even didn't stand up for almost 20 seconds.   But later on I made some adjustment and I lost several points after that.   I don't feel comfortable in my wrist.  
However, I didn't stay too focused on the injury because I reminded myself that if you keep thinking about the injury you will lose the game.   So what I'm going to think is how to get every single point.  
So when I finished the match, the first thing I did is go to the trainers' room to get medical therapy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT