CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2012
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Zhang
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Can you make comments on your performance and especially the opponent, Ms.Radwanska?   It seems like you don't get used to her way of playing tennis; is that right?
SHUAI ZHANG:   I personally believe that in today's match I give full play to my potential, but with regard to the results, everybody want to win.   I have personal belief that the opponent is not that strong as I imagined, especially for the ball of baseline.   She's not that strong in playing the baseline ball. 
But she knows how to play smartly, how to win points and how to, you know, make the opponent make some unforced errors.   That's why she's really smart and very much experienced.
And also, she's very much good at playing the critical balls, including the volley and dropshots.   She has a lot of changes, although she's not that strong in serving.   She didn't play too much ace balls, but she always have very accurate placement when she's serving.   That's my feeling.

Q.   Radwanska is as young as you are.   You're both at the same age.   Radwanska is No. 3 in the world now in terms of ranking.   So what can you learn from this match?   The second question:   Actually in the eighth game of the second set you have some opportunity.   Unfortunately you don't seize the opportunity.   Do you think that if you can seize that opportunity the result might be different?
SHUAI ZHANG:   My personal belief that some people say that if I can seize the opportunity the result might be different.   So I don't think that's very realistic way of thinking.
It means that even I'm going to win that game it doesn't mean that I'm going to have a big turnaround eventually.
I think that if I have more opportunities to play more on the court, I will have more opportunity to fight against my opponent.
From the youth period, Radwanska is No. 1 in ITF juniors, and she has already demonstrated potential talents in playing tennis, and also her understanding of tennis is much more mature than appears.
Even if she has already got such wonderful achievements at her age, I don't think that's going to be very much easy for the other person, the other players to score at her age.

Q.   Actually, for young players, we don't have the ones who are playing by themselves, I mean, that are becoming professional players to fight by themselves, so what is the potential worry?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Everybody is asking me the question, but for me I can't give you very good answer because even I myself don't know how to continue my professional career in the right way, because everything has to be decided after the termination of the tournament. 
For me, I don't have much time to consider those issues.   We just finished a match today, and I prefer to sit together with my coach, communicate with him, and to check out which area need to be further improved and how to narrow the gap between me and my opponent. 
If I know the exact time for me to play as an individual player, I will let you know.

Q.   Actually, you have a very good performance second set, which must have tremendously improved your confidence.   If you have a chance to break to fight against an opponent like Radwanska, will that improve your confidence in the future?   I also noticed that sometimes you lose some points to your opponent.   It means it is because you don't have enough practice in the court?   How are you going to address those issues?
SHUAI ZHANG:   Actually, in terms of service, I'm not satisfied with the three matches I have already played in China Open, because from US Open and Canada Open, Guang‑Zhou Open, I always have a very consistent service performance.   I'm not sure what's going on with my service.   I don't get the right feeling to serve.
And also, I believe this might be normal, because I need to strengthen the exercise or the training in my service.
With regard to the issue of I lose a lot of points in the service, in the practice I'm very strict to myself, and also my coach has a high demand to watch me as well, but I think personally the gap between me and my opponent is she knows, she enable me to know where should I improve, and she has already forced me to make a lot of or to get out of my reason.
So that's why Radwanska is No. 3 in the world.   However, through this match, I can understand that, which area I need to be further improved, and how to develop even more the skills in the way of playing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT