CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/S. Zhang
  6-0, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) This is not your first year to participate in the China Open. What do you think is the difference between the younger generation of players and between Li Na and Jie Zheng, and when do you think the younger generation will be able to catch up with Li Na and Jie Zheng?  
 SHUAI ZHANG: Each player, when they participate in the sport of tennis, there is a process of growing up from junior then to senior level. They become excellent players, and this is a natural process.  
 They must experience this process so that they can become great players. For me, I have tried my best, and sometimes will not win. Even when I lost the match, still I tried to the best of my ability. This is how tennis goes.   
  
  Q. This year I have made the statistics that you have participated in 28 tournaments, besides three ITF challengers. They have different levels of tournaments. What are the lessons you have learned?   
 SHUAI ZHANG: The major difference between these tournaments, you know, in the WTA top tournaments, is my opponents are very tough. Very often they are ranked in the top 100, 130, 150. Each player I played in these tournaments are very tough.   
 In the past, throughout all the year when I played the tournaments, I will not be able to meet so tough opponents. So now every day I can play against them, I can see their training and sometimes even train with them. Some of the players I have never seen before, and I have even played some of the WTA titleist in this season.   
 So all of this has greatly increased my confidence; therefore, my level of performance on court has been getting closer to the top level of WTA big tournaments.  
 As for the ranking change, really my ranking has become lower than at the beginning of the year. But so far, I believe as for myself I think I have played too many tournaments. I need to make some changes.   
 In next year's Australian Open, I hope and I believe I will be able to have the potential to play in the main draw.   
  
  Q. This afternoon when Li Na talked about her loss, she considered it to be the lack of confidence. This year in the Australian Open, US Open, in the early you have rounds very tough opponents.   
 SHUAI ZHANG: This year naturally throughout all the tournaments I have very tough opponents, and each opponent to me is tougher than ever before. In US Open, and in Washington, when I was participating in the tournament, I had a big fever. Physically I'm not well recovered.   
 So during all those continuous matches I had many chances, but I hadn't been able to take the chance. Therefore, I only played one round and then lost the match and exited from the tournament.  
 So right now I should take a big rest and not listen too much and be well-prepared for the future.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT