THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 8, 2019
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. ZHANG/D. Yastremska
6-4, 1-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I'd like to ask you about the match first, roller coaster match, three sets.
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, today really close match and a really great match.  Also, Dayana, she played really well.  The last time we played in Hong Kong last year, I lost.  She play really good.  She's very young.  She play amazing.  I really like her tennis (smiling).
Today I'm really lucky.  I won the match, but still, I can see in future she will be really great player, for sure.
Q. You're into the quarterfinals, and I believe you have tied Li Na.  She was in the quarterfinals here I think three times.
SHUAI ZHANG: Really?
Q. I wonder, how does that make you feel?
SHUAI ZHANG: Before the first win, first round, I never think I can make quarterfinal here, because before this year I never win any match singles here.  Yeah, everything impossible now, so I don't know.  Yeah.
I just try my best, because every opponent very strong.  And also, they play really well before at Wimbledon, and, yeah, amazing week, yeah, for me.
Q. What's the difference this year compared to other years when you played here?  Because you're very successful this year.  What's improved?
SHUAI ZHANG: I think on grass my movement much better.  Also, my serve, tried to little improve, and, yeah, also good return.  Normally my baseline is okay, but this year I try to improve a lot serve and return, because very special on grass, yeah.
Q. You play either Simona Halep or Coco Gauff next.  Can you talk us through the challenge of each player as you see it?  Obviously you have beaten Simona Halep before in the Australian Open.  Is that going to give you more confidence for that match?
SHUAI ZHANG: Before they finish, I don't want to think too much, because I never know who wins.  Also, before finish my match, I didn't see who I play next round, because Wimbledon, I never looking second round (smiling).
I never see the next round who I play.  I just focus, yeah, this match.  Yeah, I just want to enjoy more about today and try to relax more.
Q. But memories of playing Simona?
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, we played few times before.  I have some great memory from we play, and also, my first Grand Slam win in Australian Open I beat her.  But I hope I can play great match tomorrow, yeah.
Q. What do you think of Coco?
SHUAI ZHANG: Actually, I never see her play yet.  Also, she make the unbelievable good this year and she just 15 years old, so later I will watch a little bit she play.
Q. I read a story that a few years ago you nearly wanted to quit the game because it wasn't going well, and it was Samantha Stosur, your doubles partner, who persuaded you to stay on.
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah.
Q. I'm glad she did.
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, she's so special for me.  Best friend on tour.  We always, after the court, sometimes we eat together.  We going to eat and we talk a little bit about not only tennis.  Sometimes about life.
Yeah, she's such nice girl, and she tell me when I said I want to retire, and she really want I keep going to play.  You know, that's make me to thinking maybe, okay, I'm going to Australian Open one more time, one more try.
Yeah, really, really happy I try one more time, and also we won this year in Australian Open doubles.  So the life is so nice to me.
Q. What do you think about Chinese tennis at the moment, the rise particularly of the women players in China and the good, young players coming through?
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, so many great young players play really well, and when I'm going to practice first week, before coming here, first match before at Aorangi, the locker room, I saw the two junior young girls they won last year doubles, so I take the photo.
I say, Oh, how nice they can win the Wimbledon, even junior.  Make me so exciting.  Yeah, I send the picture to the one girl, her father, because he was the national team coach, very good friend.  I say, So nice.  See your daughter picture here.
Yeah, hopefully I can, if I have chance, I really want my picture here, too.
Q. Thinking about Coco, what was your life like at 15?
SHUAI ZHANG: I play junior here but only one match doubles.  I lost.  Yeah.
Q. That was your Wimbledon experience at 15?
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, the first Wimbledon, yeah.  Was really lucky I still here.  I'm 15 years after, I still here.
Q. Can you imagine what it must be like for a 15-year-old girl to be playing in the last 16 here?  It's incredible, isn't it?
SHUAI ZHANG: Yeah, incredible.  Yeah.  Amazing, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT