HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 1, 2018
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/S. Zhang
6-0, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Even though you lost this match, we could see you had a progress on the second set.  Could you talk about the first set and second set, because indeed there's a big gap, especially for the first set.
SHUAI ZHANG: I don't think I have much to say because I feel I'm pretty fatigued today.  Because actually yesterday was a very fierce game.  That's why I feel that I still feel very tired.  And also, the drug test didn't finish until 11:30, so I didn't have too much time to have a very good recovery.
Today, I could say I just tried my best.  That's all I can say.
Q. I'd like to ask your offseason plans.  Previously you competed in Tokyo and Hawaii.  This is the end of the season.  Would you actually plan to have some time to take a break or training?  What's your plan?
SHUAI ZHANG: Apart from some mandatory matches, I would go to the places I like.  For example, first of all, I hope I go to a place I haven't gone and a place I like.  For example, Tokyo and Hawaii are the two cities I like.  I've been to the tournaments there.  So I haven't done this this year.  And indeed I want to have a break.
Currently I don't have any tournaments planned.  Actually after the Hong Kong tournament, I wanted to have a break, but I was called on this tournament temporarily.  So I think it's time for me to have a break.
Q. In the Chinese Swing, we see you've got a foreign coach.  Seems like he or she is your fitness coach.  Can you talk about your new team member.
SHUAI ZHANG: Indeed, lately I've got a foreign coach joining my team.  This is why I feel much better physically during the recent matches.  Also he or she is coming to help to maintain my physical strength.
Q. During the Chinese Swing, we could see the Chinese fans of tennis are very excited with your performance reaching a new high.  Also, I think this is a new momentum.  And also both you and Wang Qiang have done pretty well in late months.  My question is, well, would you feel like you're motivated since people are comparing you two?
SHUAI ZHANG: I don't think I'm getting a new high.  I just I feel like, starting from the second half of the season, I just keep what I was.  I wouldn't say I'm too good or too bad.
But I think Wang Qiang is definitely reaching her momentum.  She did better.
I'm very happy to see more young Chinese athletes to reach better sports.  I think for me, I just try my best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT