HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2018
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Zhang
3-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So based on the result, it's a pity, but actually I think you have done a very high quality process, especially this is the end of the season.  If we leave aside the result, about the process, are you happy with it?
SHUAI ZHANG: If you lose a game, of course you can definitely learn that there's something you can do better.  For the first set, I think I did pretty well and I think I was fully in control.
But for the second set, actually there were quite a few break points.  In terms of the returning, if I could do better, then I think I could get to 4-1 in terms of the second set to take the lead.  However, I didn't do better in terms of the break points.
Of course, my opponent did pretty well.  So I feel that's the critical point where she took the lead.
So later in the match, I feel we were pretty close.  And also the first game of the second set, it's a great opportunity, but I didn't play very well.
Q. The calendar for next season has been released, and you need to come to the match within 24 hours.  Could you talk a little bit more about the next match.
SHUAI ZHANG: Well, I haven't really checked the venue for tomorrow's match because I just finished this one.  So currently, all my focus was still on the last game, the last match.  So I haven't got the time to think about the next one.
Actually tomorrow will be the same time in the evening.  Well, I'll try my best.
Q. So during the press conference, Muguruza, she said every time she met you, she was expecting a very close match.  Actually you had four matches with her during the past two years.  Every time when you competed with her, there's a little gap between you guys.  Where could you do better or why is that?
SHUAI ZHANG: Well, I think it's not like just a little gap.  The first time, I defeated her.  Second time and this time, I would say I won the first set and also the second set, I could have opportunity.
It's very similar to what happened in Miami.  I could have done better today in the second set.  If I could do the second set compared to the first set, then maybe I would have a better result.
So I think this is the part where I could improve.  But, of course, I feel compared to the overall, Wuhan, Beijing and Hong Kong, the Asian Swing, compared to my performance there, through my one-week training, I have seen a lot of progress.  So I think I'll keep working hard.
Well, I think I could have gotten a better result compared to what I got today.
Q. And you actually led with 3-0 and she got a medical timeout.  Do you think that actually hindered your pace or you don't mind?
SHUAI ZHANG: I don't know what happened with her and I don't know what was wrong with her, but what I could do was I did my best.
So I think during the first set, it's not much disturbance.  Even though she called out her doctor, I still won the first set and I did pretty well.
On the court I played pretty smoothly and very coherently.  This is exactly what I wanted for playing tennis.  I always wanted to play like this and I hope that I could always have this performance as a feeling every time on court.
Q. Actually during the press conference, you mentioned that you improved little by little after each match.  After this one are you more consistent to say, for example, you know what to expect to getting into semifinals or quarterfinals?  Do you think it motivates your mentality or will that be different from before, like you would have some ups and downs?
SHUAI ZHANG: I think every -- well, I can't say I have any expectation, but there's nothing special.  Well, it's like if I don't have matches, I will do my best to train myself.  If there's a match, I'll do my best in the match.
I've been playing tennis for over 20 years and I never thought which day was special.  What I always have been doing is I do my best.  I always do my best.  Either in training or in matches I do my best every day.
I just hope I can make a little progress.  Even though I have seen my progress today, I still think that I could maybe do better.
Q. Actually during the China Open I was very impressed at your serving.  It is very excellent and I have seen that you have eight aces previously, and today the same here.  The first set, I remember you had quite a lot of aces.  What have you done?  Do you have any specific training for serving?
SHUAI ZHANG: I think improving my ability of serving is always my goal, but also a challenge.  I'm always thinking how to improve my serving.  If you want to go to a higher level, then serving is definitely very important.
So actually during my later stage of my matches, I have a lot of double faults.  But if I could do well in serving, I could win over very easily.  And, indeed, this is something that I hope I can improve on.
Actually, I was very surprised that my serving could reach over the speed of 170 kilometers.  I have never reached that figure.  I don't know if the watch is very accurate every time.
When I saw that number, I was very surprised.  I tried not to make myself notice the speed and focus on the match, but many times my serving was over 170.  I don't know if it's a different watch of each different tournament or something else.
But I hope I can improve myself consistently and if I can always play like this, if I can always keep this performance, I think I can win more easily.
Q. I noticed at the China Open you also reached 170.
SHUAI ZHANG: Really, I did?
Q. You have never done special training on serving?
SHUAI ZHANG: Nothing special, but because you have seen that I have been always playing tournaments, and lately I've been playing every single week, I didn't have much time to do special training on that.  But maybe it's because I've been competing with a lot of top talents, so I can become stronger in a lot of areas.  So I think I need to keep working hard.
Thank you very much.  That's all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT