HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 29, 2018
Shuai Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Well, so what's your expectation on this match, on this whole trophy?  
SHUAI ZHANG: I hope that I can have a very good performance and I hope that I can play the best of me.   
 Q.  We have known that actually you have just gone through the draw ceremony.  You have been put in the group with Muguruza and Sevastova.  What is your view on the matches with them and what is the possibility to win over the other players do you think?  
SHUAI ZHANG: I think I'll try my best and I think every player is excellent, high-performance player.  So there are all kinds of possibilities.  No one would know the answer, the result before the game.  Let's wait until to the end and see what will turn out in the end.   
 Q.  We have known that actually you have gone through a lot of competitions during the year.  Especially you have been doing better and better with each stop starting from Wuhan until now.  Why do you think that motivates you so much to perform better from the local matches?  
SHUAI ZHANG: I think starting from Hiroshima up until Hong Kong, I think I could see myself improve over each stop.  I was keeping doing all the matches and I could see myself improve every single one.  I wanted to improve further.   
So I was very happy.  I'm very happy to see myself doing better during the Asian seasons, but actually I knew that during my season in North America, especially during the US Open, my ranking was declining for both singles and doubles.   
But I could see that I actually didn't see myself doing so well in Asian season.  I didn't know how I would play out.  But I could see that during the matches I improved myself.  Every match over the other one, you could see the level of each one was getting higher and higher and up.  My rivals were getting stronger and stronger.  But my ranking during the North America season was not doing so well.   
Back then I wasn't very well prepared.  Mentally, I didn't know how I would play out in the next stop.  But I could see that I've done better during the Asian season, especially in Beijing.   
Every time when I got into the diamond court, I played well.  I was happy about that.  It was a pity I didn't progress further during the Beijing stop.   
However, I think all the performance has given me more confidence, both especially for the doubles, I think I did better than before.  So I'm very looking forward to the game next, and I hope I can do better.   
 Q.  As you mentioned that you didn't do very well during the US season, could you disclose a little bit more about how you adjusted yourself later with your coaches and with your team to improve your performance?  
SHUAI ZHANG: I think what we do is we always try to focus more on ourselves and also we try to do well in terms of the quality of the training.  Also we like to focus more on every single match.   
So things we can control, I think we wouldn't even think about that, so just do our best.   
 Q.  Just going along with that topic, we just mentioned that we knew that both you and Qiang Wang didn't perform very well in terms of the Asian season.  I believe I remember that Qiang Wang mentioned during a press conference before that when she could actually have better diet, she could perform better.  Do you think that's the same for you?  Do you think food plays a big role in terms of your later performance?  
SHUAI ZHANG: Actually, to be honest, I don't think I have time and effort to pay so much attention on diet.  I wouldn't even consider what to select for my food.  What I can do is, because I have been very busy during the training, so I focus a lot on the practice.   
So I think if I can have a high quality practice and training, than I can perform better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT