U.S. OPEN
September 13, 2015
Dalma Galfi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GALFI/S. Kenin
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Yesterday you said it felt pretty good to be in the US Open final.  How does it feel to be the champion?
DALMA GALFI: I can't really explain my feelings right now.  I'm just really happy how I did in the last week.  I think I did a really great job, and I played really well the whole tournament after -- I mean, not the whole tournament.  After my first round.  I almost lost there.
I think that was the point I started to play better.
Q. Did you face match points in that?
DALMA GALFI: No, but I was 5-3 down in the third set.
Q. You're the first one in the history of the US Open juniors from your country to win this.  What does that personally mean to you and to your country?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, I'm really proud that I could represent my country, I can present my country with this trophy.  I'm really happy that I could do that for my country and for myself.
Q. Let's talk important stuff:  You arrived in the same outfit, same color, as your opponent.
DALMA GALFI: Yeah.  It was because we have to wear that clothes for the match.
I don't think I could wear anything else but that, but that just happened.
Q. Was that your best color and it happened to be her best color?  It's assigned?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah.
Q. You can't say how you're feeling right now, or is it because you're overwhelmed by how you won or haven't processed that you won?
DALMA GALFI: I'm really excited that I got the trophy, and it's just an amazing feeling.  Like I can't really say anything else.
Q. Where do you think you'll put that trophy?
DALMA GALFI: Of course in my room, like right in front of my bed.  When I have bad days or even good days that I can look at it and I can say, I did it and I'm proud of that.
Q. You were down two set points at 4-5.
DALMA GALFI: Yeah.
Q. What was going through your mind at that point?
DALMA GALFI: I mean, nothing really.  I just wanted to put the ball in.  I just wanted to win those two points.  I was focusing really much.  I played really well those two points, so...
Q. She mentioned that your serve was probably the difference between the two of you today.
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, my serve was pretty good today.  I mean, I finished the match with a second-serve ace, so that is good.
Yeah, I'm happy about that.  (Smiling.)
Q. Seems to me that your first match was the toughest one, because this was three sets against a wildcard holder.  So this was just like a warmup for the tournament and the other opponent was just flat?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah.  I mean, I was really nervous to play the first round, like everybody else.  I mean, the first round is the hardest, I think, and when you get through that, it's just getting -- you're just getting into the game.
You can feel it better, and I just started to play better.
Q. You said you were nervous before the semifinal yesterday.  What were the nerves like this morning?
DALMA GALFI: It was like even more so.  I was really nervous.  She tried to calm me.  Like she told me that I have nothing to lose.  I have to play my game.  Just enjoy that I'm in the final.
It's already a really big thing that I'm in the final, so I was just trying to enjoy.
Q. Nontennis-related question.  You mentioned in an earlier interview session that you had with the Koz here that you enjoyed shopping.
DALMA GALFI: Yes, of course.
Q. And buying lots and lots of clothes with your coach Andrea.
DALMA GALFI: We couldn't go together because it was a misunderstanding.
Q. But being that it's Fashion Week here in New York City, do you have any plans?
DALMA GALFI: Not really.  I have never been to a fashion show, so...
COACH: The problem is we are so late all the time spending time here so we get home late to the hotel and she plays early the next day.
Q. So you talked about shopping yesterday.
DALMA GALFI: Yes.
Q. Will you go for something special that you want and, do you have an idea what that might be to commemorate this?
DALMA GALFI: Not really.  I bought like a pair of jeans yesterday.
Q. Pair of jeans?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, that was it.
Q. No jewelry which you'll always remember?
DALMA GALFI: Maybe today.  (Smiling.)
Q. What are your plans going forward?  Is this the end of junior tournaments for you?
DALMA GALFI: We are thinking I might play Eddie Herr and the Orange Bowl end of the year just to make sure I'm in the top 5.  I'm just starting to play pro tournaments.  I'm going home now.
After that I'm going to Australia for 25ks.  That's my plan now.
Q. Your mom and dad were here?
DALMA GALFI: Everybody was here.
Q. Brothers, sisters?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, my sister, my parents, my uncle, my coaches, and my agent and his son.
Yeah.
Q. Big party tonight?
DALMA GALFI: No.  Unfortunately they already left because their flight is like at 6:00.  Maybe when I get home.
Q. Just talk a little bit about is it easier to like take what Andrea says to real heart because she's been there before?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, she helps really much.  Like she's telling me how to act on the court, off court, and how to behave myself, which I have problems with like before.  But I'm getting better.  (Smiling.)
So, yeah, she helps a lot.
Q. Were you a racquet thrower?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, yeah.
Q. Do you have any idols or heros either childhood or now on the men's or women's side?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, Roger Federer and Serena Williams are the top.  Of course they are idols for me.  And my coach, as well.  I mean, she was top 10 in the world, so, yeah.
COACH: She'll do much better, we hope.
Q. How do you see your chance in coming back next year to US Open and playing qualification?
DALMA GALFI: Yeah, I'm trying to get to the qualification of the pro US Open.  We will see how it goes.
Q. What do you have to improve to do that?
DALMA GALFI: Sorry?  I think it's all mental.  I think my game is not like that bad to be here, so I just need to work on my mind and my mentality.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT