BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2018
Billie Jean King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BLAIR HENLEY: Thank you for joining us.  We have, as you can see, a very special guest today.  I'd love to give her a proper introduction.
A sports and social pioneer, she's a former world No. 1 in singles and doubles, capturing 39 Grand Slam titles, 12 singles, earning a career Grand Slam, 16 doubles, and 11 mixed doubles crowns.  Twice victorious at the WTA season-ending Championships, the WTA Finals singles perpetual trophy is named in her honor.  A member of the famed Original 9, she's the founder of the WTA and her defeat of Bobby Riggs in the Battle of the Sexes in 1973 is still remembered for its effect on society and contribution to the women's movement.
Among countless achievements and accolades, in 2009 she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States.
Billie Jean King, thanks for being with us.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Thank you, everyone.
BLAIR HENLEY: I'm going to start us off and then we will open it up to questions.
As a member of the Original 9, founder of the WTA, what is it like to come and see what this event has become in its history, and in particular, in its five years in Singapore?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Well, it's been amazing.  First of all, I love coming to Singapore because I love the people.  I love how wonderful you all are.  I came here in March, as well, and five years ago.  But I have so much fun with everybody.  It's so nice when you speak to the children here.  They don't have cellphones, and they actually look at you in the eye.  We have had great conversations.
Then I got to see the volunteers in March, as well, to thank them for everything.  Thank you to the sponsors, who I like to call partners in this endeavor, and to everyone.
But I love Singapore.  I love to be in Singapore.  But also, because of Singapore, we have had our WTA Finals here now for five years, but you're the first ones to take an opportunity, take a chance with us, and I'll never forget it.  I hope everyone remembers this heritage of theirs, that they are the first to be in, you know, Pacific Asia.
So I can't thank every Singaporian enough for everything they have done to make our tournament successful, but the support they have shown, I shall never forget.  I hope to come back to Singapore, no matter if the WTA Finals are here or not, which they won't be, it makes me very sad we aren't going to continue here, but I just want to thank each and every one of the people here that have changed my life for the better.  So thank you.
What was I supposed to answer?
BLAIR HENLEY: What does it mean to see what the WTA Finals have become?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Well, I told you kind of in what I said.
BLAIR HENLEY: You answered it.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Good.  Because it's been phenomenal here, and the support has been phenomenal.  You're the first.  Don't ever forget it.
Q. Since we're talking the Original 9, a little bit before my time, but I have always been curious, because I think Frankie Durr played at that time, how come she wasn't considered a part of the Original 9?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Why wasn't she part of?  Probably Frankie would have.  But what happened during that time, because it happened very quickly -- when it happened, it was like, going, things were changing minute by minute.  In Houston, Texas, this is in 1970, when nine of us signed a $1 contract with Gladys Heldman, that was the birth of women's professional tennis, that moment.
What happened is we were talking about it to Gladys in that week, but some of the players, like Betty Stove, Francoise Durr, and Ann Jones had to go back and play in their closed championships.  They didn't know we were going to have the Original 9.  We were hoping to do something in Houston.  We didn't know what.  And it just evolved during that week.
But they were overseas playing in their tournament.  So that's the only reason they are not an Original 9.  If I actually had the wherewithal, I should have called them on the phone.  But things were happening so fast.  It was just lickety-split.  That's why they are not, but they would have been, in my heart.  I always, when I have them around, I always say they probably would have been.
But they were very instrumental with the WTA, which was three years later.  1973, when we started the WTA, we had about, I don't know, 45 to 50 players in this room at the Gloucester Hotel, and the media thought we were going to boycott Wimbledon because the boys were boycotting.  I had gone to the men, and they didn't care whether we joined them or not, which I thought was a big mistake (smiling), because they made us the stars when all the top men didn't play at Wimbledon in 1973.  They didn't care if we joined them or not.
I had Betty Stove lock the doors of the place and told her don't let anybody out until we voted on whether we're going to have a WTA or not.  And they voted yes.  But more importantly, my former husband, who was a lawyer, had the bylaws ready.  So when we signed, everybody signed, and then because we had the bylaws ready, thanks to Larry, my former husband, we had that ready and we elected our officers.
So by the time we got up and left that room, we actually had our officers in place, we had the WTA in place because of the legal papers, the bylaws, so we got prepared before we went in there.
But we had been fighting for years to have the WTA.  It just took time.  I had gone to the men and said, Why don't we do it together, have a union or association together?  And they said no.  That's why we went to Plan B and why we have men's ATP and women's WTA.  But I think that was a big mistake.
Q. What do you think should be the next battle of the female players, female top players in the decade to come on WTA Tour?
BILLIE JEAN KING: They still don't want us, but some day, I don't know if it's before I die or not, but if they were smart we would have been together from day one, because we should have owned the Grand Slams, too.  I mean, we just should have.  If I had had my vision, it's very different from what I envisioned, but we were pretty good with Plan B, I think (smiling).
But I think we should be together a lot more.  I think men and women should think about each other being together a lot more than they do in every phase of life, and to always support each other and get the best out of each human being, because every human being is an influencer.  Every single person in the world is an influencer.
Men are particularly important for daughters.  My father believed in me as much as my brother who played professional baseball, which I know doesn't mean much to you, but he was 12 years in professional baseball.  It's a huge sport.  It's much bigger in the U.S. than tennis.
My brother, by being a major league baseball player, was a much bigger deal than I was as a tennis player.  But my dad was so great, because he believed in me as much as my brother.  I was growing up in the 50s.  He was exceptional.  Monica Seles talked today earlier, and her father also believed in her as much as her brother.
So if you believe in your children and you tell a girl she can do anything as well as your boy, it really makes a difference.  It gives you that empowerment and that confidence.  And as you see a child grow, I think the parents are much happier than if they don't do that.
Q. The tournament's obviously going to Shenzhen, WTA Finals, and I believe it's the biggest investment ever in women's tennis.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Yes.  Is it 14 million?  Do I have that right?  The winner is going to make, I think, close to 4 million.
Q. How does it feel for you for something that you started way back and now this kind of investment...
BILLIE JEAN KING: Well, I'm thrilled with the progress, although I told you how much I love Singapore.  I was so happy when we finally had our Finals in Asia for the first time, it meant so much, but I guess the WTA, which I don't run, but they couldn't pass it up because of the money.  And it's twice as much, at least.
So it's progress, but that's why I said Singapore should never forget they got it started.  If you don't start right, sometimes you don't finish right.  But I think it's great we will still be in Asia.  I think it's very important to stay in Asia.
Q. Why do you think it's very important to stay in Asia?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Because that's where the growth opportunities are.  We want to make sure everyone is included.  Li Na, winning the French, was huge for Asians, being the first Asian to ever win a major or even do so well.
Now I want little girls in China and Asia, all over Asia and Singapore to -- I think if you can see it, you can be it.  I think having it local, more regional feeling, is good.  I think they are where the growth opportunities really are.  You have to go where there are growth opportunities.
I'm hoping somebody in Singapore ends up being a champion someday, because we have been here.  I'm hoping.  It doesn't matter.  I just hope that they want to play sports and tennis and everything.  I hope it encourages them, because it helps you in education to be good in sports.  It helps you get better jobs.  96% of women in C-Suites, which means the top women in companies, identify with being an athlete.
They know that athletes, when they graduate, do better in jobs, so they make more money.  That's why I would encourage girls to be in sports.  It's not about being in sports.  That's about their health, and emotionally and mentally and physically, but it provides more opportunities in the workplace.
Even if you're going to be -- if you're a mother, it helps you be stronger and empowered and helps you be healthier.  As goes the health of the mother usually goes the health of a family.  They've got data on all this now.  It just behooves that men and women, that all genders just be the best they can be in whatever they want to do.
But I never discourage a girl not to go into sports.  That's a mistake in business.  Empowering her in every which way, whether she's a mother, a businesswoman, whatever, it's empowering.
I don't know.  A lot of families get so hooked up just on education, so they have to think this is about education.  It's part of.  Not separate from.
Are we going to have any men ask questions?  Chello.  I'm for equality.  Hello.  Chello.
Q. Since you established the WTA in the United States, women's tennis have come this long ways.
BILLIE JEAN KING: We have come a long way, right?
Q. And now we have one of the biggest tournaments in Asia.
BILLIE JEAN KING: This one?  Yeah, I'd say so.  It's the biggest for the WTA.
Q. And we have, like, Naomi, Asian players --
BILLIE JEAN KING: Osaka is unbelievable.
Q. -- and Sloane and many Eastern Europe players.  How do you see the diversity of the current women's tennis?
BILLIE JEAN KING: How I think about diversity, you said, in women's tennis?  I think it's always good.  I'm always for inclusion, which means more people of different cultures.  Every time somebody wins from a different culture it really helps.
Osaka is amazing.  I don't know if you all remember Date from Japan.  She was a huge plus.  Chrissie Evert really influenced the Japanese women the way they played.  That's what happens.  They see somebody when they are No. 1, it inspires them, and then they play like that.
And then Li Na, all these players are going to help.  If you can see it, you can be it.  The children growing up are seeing it, the boys and the girls.  And particularly girls can see themselves.  It's really important.  It's inspiring, and it's really important to have inclusion of everyone.
Q. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about Sloane Stephens and her progress and having won a slam last year and she played TeamTennis with you.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Sloane Stephens?  She's very interesting, because she's hit and miss and she's erratic, but when she's on, amazing.  I think she's one of the best athletes we have ever had in the sport.  She's like a gazelle around the court.  She can hit anything.  Especially off the forehand she can hit so hard.  She makes it feel effortless the way she plays, in a way.
But if you really kind of analyze each thing separately, like I do when I watch, she's simply, potential-wise, the sky's the limit with her.
Then you ask the question, but does she want it?  Is she emotionally and physically ready every day?  I would say she's not yet.  Because you want your head, your heart, and your guts all integrated.  That's when you're playing your best.  And I don't think she does that in a daily way enough yet.
But if she ever made up her mind to do that, whoa.  But she's amazing athlete.  Her dad was a professional American football player, which I don't know if people know that.  There is a lot of good DNA there.
And her mother I think was an Olympic swimmer.  So you have both going on there.  Her mom's a great mother, by the way.  She's a fantastic mother.
Q. As to Americans or whatever, I was wondering just in the American sphere, and maybe not Sloane and Maddie, but does it worry you a little bit in terms of the progress of women's tennis there?  Like we had first option on Naomi, and I know it's a crap shoot.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Who had first option?
Q. The U.S.  She talked to the --
BILLIE JEAN KING: The Japanese gave her more money.
Q. I understand, but we had first option to help out and we turned --
BILLIE JEAN KING: We didn't help her?
Q. No.
BILLIE JEAN KING: Well, that's our fault.  That's our fault.  We had a chance to help her and we didn't?  I did not know that.  Don't even tell me.  Now I'm even more angry than ever.
Q. Sorry.  So do you have concerns?
BILLIE JEAN KING: I think tennis is a microcosm of society, and I think that American kids in general -- I hate to generalize, but I don't think we're as tough as we used to be in some ways.  The way we were raised, I was raised with much more strict parents.
I would like to see more structure and boundaries the way they're taught growing up, because you have to -- it really reflects on the court.  I think we are too soft sometimes, yeah.
I think you're seeing other countries surpass us like you are in business and everything else.  It's a microcosm of society.  It just tells you what's going on in the world.
But we have to suck it up and get back in it.  If you can't cut it, you can't cut it.  If you want to be a professional athlete, that's the deal; otherwise don't be a professional athlete.  It's pretty easy.
Q. We have a new star from Japan.  She won the US Open.  What does she need to be a great player who remains in history like you?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Oh, I think she's already starting.  I think this is just -- you'll see through the years that I think she's amazing player.  I think she's got the head, heart, and guts together.  Like even with the Serena match, I knew she was going to win that match because she was playing better than Serena, and she was not going to let anything, nothing deter her from winning.
I know it was tough, it was just crazy and chaotic, but in the end she prevailed, and I knew she prevailed because her head was in the right place.  She stayed focused.  And she's an amazing player.
First of all, she hits a heavy ball.  She can hit anything.  If she really wants it, the sky's the limit.  Beyond the sky.  To the moon and back or the world.  No, she's an amazing player already.  What is she, 20?  No, she's exceptional.  I think Japan should be very proud of her.  I know America is very proud of her.  We are.  She's both.  I think that's great.
See, that even makes it -- kids who come from families that have different cultures in their background I think is a plus, actually.  Because you learn a lot of different things from each culture, each parent.  I think it's a plus; it's not a minus.
Q. I grew up in Australia in the '60s and '70s and followed your career with a lot of interest.  I wonder how you look back on the bio-pick that was done on you, Battle of the Sexes, when you look back at your career and your life.  What do you think of the movie?
BILLIE JEAN KING: The movie?  Most of you probably didn't see it, but if you saw it, I thought they did a good job.  Emma Stone and Steve Carell, first of all, when I heard that, I was, like, what?  Excuse me?
The greatest things from all these experiences is the relationships from that.  Still friends with Emma and Steve, the directors, and still to this day, we will be until I die, which is more important.  I think they did a good job.  It's a story, and I thought they got the tennis part really strong in a very good way.
They got -- you know, when they do stories, they mishmash.  If you notice, they put the Original 9 and the WTA together at the same -- it was like five seconds, and I went, Ah, it's going to confuse people because they always put it together now.  They were putting it together before that.  I thought, Oh, no, it reenforces that.
At least it was in there.  But I thought it was good.  I thought it was good that they touched on the LGBTQ situation.  I think that's very important to bring to light, that everyone is important, that everyone should be included, no matter their sexuality, because everyone has their journey.  And I think everyone should appreciate each other and respect each other.
I think that was important.  And I think that match, 90 million people saw it.  And I knew before the match just millions and millions of people were going to watch it and how important it was.  I knew that's why people would remember me the rest of my life, for good or for bad.
But more importantly, we just had Title IX passed, which here doesn't mean anything, but if any of you ever get a scholarship?  Like I've had three women from Singapore say they had scholarships to universities in the States, and that's because of Title IX.  What it was basically is any federal funds for private or public high schools or universities or college, for the very first time, after 1972, the summer of 1972, had to spend it for the first time equally on boys and girls.
Before that, women could not get athletic scholarships, but more importantly, it was about education.  There were quotas in the classroom.  For instance, as a woman, if you wanted to be a doctor at Harvard, they only allowed 5% of the class -- 5% of the class -- to be women.  And with Title IX, that just tore down the doors, and that's why we -- we actually have more women going to university than men today in the United States, I mean, U.S. people, and that's because of Title IX.  And the reason you see the WNBA, the reason you see all these different sports thrive, is because of Title IX.  We finally had monies for us.
I went to college in 1961, and I worked two jobs, went to college, where Arthur Ashe and Stan Smith had full scholarships to universities.  I'm just using two people that were 30 miles away.  One was at UCLA and another was at University of Southern California.
But by gender, if you reversed it and the girls were getting the scholarships and the boys weren't, that's not right either.  What I do is put myself in the other person's shoes all the time.  If I'm a girl, and I -- and I grew up with a brother, and I think that helped me a lot.  You always have to respect each other and want each other to do the best they can do.  My brother and I got along really well and supported each other, which I think was helpful.
I don't know if I answered your question or not.
Q. Thank you, yeah.
BILLIE JEAN KING: I love Australia, too, because I've got children there.
Q. I wanted to get your thoughts on Kiki Bertens being here, and --
BILLIE JEAN KING: Yeah, her forehand and serve has really improved.  That's why she's here.  Her forehand and serve is what she's worked on, and it shows.  And the last year she's made such a huge improvement.  You can tell she put the time and the effort to make those two areas of her game better.  So that's why she's thriving.
I really take my hat off to her.  It's great to see that improvement.
Q. If you could --
BILLIE JEAN KING: I don't know that much about her, but I know that much.
Q. How do you see tonight's match against Sloane?
BILLIE JEAN KING: Which Sloane is showing up, first of all?  That's what I look at.  When Sloane is in a match, I go, Which Sloane is showing up tonight?  She can play out of her mind, be unbelievable, concentrate, give 100%, the whole nine yards, and some nights I don't know where she went.
Bertens' job is to play her game, keep her head down and just play.  And then we will see who showed up.  But Sloane, when she shows up, whew.  She's amazing when she plays right.
Q. I'm just wondering, in this day and age, some of the athletes are more reluctant to speak out on certain issues.
BILLIE JEAN KING: I know.  It's too bad.
Q. In your opinion, do you think that the top players at the moment in the women's game are speaking out enough?
BILLIE JEAN KING: I don't know what they feel, first of all.  I'd have to ask each one of them.  But I knew at 12 years old that I had amazing opportunity as a tennis player.  This is 12, and we're amateurs.  So you can imagine, you know, what the opportunities are now.
But even at 12, I knew that I had a chance to do something special if I got good enough in tennis, because tennis is global.  Even back then, compared to other sports, it was global.  It wasn't like it is now, but my dream was for it to be truly global, which is almost there.  We've got Africa to go.
But that's an unbelievable opportunity to help the world to be a better place.  Very few human beings get this opportunity that I have.  I made a promise to myself at 12 that I would fight for equality for the rest of my life.  I knew if I were good enough that tennis would be my platform.  I didn't know the word "platform" at 12, but I knew it would be an opportunity.  And that's what it has been.
So I don't like it if people have an opportunity to make the world a better place -- but you know what?  Each person -- I have to respect that person.  They worry too much about selling their brands too much, to always be well liked.  But I would like them to speak out if they truly have feelings about, which I think they do, and they can't do it and that's too bad.
I feel like this is amazing.  It's such a blessing for us, each player, to have this.  I mean, how many times do people get to talk to all these people in a room?  It's a privilege and I know it.  Every single time I know it's a privilege.
Q. You mentioned Africa.  Did you know at all Tunisian girl who made the final in Moscow last week, Ons Jabeur?
BILLIE JEAN KING: No, I don't know.  But I need to know now.  But I'm just saying we don't have a lot of tournaments there.  There is always one more continent to conquer.
Q. I'm from Romania.
BILLIE JEAN KING: My hairdresser is from Romania.  She gets me caught up on Halep every time I see her.  It's great.
Q. You're looking fabulous.
BILLIE JEAN KING: It's a little short.  She just did it, but it's good.  She does a great job.
Q. Obviously I have to ask you about Simona.
BILLIE JEAN KING: I love Simona.  You can't say anything bad about her.
Q. Definitely not.  I wanted to ask you about the ups-and-downs from last year and years before with three times she was the --
BILLIE JEAN KING: Runner-up?  Finalist?
Q. She lost the chance to become the world No. 1 and now she is the world No. 1 for most of the time in 2018 and finally as a major winner.  What's your opinion on her progress?  And for how long do you see her as the world No. 1?
BILLIE JEAN KING: World No. 1 today is really difficult, because there are so many good ones.  Everyone, they are very even at the top.  So to even become No. 1 is unbelievable today.  The competition is much greater than when I was playing.
So I admire her because she's not that tall.  I think I might be a smidgen taller, and I get very excited someone shows up that I can kind of be equal with.
I have always admired her.  I saw her five years ago -- was it five years ago she was in here?  That's when I really first started watching her and talked to her a little bit.  I could tell that she had some inner demons in a way, but we all do, but it really showed in her.  I really kept telling her, you know, like, You can do it.  Believe in yourself.
It's been a real roller coaster ride for her, but I think the women go with it and feel for her because of it if you know her story, you know, with the coach leaving and Darren Cahill.  So I just really appreciate how she's become empowered, because she's been so tough on herself.  I think she's really learned that -- I love how she said, "Don't stop believing in me" when she was finalist I think at the French.  That was so gut  -- I mean, I felt so much for her that day.
So I think I admire her, because she's actually seen how we have to overcome sometimes if we don't believe in ourselves or enough or be empowered enough.  Also, I don't know the culture she came from.  That's another thing.  I always have to understand each culture they come from.  That helps a lot.
And her parents, how were they, was one positive and one was negative or were they both negative?  You really do have to understand that part of a person.  But I think it's amazing what she's done from a small country.  I think it's always helpful.  Gets people excited.
So I have been through -- I know Virginia Ruzici from the old days.  I have always been watching her.  You have these -- anyway, I was saying, at least I have been through -- I just feel for her when I watch her.  I want her to do well and never to give up on herself, always do well.
I think she's been amazing.  To become No. 1 in anything in life is very difficult.  It's only a fleeting moment, anyway.
That's why it's hard to keep being yourself, try your best every day, bring all of yourself to everything you do, whether it be your writing or your broadcasting or whatever.  Every day you wake up, you want to wake up with fire in the belly.  That's what champions feel every day.  Even if they don't feel like it, you have to know how to recharge your battery, day after day after day.  That's what makes greatness.
I just hope she continues to prosper and thrive.  I want them all to thrive, though.  I just want the best for the players, on and off the court in life.  But I love it when they do well, because they work hard.  We don't see that part.
Q. May I know your opinion, what is the difference from your era and the current players, including Naomi, maybe the player style?
BILLIE JEAN KING: The playing style?  Well, first of all, since my generation we used these wooden racquets that had a sweet spot about this big (indicating).  The racquets are different.  They talk about the strings all the time.  Everything is exaggerated, like the spins.  Everything is exaggerated.  It's more topspin, more slice, it's more exaggerated.  It's very different.  Plus the technique they learn now is better.
My generation, we couldn't even afford to have coaches.  We actually helped each other.  Like I helped Chris Evert or she helped me or I helped Martina, we tried to help each other and then go out and beat each other's brains out in the match.
So we may have a coach at home but they couldn't afford to go with you.  I had to fight with the women actually to get, for them to get an athletic trainer.  Do you know athletic trainers, they do the tape?  They are kind of like you have to have them, at least.  Now we have physiotherapists, massage therapists, we have doctors, we have everything.  And why?  Because of money.  It's all a function of money.
That's why you have all these coaching teams, support team.  We didn't have that.  We had to support each other because we didn't have any money.  I won $100,000 in 1971.  I think I played in 30 tournaments.  I averaged -- if you won the singles you averaged 1,800 a week.  If you won the doubles, I think it was 500.  So you got 250.
So you can imagine, to make 100,000 and you're averaging -- maybe it was 500 each -- 2,300, if you win, that means if you win that week, do you know how many tournaments you have to win to get to 100,000?  Whoa.
We had one tournament of 40,000, and the $10,000 first prize, I knew I had to win that tournament if I was going to make the 100,000 at the end of the year.
I wanted to make that because money talks.  People understand money, right?  No matter if you're a factory worker, a writer, doesn't matter.  Everybody understands money.  It's a measurement that people understand.
I knew if I could make 100,000 it would bring so much attention to women's tennis and to women's sports and to help people respect us, because money does talk.
That's why I wanted to win it so badly.  It wasn't even actual money, having that much money.  It was what it represented.  It's the message.
We didn't have that.  So the players today are better.  They're better coached.  They are taught better technique.  We were very static.  They are very dynamic.  They have a dynamic body, but you want to keep your head still and watch the ball.  If you're watching tonight, watch how, if you want to keep your head still, watch the ball to the contact point.  The players who do that better usually are better players.
And also, watch how dynamic their bodies are and how still their head is.  Everything with us was still, period.  We go sideways, we'd swing our racquet 180 degrees.  Sometimes they do more than 360 even.  That's why they hit the ball harder, plus the racquets, plus the strings, technique is just better.
Do they go to net enough?  No.  But the balls also hit harder today, so you can't just bop in like we did.  You can't hit a slice near the baseline and think -- like in the old days, that would be a really good approach.  Might not be such a good approach anymore.
So it's much harder, but I still feel the players don't go forward enough sometimes on very obvious situations.  I'd like to see them add that.  The one shot they have added to their repertoire in the last five years is the dropshot.  They were not dropshotting enough.  Now they are.  Because the players stand so far behind the baseline, that's a really smart shot.
Roger Federer started that years ago and he'd hit, hit, hit.  He'd hit a deep backhand, shorter backhand, and a really short backhand.  Then the guy had to come in and then he'd move forward.  The girls are doing that now, as well, on the women.
So they're better, I think -- in women's tennis, I would really concentrate on making sure their serve is good.  I don't think, as a little girl, when they are young, do they throw the ball enough like they do with the boys.  That really helps.  They have proven it.
They have done research with non-dominant arms.  If you're right-handed, they make you throw left, and the same with the boys.  Very similar one when you get the non-dominant arm involved.  That's why boys -- because I know in the U.S. they spend a lot more time with boys playing catch.  When they spend just as much time with their daughters playing catch, their serve is 10 times better.
That's why it's all practiced, it's all work, it's repetition.  So if you want your daughter to be a better athlete and if she's going to be in tennis, she's got to have a great serve.  Serve is major.
That's why Serena has won so much.  Her serve kept her in matches probably that wouldn't have, she wouldn't have won if she didn't have that good of a serve.  That's why I want all the women to have really good serves, because that's how you start the point.  The first two strikes of the ball are major.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT