BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2005
Taleesha Conder
Julie Goodenough
Nina Stones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  We wish we still had some games left this season.  But applaud Nebraska's efforts and wish them the best of luck tomorrow.  
 
 
Q.  Nina, Nebraska was talking about how they felt like they played you guys differently defensively.  That was a big difference.  Can you address that? 
 
NINA STONE:  Yes, I think they were a little bit more aggressive.  They was out in the passing lanes a lot more, you know. They did a lot of switching in the game.  Last time we played them, they didn't do a lot of switching, but they did hedge pretty big.  That's what we worked on in practice and everything.  I'd just say that they was a lot more aggressive than what we played them last time.  
 
Q.  Nina, you guys didn't shoot real well in the first half, but you were tied, come out even colder in the second half.  Can you talk what happened the first 10 minutes of the second half? 
 
NINA STONE:  In the second half, our shots just wasn't falling.  I know in the first half, I mean, we didn't shoot it that well, but our defense intensity was very good.  In the second half, Nebraska came out pretty strong.  Then when we tried to come back and score, the ball just wouldn't go in the hole, I guess.  But we just got (inaudible), so.  
 
Q.  Nina, can you talk about the progress that you feel like y'all made as a team this year even though the wins may not show it? 
 
NINA STONE:  The program's coming along very well.  Yeah, I mean, the record doesn't show.  7-21 doesn't really show it.  As you guys know, the past couple of months, nobody wanted to play us.  I mean, we hung in there with K State at K State.  Texas Tech at Texas Tech.  We played Baylor right down to the buzzer.  Played Nebraska right down to the buzzer beater.  This program's coming along very well under Julie Goodenough.  
 
Q.  Taleesha, have you paid much attention to all the speculation about the future of the program?  Has that been a bother or a hindrance to you guys as players? 
 
TALEESHA CONDER:  No, I don't think so.  I think that we just take it day to day and just go out and play with our hearts.  I mean, you have to go out and just play ball.  That's all you got to do, is just play ball.  
 
 
Q.  What do you think your future is at Oklahoma State? 
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  What do I think my future is at Oklahoma State?  I have -- I have received nothing but positive reinforcement from Dr. Schmidly and Dr. Birdwell.  They've just been very supportive of my efforts leading this program.  This is where I would like to be for a long time.  I think it's very difficult to turn a program around in the Big-12 in just a short period of time.  I think we're headed in the right direction.  Obviously, we're not happy with the number of wins we've had this season.  I think that this team has been more competitive this season than the team has been the last two seasons, even though our record does not reflect a very successful season.  I really have enjoyed our team this year and am very excited about the prospects of the future, excited about the new players coming in, just excited about what the future holds for this program.  
 
Q.  In practice yesterday y'all talked a lot about slowing down Kiera Hardy.  Do you feel you did a good job of that? 
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  I really did.  Taleesha Conder and Catherria Turner on Hardy.  She takes, you know, 25 to 30 shot attempts per game, and we held her to 13.  That took a great defensive effort from Taleesha and Catherria were basically the ones guarding her tonight and they did a great job.  A lot of credit goes to the other players on their team who stepped up and knocked down big shots.  Their post players were very physical and really wanted the ball tonight.  They had some other players that really rose to the occasion.  I know Coach Yori is probably always happy when she has three players scoring in double figures.  
 
Q.  Speaking about the future of the program, your lead by a freshman in scoring tonight.  Do you feel like you have some things for next year? 
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  Pretty much over everyday starting lineup has been one senior, three sophomores and one freshman.  So we've been playing a lot of minutes with a very young squad on the floor.  So I think there are some really good things to come for this program.  Destanie Sykes and Christian Hood have played some invaluable minutes their first two years at Oklahoma State.  They've played invaluable minutes in the Big-12.  Devry McDonald, this is her first year in the Big-12 and I think she got a good taste of just the level of play, intensity.  That will benefit her in the future.  Taleesha Conder I think is probably one of the top freshmen in the league.  She has developed a lot I think offensively and will I think continue to learn the value of defense.  That's hard at this level I think for the freshmen sometimes.  Taleesha I think will be a tremendous player for this program.  
 
Q.  Could you talk about how difficult it is in three years to keep hitting your head against a wall in a conference like this, maybe how tough the expectations are for somebody to come in and get something done when it is so hard. 
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  Well, the Big-12 is arguably the very best women's basketball conference in America.  Even though our team has improved over the last year, so are all the other teams.  You know, I don't see any programs making huge strides in the conference.  The top four or five times will continue to be being the top four or five times probably for many years.  The thing I think you'll have to do if you're one of the bottom four in the conference, you have to make strides to move into the middle of the pack.  I don't know how realistic it is to do that in two or three years.  I think Connie has done a great job of having her players come out and play hard and compete night after night.  I do feel like if you're building a program in the north, you have a little more advantage than you do in the south building a program when you have probably eight games in the south division against Top 25 programs.  I think that prevents you from winning more ballgames.  But it's a difficult task.  It's challenging, but one that I have really enjoyed.  It's fun when you can go to work with enthusiasm and optimism every day and just look forward to practice every day and look forward to the next competition.  As a basketball coach, I can't imagine being in a better situation.  We get to strategize daily on how do we beat Coach Conrad's team, how do we beat Sherri Coale's team, Coach Sharp's team?  We are playing against some of the best basketball minds in the country, and it is a privilege and honor for me to do that.  
 
COACH GOODENOUGH:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT