AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 7, 2018
Mike Clevinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone.  We'll get started with Mike Clevinger.   
 Q.  Mike, you've obviously pitched in the postseason before, but how does your preparation change when you know when you're pitching, that you're starting a game particularly in a situation like this with you guys down in the series?  
MIKE CLEVINGER: Like I approach any of the starts in the season.  That's the kind of cool thing about knowing and getting the start this time, I can prepare and normalize this whole process as much as possible.   
 Q.  Clev, what have you, maybe from watching Corey, catching Carlos, what have you maybe picked up and also just from looking at the Houston lineup and their approach against them?  
MIKE CLEVINGER: There's a few things.  But something that's kind of eye opening is how often they capitalize on mistake pitches.  You don't see a lineup top to bottom really be able to do that every time you make a mistake.   
So I think really honing in on two-strike pitches and really paying attention to how you're setting them up, I think, is going to be a big key.   
 Q.  When you get the benefit of looking at a team through the first two games of a series, how much do you take into account maybe what they did against, you know, Corey and Carlos and how much do you just kind of focus on what you do well and just maybe even pepper in some of that other stuff?  
MIKE CLEVINGER: Yeah, I'd say it's just a blend.  I mean, not done a game play with my repertoire and my pitches.  Obviously, you're going to take into account for how they adjusted to Kluber and how they adjust to anybody that went on the mound and kind of mold that into your own game plan.   
 Q.  Mike, what's the attitude of the team right now?  Did you pick up any kind of vibe coming back last night, being down 0-2 and coming into an elimination game?  
MIKE CLEVINGER: I mean, we're definitely -- our backs are against the wall.  But, I mean, I think the biggest vibe is there's -- I mean, we can leave it on the field because, I mean, we know that this could be our last game if we don't show up.   
So, I mean, if anything, everyone is going to leave what they have out there, and that's going to be good to see at home.   
 Q.  You've been on the other end of this as well.  Saw what the Yankees did to you guys last year.  In some kind of twisted way, does that give you some encouragement that, you know, you can win three straight and you can keep going here and advance?  
MIKE CLEVINGER: Yeah.  I mean, I think that's kind of been the trend of our team too.  We might have had some little, cold stretches where we weren't putting pieces together, but the second we got that good team win and that good roll, it seemed like no matter who came around us, we were going to beat them.   
So I think just getting that good team win at home tomorrow could steamroll this into something special.   
Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT