NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 12, 1998
John Schuerholz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. John, you've had, as an organization, remarkable success for seven years or more,
but in the postseason only one ring. And now you're running into some problems here. How
do you explain that?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: How do we explain the fact that we only have one ring from postseason
in the face of all of our success during the season? We have more than one ring. We have
several National League Championship rings. I can't explain that. I don't know that anyone
can. In a short series, sometimes the depth and the breadth of your club isn't shown.
Sometimes teams outplay you in short series, as has happened in the past. Sometimes you
don't play at your very best, as happens periodically in the game of baseball, as you all
know. Baseball teams can sometimes be at their very best for a short period of time or
extended period of time, 10 games, 15 games, then all of a sudden hit a wall and not be
able to do the things they clearly are capable of doing. Our feeling has been about --
with respect to hitting those spots in the road. But the team has been, over these eight
years, the team, I think, has been capable of being a legitimate postseason team,
legitimate League Championship team, and in some cases even a World's Championship team.
We've only won one, but we've put ourselves with the talent and the commitment and the
leadership with Bobby and such that we're there every year, just about. We feel good about
that. The continuity of that success -- we're obviously disappointed that we haven't
achieved more of the ultimate goal of our industry than just the one.

Q. Then you've gotten to that point, and you haven't gotten over that last hump very
often. Do you feel you've done all we can do, you're really one of the class organizations
in baseball or do you still need to do something else?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: The answer to that is yes. The answer to that is yes. The answer is
yes: We feel like we're one of the class organizations in baseball, not because we feel
it, but because so many of you have said it and indicated that. And we're proud of that.
But we also feel there is sort of the unfinished symphony. Unless we reach our goal to be
World Champions, or get in the World Series, I guess the standard is higher than most,
because getting to the World Series isn't enough, unless we win the World's Championship,
we're not satisfied. So we're proud of the fact that we put ourselves in that position
each year, and have done so now for these eight years, which is really remarkable, when
you think about that in this environment in which we work, in this crazy economic system
in which we're forced to operate to be able to continually keep a winning team. We've done
it and no organization has done it. We're proud of it but we're not satisfied when we
don't get in the World Series or win a World Championship. We've gotten in before and
lost, and it hasn't been satisfactory.

Q. One of the things that some people and talked about is all the money that you've
committed to your starting pitchers, which has been a big reason for your success, but
that the flip side might be that maybe there isn't enough money left over to worry about
the rest of the team. Have you heard that kind of talk, and what would be your response to
that?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: I have heard that talk, and I heard it yesterday. It doesn't make any
sense to me. Because I don't know how anyone can make that kind of criticism and lose
sight of the fact that we just won 106 games. We set a franchise record for wins. We won
more games than anyone in the National League. We won our division by a wide margin. And
if the team was unbalanced, I don't know that we could have achieved those things to that
extent. I doubt we could have. What does happen at the end of the year is that teams that
you're playing are very good, as well. And they are usually at the very top of their game,
emotionally, physically, and all of that. And that is more the reason I think for whatever
perceived lack of success we've had than the fact that our roster may be unbalanced. I
don't know if there's another general manager in baseball that you can ask the question:
Would you like to have your roster balanced like the Braves or some other way, they would
not say we will not take the way the Braves have theirs balanced. We're satisfied with our
concentration and our focus and our emphasis has been on pitching. Admittedly so. We've
had a great deal of success. In 1995 we found ourself in a very similar situation as we
find ourselves in today, down 3-1 in the League Championship Series. But because of the
commitment we made to the outstanding high-caliber starting pitching we have, those guys
were -- allowed us to prevail and win the League Championship. So we feel that's a good
investment. We still like that philosophy. It's served us very well throughout the regular
season and for the most part in postseason. And I don't expect we're going to alter that
philosophy.

Q. The Giants, the team that I cover, kind of went into last season thinking that if --
we'll start the season with the rotation that we have, and if it doesn't work out, we can
always go trade for another pitcher in mid-season like we did the year before. And they
found, to their dismay, because of various reasons, the trade market limited. Did you find
that in finding a closer, the similar kind of frustration?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: With respect to finding a closer, the market is limited because there
are so few of the dominant closers in the game. There are ordinarily more starters. The
field of choice is much greater for starters than it ordinarily is for dominant premiere
closers. So that's how you start out with that situation. And the very few, if you want to
narrow it down to even one that might have been available, was very expensive. And at the
same time, we were experiencing acceptable production and productivity and performance
from our young closers. They hadn't been proven and weren't experienced, but we weren't
motivated by lack of performance in that area or concern in that area. We were motivated
by trying to strengthen ourselves in that area that's important. If we had seen these guys
trying to do the job and struggle, we might have been more willing to be more aggressive
in that attempt to acquire a closer. We didn't feel that, to be very candid with you. We
made some inquiries and made some attempts, but we didn't feel it appropriate to give up
what the cost was with respect to our future and the umpires in our organization with the
job our guys were doing. And so far, I think that's fairly well proven out.

Q. How much will one postseason series determine how you guys will evaluate in the
off-season? If you all had been swept in the series, even if you lose it 4-1, is there
more pressure to say you've got to do something, to show people you're making some
changes?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: No, not really. We evaluate in a very thorough, and some would suggest
methodical fashion. That's the way I think you have to do it. If you get caught up in
emotion and short-term evaluations, you make more mistakes than if you evaluate over a
longer period of time. And that's what we do. We have evaluations provided every year. I
have meetings with Bobby and the coaches and they evaluate from the inside viewpoint of
what this team looks like, what it's strengths and weaknesses are, what changes they may
sense are necessary. We have scouts who look at the team from outside, in. And then we
evaluate all those, balance them and analyze them and make our evaluations. But we don't
make any decisions based on a short-term series, or something as emotional as a
devastating loss like in a short series like this would be. We don't do that.

Q. (Inaudible).

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: I think in a short series, it's diminished. If the team has more money
to spend, and spends it wisely, by the way, that they will have more of an opportunity to
win more games, if they do their jobs right with that resource, that money that they have.
In a short series, I don't think -- it doesn't matter as much. I think anybody can get hot
for a three- or four-game period or five-game period or whatever, and it would counteract
whatever long-term effect an impact that a team with more money would have against a team
with less resources.

Q. Although no team has ever come back from a 3-0 deficit, I assume you believe the
Braves can, and if so, why? What are the elements of this team that give you that? 

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: The answer to that goes back to the question of starting pitching
before. We've committed so much money to our starting pitchers -- the question had to deal
with do we think we can come back from the deficit we've created for ourselves. And the
answer I feel is yes. Referring back to an answer I gave earlier, in 1995, we were down
3-1 to the Cardinals. And the reason I feel we can do it then is the same reason I felt we
could do it now, and the reason is simple: Smoltz and Glavine and Maddux. If there's any
team who has the capability of fighting themselves out of such a deep hole like we're in,
it is a team like outs with those caliber pitchers scheduled to pitch for us, if we get
the opportunity to play all three games. I couldn't feel any better about an effort to try
to overcome a deficit like this than I do, because of the fact that we have those pitchers
going for us.

Q. In that series, in the last three games, I believe you outscored them something like
32 to 1. Do you feel that your offensive team is as good as that team?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: I think it's better. I really do. I think it's more balanced. We have
a greater left-handed, right-handed balance in our line-up. We were first in the National
League this year in homeruns. I think we were second in runs scored; so we scored a lot of
runs. We have a very capable offensive team. And we're facing a very good pitching staff
right now, which, in the immortal words of Greg Maddux: "Good pitching usually
defeats good hitting." And that's what we've seen so far. Our guys broke out of it
last night, and hopefully they'll keep it going. But in my view we, clearly have enough
offense to win those three games, if we hit like we're capable of hitting.

Q. What areas would you like to improve on, maybe in the off-season with a focus of the
bullpen?

JOHN SCHUERHOLZ: I'll be honest. I really haven't focused on that. We're still focusing
on trying to win this League championship Series. And when we have the final analysis of
our team with that outside-in view with our scouts, and we begin to analyze and evaluate,
we'll have a better feel for what we might want to do to adjust our roster for next year.
We haven't gotten there yet. We're still very proud and very happy with the results of
this season, having won 106 games. And there really isn't an area of concern that we had
coming into the postseason, based on the way the club was playing, and the way they played
throughout the 106 game schedule.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT