NCAA SOFTABLL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
May 19, 2017
James Landreneau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Louisiana-Lafayette - 6, McNeese - 0  
  
JAMES LANDRENEAU: First of all, you have to start off by just tipping your hat to UL. They played an outstanding game. Stewart pitched -- no hits, just right there. We put some good at bats together early in the game, and they played great defense.  
At the end of the day, they made plays, and we didn't make the plays we needed to make to win the game. Four errors, six walks against a great team like that, it's going to be very tough to win, especially when you have someone in the circle that's pitching the way she did tonight.  
   
 Q. Coach, Alex's performance in the circle, obviously, she pitched well, but there were some spectacular defensive plays too. Those ones that you're going, man, if those fall, it's a total outcome of the game could be different.  
JAMES LANDRENEAU: Yeah, you hate to get into that what if game, and I could tell today -- they played outstanding defense today. That's what wins games. That's what wins championships is defense. They played it today. So they deserve it.  
   
 Q. Coach, for you, how difficult is it to go against a lineup like the Ragin' Cajuns?  
JAMES LANDRENEAU: It's difficult. We knew they were a quality team coming in. Their record speaks for itself. They have an explosive offense. But I think all in all our pitchers did a good job of handling that situation. I'd like to see us make some defensive plays behind them and not let that lineup turn over so many times.  
   
 Q. What was it specifically about the catch taking away the home run? Talk about chemistry on the plays here and there. Your team takes some momentum hit early. What does that (inaudible) look like, when you look back at not getting a run?  
JAMES LANDRENEAU: That's a good question. We'll never really know that. We'd like to have that ball for us. But, again, what's happened has happened. She made a good play, and we've got to be able to recover from that.  
   
 Q. Coach, kind of an uncharacteristic night for you guys on defense. What kind of led to that? Do you think it was kind of the moment, or what do you think went into that?  
JAMES LANDRENEAU: You know, I can't really put a finger on it right now. You're right. It's uncharacteristic of us to make -- to kick balls down like that.  
This team is going to be fine. We've been in a situation where maybe things didn't go our way and we rebounded well. This team is tough. They showed it all year long, and they'll be ready to play tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT