BUICK CLASSIC
June 24, 1999
Tom Byrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM BYRUM: I thought the course played difficult even right from the start, the greens
were firm. They had some good speed. We didn't have any wind to speak of at the beginning,
but the greens are definitely firm and some of those pins are a little hard to get to with
the greens being that firm. But I played very well for 17 holes, made one mistake really
today and it cost me a bogey. Other than that, I am very satisfied with the start though. 
 
Q. What made the round work today? Why did you play so well?
 
 TOM BYRUM: Well, I am a good driver of the ball and that worked well today and I got
some nice breaks, chipped in on the first hole, made a long putt on the 3rd hole. Kind of
got the ball rolling. Then just consistently putting it in the fairway and not having to
chip to these greens, being in the fairway, you can hit the greens a lot easier. I stayed
away from a lot of that. Just a good ball striking round and didn't put myself where I was
having to scramble all the time. 
 
Q. Were you able to set your own pace out there today; you were first out?
 
 TOM BYRUM: The first nine holes. We had a little ruling on the first hole which we took
-- took a few minutes, but after that it was pretty smooth sailing so we were on our own.
Then we came around the ninth hole and one of the officials told our caddies that we
better slow down, looks like we are going to run over the top of the groups coming up. So
then we got timed for a hole and then we caught them and waited about five holes in a row
coming in. I don't know what the deal was there, but I won't mind talking to one of the
officials about it. 
 
Q. The front 9 is --
 
 TOM BYRUM: We had nice speed on the front 9. 
 
Q. How have you played this year and what problems have you had with your game; have
you been tinkering with your game?
 
 TOM BYRUM: I don't tinker anymore. I just wait for my tournaments. This is one of my
favorite tournaments. I kind of wait for the courses that suit my game. Most of those seem
to fall from around the summer through the fall, rather than -- there is a couple on the
West Coast, but hardly anything in Florida that I play well in. So this is my time of
year. 
 
Q. How do you feel about starting on a par 3 hole?
 
 TOM BYRUM: I don't mind it. I think it is -- it is okay. Don't have to worry about
hitting the fairway, just the green, takes half of the worry out of it. 
 
 TOM BYRUM: 1, I hit it just over just through the middle of green there on the left and
had a nice little chip, made that. Just off the edge of the green. Probably 20, 25 feet.
Basic par on No. 2. No. 3, I hit just in the first cut on the right side of the fairway
and had to go around those trees and hit a nice shot that on the left side of the green
pin-high and made about a 30-, 35-foot putt there. Then birdied 5, the par 5 just laid up,
hit a sand wedge about eight feet. 
 
 TOM BYRUM: 9, I laid it back and hit a wedge about ten feet. Then I bogeyed 11, drove
it into the left rough, hit it in the bunker, hit it out in the middle of the green and
just 2-putted, which there is not a bad bogey. 14, I hit an 8-iron about ten feet, made
birdie. 17 was my only really -- the only swing that I felt like I should have made a
better swing. I had a wedge into the green and pulled it into the bunker. Hit a pretty
good bunker shot that hit right on the edge of the fringe and ran -- took off on me a
little bit, so I made a bogey there. Didn't hit a very good wedge shot on the last hole
but those pins just aren't that easy. You want to be aggressive, but then if you are too
aggressive you find yourself putting downhill with about a 25-, 30-foot putt that you
can't make them; so you got to kind of bounce them in there a little bit. 
 
Q. When you get off to a good start like this, do you allow yourself to think about
winning a tournament at this early stage and is that something you have to fight at all?
 
 TOM BYRUM: I think it is something that I try to -- not that -- I have only won once.
It has been awhile. I think you need to put that in the back of your mind. It enters your
mind but it is something that is so far away, so irrelevant at the time that you have to
be -- have to realize that, you know, that is three days from now. I am just hoping that I
have a chance to win on Sunday. I hope I am in the thick of it on the back nine on Sunday
just like every week everybody would like to have that opportunity. So the first round is
really such -- it is great to have a good first round but it is really just a -- you know,
as far as getting in here and getting all hyped up about it, it is nothing to get too
excited about. 
 
Q. When was the last time you were in the hunt on the back nine on Sunday?
 
 TOM BYRUM: Would have been last year, I don't know. I played good year here but I know,
I had a couple of chances after that. Maybe Vancouver or -- I was playing good in Las
Vegas, a good round or two at the end of -- so, I don't remember. Last year there weren't
a lot of opportunities. This was one of them where I felt like a good round on the last
day and I would have had a chance maybe, I don't know how far back I finished. There has
been a few times but not nearly enough. 
 
Q. Do you feel you are playing better this year? 
 
 TOM BYRUM: It is just about this point where I have played the same. I really don't
know. Nothing great, just -- I don't know how to explain it. I don't play well until about
June. 
 
Q. What do you think it is going to take to win this tournament score-wise?
 
 TOM BYRUM: I don't know. I hope three more of those and I like my chances, three more
68s. The way the course is playing -- there is a prediction for rain, I think, so if it
rains you are going to have to start shooting it pretty low, but those greens are getting
firm. Today they are going to -- you are really going to see some balls take off because
they are already doing that on some of the shots. If the wind is blowing and it gets
downwind that is even going to be harder to stop. Scores are not going to be that low
today I don't think. It is going to be an exceptional round to be 5-under today. 
 
Q. Because you started early today how much do you think that was an advantage?
 
 TOM BYRUM: I think that was -- if there was any advantage I was the first one to hit
this morning, so if there was any moisture left in those greens we had it for at least
nine holes over, or at least for a hole over the group behind us. It is not getting any
easier out there for sure right now. Wind is picking up and the greens are drying out
right now what little they had in them. 
 
Q. Did you play last week?
 
 TOM BYRUM: Not at the Open. I think it was a good thing. Looks like. That looked like a
tough course. 
 
Q. It was.
 
 TOM BYRUM: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT