THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2016
Tom Byrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM BYRUM: Cooler day, and there was a little more wind when we started out of a different direction.  No. 1 was a little left-to-right and hurting and 2 was straight in.
It played kind of tough starting out I thought.  But you know, then we kind of got into it.  It was set up a little bit harder I thought, too.  The pin placements were a little bit more closer to the edges and things like that.  But still, good score if you're hitting good shots.  I just didn't quite have the same shot-making today as I did yesterday.
Q. When you look at a round like, say, Miguel Ángel Jiménez who went out and shot such a low number today, does it give you a good feeling going into tomorrow knowing that you're in solid position?
TOM BYRUM: I'm just trying to survive my own stuff.  I'm fighting a little bit of a tight back, and my putter has been still saving me, like today.  Did a good job scrambling again.  I just need to swing a little better, a little freer, and hopefully it's a warmer day, which I don't think it's supposed to be.  I'm going to have to find something.
Q. The forecast tomorrow, not liking particularly good.  Do you think that can benefit you at all?
TOM BYRUM: Any time you get some tough weather, I'm sure he's a good mudder.  He's been around the block enough.  I'm guessing he can handle those conditions.
But you know, if they are benign conditions, I think it could be everybody kind of stays in it more.  When you get tougher conditions, I think it separates guys.  I don't know, sometimes I get separated, too.  We'll see how that goes.
I've been playing good in the wind, so, I don't know, I'd like to see it blow a little bit.
Q. At one point a couple hours ago, there were a bunch of guys within a few shots of the lead, but you seem to be in a good position.  Does that give you confidence?
TOM BYRUM: You know, I've been playing well.  I don't see any reason why I can't shoot a good number.  Whether it's good enough to win, I don't know.  I just feel like I can still go out and shoot 3- or 4-under and that will be a good score for me out there.  Hopefully it's less than that.
But we need some tough conditions, and I shoot 3- or 4-under, that would be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT