THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 22, 2016
Tom Byrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mimicked yesterday's 69 today, I know you bogeyed the last hole, but I have to believe you're pleased with your play today.
TOM BYRUM: Very pleased.  Only bogey today, and really only had one other opportunity that could have been a bogey.  I hit it really well, which is totally the opposite of yesterday, and putted pretty well today.
Really happy with it.  Played 18, that hole, just was sneaky, faster than the rest of the course I felt like.  Almost made some bigger mistakes than I did coming in.  Could have been worse.  It was good to see one time, anyway.
Q. Yesterday you said the putter saved you; your ball-striking wasn't as good tee-to-green.  Today, much different story?
TOM BYRUM: Yeah, I went in and got a little work at the physio trailer here and they as soon as ended it up pretty good and tack care of it with some stretching.  Felt great this morning.  You could tell I was swinging a lot better, freer.  I got a little confidence going and the weather has been great, and the putter stayed pretty consistent.  Maybe wasn't quite as good as yesterday but it was good enough.  If I can do that all the time, it would be great.  That's fun.
Q. You've been showing a lot of good form in recent weeks coming into this event.  How much does that have to do with how well you've played so far this week?
TOM BYRUM: Probably a lot.  My confidence is up but as I was saying earlier yesterday even, I just wasn't swinging well.  Hadn't slept good.  It just seemed like this week was adding up to maybe thing changing around.
But I finally got a good night's sleep and got my back loose and things started to turn around.  The putter saved me yesterday and my ball-striking was pretty good other than 18 today.  It's been a good two days.
Q. You mentioned the putter.  You had a great up-and-down on 17 that we saw.  Is that really what's been carrying you so far?
TOM BYRUM: Well, it carried me yesterday, and on 17 today.  So yes, it's been carrying me, but again today was equal.  I hit it well and you just aren't going to make a ton of birdies out here.  It's not like even these greens are sneaky hard; it's hard to get them close.  When you do have a scoring club, it's nice to hit them in there and know what you're doing.
It's a good two days and I'm happy where I'm at.
Q. How comfortable are you at Carnoustie?
TOM BYRUM: I like this kind of golf.  I guess that's why I came over.  I enjoy the way the ball runs.  You don't have to hit it high, which I'm not a high ball player.  So I like this kind of golf.  It's a challenge to fit the ball, run the ball, and shape a few shots, even so they land on the ground and bounce the right way.
Then again, you're going to get some bad bounces, too, that you just can't control.  You might hit a good one shot that turns out terrible.  It can happen but this course, this can be punishing if you don't play, hit your solid shots.
Q. Anything you'd like to change looking forward to the next 36?
TOM BYRUM: Nothing.  Double that, I'll be happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT