SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Tom Byrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Playing the golf course out here, what did you see that made it different playing than yesterday?  You had the afternoon round yesterday.  So what did you see out there on the course?
TOM BYRUM: I thought they were setting it up a little tougher starting out.  Yesterday seemed like a good day to score.  And it was.  You could tell by the scores.
They had some pretty nice pins and they set it up, I felt like they set it up a little tougher.  Maybe not.
But that's mainly what jumped out at me.  As far as the conditions of the course, the greens maybe were a little firmer, too.  About the same wind.  So, it's playing -- it's not easy but if you're hitting it good and keeping it on the right quadrant, you know, on those greens and you're not having a lot of long putts, you're better off sometimes chipping from a spot that takes out some of the mounds than you are putting over them.  So, it's hard to play safe on these greens, you got to get it in the right spot so you can still chip or putt to the hole.
Q. How would you evaluate your play the last two days?
TOM BYRUM: Pretty good.  I maybe struck the ball better yesterday than I did today, but I scored better today.  I just, it's a weird game.  I switched putters, but -- and that helped a lot.  Just one of those deals, I got on a little roll and made a shot from the fairway and chipped in, so it's that kind of thing.  When you're scoring and feeling it, it seems to go your way.  When you're struggling and fighting it, it seems like it's just a brutal game.
Q. So your third time here, and the first time you put yourself in good position on the weekend.  What kind of changed from this year to the last two times that you've been here?
TOM BYRUM: I think I'm accepting this course for what it is.  I see the strategy of what Jack was trying to do more now.  I also think that I have, I'm striking the ball better, I feel like I'm a better player I was those years and I have a better caddie that's really helping me a lot more than I have in the past as far as on this golf course.  He really has got a good feel for the course and that really gives me a lot of confidence on things that I'm thinking.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT