BUICK CLASSIC
June 13, 2004
Tom Byrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Just talk about your emotion on the back nine.  You had the eagle on 9 to get to 13 and then went double on 16 and -- (inaudible).
TOM BYRUM:  It was up-and-down like you said.  I just couldn't get comfortable with my swing.  My putter felt really good, I just couldn't get it on the green quick enough.  I'd like to play that last hole given all that happened up until the last hole.  It was a bad drive on the last hole.

The way the putter was feeling, I'd like to try it over.  But it was good.  I hadn't been there in a while.  I'll figure out what I'm doing wrong.
Q.  I think you said you hadn't been there for a while.  What would it have meant to you to either get into the playoff or --
TOM BYRUM:  Oh, of course, it would have meant everything.  That's what I'm here for.  I mean, just to get a chance.  It doesn't happen too often for me it seems anymore, so I need to get in there and hang in there.  I just couldn't quite hang in there today.
Q.  What did you hit on 9, driver?
TOM BYRUM:  4-wood.
Q.  4-wood to what, about?
TOM BYRUM:  Ten feet.
Q.  How far did you have -- (inaudible)?
TOM BYRUM:  I don't remember, 240 maybe.
Q.  On 16 where you took the drop, was that just a bad lie?
TOM BYRUM:  I had a bad lie, yeah.  There was a sprinkler there.  I would have hit into like a cover.  It was a pretty good lie but I didn't want to be influenced by that so I moved it off there.
Q.  That was no gimme for bogey.
TOM BYRUM:  No.  I mean, like I said, I just couldn't get it on the green soon enough.
Q.  And then when you made the birdie on 17, were you kind of like -- (inaudible).
TOM BYRUM:  Yeah, I had that par 5 looking at me and I'm a good wedge player and I'm putting good.  All I have to do is drive it in the fairway and I've got a chance for birdie.  That's the only thing disappointing about my whole round is at the end I just didn't -- it was unfortunate.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT