WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: FINALS
March 21, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
USA - 2, Japan - 1   
 Q.  Thank you very much for your hard work.  This was a very close game.  The players did their best, I think.  But I would like to hear your comment on the game today and about the change of pitchers, for example, Mr. Senga was used for that.  What are your thoughts about changing pitchers?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: Right now, as you said, the players did their best I believe.  It's do or die, one semifinal, although we lost, including all the games at Tokyo Dome, the players did really their very best.  I really appreciate it.   
Senga, after that, if we scored runs after that, then I was going to switch him.  If no scores, then no runs, then I had decided we'd go with Senga.   
 Q.  Very unusual for your team to basically lose the game on two misplayed ground balls.  You guys are so fundamentally sound.  Was the weather part of it, or did it just happen to be those two plays?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: That's right.  Well, two plays.  Honestly, there were some mistakes, and then a run was scored.  But I built up our team with good plays as well.   
However, in terms of conditions, you know, it rained.  It's the same for both teams, but in Japan, after all, this is do or die.  We came all the way, so in that sense, it was (indiscernible).   
 Q.  The American pitchers, there's a variety of variations and different styles.  I think it was difficult to hit them.  But prior to your impression after playing with them, what is your impression of American pitchers?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: Since I was not at bat, so I heard the players afterwards what they said.  The first round, second round, third round pitchers compared to those, the power, speed in terms of those things, they were one rank higher with the American team.  We could not hit that ball in the center.  It was difficult.   
 Q.  Thank you for your hard work.  Since you became manager up until this, you've been working hard for this and you've been directing the team.  But now that this tournament is finished, in the future would you like to continue to manage the Japanese team, or do you have any other different thoughts?  I would like to hear.  
HIROKI KOKUBO: You said 2013, I have been managing the team since then, and in this tournament I have been managing the team.  Now my contract is over.  Thank you very much.   
 Q.  The tournament has ended and you faced good teams.  Which of your players do you think could be jumping to the Major Leagues?  Who do you think will be playing and we'll see play with players of that level?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: It's hard to say, but Sugano, for example, and although he made a mistake, but the pitchers all pitched very powerfully against a powerful lineup.   
 Q.  How much more difficult is it for you to lose knowing that it wasn't some long home run or a lot of hits you gave up, but it was the fundamental plays that you guys are so famous for practicing every day?  The world admires how much you do that.  How hard is it to lose on two fundamental misplays?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, the team that makes mistakes will lose.  That's what it means.  I cannot blame them, though, for doing that.   
 Q.  Today on the offense, Kikuchi hit a home run and scored a run.  Throughout the tournament there were many home runs, and we've been winning with long-distance plays.  Today, only the one home run was scored today so we could not have an offense the way we thought worked on this kind of stage.  Do we need strength to have long-distance hits?  What do you think?  On this kind of stage, do we need the strength?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: They're talented players, and they could not hit the ball at the center.  It was difficult.  So forked ball, as always we are not practicing in those dropping balls.  And in that context, they were able to -- it's difficult to deal with the forked balls, but that's what it means.   
Also, throughout the tournament we hit home runs.  In that sense, I think we could evaluate them highly.   
 Q.  The other players, probably, this is the first time we've faced Major League players like this.  This was 2-1, offense and defense pitching all together.  Where were we lacking?  For the Japanese representatives to overcome that and win the World Baseball Classic, what do you think is lacking?  Please tell me what you think.  
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, the moving balls, how to deal with the moving ball.  That's been said, the league is built mainly on pitching.  So it's difficult to say.  However, we've come this far so far in the tournament.  We've come this far, and without taking the risk, they had the mission to lead the team.   
With that intended mission, they came this far.  So I would like to pay respect to them.  In that sense they've done it, and I think they will lead the Japanese team in the future, all of them in the future.   
 Q.  For three years you've been managing the team, including today.  Do you have any regrets, or do you feel you did the best you could and burnt yourself?  
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, I've completely exerted my efforts.  It's just the fact of the matter is we could not win.  That's the fact.  It's not me to evaluate myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT