WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 15, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Kodai Senga
Yoshitomo Tsutsugoh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAPAN 8, Israel 3
Q. In today's contest, through the fifth inning it was a 0-0 score but the second half of the game, there is a big lead.  What's in your mind and how do you evaluate tonight's game?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, yes, in order to go to the semifinal to the States, we have to step ahead, we knew that.  Although the condition is better for us, it's a must-win game for us.  The starting pitcher pitched very well, and Tsutsugoh opened up the game, that was huge.  I am so pleased that we won.
Q. With today's game, your record goes to 6-0.  How do you evaluate the offense lineup, and also the pitching change, especially for the bullpen?  Can you comment, please?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, for the lineup, offense, I don't expect they hit so much home runs as they hit.  But once the tournament starts, they swing hard.  It's not only Japan but also other countries, too.
But anyway, they hit very hard and some of the homers are very effective ones.  And also, if we can show some speed -- overpowered the opponents, that's my conclusion.
For the pitchers, Senga was hoping to start but then during the tournament, we just discussed we would put Senga for starting pitcher.  Some pitchers pitched well, many, and some pitchers didn't pitch that much.  But the bottom line is we have the game plan for winning games.  That's the important thing.
Q. Team Japan goes to the semifinal and the final.  What are the things you would like to improve more?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, well, my mind is so full till today's game.  So tomorrow, we will have a travel day, and I don't know yet who is going to come for the semifinal, but no matter who comes, it's a tough game for sure, I know.
So during the practice session and our exhibition games, we have to prepare well.  The air is dry, so we have to get prepared for that, too.  Once we land to the United States, I will decide who is going to pitch and how do we play.
Q. In the tournament, you played six games.  Do you have confidence to clinch the 2017 World Baseball Classic tournament?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, it's a bit early to say for winning the tournament.  We have a semifinal first, so we have to prepare for the semifinal first.  That's all I can say.
Q. You pitched five scoreless innings and gave up only one base hit, no runs.  How do you feel about it?
KODAI SENGA: Well, yes, I'm just wishing to put zeros on the scoreboard, so I was pleased.
Q. What's the best point of today's pitching?
KODAI SENGA: To be honest with you, my split, forkball, wasn't so good.  But catcher Kobayashi behind the plate, he played well for me.
Q. Six home runs, the huge home run of the game.  How do you feel about it?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: Yes, before that at-bat, Senga and Hirano pitched so well, so they made a good rhythm.  That's why I hit a home run.
Q. Including today's game, you are always the clean-up hitter for Team Japan.  How do you feel about hitting in the fourth spot?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: Well, no matter what lineup I am in, the team winning is more important.  All I can say now is try to be the best preparation for the semifinal.
Q. Now Team Japan goes for the final four.  How do you play as a player and how do you prepare for Team Japan?
KODAI SENGA: Yes, no matter which situation the manager will put me at the mound, I want to put a score on the board, zero.
For winning for the team, is more important, so I just try to give everything I can do.
Q. You are the manager since 2013.  You've been spending four years as the manager.  Do you think this experience helps you clinch the second pool?
HIROKI KOKUBO: That was a tough question for answer.  Well, we still have a semifinal remaining.  So all I can say is I want to be prepared, well prepared.
Q. Throughout the Tokyo round, you played six games, and your players, they played hard and they are eager to play for winning.  What is the point for your players?
HIROKI KOKUBO: The best thing is I always believe in my players, and also when I decide, after I decide, all I can do is just wait for the result.  These are the things I am always talking to myself, that's it.
Q. You put Uchikawa instead of Nakata.  Do you have any reason?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Nakata was a little bit tired, so that's why we change the lineup for Uchikawa.
Q. It looks like during these games that Kobayashi worked really, really well with your pitchers.  During the training camp and the warmup games, what did you see from Kobayashi, and what do you think about the way he performed with all the different pitchers during these Tokyo games?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, throughout the exhibition games, I didn't decide that Kobayashi is going to be the ace catcher for Team Japan.  But throughout the exhibition games, the way Kobayashi played, he played very well.  So that was a huge part for Team Japan that Kobayashi played very impressive.  That's a big part for Team Japan.
Q. You talked about having hit so many home runs in this round, and the next round, obviously with the semifinals, a lot of home run hitters.  What is your approach in terms of trying to get as much power as you can out of your lineup?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, we do not exchange any rosters, but I don't think Team Japan overpowered the semifinals.  It is more important for the rhythm from the defense, including Kobayashi, that's the things we are planning for the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT