WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 12, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Kazuhisa Makita
Sho Nakata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAPAN 8, Netherlands 6
Q. What a game for the tiebreak system.  What is in your mind right now?  You just finished a hard game.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, my brain is not working right now.
Q. You just played a hard game.  What kind of impression do you have for Team Netherlands?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, to be honest with you, we knew that they were going to score a couple runs, so we have to score five or six runs.  That's how I am planning.  Their offense is so powerful, although our pitchers is not in bad condition, we pitched very well, but their lineup has a lot of major league players.  That was very hard.
Q. What worked for Team Japan?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Heart and team work, that's all I can say.
Q. The 11th inning, you choose a sacrifice bunt first and then Nakata hit the game running base hit.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the tiebreak system, when we go to the 11th inning, I told Suzuki to do the sacrifice bunt, and I'm pleased that Suzuki succeeded with the sacrifice bunt.  And our fifth hitter who we were counting on, he did a great job and also Makita did a good job, too.
Q. You gained a lot through today's game.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, yes, we won, and this is something I never forget in my life.
Q. What is in your mind in your at-bat in the 11th?
SHO NAKATA: Yes, Suzuki, before I go, Suzuki mentioned to me before the at-bat, and I will give you the opportunity, so pleased me, and then my heart switched on.  I tried to do everything for the team and also for Suzuki, too.
Q. You had a home run for three games in a row.  How is your swing condition?
SHO NAKATA: Yes, every time I have an at-bat, I try to have a full swing, and I can take very good pitches and I can take good pitches.  No matter if it's a fastball or the first ball, I can swing hard.  That's why I am in a good condition.
Q. You faced a very hard lineup.  What is in your mind when you pitched against Team Netherlands?
KAZUHISA MAKITA: Well, when I watched their batting practice before the game, I impressed that they swing hard.  All I can do is I can throw my fastball in from side (ph) and when I did was something I just imagined, so I'm pleased what I did.
Q. You pitched two scoreless innings.  What did you learn from tonight's contest playing against Netherlands?
KAZUHISA MAKITA: When I go to the mound, I was not chicken, but I was a bit afraid if I gave a base hit.  But when I pitch at the mound, I got ahead of the speed, so I got confidence back.  And from now on, I can get more confidence into my fastball.
Q. In the ninth inning, you put Norimoto, not Makita, what is the reason?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, we decided that today is not Norimoto's day.  There is no reason.
Q. Your catcher, Kobayashi, he worked very well, not only offense, but defense, and he played very big for the team.  How do you feel about Kobayashi?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, if we were behind in the score, we could have sent a pinch-hitter for Kobayashi.  But if the game is tied or if we are ahead, we don't want to have to -- we don't want to send a pinch-hitter or any player to catcher.
Q. In some of the warmup games and then against Cuba, your bullpen gave up a few runs.  But since then, it seems like they have been working pretty well for you.  Can you talk about what you think has changed and what adjustments you've been able to make?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, each player has a particular job role, so the setup guys, it is time for them to be well prepared for them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT