INDIANA UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Kevin Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KEVIN WILSON: Recap the performance Saturday, Wake, players of the game in offense, Rick Jones had some big plays, really good in the blocking game.  Jon Crawford played every snap defensively.  I think he was in on 10 tackles, two pass break-ups, 6 of 6 and 1 on 1 opportunities.  Really didn't have anything in kicking.  Our punter did a nice job and all our kicks were deep in the end zone, but we didn't have a specialist.  We thought that impacted the game.
Our scouts, young guys, T.J. Simmons and kind of helping out, as was recognized defensively with Johnny Albomonte and Nick Ramacca who is an offensive lineman is doing a great job on the scout team.  Guys we thought played well besides the players game, Marcus Oliver also Jon Crawford, defensive performance.  Up front we thought Wes Martin by far his best game to date.  A lot of effort, energy, can be better but thought he did really, really, really well.
Had some big plays, but of course we had a lot of negatives, five interceptions, and you go through the five interceptions, two were on receivers that hit their hands, one was a competitive play on third and four and their DB makes a play, and our guy doesn't.  The ball bounced there.  We have to be strong enough to make that play.  The ball in the end zone goes off a receiver hand, where, again, you're basically playing volleyball and setting up.  One play call I think structurally, the protection didn't match the passing spot, our quarterback got hit on delivery.
So to me, that's on play calling and the last pick was a gritty play call on my part.  Quarterback had one forced throw, should have checked it down on a play that went to them.  So those picks go to the quarterback and he's responsible but turnovers are a team deal.  We had none as a team defensively and that's stopping the run and getting them on third and long and getting after the quarterback and attacking the ball and same thing offensively.  Those turnovers are a team deal, coaches included.
So we're minus 5 there, which is a huge in a game with many critical penalties, and you're always going to have some penalties.  But our second defensive play after we scored we get a turnover but we're off sides on the defensive front.  That's a possible opportunity, first and two, you got a holding call and then a blocked field goal comes after that, but the field goal is on the kicker and the holder because the clock was running down and the holder called for the ball and our timing needs to be under 1-2 and it was 1-4.  As a matter of fact the blocker ran by it, so it wasn't a blocking error, clock's running down, play wasn't late coming in.  As soon as we said 4th down, field goal, guys got strong enough leg. I didn't see it.  I would have taken a time-out.
So it's my fault.  Could have took a delay, but it's poor communication.  Led to a field goal block, but also came after a hold.  You've got an unsportsmanlike penalty on the quarterback, which is probably more critical than his picks, because you're at the 8-minute mark, you gotta score twice and after the second 19 we had a third and 6, we would have been on schedule if you take the penalty out.
So we needed two scores at the 8-minute mark.  We go gown, fourth and 1, get a holding call on the line of scrimmage.  As a matter of fact, if we make the field goal we're probably kicking a field goal on fourth and one and it's a nine-point game going into 6, instead of a 12-point game.
So one face mask, it was in the perimeter and, you know, it's called on Marcelino, and I don't know, can't see on tape, we've got hands in the face, we did get the quarterback on face mask and did tug at jersey and get a hold.  So they had a 65 yard drive with 50 yards of penalties.  Same time, we were second in the nation on turnover ratio on the plus side, so it ain't like all of the sudden -- we've got a long history of taking care of the ball, so hopefully we will be able to clean that up.  It will be a tough challenge with defenses in the Big Ten.  We will satisfy great one this week, but we've got to take care of the ball, we've got to run it better, Wake Forest had 50 rushes and we had 32 and we've got to get the running game going.  When you are playing with group that's got a bunch of guys up in there, there are some one on one plays and you've got to take them and we did.  And the team we're playing this week, they're historically one of the premiere defenses in the country and they do it by having guys that can play locked man-to-man and loading the box and tough sledding in the run game and we've got to find run game because we got outrushed.  Yards they had 50 rushes, we had 32, so he we have got some pass numbers but we've got to find balance, that will be tough in the games we're playing.  We gotta find it.
Defensively we held them to nine punts, six three and outs.  They scored two touchdowns against the defense.  That's four against the defense in three games.  611 yards offense, so we're -- frustrated but we got a lot of talent and it's talent that we gotta get coached, take our performance seriously.  Had a good week of practice last week, we're leadoff to a good start with what's going to be great challenge but we gotta get back on track and we need to fight to win games and it will be a difficult challenge with Michigan State who is a heck of a team.  They're coming in, didn't play well last week by their standards and that's probably several teams in our league are really, really strong.  But that program across the board doesn't show the strength of program with the way they recruit, develop players, coach players, playing all phases, kicking game, kicking fakes, defense stopping the run, defense not giving up big plays, balance of offense, players.  That's why they've won, what?  Ten games or more, 11 over the last four years, five years, Big Ten champions, playing in the playoff last year and they were off to a good start and they played a good football team last week and Wisconsin played well.  But they're a good team and just like us I know they're going to have a good week.
We had a great crowd last week.  Looks like we are set up to have another good crowd and hopefully have great challenge and buckle up in Big Ten football.  Disappointed with the outing, not disappointed in our kids.  Correctible mistakes.  Great, great challenges in front, great opportunities.  Questions?
Q. (No microphone.)  What's his response in the last couple of days and has it been to your liking?
KEVIN WILSON: Real good.  I think the only thing like we've talked about prior was how even keel and calm he was and maybe that's why -- because you can't hide.  Sometimes the guard goes the wrong way and nobody knows it.  His guy gives up a sack, unless you're the guard's mom and watching him, a lot of guys can hide, a 3 technique can go the wrong way and hide but when you're playing out on an island whether you're a receiver or DB in the open field you can't hide.  It's like the golfing world.  It's you, the opponent, the ball and God.  Ain't nobody -- you know, ain't nobody -- ain't nobody hiding here and that's the first time I saw that.  They actually gave me a warning and he got frustrated and said something to the team, and I said, really, what did he say?  I said, hey, man, chill out.  Well, we were struggling in the fourth quarter and he got frustrated and his frustrations got the best of him and other than that he's been himself.  He was back in watching tape and we had some good meetings with him, there was a lot of good things and actually there was one force -- to me it's a collective effort and coaches are part of that team and we just all gotta do better.  I like the way he's playing, guys behind him gotta do better, but I didn't think he mismanaged anything, where he wasn't doing well, he had picks, but he to me had one really forced -- like, what did you see and why, the other things I could account to me or some players that didn't help him out.
The quarterback looks good when the surrounding cast does their job and he gets all the credit.  When the surrounding cast don't do their job, he's the bomb.  He's a product of the group and our group let him down and he'll do well.  He should.
Q. Kevin, I guess Mitchell right after the game he and Rich got together and watched film.  What does that show about the team that before you guys get to them they're watching that game preliminary?
KEVIN WILSON: I didn't know that, one, so that's -- it is -- you know, like, when you talk about your team like T.J. has been fighting through a bad knee and hasn't been full enough to wanting to play yet.  He has a redshirt.  We'll decide if he gets bad.  He came up last week and said, let me tell you something.  I saw that I think can help you and when you have players doing that that are upper-level players that's when you think you have some investments.  I didn't know they watched it.  Our athletes all have iPads and there is an app that they get access to a cloud where them and them alone can watch our videos.
So I'm sure every kid has seen the good and the bad.  I know when I played years ago whether it be a practice or a game you're sitting there saying, I can't wait to see this play because that's a great one and then like, oh, I sure hope he goes through that one fast because I really messed that one up.  So as players you knew that was coming and our players get a chance to watch it so that's good.  We did talk after the game about not being negative, permanently they need to own their performance.  Personally address it.  And come back with better body language and better mind-set and let's correct what's correctible and control what we can control and let's get better while we can get better at.  That's good news, I didn't know that, but not surprised.
Q. Healthwise, with Dimitric and Dan, number one, how are they progressing and how do you feel like the guys that have had to stepped up behind them have done?
KEVIN WILSON: One, you know, and, again sometimes I talk fast, everything doesn't come out right all the time, but I didn't think their injuries outside of being seniors the performance regressed significantly.  Dan's a better player and the best lineman we have, and that position at guard half the time you and the center working together half the time you and the tackle are working together.  So there is not a lot of time -- I know because I played guard if you can't play guard you're off the team.  Okay?  Because when you go through the positions of what -- it's the last stop, man, it's the guard.  Tackles are one-on-one's.  I tell the quarterback all the time you don't play right guard, and Dan is one of the all-time great right guards.  I had one in Oklahoma, Davin Joseph, playing right guard.  There is a lot of stress in that position and you've got a fifth year guy like Jacob Bailey coming in, and Simon Stepaniak played that as well.  And that position -- they will get tested with Malik McDowell who is a three technique inside guy.  But sometimes that position is on an island a lot.  Brandon Knight is healthy and his play at tackle is probably no different than what Dimitric would have done, Dimitric is a senior and veteran.  But Brandon is a talented player so outside of the fact that you lose seniors and the leadership of their presence, I don't think their performance had any issue on the football game.  Our ability to run or not run.  Wake Forest came in they are top 13 in the country in run, pass, total and scoring, and we didn't run a lot, but they were giving up 50 or 60 coming in the game because it's a loaded box and we attacked them down the fields where we thought we needed to go.  So the line play had nothing to do with it, I would like to get those guys back.  I saw Dan doing more yesterday.  Today is a light teaching day in our program, what we're doing, but I think as he goes through exercised induced activities, it's just a matter of, I know, does he have headache issues and when that's clear I think our doctors are giving the clear.  So they're just pushing him through work and after work if he's feeling good consistently he's going to get to go.  If he's got any recurring -- it's not stepping backwards, it's just going through the process and I think it's called exercised induced activity to get through the response where he is.  Dimitric is going through a back and see where he gets to.
Q. (No microphone.)  How soon do you think his role could be expanded in?
KEVIN WILSON: He's been practicing a couple of weeks.  Again, he just needs to -- that's a talented guy, but let's -- he's got to get on the field and prove himself here.  He has in other places and he's coming off the injury and sometimes when you've been sitting that long, there is a little rust that sits in and it's knocking the rust off and it was good that he was cleared and got some plays.  I think he played a handful, five, six, seven, bigger packages.  He's playing outside receiver now and he was look good at practice today and we'll keep workin' it and see how it goes.
Last week we were worried about who was going to step up at receiver and we had a 200-yard receiver, 100-yard receiver and he will be in the mix to play and we need Donavan Hale and those guys to keep coming.
Q. (No microphone.)
KEVIN WILSON: Yeah, you know, again, for where it was and not being greedy on it, because one of my issues with field goal is not the kicker, because we've had two that -- the timing protection we've not been as clean as we needed to be and when you see that in practice and stuff.  So, to me, where we were with it, it's just -- I mean, we ran it later and scored.
Just didn't work that time.  So I mean, you know, we took our -- what we thought was right, we got a leg that can definitely kick the field goal, but the way our protection had been it was in the fringe area where, you know, should we or shouldn't we?
Maybe hindsight early in the game like that, instead of taking that 20-second deal, probably next time let the clock run out and take a time-out and let's talk about it.  Are we good to kick it?  We have to play a lot of games, but if I got a regret it's maybe making a quick decision.
We had talked at the 8-minute mark left in the game, down 12 points, if we get a quick three and out we're going to kick it and use timeouts.  Well, we kicked it and didn't need to use timeouts because we had out-of-bounds plays that helped us and the next time we were trying to maximize our possessions.
So that being said, I don't know if saving timeouts especially the first half, is big for us.  So if I have a regret, it's maybe taking a timeout and getting the defense and talking with the kicker, talking protection, talking play -- where, hey, we made a 10-second decision, let's go for it.  And of course we had already decided plays one, so the play call wasn't hard.  So if I had a regret maybe sometimes in that situation, probably should have taken a deep breath and got more thoughts.  But I made the call, live with it and it doesn't work.
Q. -- empowering those coaches but how do you, I guess, diagnose what you've seen on that side of the ball through three weeks?
KEVIN WILSON: One, good.  Can be better, though.  Of sometimes, you know, offense are still -- they're lack of execution making them beat you so we got so many thing we need to clean up because we will be stressed and tested much harder this week and in weeks to come with schematics and playmakers and skill set and line of scrimmage play, et cetera.
You know, I -- we work together a lot in practice, there is some crossover, hey, we're going to go together and in a blitz, period, what did you want to see, get together e running period, what can we do to help each other because there's a lot of times no matter what the opponent -- we're go to run a lot of plays very, very similar to the opponent, we're also going to run some plays very, very different, so we don't need to muddy your vision.  So we go quite a bit together so you see 'em.
But really it's -- it's got me where I'm spending more time trying to be involved with running that ship and I'll give him my 2 cents from an offensive view.  Here is what I think.  Here is what I see as an offensive guy, I think they're seeing because sometimes as a coach you sit there and say, well, this is what they did last week.  But sometimes you gotta look at you and where you're going to get attacked, so as an offensive guy I'm thinking I'm watching their offense, and hey, if I was them I think I would do some things.
So that's my input to the defensive coaches as an offensive coach and I think they're in fourth down territory, FYI, because I think that changes second and third down calls.  But Coach Allen is doing awesome, great presence, great standard setting and I still think, though, he will tell you he and his players are close and to give up a couple of plays we did, the penalty on the big drive, the self-inflicted wounds, no turnovers.  I think it's digging him deep and I know he will work hard to try to address it without pointing fingers, to get his guys playing better, and we're going to need them to.
Q. Talk about timeouts left in the first half, 58 seconds, is that kind of a field thing?
KEVIN WILSON: Very much, even though we can score are -- you know, we go through -- I think I had it in one part, I don't know if I got it here, but we went in a string after we scored the first touchdown, we had the interception in the end zone where they ran it out to the 40.  We had a punt where nothing happened.  Every time they punted, nothing happened.  As a matter of fact there is 15 drives and only 8 of them ended in a kick, we had five turnovers, and two times on fourth down that we went for it.  Punting the ball is better than giving it to them or kicking a field goal and getting points and scoring the touchdown is the ultimate deal, finish with a PAT.
So we had eight times where we kicked the ball.  We had three punts in the game.  But there was a string after that first touchdown in the first half where it was a turnover.  It was a punt, a fourth and 1 on downs.  It was a turnover.  There was another turnover and now it's 50 seconds, and it's like, hey -- and they had just pulled a drive out, made a play, wow, that kind of -- it was third and three and they pop a 27-yard run to midfield and then the quarterback scrambled out on another one, next thing you know they're on the 26 yard line and they make a shot on us, make a really good play and at that point in time we can score in 50 seconds, couple of big plays later, I thought we needed to go in and school down.  If we had punted the first run and got out of the gate.  Things were going to change, but where it was right then and they had two timeouts and the way it was going.  If we had thrown it three times in a row or they take too much, here comes the punt team again, here is maybe a punt return or punt block.
So I felt like risk management, let's go in, take one play at a time and one possession at a time and try and get back in it.  That was my thought at the time.
Q. Kevin, there had been some other games where guys were ready to score touchdowns, dropped the ball right before they get in the end zone.  Because of that, did you have a talk with your guys to make sure you get it in the end zone before you give you up the ball and hand the ball to the referee?
KEVIN WILSON: Of course, we always -- every one of our practices here that we have our managers are in referee shirts because every play you give the ball to the referee and that helps us play fast so, you know, if you throw a pass in a practice that's on the ground we're supposed to pick up the ball and give it to our manager.  That's your ball, even if it's on the ground.  So we're used to doing that, but only thing I would say is that we did show those plays.  We showed the kickoff return where the guy caught it and threw it to the referee.  We try as much as we can to educate.
There was a play and a great game with two ranked teams two weeks ago with the defensive scoop and score and one team is really rolling and third yards behind the play there's a cheap shot and now with the cheap shot they are kicking off from the 20 and the guy kicks it out-of-bounds.  Now the ball is on the 50, two plays later the team behind scored and the team came rolling back and they're one of the best teams in the country.  And I think the score was 24-3.  If we want 4-10, punt return, 24-17, and we showed our team that at Florida International we had a sideline penalty on the one pick six, we kicked off from the 50 and that's one of their scores.
So we try to educate the guys, and, you know, I watch a lot of football and I don't really pull for guys, but you're looking at situations and at looking at plays and there's a lot of learning situations, and I think because kids this day and age are so video acclimated, I don't know how much football awareness, football common sense, athletic common sense guys have.  So we try as much as we can to educate our guys on how to be a little bit more aware and learn from others' mistakes.
Q. -- like a Madden player.  Video game -- (Away from mic.)
KEVIN WILSON: The Superman x-ray vision, you can't throw a ball -- it's against one of my laws of physics.  Laws of physics says a football cannot travel through a person.  You know?  The quarterback always wants to stick it through there.  It don't work.  We gotta do a better job with the hands and with our receivers there.  We gotta to be a lot tougher.  We gotta be a lot more physical, find some run game, take care of the ball, do things that it takes to win, because that team last week they came in and played good team ball.  We had some good team stats.  They played as a team.  They played in all phases as a team and they won the stats that teams need to win games and that's why they got a "W."
We will need that this week against a very talented, very prideful program that to me is one of the best programs not only in our conference but in the nation so a strong, strong test.
Q. (No microphone.)
KEVIN WILSON: We shared it with the team.  My wife was actually driving me to the hotel that morning where the team was and she got a call from one of the coaches' wives.  Very sad there.  Tough deal.  She grew up -- our first recruit for Coach Walker was a young man in Oxford who dated Terry's daughter.  So not only was Terry on the staff, but dated her.  As a matter of fact, a couple of players from that team hit me with the news, texted me.  So just pray for their family.  It's tragic.  I think a couple of our coaches are tied in with her kids and Percy knew her.  So it's a tough deal, but we send prayers and love to them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT