LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 14, 2020
Terance Mann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 107, Thunder 103, OT
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Terance.
Q. At what point in the game did you know that you were close to getting a triple-double?  Is this the type of player you'll be in the future, a stat stuffer, do everything on the court?
TERANCE MANN:   First question, yeah, I mean, I knew probably like fourth quarter when they were telling me, You only need two more assists, one more rebound, yada, yada.  The whole bench was making it clear to me.  I've been playing like that my whole life if you look back.  That's what I do - rebound, assist, score - all three.
Q. What is the biggest lesson you've learned about yourself in the bubble?  What is the biggest thing you've learned from Coach Rivers this year as you've matured and grown?
TERANCE MANN:   In the bubble I'd probably say how much effort and energy I can bring defensively, especially to help this team out.
Then in terms of learning from Doc, how to be a point guard, how to run the team, how to look for certain things.  How to know when things are going well, keep going to them.  When things are not going well, what to notice and why.  Stuff like that.
He's been great for me this year.  I appreciate everything he's helped me with to become a better point guard.
Q. Your mom tweeted she gave you some pointers going into this game.  Can you tell us about that conversation.
TERANCE MANN:   She just basically told me to rebound, play my game.  That's really what she tells me when she knows it's about to be a big game for me.  Start off rebounding.  That's one thing she's taught me ever since I was little, to rebound, get the feel of the ball, be able to push the ball when you get that defensive rebound.
She's always giving me pointers before games.
Q. You've had injuries, guys in and out of the lineup.  On the other hand there's talent, depth and opportunity.  How do you look at the Playoff readiness?
TERANCE MANN:   Like you said, the talent and depth, you never know what happens in the Playoffs, never know what Doc is going to go with.  I feel like all guys, all 15, is ready to go.  Everybody knows what they're bringing to the table, everyone knows what their job is.  It's great to see how it's going.
Q. There was a moment when you were one assist away, Kawhi talked to you on the sideline.  What was that moment like for you?  What has it been like to have the support of your teammates?
TERANCE MANN:   That moment was awesome.  He was just telling me, You're one assist away, don't force it, but go get it.
Just having the leadership of these guys all year has been amazing, whether I'm down in the G League, them hitting me up, giving me pointers, or whether I'm up with the team, starting one game.  Whatever it was this whole year, the leadership was amazing.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
TERANCE MANN:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT