NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOS ANGELES
March 21, 2018
Phil Cofer
Terance Mann
Braian Angola
Trent Forrest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll welcome to the stage the Florida State Seminole student-athletes.
Q. Trent, you guys have had a very balanced scoring attack here through the first couple of games, and I know you guys have a deep rotation.  Is that something that you guys have been hanging your hats on and something that could help you tomorrow?
TRENT FORREST: Definitely.  We have a couple guys that can really score the ball, so I feel like at any time you really don't know who you're going to get.  That's been something we've been able to do all season, and we enjoy doing it.
Q. Phil, in terms of the grind of the ACC, you're always going to have ups and downs.  How do teams kind of maintain their confidence, even though you might go through a two- or three-game losing streak through the conference season, and maintain it so you can play as well as you guys have in the NCAA Tournament?
PHIL COFER: I think personally the ACC is probably the toughest league.  I think it's going to happen.  You're going to take a loss in the ACC no matter what.  I think most of the time people coming in, watching film and just learning from the mistakes that you had in that loss really helps a lot for us and other teams too, by the way.  But I think just playing in that league definitely builds a lot of adversity and toughness for teams.
Q. You guys defeated the top seed in your last game.  What was that like, and how much confidence does that give a team like you guys?
TERANCE MANN: You know, it was a nice win for us, especially because they knocked us out last year.  We kind of wanted to get back at them, and we did.
It was nice for us.  It felt good.  Everybody was happy.  What made it better was they were the No. 1 seed, so we kind of shocked the world with that.  Now people are looking at us like, oh, they beat the No. 1 seed.  It just felt good for us, and it was nice.
Q. Braian, what impresses you the most about what you've seen from Gonzaga on tape?
BRAIAN ANGOLA: For Gonzaga I would probably say they're a very deep team.  Especially when they come to shoot the ball, they have a lot of shooters, and their big men are pretty strong, pretty nice down low.  So we just have to contain the dribble.  Their transition game is pretty good.  So you have to rebound and contend the dribble and keep your people in front of you, contest shooters and just run.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT