LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 11, 2020
Terance Mann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Terance.
Q. Your impression of the team so far?  You've had guys in and out of the lineup.  Are you a flip-the-switch team?  Do you feel you have that ability when necessary?  Is that a dangerous thing to have, good or bad, when the Playoffs start?
TERANCE MANN:   I mean, I feel like we're focused day-to-day.  I really wouldn't call us a flip-the-switch team.  A lot of these guys have a lot of Playoff experience.  I'm sure when that time comes around, the mindset, things will be a lot different, a lot sharper.
Q. There are a lot of vets on this team who have been in the Playoffs, deep.  Has there been any kind of talk about the special opportunity this team has to maybe go all the way?
TERANCE MANN:   Yeah, I mean, that's something we talk about a lot.  We know what we're capable of.  Like I said, we just take it day-by-day.  We try and sharpen our tools before it really gets into that thickness of the Playoffs.
Q. Obviously you have had different guys in and out of the lineup.  The bench always has been a sparkplug for this team.  How do you overcome that?  What are the ways that you've noticed you have been able to find some cohesion?
TERANCE MANN:   I just think we follow the leadership of Lou Williams and Trez.  Those guys kind of taught us almost how to play when you come off the bench, what type of energy you need to bring, what type of focus you need to have.  We feed off that.
It's like kind of split right down the middle:  some of us are younger, some are older.  We kind of bring that energy they need.  They keep us focused.
Q. Your jersey, I am a man.  Speak to what that means to you.  What are your thoughts on the NBA allowing you guys to wear those messages?  Do you think that's an effective form of protest?
TERANCE MANN:   First of all, it means a lot to me just to be able to represent that, deal with things going on outside of this bubble.
Also for the NBA letting us have the opportunity to do that, show people what we stand for, bring in conversations on a daily basis.  Just having that there, people see it, want to say something about it, it starts conversations.  It's great.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Terance.
TERANCE MANN:   Okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT