LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 14, 2020
Terance Mann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   We have Terance Mann.  We'll start with questions.
Q. I'm wondering with Kawhi arriving yesterday, how did he help keep the group together, locked in, over the last few months when you couldn't be together?
TERANCE MANN:   Kawhi is just about business.  So when he's around, everybody knows it's business time, get focused and get locked in.
Q. What and where has been your best meal in the bubble?  What is the process of getting food like?
TERANCE MANN:   I'd probably say Del Frisco's is probably the best food I've had so far.  Chicken is pretty good.  They have crab cakes, corn, macaroni and cheese, all that.
The process is you have a list of food places to order from.  You can order from there.  Or the hotel makes us meals.
Q. You're the players representative for the Clippers, right?
TERANCE MANN:   Yeah.
Q. How did you get that role?  What was that experience like when you had to vote on resuming the season?
TERANCE MANN:   I got it, I think we were in Philly.  We had an NBA PA meeting.  Just being around all the time, the guys was just like, Why don't we just put Terance there.  So I got it there.
Then the process of voting to come here was a pretty long process.  We talked about it probably on five different occasions on Zoom calls just to get everybody's ideas about coming out here and stuff.
Eventually we all got on the same page, wanted to win the championship.
Q. What do you think of the different things the NBA has going on with the different devices like the Magic Band, Oura ring, the app?  You being one of the player reps, team reps, to what extent did you get a sense that guys around the league had any concerns about these things being used like tracking or anything like that?
TERANCE MANN:   Yeah, that's been an idea, people shouting out they're probably checking it or whatever.  But I think people are pretty much locked in on the Magic Bands, with the app.  The devices that beep if you're not six feet apart, people are saying there might be trackers in those.
We're not going anywhere.  Everybody is here.  Doesn't really matter at the end of the day.
Q. How is your hand and that recovery?
TERANCE MANN:   My hand is pretty well.  It was probably a six- to eight-week type deal just because we had so much time so I took care of it.  I kind of went the along route because we were in quarantine, I had so much time to work on it.
My hand is doing great right now.  I'm back full-time, full contact.
Q. You were on the team flight out last Wednesday, you've been going through every workout.  Describe how the workouts have changed maybe from the first one to now as more guys have arrived?  Has the intensity gone up?  Doing any five-on-five?
TERANCE MANN:   Workouts have been pretty much the same in terms of intensity.  Like I said, everybody is locked in, ready to win a championship.  The intensity is definitely there, at a high level.
Yeah, we do a little bit of five-on-five going over our sets and stuff like that.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Terance.
TERANCE MANN:   All right, man.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT