ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2012
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  FRANK SPAZIANI:   As Michael said, we're on our way out to Chicago to play a very well‑coached and very talented Northwestern team.   We're excited about it. 
With that, the proverbial questions. 

Q.   Two questions:   One, you already play Notre Dame, so what does‑‑ how relevant is Notre Dame football still, and what does playing Notre Dame as an non‑conference opponent, what does that do for your program, your attendance?
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, we have a long‑standing tradition with Notre Dame, and I think we have a mutual respect and appreciation for each other.   We understand what a great institution it is. 
I think it's tremendous for our league and certainly for Boston College.   We play them, and now to be playing them in other sports is valuable, very valuable. 

Q.   From your firsthand knowledge of what it means to a program to have Notre Dame come into your stadium, what do you see as the pluses here? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, you just alluded to it.   It's a marquee brand.   I think any time you add a marquee brand to your established tradition and the wonderful stuff that you have, it enhances it. 

Q.   And when you look at Northwestern on film, they're off to a good start.   Why is that?   What impresses you on the film? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, as I said in my topic statement, they're very well‑coached.   They have some very good players, and they just play a very good brand of football.   They know how to win, and they've demonstrated that in their first two games. 

Q.   Just curious, is it disappointing to add Notre Dame without adding Notre Dame football? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, from our perspective, we play them every year anyway (laughing), so it's‑‑ I would have to digest that.   And I think that's an evolving situation.   They're going to be playing five. 
Like I said, I think it's good for the league.   It's really good.   And I don't see any disappointment in there at all. 

Q.   But playing five and not joining the league, isn't that kind of like living together but not getting married? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, you know, let me just say this:   We play them every year, and that's what I'm concerned about.   And the league will have to be concerned about how it evolves with the season and how they absorb into the rest of the ACC.   But from our perspective right here, once again, we play them every year.   I thought they were in the ACC to be honest with you. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you about the tempo that Northwestern plays at.   It seems like a lot of teams now try to disrupt you on offense by playing a quick tempo or changing the tempo.   Seems like they were one of the first to do that.   Is that getting easier to handle as more as more teams do it? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, I don't know if it's getting easier to handle.   I think more teams are learning what they have to do to prepare to handle it.   So in that aspect, people are becoming a little bit more comfortable with it and understand exactly what goes on.   But unless your players have been involved in it and seen it a few times, it can be very disruptive. 

Q.   You had a nice game from Spiffy Evans.   First of all, that's a great name. 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   It sounds good, right? 

Q.   It does.   I just wondered if you knew anything about how he got that.   But more importantly, what kind of player is he?   He's one of the guys that I don't know much about. 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   We recruited Spiffy as‑‑ he's a good skill player, and when we recruited him out of high school that's what we were looking for, obviously.   He's like a lot of young players that take a little bit of time to develop.   He's been with us for a year and played as a true freshman last year. 
He's only gotten better, and certainly that was one of his better football games.   His best football is ahead of him.   Now the next thing to do once you've done it is be consistent and keep doing it.   Spiffy is a hard worker and he's got the talent, so we're excited about having him.

Q.   What are the things that he does really well?
FRANK SPAZIANI:   He's a good route runner; he catches the ball; he's got good hands; he understands coverages; he can return kicks for us.   He does a lot of things well.   Plus he's a good student. 

Q.   Am I right Northwestern has been using two quarterbacks?   Do they do different things, or are they doing the same thing? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, once again, Northwestern is very well‑coached.   They have their offense.   They're a little bit different, but they basically run the same offense. 

Q.   I just saw Colter has been doing more passing‑‑
FRANK SPAZIANI:   It's the other way around, no? 

Q.   Oh, is it?   Just curious.   That's what I need to find out. 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, I think what happened was they put Simmons in at the end of one of the ballgames to throw in a different manner.   Maybe they seem a little bit better.   I don't think he's‑‑ they changed their offense.   They might call some different plays for him, but it's basically the same offense. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT