BOSTON COLLEGE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2011
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Notre Dame: 16
  Boston College: 14

 COACH SPAZIANI: First of all congratulations to Notre Dame, they have a very good football team, well coached, good players and obviously a great venue. We're very disappointed. Questions? 

 Q. (Away from mic.)
 COACH SPAZIANI: We had one time-out left there at the end. It was a matter of where you're going to get the ball with 10 or fifteen seconds left. 

 Q. What do you think your team could have done better to progress in the game and get ahead at least? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: What could we have done better to progress in the game to get ahead? We had chances. 
 We needed a couple of heroes, needed somebody to step up and make some plays. That's the difference when you're playing a good football team like that when they have fire power and they are well coached, you've got to make play's. We had our chances. 

 Q. Coach, do you talk about the difference between Chase when he was gettin' into a bit of rhythm the first half and then in the second half when he had 10 incompletions? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: It's a combination of things, until I look at it on tape. We missed a couple, they put some pressure on us and the combination of those, we got ourselves off rhythm and we got into -- seemed to me we got into a little bit of a go-back-and-throw game, which is not ours. 
 It makes it a little more difficult to complete passes under those circumstances. 

 Q. Coach, can you talk a little bit about your defensive game plan? You seemed to give Rees some trouble. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: First of all, we know who we are and what we have and how we have to play so that's how we start every week out. We were able to do a couple of things, and I don't know whether we gave him trouble or not, whatever, but our guys had a good game plan and we needed to make a couple of plays there. 

 Q. Coach, can you talk about Luke? He broke a record today, as far as tackles go. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: First of all, I think he's -- I think he's the best football player in the country. 
 Once again, I guess you've got to look to where I'm coming from but he's just a great football player and there is a lot of great football players on that field. Week in, week out, play in, play out, he shows up. 
 I know he's up for a lot of awards, and I think he's deserving of all of 'em. I think he should get 'em. 

 Q. Coach, can you talk about Tahj Kimble getting a majority of the plays today? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: We have always liked Tahj and the way our running game was set up. It was set up better for Tahj's skill set, and we were trying to get the ball to the backs in certain situations, too. 
 It just worked out that way, and we had three good backs we like. Today was Tahj's day to carry the ball more than usual.
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT