ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2011
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, we're into game number ten, and it's our final home game. It's a senior weekend, and we're playing a very good NC State team, good players, and they're obviously very well coached. So with that, I'll open it up to questions. 

 Q. Is the passing game a big concern for you this week, and how do you feel your pass defense is playing coming into this match-up?
 FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, for us everything is a concern. You know, they've run the ball well. They know how to run the ball. They certainly have a very good passing attack, good skill people, and they know how to protect. We've had problems in a lot of areas on defense, like a leaky dike. I wouldn't say we're just solely concentrating on their passing game. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about right now what Josh Bordner brings to the table. The fact you're going to two quarterbacks now, what's behind that, and what do you expect to see from the two guys? 
 FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, going to two quarterbacks, I don't think I've ever said that, or done -- the situation that happened was we've had a lot of injuries, and we had injuries at running back last week. We were down to one scholarship running back, and in order to give us a contingency plan to move the ball, and necessity is the mother of invention, right, so Josh has been practicing with us and doing some things, and we like Josh as a prospect. But we were forced into having a contingency plan. 
 Now, against Florida State, it was 28-0 and we weren't exactly moving the chains, so it was time to try something different, right, so that's where that stands. 

 Q. I just wonder about your approach for these last three games in that every other year you've been there y'all have been playing for a Bowl game at this point and getting ready to go to a Bowl. Does the approach change? Do you look at more things maybe to lay the groundwork for next year, or do you still treat it the same as you did in the past? 
 FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, you know, the obvious is that there are changes, and there are -- a different approach has to be realized in that aspect, as far as goals and stuff like that. 
 But the approach is -- we owe it to the seniors and to everybody to win the games now, and certainly we have an eye towards the future, but that's never been the priority. We're trying to build something and build and go forward, but winning this Saturday is the most important thing. 

 Q. Given your ties at Penn State I wanted to ask you your reaction to everything that's going on up there. 
 FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, I had a statement yesterday, someone asked me about it. All I know is what I read in the media and what I see on the TV. Once again, I know how that works. So I don't have all the facts to it. Obviously it's very troubling. But my heart and prayers go to all the victims and their families. We have to wait and see how this sorts out and the other aspects of it. 

 Q. What's the status of your running backs for this week coming in? How many do you think you'll have available? 
 FRANK SPAZIANI: We think we'll have two or three of them available, and in what capacity, we don't know yet. We had practice yesterday, and they were out there, and we'll see how today's practice goes and then we'll make an official determination. But we're expecting to have a better complement of running backs than we did last Thursday night. 

 Q. It's ironic the way it's worked out. At running back you begin the season with a runner, Montel, who's going after an ACC record, and you end the season with barely enough guys to get on the field. That's just strange how that's worked out. I'm sure it struck you that way, too. 
 FRANK SPAZIANI: Well, you know, those things -- the unexpected things happen, and our job is to manage our way through them. You try to prepare for as much as you can prepare for, and then things happen, and our job is to manage our way through problems. So that's what we're trying to do. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT