ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2012
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, as Mike said, we have Virginia Tech coming in this week.   They're our partner school on the other side, so we have a long history of playing them, and we certainly understand who we're playing.   Frank is a legendary coach.   They've got great players and a great program, so it's going to be a challenge for us. 
With that, your questions. 

Q.   I'm curious as you watch film of Virginia Tech's secondary, they've obviously been leaving the other corners, a lot of isolated man‑to‑man.   What do you see from their pass defense right now?
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, you know, they've given up some big plays.   It's a function of a lot of other things, pass rush and covering guys.   You know, they're obviously having some problems over there, but they're a typical aggressive defense, and it's more about how we're going to be able to attack them and their defense. 

Q.   Considering the way this year has unfolded for you guys, where is the motivation level for your players?   Do you still feel that energy from them? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, you know, naturally when you're 2 and 8 there's an issue with both of those points that you raise.   But as I've said over and over again, I've been here 16 years, and there's a lot of great things, and one of them is our guys come to practice and they come to play, and I don't think it'll change this week. 

Q.   How have the struggles this season impacted your staff on the recruiting trail, and what's the sales pitch been from you guys at this point? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, we have our commits, and everybody seems fine.   Once again, whether‑‑ we just had a recruiting meeting the other day.   What is our sales pitch?   We've got a lot of things to sell at Boston College.   I don't think we have enough time in the interview here.   We've got a lot of great things. 

Q.   I want to ask you, you have a fairly unique perspective.   You just played Notre Dame, and they've evolved into kind of a controversial situation where they're No.1 in the computer polls and No.3 in the BCS because of the eye test is what I keep hearing.   Give me your expert opinion as an eye tester.   You've played a Florida State team that's in the top ten of the BCS.   Where does Notre Dame rank? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, you know, being on the field with Notre Dame through the years, Notre Dame is back in a lot of respects.   They've done a great job with that program, and they're certainly a formidable football team.   They've got a great defense, they've got a great offense, and they certainly have a quarterback that they're developing to fit their system.   I think they're a National Championship caliber team.

Q.   This is my uneducated eye, that their defense is of a much higher quality right now than their offense.   Would you agree with that or disagree?
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, once again, I'm not going to compare their defense to their offense.   I would say this:   Their defense has improved in the three years that Brian has been there from what we've seen and what we've played against.   They're a force.   They're a force.   They've got good players and they're well coached, and they've got a nice team. 

Q.   I was going to ask a couple of things.   First, this being the home game for a lot of your seniors, you have a lot of guys with different circumstances coming back and guys that have been there for a while.   What's it going to be like, and do you think it's hit home that this is the last game at home?
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, I think it's always an emotional thing for seniors playing their last home game in varying degrees.   But I don't think it quite hits them until that final whistle blows and they go down the end zone and realize that's the last time they're going to do it.   But those guys have been very good for us.   They've worked hard, they've done everything we've asked of them, they've shown up every week, and they've tried to supply the leadership that we've needed.   We're just happy that we've had them, and we're sorry we're going to lose them. 

Q.   And on the other front, you had just mentioned how Notre Dame has evolved over the years, and now the fact that your program‑‑ what do you think the turnaround is for you guys to return to the form that people are used to seeing you at? 
FRANK SPAZIANI:   Well, we need more victories, that's what we need.   But we have‑‑ if you just look at the depth chart and look at the people that we have and the people that are going to be lined up playing that have played, you'll see a lot of them are coming back and a lot of them are gaining a lot of experience. 
As I've said before, I feel good about the future, but right now we're just having a little tough time looking at things through rose‑colored glasses if you will. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT