ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2011
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we're obviously in our bye week, and it couldn't come at a better time. We need to regroup a little bit and get ourselves healthy and get some fundamentals ironed out and move on for a tough second half. With that, any questions? 

 Q. What were the factors that went into the decision on Montel applying for the red shirt year?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Oh, he physically couldn't perform, and he was eligible for it, so that's the factors. 

 Q. Are you pretty confident that he will be back and take that fifth year? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, speaking with Montel, that's his intention. That's what he wants to do, and he wants to be part of the team and come back for another year. Once again, the main thing is for Montel to get healthy. That's number one. 

 Q. Is this the kind of thing that's just been a lingering or a nagging extension of the injury that he suffered late last season pretty much? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: It's been very convoluted and complicated, and it all started with that injury last year, yeah. 

 Q. And you also have another player that you're applying, Kaleb Ramsey?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Yeah, Kaleb also, the doctors don't feel he can perform, and he can't play, so he's also eligible and fits the same category as Montel. 

 Q. I know you said it's convoluted and complicated. I'm hoping you can uncomplicate it a little bit because it's not like Montel blew out his ACL. Is it just me, or was there a point where you felt like he was over it? I kind of felt like, okay, he was hurt last fall, he'll be back by the spring, then okay, he didn't make the spring, he'll be back by the summer. It just keeps going. Is there a scientific name for what it is that's ailing him?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Scientific name? What they've done is they've continued to MRI him, and they find different things, and they're to the point where it's just not going to get better right now. That's my Penn State medical degree, best I can give you. 

 Q. Do they feel confident that it will get back to 100 percent, given how long it's been at this point? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, there are no guarantees, that's the first thing to understand about all injuries, and certainly with the -- as I mentioned, with the -- and you guys have documented it, with his situation there are no guarantees. His is a little bit more delicate than I would think other people, but you never know when you have surgery and come back.

 Q. What about Andre Williams' health right now?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Andre Williams is back to practice today on a limited basis, and I'll suspect that he'll be full go here shortly. 

 Q. Going into a bye week and with the way things have gone and some of the tough injuries you've sustained, how do you sort of assess where you are and how you've progressed for the last six games of the season?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we've done a lot of self-evaluation here as the season has been going on and certainly this off week, and we have a lot of guys making progress, we really do. We need to get ourselves consistently lined up with the same people and our young guys will get better, and we'll make some improvement. We've certainly got a long way to go to close that gap to get some W's, but we're making improvement. We're getting better, and if we can get ourselves healthy and get the same guys out there practicing every week, they will get better that way, and once again, it's not an excuse, it's just that's the fundamentals of football.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT