ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2011
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We welcome Boston College head coach Frank Spaziani. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. Well, we are excited to get back into conference and play a very good Wake football team that has some very good players and is obviously very well coached. So we're looking forward to it. So with that, as Mike said, the question period. 

 Q. With Montel having returned last Saturday, how much do you think you take a step with him even more? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, he obviously was very limited going into last week, and he was limited there and you know, we have tried to step up his workload a little bit this week, and you know, we'll ask Montel to do whatever Montel can do and handle as much as he can. 

 Q. Biggest challenge this week Wake Forest poses for you?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, Wake Forest is very aggressive on defense and they are playing very well there. And certainly on offense, they have got some playmakers and quarterback is playing well. They have got a big-league running game. They pose problems on both sides of the ball. 

 Q. As a follow-up on that Montel question, what can he do? Does he look like this week he's got more of his old spring in his step? Is he cutting? Is he running full speed? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Yeah, he's getting better. He's getting better every week. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about the challenge of Tanner Price that he presents you guys face Renfree who had similar numbers two weeks ago and although he completed a lot, you kept him out of the end zone. Do you take that same approach with Price, giving up short stuff and tightening near the end zone?
 COACH SPAZIANI: First of all we try to do whatever we can do the best we can execute what our players are able to execute. That's how we start. And let me just say this about Tanner. He reminds me a lot of Riley Skinner. Obviously a lefty, but he does a lot of nice things. I'm very impressed with how he started out the year. He keeps things alive. He runs the game. He's obviously much improved and he looks like the real deal to me. 

 Q. Is the dim-but-not-bright philosophy the heart of your defense? You've always been better at scoring defense maybe than overall total defense. Is that a fair observation?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Yeah, I think that, you know, once again, it all harkens back to we try to do what our personnel can do and that's what coaching is all about. That's the way it starts. But as I've always said and I think I've been very consistent in this, there's only one stat that matters on defense and that's points allowed. That's how we approach everything. 

 Q. You had an injury to one of your best wide receivers and then in steps Colin Larmond with a couple of TD catches last week. Tell me a little bit about him and how he performed and the kinds of things he's capable of doing. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, Colin was a very good player for us until he got injured last year in preseason. And you know, he was making tremendous progress and has a very bright future. He came back this year and was certainly a plus for us and when Mo went down, Colin has stepped in and has picked up where he left off a couple of years ago. 
 Now, he's nowhere near -- I don't think he's totally back, but he certainly is a big league football player for us and we need him to make plays. We are happy with his progress. 

 Q. You had two fumble returns for touchdowns last week. That's highly unusual. Have you been around a performance like that before?
 COACH SPAZIANI: You know we are trying always to score on defense. One of those -- sometimes the ball bounces your way. Sometimes it doesn't. A couple of our earlier games, we had fumbles that kicked the wrong way and if you look at it from a BC perspective -- and last week one sort of bounced right up. It was like having infield practice. 
 So, you know, we were in the right spot at the right time. Good for us. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT