ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2010
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Boston College head coach Frank Spaziani. We'll bring on Coach Spaziani, ask for a brief opening statement, then go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. 
 Well, we're looking forward to going down to Wake. Hopefully we can play a pretty good ballgame. 
 Questions. 

 Q. I wanted to ask about Montel. How have you seen him improve from his first couple seasons there? He's always been a very fine runner. What are the things he might do even better this year?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, Montel, he's blocking better. We don't ask him to block too much, but he's done that at a little better pace than he has in the past, and he's catching the ball. He always could catch the ball, but he's doing a better job route running, doing those things. 

 Q. One of the best things about him seems to be his durability. I know he has a black belt in karate. I'm sure he gets nicked up like most backs. He seems to be able to get the tough yards and stay healthy and stay on the field. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Yeah, knock on wood, you're exactly right. He stays low. He doesn't take very many hard shots. He has great balance. That has something to do with it. 
 But he does get banged up a little bit. 

 Q. A real statistically oddity is that he leads the conference in rushing. As a team, you rank last in rushing. Not sure exactly what that means. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: That means no one else is doing anything (laughter). 
 I didn't know that. But, once again, we've struggled moving the ball. We certainly have struggled running the ball. No fault of Montel's. I think that's what it says. 

 Q. Coach, coming off that win, is that kind of the way you're going to have to win games from now on, eking out points? Is that the formula the rest of the way?
 COACH SPAZIANI: That's been the formula ever since I've been coaching football. I've said it before. When you play defense, it's like pitching in baseball, everything looks better. The problems are still there. We were able to play well on defense, and we certainly have to play better in all phases of the game. But our problems didn't disappear. 

 Q. Do you credit a certain improvement there on defense last week? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, a credit to our kids, our whole squad. Everybody played a little bit up and they made some plays. Certainly they made some plays on defense and offense. I mean, we made some catches on offense that were very important for us. 
 We have to make plays and scratch it out. That's the MO of this team. 

 Q. Coach, about the struggles offensively other than Montel. Is that part of that instability on the offensive line, am I correct you've had some injuries there? I'm not positive, but I think aren't you getting some guys back? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Your question is about the offensive line? 

 Q. Yes, sir. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: The offensive line, we moved a couple guys early in the year trying to get the best fit. Then we had some guys banged up that weren't out to practice all the time, miss a Tuesday there, then somebody missed a Thursday. The continuity just wasn't there. 
 Then we made a positional change a couple weeks ago. For two weeks we had the same guys practicing in the same position. They were out there every day. They worked hard. That's usually a recipe for getting better, and they did. 
 Having said that, we have Rich Lapham that got injured last week on a third play. He's doubtful for this week. We have some other individual that was sick this week. We had the same ol', same ol' showing up here again. Hopefully we can overcome it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us today. Good luck this weekend. We'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Very good. Have a good day. 
 THE MODERATOR: This concludes today's edition of the ACC football coaches teleconference. We'll be back next Wednesday for another edition beginning at 10:30. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT