ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2010
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We're joined now by Boston College head football coach Frank Spaziani. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and go to questions.   
 Coach.   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you.   
 Well, after a couple weeks on the road, we're anxious to get home and see how we can play in front of our home fans.   
 Any questions?   
  
  Q. Coach, anything you would have done differently with the game plan last week against Florida State once you took the lead that would have seal a victory?   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Made a couple first downs and stopped them (laughter).   
 I don't know. That was last week and we're done with that. But not really.   
  
  Q. Defensively you're probably one of the top defenses in the conference. Anything you're looking to do at stopping Maryland? Offensively they haven't been putting up the numbers. Last week their quarterback lit up Clemson's defense.   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, first of all, I appreciate the comment about the defense, but we're giving up way too many points. Second, Maryland has always given us fits offensively. Ralph is a great football coach. He's been on the offensive side of the ball quite a while. He's very adept at dissecting people. No surprise that they did a good job on offense. We expect to have our hands full.   
  
  Q. I'm doing a story on one of Florida State's young receivers, Rodney Smith. You had a couple really good plays against him, but he had six catches. 6'6", 220. What kind of challenge does he present to you defensively?  
 COACH SPAZIANI: You left out one thing: he's fast (laughter). They got great receivers, and he's certainly a great receiver, great offensive scheme.   
 His physical talents alone, the matchups they create are always problems for a Boston College team.   
  
  Q. I was watching in the beginning of your Florida State game, watching Montel. The first question that came to mind is, Where is (indiscernible)?   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Once again, Montel, we're striving to get better, we're working to get better. We have more cohesiveness. Hopefully we'll see more of it. But we certainly need that going forward.   
  
  Q. Not that I want you to reveal your state secrets, but was there something in particular that you did that you adjusted or anything that you could keep doing down the stretch to keep that going?   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, if there was a little magic button, I would have pushed it long ago. As I said all along, always it's the case, winning minimizes the problems, losing maximizes the problems or magnifies. They're always there and they have to be negotiated and coached through and worked through.   
 Nothing is different. We just have to work through what we have to work through and coach it better and play better and hopefully we'll have better results.   
  
  Q. Coach, how tough has it been for you to try to get your offense settled, primarily at quarterback? Clearly you got Montel up and running like you'd like to have him. You have a pretty good offensive line. The two-dimension thing hasn't been there, the kind of balance you'd like to have, and have had in the past.   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, a lot of frustrations on everybody's part. The energy comes from coaching, certainly building on taking whatever problems you have and work them into a cohesive unit. Hopefully we've solidified a little bit our quarterback situation. The offensive line, although guys have been back, we've moved around to different positions. The cohesiveness that you need there has not quite been there. We're working to get that better as we go along.   
 Once again, one game does not make a pattern, but it's certainly pointed in the right direction, and hopefully we can continue to do it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us. Good luck this week. We'll talk to you next Wednesday.   
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. Have a good day.   
 THE MODERATOR: This concludes today's edition of the ACC football coaches teleconference. We'll be back at 10:30 next week for another edition.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT