ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2010
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Boston College head coach Frank Spaziani. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. 
 Well, first of all, we're going on the road obviously for our first road game. It's a conference game. It's against an opponent that is very well-coached and has some outstanding players. We're going to have our hands full. 
 Any questions? 

 Q. I was wondering if you could kind of tell me what's going wrong for from your perspective right now. You've struggled a little bit the last couple of weeks. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we got a lot of things going right. Obviously we've lost two games in a row here. We have a young, inexperienced squad. We're working our way through that. That's basically it in a nutshell. 

 Q. Can you talk about your quarterback situation, what you're looking at this week, how difficult that has been to negotiate this year. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, from day one, from when I got the job, it's been a very difficult situation to negotiate, as you put it. We started out this year with Dave and Mike. We have Chase Rettig. We have another freshman on our roster. We made a switch last week. We went with Chase. He got injured, so we're back to square one over here where we're at with that. 
 It's challenging. Once again, we'll work our way through it. 

 Q. I wanted to ask about your running game. Obviously we know Montel Harris has been a quality back. It seems to be really tough going this year. Can you talk about that? Where is the problem? Is it because the passing game has been shaky, teams have been packing it in?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, you know, there's a lot of reasons. Some of them have been we've had guys in and out. We've had injuries. We've had to shuffle guys around on the offensive line. The continuity hasn't been exactly the way we would have liked it. Then there's other issues. Obviously, people are very concerned about Montel. But they were concerned about him in the past, too. 
 But a combination of that stuff and inexperience, some decision making in some other areas has led to this situation we got right now. 

 Q. It's been several years since Coach O'Brien was up there. Is it enough people have come and gone that kind of the emotional aspect of playing against a former BC coach has faded away or is that still something that looms over this game? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Never was for me. That's the only one I can speak to. I never like to play against close friends. 

 Q. How do you get out to California and get a true freshman as interesting and compelling as Rettig appears to be? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Once again, it goes back to our original problem when I got the job, the inherent problems that we had. We were in an extremist situation. We had to take measures to see if we could upgrade where we were at. 
 We went a little bit different direction than we usually would do. One of our coaches knew some people, blah, blah, blah. That's how we wound up out there in California. 

 Q. Coach, could you talk a little bit about the defense and how that's going for you. It seems like those guys are playing fairly well, keeping you in games right now. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: We got a four-game sampling. We certainly have a mixture of different opponents. 
 The defense, they have their issues. It's more we've got a familiarity over there, we have some continuity, so we've been able to hold that together a little bit. 
 Last week we had some issues. We've had some people in and out over there, too. There are problems on the horizon. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us today. Good luck this weekend. We'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. Have a good day. 
 THE MODERATOR: This conclude's today's edition of the ACC football coaches teleconference. We'll be back next Wednesday for another edition at 10:30. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT