ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2010
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Frank Spaziani from Boston College. We'll begin with an opening statement and then take questions. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we're out of conference, and we have a national program coming in. Obviously we're finishing our four-game home stand, so we're looking forward to a tremendous ball game Saturday night on national TV. 
 With that, any questions? 

 Q. Obviously you're making a starting quarterback change, I guess. What do you hope your new starter will bring you, I guess? Is it just a question about getting a spark on Saturday or did you see something in practice this week?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we've made the change because we weren't satisfied with the production we were getting at that position. So we decided to go in a little different direction here. And what we're expecting is winning performance.

 Q. And obviously you're going with Chase, I understand. What do you like about --
 COACH SPAZIANI: That hasn't been announced. We don't know who we're going with yet. 

 Q. When you look at Notre Dame here on film, what are the big concerns they pose for you?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, Notre Dame is, despite their 1-3 record, they're a very good football team. They're big, strong, fast, extremely well coached. They have all the pieces in the puzzle there. They just ran into a little bit of a buzz saw early on with a new regime. So we're looking for a very good football team coming in here and a very hungry team.

 Q. Whoever you'll have at new quarterback out there, what do you have to do with the offense to kind of ease them into it facing a pretty good Notre Dame defense?
 COACH SPAZIANI: What we do with everybody at every position is we try to put them in the best possible position to succeed. So that never changes and that's how we'll handle it. 

 Q. I know you haven't officially announced anything on this. With reports coming out about Chase being the guy, how do you handle this with the guys who were involved in the competition for the spot?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Handle it like we said we were going to do last Sunday. We were evaluating guys daily. And today's Wednesday. And that's what we're doing. 

 Q. You don't have any kind of timetable for when you want to --
 COACH SPAZIANI: I know this, on Saturday night at 8:00 we'll have one of those guys out there. That's the timetable. 

 Q. Tell me, do you have any relationship with Brian Kelly, do you know him at all?
 COACH SPAZIANI: My relationship with Brian is coaching against him once when they were at, when we played, I believe, Central Michigan and watching his career and following his teams and seeing him on tape. So that's about the extent of it.

 Q. No ties from his --
 COACH SPAZIANI: From Everett? 

 Q. No ties?
 COACH SPAZIANI: I've been in Everett, and he grew up in Everett, so I guess that's a tie. 

 Q. Frank, I was wondering, all things being equal, would you rather play Notre Dame at 1-3 -- 1-3 Notre Dame or 3-1 Notre Dame team?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, let me say this: When you're playing Notre Dame, it really doesn't matter what the record is. I think Notre Dame is Notre Dame, and they've got good players. They have good coaching. They have obviously tremendous tradition. And it's Notre Dame.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT