ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2010
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Boston College head Coach Spaziani. We'll ask for a brief opening statement from coach and then go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Thank you. 
 Well, we're certainly happy to be 2-0. We have an off week. We have a lot of work to do. We're getting at it. With that, I will open it up. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Spaziani. 

 Q. Obviously Luke Kuechly is a tackling machine. What is it about him that makes him able to do that? Does he diagnose plays? Does he run to the football every time he sees it move? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: It's a combination. He really has great instincts. I don't know if we could put our finger on what makes him so good, we would make a lot of other guys that good. He just has great instincts, understands football. We just try to mess him up, believe it or not. 

 Q. He's just a sophomore. How much better is he capable of being?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, he's got a lot of areas that he needs to improve on. Once again, we moved him to a new position. He hasn't skipped a beat over there. He can be as good as he wants to be. His body hasn't developed anywhere near what it's going to be. He certainly has a lot better understanding, which he needs to grow into, of what people are trying to do. He's just playing on instincts right now. 
 Once he gets the hang of things, I expect big things from him. 

 Q. Obviously the schedule is the schedule. You got to take it as it comes. Is having an off week this early in the season any kind of an advantage or would you much rather have it later in the season?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, things work out crazy. When I first got the schedule, I kind of looked at it like everybody else: Third week we have a break, then we go 10 weeks. It didn't look like it was ideal. 
 We're so young and inexperienced in a lot of areas, we could probably use one later on. Don't get me wrong, but right now it's like a spring practice for us. We got a better understanding of what we have. We can go back and retool ourselves and get reorganized a little bit. 
 I think it's the best for us right now. 

 Q. Frank, what can you tell you about the recruitment of Nate Freese. I assume it was a little more conventional than his immediate predecessor as your kicker?
 COACH SPAZIANI: I like that (laughter). 
 Well, you know, we knew that we were going to need a kicker in two years, so we planned it out we were going to go out and try to find ourselves a big-league kicker. You know, came down to we started investigating Nate, do everything as far as our homework as far as recruiting. He's been everything we hoped him to be. 
 Once again, he's still young yet. But he's been right on target so far.

 Q. Some coaches don't give full scholarships to kickers immediately. They wait. Is it your philosophy that you don't mind using a scholarship on a kicker right away? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: No, we don't. Once again, there's a lot of hoops that we have to jump through before we'll do that. But we're not adverse to doing that. Certainly there's two ways to look at it. I've been around the other way a long time, too, so... We've been fortunate this way. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us. Enjoy the week off. We look forward to talking to you next week. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Very good. Take care. 
 THE MODERATOR: This concludes today's ACC football coaches teleconference. We'll be back next Wednesday for another edition at 10:30. Thanks for being with us. We look forward to talking to you next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT