BOSTON COLLEGE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2009
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH SPAZIANI: I would like to congratulate Charlie Weis and his staff and Notre Dame players on a great job, and they did a good job, it's a well-coached football team with some excellent football players and it was a hard-fought football game. We're disappointed but we have a lot of football ahead of us. With that, any questions. 

 Q. You struggled in the first two games and obviously played a lot better today. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, we lost. So I guess you're asking me, did they play better than they had the other times? Yeah, we are making improvement with this football team from where we were in the beginning and where we have to go, we are making some improvement. But it wasn't good enough today. 

 Q. With the offense's success that you had last week running the ball, what did they do to shut Harris down and what opened up through the pass? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, once again, they have an excellent football coach over there in John Tenuta, and he knows how to take away your best players, so probably look at the film. I'm not exactly sure exactly what the schemes were. But obviously you have to take what the defense gives you, and Gary is professional enough to understand that.

 Q. Armando Allen had a pretty good day running the ball. Your thoughts on running the ball? 
 COACH SPAZIANI: I didn't look at the final stat. That's a very potent offense, and obviously he ran the ball well, and gained some yardage. But you know, we held them to 20 points and just wasn't good enough. We have got to be better than that and we have to be able to make some plays. I thought we made one at the end over there, but we didn't. 

 Q. Can you talk about Clausen for Notre Dame today?
 COACH SPAZIANI: They are very good players and have a great future. I'm encouraging Jimmy to come out, because I think that would be a good move for him. (Laughter).
 They are very good players. They very talented and like I say, they are very well coached and they did a good job. We had our hands full. 

 Q. Your freshman quarterback, he was very poised for a lot of the game, had some mistakes down the stretch. Can you talk about him today?
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, you know, Dave is a microorganism of the whole team. We are trying to get better. We have a long way to go. Dave is a true freshman and he's done some nice things. Obviously he had little problems today and made some mistakes, as we did. We had I think five turnovers, and you know, we are a high-wire act, and there's no margin of error for us and no safety net. When we fall off the wire, it's not good. So five turnovers is hard to overcome. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, rich is a heck of a player for us and a captain. In these kind of games, we need some players obviously to step up and make some plays and Rich did. He made some fine catches and he had a good day. 
 I'm sure would he have liked to have made a couple more, but you know, we need Richie to play well for us to do well. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: It was better than incomplete. (Laughter) I'm being a little facetious but I understand. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 COACH SPAZIANI: Well, you know, that was just a great call by Gary, and we read the coverage and he drilled it in there. It was good execution. Then we got a little flustered. We made another play, and we got flustered and we probably made a throw that we wish we had back. 
 But once again, we have a true freshman, and I don't care how old Uncle Dave is, he's a true freshman. You've got 80,000 people on national TV and the game on the line, you know, it's a tough task. 
 We have got to get to the point where we can make those plays, but we just didn't do it today. 
 Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT