ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2012
Frank Spaziani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  MIKE FINN:   Welcome to today's ACC football coaches teleconference.   We'll go ahead and bring on Coach Frank Spaziani of Boston College, ask for a brief opening statement, then go to questions. 
COACH SPAZIANI:   Thank you. 
Well, second half of our season.   We're obviously going down to Georgia Tech to face a very difficult game against Georgia Tech.   We're looking forward to it. 
With that, any questions. 

Q.   Coach, this Saturday you face a team in Georgia Tech that runs an offense not the same as Army, but somewhat similar.   Any benefits to your defense in already having faced and option‑based running team? 
COACH SPAZIANI:   There's a couple layers, the yin and the yang to that.   Playing against a similar offense has to be beneficial in experience.   On the other side of the coin, I think Georgia Tech now gets a little better understanding how we might be playing certain things.   We have to be aware of that.   It's a two‑headed coin over there. 
What do they do differently?   Different athletes, that's the first thing.   You have to remember, Paul, the Naismith of the offense, if you will.   He invented it.   He knows it better than most people know their defense.   That's what they do different. 

Q.   The flipside of that question.   With them tweaking their defense, what has it been like to prepare this week for being the first opponent that they have without Al Groh on the sideline?
COACH SPAZIANI:   It's a little cloudy, as you would imagine.   It's a little bit of professional guesswork.   I wouldn't imagine them changing too much.   There's going to be some subtle differences we're going to have to be prepared to adjust to. 
MIKE FINN:   Coach, let me ask you a couple of quick questions.   Chase Rettig has had a solid season for you so far.   Talk about his development, his adjustment to the new offensive system, how things have progressed during the season so far. 
COACH SPAZIANI:   Well, if you go back in the beginning the year, there were a lot of questions certainly about our offense and Chase's progress, how many offensive coordinators he had.   What we tried to say back then is Chase is a very good football player.   We kind of handicapped him a little bit in the beginning. 
Things have stabilized a little bit offensively.   Chase is a highly motivated young man with a lot of skill.   Doug has done a great job over there on offense working with him. 
He's what we thought he would be when we got some things ironed out and gave him some tools to work with.   He's made tremendous progress, as has our offense. 
We've had some issues early in the year with dropping the ball and things like that.   But the offense has not been the problem.   They've made tremendous progress really. 
MIKE FINN:   You've played several young players this year for you that really haven't played before.   Talk about those who have played, who stood out for you in the first half of the season.
COACH SPAZIANI:   Well, playing young players, it's good that you have talented young players, and it's bad that these talented young players don't have the experience. 
We've had Borcich, Malachi Moore had to lose his redshirt last week.   Our linebackers, Tim Joy has been a solid backup for us.   We've had offensive receivers help out.   There have been a number of guys that have contributed and have had to step up and play because of various reasons. 
MIKE FINN:   Good luck this week.   We'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
COACH SPAZIANI:   Take care. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT