INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 21, 2019
Aljami Durham
Zach McRoberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you guys remember of Iowa?  It hasn't been that long since you played them, and obviously you'll be on the road this time, but what do you remember of them from the first time around?
ALJAMI DURHAM: Just them having a defensive presence in the zone, them having us a little thrown off a little bit, us trying to attack it, and knowing where the gaps and seams are, we're just trying to get prepared for that and just prepare ourselves to be successful against their zone defense.
Q. They hit a lot of threes in that game.  What do you remember or what do you need to do better to defend them, the threes?
ALJAMI DURHAM: I know personally, I feel like we've got to be able to chase cut it and be there when they're coming off screens or be there on the shot so they don't at least get them up or have a great contest on the shots for them and their three ball.
Q. You guys dropped a close one to Iowa last time you played them, dropped a close one to Purdue.  What kinds of things do you need to do better either from a schematic or execution standpoint like down the stretch of games to kind of tighten those things up?
ALJAMI DURHAM: I feel like we've just got to keep locked in on defense.  We had a great defensive mindset against Purdue last game, and I feel like if we keep doing that and keep going forward that we can be successful in some of these games.
Q. Zach, how much of an emphasis has it been to keep up the energy level that you guys came out with against Purdue?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, it's been huge.  Yesterday in practice just the mindset, having the mindset right, being able to continue that defensive presence we had, that's huge going into next game, too, and throughout the season.
Q. Just where are you?  It feels like you just kind of keep getting dealt one sort of injury, frustration after another.  At this point are you just kind of playing through it and figuring whatever comes comes?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, I think just playing through some things and then just knowing I've got a couple more games left here at IU, so I want to be able to play through it and make the most out of it.
Q. How tough has it been as a senior to kind of been hit with these frustrations in your last year?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, obviously it's been frustrating, but being around the guys, being around the team has helped a lot getting through it and then just keep a positive attitude.  You don't want to come in here negative just because you're hurt.  You've got 15 to 16 guys going out every night playing hard, practicing, so just keeping a positive attitude has been key.
Q. Is it hard to lead when you're not active, when you're not playing?  Is it hard to find your voice when you're not actually out there?
ZACH McROBERTS: It's a little more difficult, but I still think like I have to have a voice in practice, voice during the games in huddles and stuff like that.  But obviously not being out there is frustrating.  It's a different feel when you're not there in practice, when you're not in games but still trying to lead.
Q. Kind of the second phase of the drastic change that Coach alluded to, he was talking about better communication between guys on the court and in practice.  Just how do you feel like that's kind of manifested itself, not only going into Purdue but now on the back end of such an emotional game?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, I think guys have had great energy.  After the Minnesota game and throughout, I think that's been huge, guys talking in practice, guys talking in the huddles.  Just keeping up that communication, keeping up that energy.
Q. Is that something that in particular you've maybe noticed a change from compared to some last teams that you've been on?
ZACH McROBERTS: Not necessarily.  I think every team tries to find their voice, tries to find their energy any way they can and guys are always trying to talk, so that's been about the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT