NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 9, 2004
Jim Colborn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Did you work on anything with Perez between starts? 
 
JIM COLBORN:  Yeah, but I don't know how effective it will be.  But we addressed the idea that he might be tipping pitches, so he's worked on that a little bit.  But it's kind of hard to make big changes this quick.  
 
Q.  When you say "tipping pitches," doing something with his glove? 
 
JIM COLBORN:  Yeah.  It can be any number of things:  doing something with his glove or mouthing the words before he throws it (laughter).  
 
Q.  He would be mouthing it in Spanish?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Yeah.  So you'd have to have someone smart enough to realize it was in Spanish.  That's why not all of the hitters got it.  
 
Q.  Do you plan to keep tabs on the guys over the winter?  Do you talk to them often?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Yes, of course.  
 
Q.  Can you elaborate on that?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Well, with each guy, I give them a general plan.  The guys that might play winter ball, generally they want my input on what their roles should be.  If there's a pitch or an element to their delivery that needs to be attended to, I usually try to emphasize that.  A couple of them ask me, "Do you think I'll be back here next year?"  But all of them should go out of here with an idea of what my opinion is.  Then during the winter, I keep tabs different ways.  
 
Q.  Have you talked to Mayne about the pitch that Pujols hit out?  He said Pujols has sort of a different strike zone.  How difficult is it to pitch to Pujols?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Which question is that?  How difficult is it to pitch to him or does he have a different strike zone?  
 
Q.  How do you approach Pujols? 
 
JIM COLBORN:  Now, is there any chance, 1%, that what I say about how we attack Albert Pujols will get to him?  
 
Q.  In general terms, as a hitter. 
 
JIM COLBORN:  Try to throw strikes and get ahead of him (laughter).  No, that's secret stuff, how our specific plan is doesn't always work anyway.  
 
Q.  Do you think composure was a factor at all in the way Odalis struggled? 
 
JIM COLBORN:  I'm not sure I'd call it "composure."  But in general, some of our players and pitchers, I think they're trying too hard or trying in the wrong way, not as confident and convicted on what they're supposed to do.  You know, let's say this, I have confidence in them because I've seen them compete the proper way so long.  But I don't think we've played our games these first two games.  
 
Q.  In general terms, your overall assessment of the Cardinals' lineup last two games in the whole season?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Well, the last two games are essentially what we saw in the first six.  There are no surprises.  What you've got are a couple or three veteran hitters that think with you and will try to predict what the pitcher's going to throw.  And then you have Pujols, who is one of the best hitters in baseball.  I'm not sure he fits in the category of those other guys.  But he's got enough raw ability and smarts and a plan, that he's very tough to pitch to.  Then in general there are a lot of battlers, as evidenced by their two-strike and two-out hits that they've gotten.  That's been the trademark of our team actually and teams that we've had trouble -- when we run into a team that's hot, that's usually what they do, they're battling till the end.  That's what the Cardinals have done well all year, apparently.  
 
Q.  Your comment about confidence, does that go to pitch sequence and selection?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Yeah, everything, everything you do.  If you're a little unsure or you feel like you have to do a little more because of the magnitude of the game, then you're not being your best really.  You're trying to do more than you should.  And any athlete will tell you that doesn't work.  
 
Q.  Lima sat here yesterday and said if he's struggling early, the bullpen better be ready because the season is on the line.  How are you approaching the bullpen?
 
JIM COLBORN:  Well, like any other game, we hope for the best, but plan for any eventuality.  If it means -- if seemingly the best option is to use one of relief pitchers, then that's what we'll do.  If we think the starter is the best option, we'll stay with him.  It's the same type of decision making.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT