MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 1, 2003
Giulia Sergas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for joining us after your round.  This is a tricky golf course, playing this week.  You played extremely well, you put up some low numbers. 
Can you tell us what you did to play so well on a difficult course?
GIULIA SERGAS: I had some birdies and two bogeys.  Well, the ball was running and the driver was straight.  My iron was good.  I was just having fun.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You were having fun out there?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, I was having fun.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Were you watching the score boards?
GIULIA SERGAS:  Sometimes, 7, I look at it.  5 shot, 2 under.  And then, you know, and I know it is something that keeps changing. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  For those that aren't too familiar with your game, what is the strength of your game, what did you have working out there today?
GIULIA SERGAS: I think my strength is  -- I don't have a particular strength.  It's just the shot I like the most, the putting.  Looks so much easier to me. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  The hole look a little bigger today.
GIULIA SERGAS:  Yes.

Q.  You were 2-under on the par-5s, did you feel you had an advantage on those long holes today?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, because I hit my driver really long, so I could go on the green every time, yes.  But still, you know, the putting and the chipping, that worked.

Q.  How long were those birdie putts?
GIULIA SERGAS: They weren't too long maybe three feet, two feet. 

Q.  You played and qualified (inaudible)?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes.

Q.  How much better this year?
GIULIA SERGAS: Completely different.  It's completely different.

Q.  Did it get very hard last year?
GIULIA SERGAS: It was really hard, yes.  I don't know, I just want it.  I want it so bad so I couldn't leave half of the year and go back home, I had to stay and see what was going to happen.  I gave myself one year like that, and I hope not to go back and in the same situation.

Q.  So you stayed out here all year?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, I stayed here all year.

Q.  How many did you make?
GIULIA SERGAS: I think I made 5 money qualifying, but I don't remember.  And then I played other 5 tournaments, so 10. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  How does this course compare to other courses that you played so far this year, setup wise and maybe difficulty.
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, it was in perfect condition, the rough is great.  The greens are good, not too fast, not to slow.  And you know the fairways is perfect.  So it was really good -- it's a really good.

Q.  This is the lowest round you ever shot at an LPGA event, did you see this coming or did you just show up with no expectations?  What were your expectations coming into this tournament?
GIULIA SERGAS: Today?  

Q.  Yes.
GIULIA SERGAS: Today my expectation were -- I knew I could play good.  I know every time I come out, and it's just that sometimes I get too nervous because it doesn't happen.  So the more I get nervous, the more it's not going to come.  But today, you know, I don't know, it was just a good day, yes.  Just some putts rolled in. 

Q.  Did you have that feeling earlier in the round?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, I had the feeling, sure, yes, I had the feeling. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Was your feeling something different than you normally feel, were you out there, people say they get in a zone, did you kind of feel like maybe you were going to have a good day after the first couple of holes, and then you got the birdies rolling in?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, after the first 10 holes, I knew it could be a really good round because in 10 holes I understood that I was hitting the ball as I used to -- as I am, as I know.  And sometimes on the golf course it's really hard because have you so many thoughts.  You have like fears, you know, and you think about the swing and sometimes you get distracted and you don't do it like you can do it on the range, or in the practice rounds.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Did you tell yourself anything particular after you bogeyed 17, to get that one back or did you automatically forget about it?
GIULIA SERGAS: No, just hit it. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Okay. 
Q.  At what age growing up in Italy did you decide coming to America and playing on this TOUR, what was the goal of yours?
GIULIA SERGAS: My first year as a professional, it was like a real goal but since I was a kid, you know, I always wanted to.  I always wanted to play the best golf in the world.

Q.  Growing up, was there a lot of news about the LPGA TOUR, was it talked about much in Italy?
GIULIA SERGAS: No, not at all.  We had Stefania Crole and Silvia Cavalleri.  We are just the 3 persons ever.  So LPGA is something really far away like good luck and go.  See you whenever. 

Q.  You said sometimes you get nervous as you were coming down the stretch, did you feel nervous at all today as you saw you were up towards the top?
GIULIA SERGAS: Just one time when I had -- when I missed a really short putt what was that five feet, 5th or 6th, I don't remember.  I said here we go again.  Playing good and I missing short putts.  Then I got it back at 8. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Any more questions?
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GIULIA SERGAS: I can speak English now pretty good, thanks to school.  And French and Spanish a little bit.  I have to because nobody speaks Italian.  So it's pretty common to learn a lot of languages.

Q.  The other thing is we see a lot of golf caps and visors but this chapeau (phonetic) that you have on today, is a little different, what is this?
GIULIA SERGAS: I bought it in Italy and I really like it.  I don't know it's blue.  It matches with everything.

Q.  You talked about having a problem with being nervous, if you are the leader at the end of the day when you walk to the tee tomorrow as the first round leader, will you have any extra nerves?
GIULIA SERGAS: Well, I don't know, I think this tournament I feel like I am more -- I don't know, I hope not sincerely.  Right now I'm okay.  Because I know my golf is really strong.  And I know I can play really good.  So I don't really -- if the result isn't going in my mind, I'm fine.  If the result, the position, this and that, start getting in my head then I'm in trouble.

Q.  So in your mind is it a matter of time before you win a tournament out here?
GIULIA SERGAS: I don't know.  What's the question?

Q.  In your mind, is it a matter of time?
GIULIA SERGAS: Sincerely, yes, I think so because I can play, you know.  Yes, I think so.  If I can put everything together, and I give myself time so we'll see. 

Q.  You are patient?
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes, I have to. 

Q.  What's the hardest thing about playing out here?   How much more difficult is it to play out here than playing where you are used to back Europe?
GIULIA SERGAS: Europe it's a completely different world and you are not absolutely close to home.  It's like that is big ocean in the middle.  And everything is so different, so you just have to adjust to this kind of life.  Forget about everything you are used to and just make new routines and, you know, another life, another environment, everything, other people, different people. 

Q.  Is that harder to get used to than the golf, than just the difference of golf courses and the golf courses you play?
GIULIA SERGAS: Oh, yes, the golf courses are so much better, it's so easy to get used to.  They are great.  I love it.  It's just, yes, the life is kind of tough.  If you are European, it's kind of hard.  But, you know, American style, lifestyle is so easy.  It's so quick, you know.  You don't lose time doing stuff like you don't really need.  So it's really, you know, if you have a good routine, it actually helps in a professional sport life.  Can I say that?  
PAUL ROVNAK:  Yes.
GIULIA SERGAS: Yes. 
PAUL ROVNAK:  We're all set now.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT