KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 5, 2013
Giulia Sergas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another solid day, sub par, you got a lot of birdies on the front nine.   How bad was the wind in the stretch? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Yeah, it was‑‑ you could feel it.   So, I don't know, maybe 25 miles.   Yeah, it's pretty strong, you know, gusty.   Anyway, tried to keep them low, under the wind, but sometimes catch you. 

Q.   You've had two good finishes, past two starts.   Anything in your game that you feel is coming together or something that's putting you in a good spot? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   You know, it's‑‑ I guess it's just a little bit of‑‑ thank you, all right.   My game, I don't know, I'm just solid.   I feel good about, you know, physically and emotionally and mentally, so when those three are together, it's‑‑ it's golf, you know, you gotta have those three together. 

Q.   So you think all three are just flowing together? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Yeah, and it's steady, it's nothing like‑‑ so I'm in a good spot, you know?   I'm not thinking about anything special, just playing golf. 

Q.   You've been on Tour for a while; you're one of the veterans.   Anything coming into this season preparationwise?   I know you said being healthy and strong‑‑
GUILIA SERGAS:   I ski a lot, two months.   Two months skiing and two months away from golf, not hitting a golf ball. 

Q.   Where do you ski?
GUILIA SERGAS:   In the Alps, in Cortina, Italy, it's just put my life together.   It was very challenging because I was a little scared the beginning of the season, but eventually I think for me, it is the best thing, you know? 
Just to go away from all the stress and expectations. 

Q.   So keeping stress low and managing that? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Yeah, and maybe it's the right thing to do, maybe it's not, but just taking my time off makes me happy, so that's all that matters. 

Q.   Did you used to live here? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Yeah, I used to‑‑ now I'm resident in Phoenix, cool spot, too, and I used to live here.

Q.   For how long? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Five months. 

Q.   Obviously going into the weekend in great position. 
GUILIA SERGAS:   It's a good challenge; I'm going to ride it.   It's going to be interesting to see how I'm going to react, because I've been in this position few times, but "few!"
Q.When do you think the last time was going into a Major? 
GUILIA SERGAS:   In a Major?   No.   The U.S. Open I was coming from the back.   I don't feel like I did, ever.   So for me it's going to be a great experience.   And even though I'm a veteran, it's‑‑

Q.   Every day is a new day‑‑
GUILIA SERGAS:   Exactly! 

Q.   Good luck the rest of the weekend.   Nice job. 
GUILIA SERGAS:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT