RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2009
Giulia Sergas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLENDER: We have Giulia Sergas in the interview area who has just scored a 67 for a total of 141, three under par and tied for the lead. Congratulations. What do you feel about your round today? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: My round was great. I played good from No. 1 on. And my driver was straight. My irons were in the middle and some putts went in. 
 COLIN CALLENDER: Your caddie at the end, I believe, said that you could have been better having had a couple of lip-outs on the front nine and also a horseshoe; Is that correct? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: I think I did pretty good. And it can always be better. But I'm happy. 
 COLIN CALLENDER: Can we start out by going through the collection of birdies on the back nine; 11? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: The 11th hole is a par 5 and it is reachable. I had it just outside the green and I had two putts. 
 COLIN CALLENDER: What did you hit into the green? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: It was a rescue club. 
 13 was a beautiful driver in the middle, and then I hit a 9-iron, and it was maybe three feet and I holed a putt. 
 14 was another great driver and a pitching wedge, two feet. 
 15 I had a chip and a putt. It was a short chip and a short putt. I hit 3-wood to the green. 
 16 was a 3-wood from the tee and then I had a 54-degree wedge. The putt was a good putt, one of those where when you holed it, you're happy. 
 COLIN CALLENDER: What sort of distance? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: It was maybe four, five metres. 

 Q. How much easier did you find today's wind than yesterday's? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: It was easier, definitely easier. Even though the first nine holes were downwind yesterday, you could have hit a perfect shot and just fly the green. Less wind, definitely. It was definitely less wind. No matter of the direction but it was easier. 

 Q. Where do you live in the U.S.? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: California. Sounds great.

 Q. How long have you lived over there?
 GIULIA SERGAS: Three years. 

 Q. Why did you decide to base yourself in California? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: Because it's beautiful. 

 Q. And not Florida, which is golfing territory? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: It's ugly. (Laughter) No, I should not say that because I have never lived there. I love California because it reminds me of Italy more than Florida. There are mountains and a big ocean, nice cities, San Diego. I love it. 

 Q. San Diego is where you're based? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: No. I'm based in Palm Springs. 

 Q. I was wondering when you first played a course like this and what you thought of it then, this type of golf? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: I was young. I grew up in Europe, so when I was an amateur, we used to play links golf course all summer long. 
 I always enjoyed it, because they have personality, and they are definitely not boring and you have to be aggressive you know, you have to accept you can get a bad bounce as a good one. And you still have to strike it as good as you can. 
 If you don't play aggressive on these kind of courses, they are going to eat you up alive. Even though you are in an unlucky situation, you still have to be aggressive and go for it. 

 Q. Have you tried to calculate what you might need to qualify for the Solheim Cup?
 GIULIA SERGAS: No. No, I don't. 

 Q. It's mpossible to work it out isn't it? 
 GIULIA SERGAS: It is impossible. And as I said before, it was a big motivation since I started playing golf. 
 So if I make it, I'm going to be happy, but you know, it's something I cannot really control. It's somebody else's decision because I don't play in Europe. I have a good team spirit but we'll see. 

 Q. By that, do you mean that you won't give the captain any trouble if you are on the team; you'll be a good team member?
 GIULIA SERGAS: Who knows, probably. I mean, I don't know. Definitely I'm going to give my best, as I always do. You really can't tell. You know, you really can't tell. You also have to consider how the group of the 12 girls mingle together. You have to take in consideration too many things and it's not just about how you're scoring. It is about how you're doing on the golf course, but there's so many other components. 
 COLIN CALLENDER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT