U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Giulia Sergas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. You played marvelous. 
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yeah, actually we had a lot of fun. She's such a good pleasure to play with. She's very nice, very polite. And it's nice to have somebody always tell you good shot and well done. And so I think that there was a good energy going on between the two of us.
 
  
Q. Have you had a chance of peaking at the leaderboard?  
Minus three keeps getting better and better as the day keeps going on.  

 GIULIA SERGAS: That's right. I tell you, for me the best thing is for sure not next year to qualify.
  
(Laughter.)
  
Because I've been through that and I don't like it. So I'm  
really happy. And, yeah, it was a good week. It was a  
great week. 
 
  
Q. Is the course playing dramatically different today because of  
the wind?
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yesterday was windy as well, so it was -- they moved the tee box and the pin placements were difficult.
  
You have to use your imagination and sometimes play safe and sometimes  
know where to put the ball on the green, but pretty much, no, it's the  
same.
 
  
Q. You birdied the first two holes. 
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yeah, and the last two. That's right. So, yeah, I, you never know when you're going to get birdies, so whenever they come it's a good thing.
 
  
Q. A lot of quality shots today. You didn't make a lot of  
mistakes. You hit really quality shots today, is that right?
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yeah, my swing is very good, it's solid. And I hit the ball quite well all the time. So for me it's a matter of don't get too down, don't expect too much, and just keep having a good time and knowing what to do.
  
I'm out there and I know what I have to do and I just keep being in  
that state of mind and not try to force or do something else.
 
  
Q. A lot of people out there don't have a chance to say they had  
five birdies today. 
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yeah, five birdies, you know, with my game, I know I can get a lot of birdies. And so I knew I could get a lot of birdies and this morning I told myself to get as many as I can, and then just try not to make double and make bogey if they come.
 
  
Q. Go through your birdies and bogeys for me, please. 
 GIULIA SERGAS: I had birdie on 1. And it was a 9- iron. I hit it really close. Then I made the putt.
  
Birdie on 2. And it was an eagle try, actually. 
  
Then I had birdie on number 15? 13. And it was the  
par-5. And it was just a really nice putt downhill. 
  
Then I had birdie 17, that was beautiful drive, a beautiful rescue  
club, and then a beautiful putt. It was quite long. It was  
maybe eight yards. 
  
Then birdie on 18. Yeah. From the bunker. And good  
putt. 
 
  
Q. And the two bogeys. We don't want to spend too much  
time but how did they come about?
 GIULIA SERGAS: Yeah, two bogeys. Number 10, I went in the, I missed with my driver and from there on it was hard to lay up and just have a safe shot for the par. So I just struggled to make it and it just lipped out.
  
Then I had bogey on the other par-3, and I just missed the short putt.  

 
  
Q. You don't have to qualify next year. 
  
GIULIA SERGAS: I know. 
 
  
Q. But do you think that you can stand here and say somebody is  
going to come all the way back to minus three? 
  
GIULIA SERGAS: I don't think so, but I'm just going to stay here  
and hope to finish the best that I can. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT