ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON VS WISCONSIN
December 30, 2019
Justin Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Personally, what do you think you have to do against Wisconsin's defense?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: We have to be consistent. They're a really talented team. They're about as goods as it gets, if not the best. We've been watching a lot of film, doing our best to prepare to see everything we can, and ultimately just have to execute.   
 Q.  How has the experience been you've had the past few days?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It's been a lot of fun. We've done a good job of acknowledging the experience and realizing how great this is. But we're trying not to let it distract us or take away from our focus because it's a business trip, and that's what we're here to do.   
 Q.  Give me an example of some of the things (indiscernible).  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Dealing with adversity. He's been through so much. For him to be around with us and stay committed to us has been an inspiration to us all. I know that he's done such a great job and he's given us his best effort, no matter the circumstances, and I've really appreciated that.   
 Q.  Describe your emotions once you step out on the field.  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Be really excited. It's an experience that we've dreamed of and we've worked for the past four years. And to be here, it's an honor and a great opportunity to play some football.   
 Q.  Who's your inspiration?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I'd say my father. He's done a lot for my family, and he's never complained. And he's put our family before himself, and he's a guy I really look up to and hope to be like one day.   
 Q.  How about professional athlete? Who do you look up to?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I'd say I would look up to Marcus Mariota. He's been a guy that I've watched a lot of and had the opportunity to meet a couple times. He's been a great leader, great mentor, great friend. And I think he handles himself very well, and I think that's something I'd like to do.   
 Q.  What do you think it will take to come out (indiscernible) against Wisconsin?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: A full team effort. Great performances on all three aspects of the game: special teams, the offense/defense, and executing on big plays and things like that.   
 Q.  How about your academic achievements? How important is that to you, and how do you stay so committed to football and academics?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: My parents did a good job of instilling good habits in my brothers and I. Ever since we've been little, we've handled our academics. And that's a huge emphasis that my parents wanted on us. It's something we've done throughout our careers, and I'm glad I've been able to do that this year.   
 Q.  What's your earliest (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: That's a tough question. I would say maybe the Sun Bowl. I can't remember what year. I think it might have been 2006/2007. But I can remember players from 2003/2004, Joey Harrington and a couple guys like that.   
 Q.  Joey, is somebody you got to know (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, I've been able to meet him a couple times, and he's been really helpful. He's offered a bunch of advice, and he's always been there for support and things like that. And he's been a great mentor as well.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think I've become a better leader. When I showed up here at first, I was pretty quiet and shy. And I don't think I was a great leader, and I don't think I was the quarterback that the team needed me to be. And I think I've become better because I've learned a lot from the coaches and players and things like that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think it's just time and experience. Going through a bunch of games, being with your guys and going through four years of football, I think you're bound to learn some things.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I've done everything that I've wanted to do. I think this has been the best year of my life, and it's been an experience that I've learned so much. And I'm ten times the player I was last year, and I think to be here with the team and to be in this opportunity, it's awesome and an honor to be here.   
 Q.  Talk about (indiscernible) what was it like coming in as a starter (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It's tough. It was a tough situation because I didn't truly believe it and I didn't stand up and I didn't express myself like I needed to. And I think with time, I've grown more comfortable with the guys around me, and they've become more comfortable with me, so we were able to do address each other and learn from each other.   
 Q.  You said you have done everything you wanted to do. Would you have been kind of bummed if (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: No, I don't think I would have. I think just being around some of the best people in the world and these teammates, they're great, and the coaches and just the overall experience.   
Playing Duck football is everything I've ever wanted to do, and it's a year that I'll never get back in my life and to be around the facility, even to be in the weight room, to be in the cafeteria, it's the best time of my life.   
 Q.  What were you doing the last time they were in the Rose Bowl?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Watching it at home.   
 Q.  Do you remember Marcus (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yes.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that game?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: They played really well, and it was a fun game to watch. And it was a good experience for them.   
 Q.  Going back to the when you first come in (indiscernible) awestruck (indiscernible) quarterback of the team?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, it's a funny story. I often tell it sometimes. With Royce Freeman, I was such a big Royce Freeman fan. And sometimes he'd line up on the wrong side, and I didn't have the heart to tell him. So I'd just let him stand on that side, and we'd run the play from the wrong side.   
But examples like that. I needed to step up and I need to say, you know, get on the right side and things like that. I think just over the years you learn to deal with that.   
 Q.  And what it's like now with the younger guys around, you have CJ and (indiscernible), how has that been for (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, you just have to do the right things. You have to lead by example and you have to handle yourself in a way that they look up to and say that's the way we carry ourselves at the University of Oregon. And you have to be a good role model and you have do things right on and off the field and set an example for them to follow.   
 Q.  And speaking of CJ, 208 yards (indiscernible) allowed that much rushing coverage (indiscernible). How kind of special is he (indiscernible) games like that?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: He's been terrific. Ever since he showed up here, I knew he was going to do big things. Even watching him on the scout team his freshman year, we all had an idea of what he was capable of doing.   
It's been so much fun to watch him step up into this big role and take care of things. And never a doubt that he was going to do great things.   
 Q.  I got an off-football question for you. Do you have a New Year's resolution you can share?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I haven't gotten that far. Rose Bowl is the biggest priority right now. So focusing on that.   
 Q.  Wisconsin's defense (indiscernible) something you may not see in the Pac-12?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: They're really special because they move really well. They're big and athletic and physical. It's a tough defense to go up against because they're so athletic and so well coached and they're really disciplined. And like I said before, they're about as good as it gets, if not the best.   
So we've been doing a good job of watching as much film as we can, getting a feel for what they're doing and hopefully put ourselves in a good position to win.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) unique challenge?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It's a great opportunity. I think that's what best about bowl games is you go up against things you haven't seen before. And it's a tough team to go up against, and certainly not like a team we've seen in the Pac-12.   
It will be a great opportunity for us, a good test, and hopefully we'll do a good job of watching film and preparing for them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) friends and family members (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I know for sure my family members, my immediate family, I'm sure a couple friends.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It's about as good as it gets. It's a great opportunity, and I'm excited about it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) Wisconsin's defense?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: They're as good as it gets. They're very talented, very big, physical, athletic. And they're really well coached and disciplined.   
We've done a good job of watching as much film as we can, because that's all you can do at this point, and getting a good feel of what they're doing and hopefully put ourselves in a good position to win.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) Wisconsin?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: All across the board. They're guys that you need to watch. It's just not one -- it's not just the secondary, just not the linebackers, it's all of them. They do such a good job up front as well. It's a great defense, and it will be a good test for us.   
 Q.  Would you say that (indiscernible) team that you've played this season?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think they're their own breed. They're nothing like anything we've seen in the Pac-12, and they're especially really good. And so we'll do a good job of watching as much film as we can and seeing if we can get a feel for anything.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) senior-heavy offensive line (indiscernible), if I'm not mistaken, except for Sewell. Tell me about Sewell and his progress only being a sophomore.  
JUSTIN HERBERT: He came in here, and we knew how capable he was. He's done such a great job these past two years. Even being a freshman last year, he stepped in and has figured out things really quickly. He's a guy that we look up to and know that he will do the job.   
 Q.  How important do you think it will be for him to take on a leadership role, considering the number of seniors you guys have on offense, such as yourself, and some of the guys (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, it will be huge. Losing guys like Jake Hanson and Calvin Throckmorton, Shane Lemieux, it's tough to replace those guys. But Penei is an exceptional athlete, and I know that he'll fill the void.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) how do you balance that?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: A lot of emotions. I'm sad, I'm excited, I'm anxious. I think one of the things is just realizing that this has been the best couple years of my life and to enjoy every single moment of it and not let our focus get taken away from this game and to know that this is a business trip and that we're here to do one thing.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: A lot of hard work. My parents did good job of instilling good habits in us as early kids, and my brothers and I have always been competitive in the classroom. So that's just been carried over from throughout our childhood, and we've done a good job with that.   
 Q.  Do you feel you have (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think they're a really good defense. And I don't think we have too much time to sit back and be slow. So our offense, it will be extremely critical to get started early, get rolling early, and we'll do everything we can to put up as much points as we can.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) how have you guys changed (indiscernible) seeing his background, his offensive lineman (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think one of the things that changed was we kind of talk about as a culture of doing things right on and off the field. And I think we kind of struggled with that a couple years before we got there. We'd have some issues on and off the field, and he really cleaned that up. And he's done a good job of emphasizing a good culture. And so that's one of the biggest words that we use in our program.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) do you like doing that because you had such a big break?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It's not so tough on me just because I sit back and throw the ball. I imagine it's got to be tough for Penei, Troy, and Shane. Those guys have to go full pads a lot. I think they're appreciative of it, though. They get an opportunity to knock some people around, and it will set them up well for the game.   
 Q.  With such a long break, any concerns about picking up where you left off (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I think we've done a good job of practicing and staying focused throughout these past couple weeks. I don't think there'll be too much drop-off. I'm excited to get back out there, and I know the rest of the guys are as well.   
 Q.  Another question about Wisconsin's defense. Can you just talk about (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: It certainly presents some challenges. They've got some really good D-linemen that they can substitute and put in there. So we've got to do a good job up front of recognizing the D-line and the things they're doing, the pressures they bring.   
So Jake Hanson and I, we've been talking a lot about that, and we'll continue to watch film and be prepared for it.   
 Q.  How's the difference (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, generally you don't get too much odd fronts in the Pac-12. So you get to see a couple of it, a little bit of it, but just to watch as much film as you can, and that's as much as you can do.   
 Q.  Coming back (indiscernible) to get better (indiscernible), have you done that, and if you have, what (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: Yeah, I think decision-making has been huge. I think we've done such a much better job of continuing to move the ball and being consistent throughout this past year, in fact. And I think last year at times we played pretty good football, and at times we didn't, and I think we were much more consistent this year.   
 Q.  Personally, what did you want to improve on the most?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I wanted to become a better leader. I would say that dealing with adversity, we've gotten much better with that. We've been down 14 to Washington, we've been down 7 or down 5 against Washington State late in the game, and we handled that really well. And I was extremely proud of the way the guys battled all year.   
 Q.  Instinctively, did see yourself as a leader, or is that something that didn't necessarily come naturally for you?  
JUSTIN HERBERT: I never thought of myself as an outgoing leader. I always thought maybe I could lead by example. But it's not good enough at the quarterback position, so that's something that I've had to learn.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT