VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 29, 2002
Garrett Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Garrett, congratulations on a great week.  Top-10, and tied for second.  If we could, just start with a few comments from you and we'll go right into questions. 
GARRETT WILLIS:   Like you said, great week for me.  To be able to start out shooting 1-over par the first round and come back and finish second.  You know, it's pretty cool to be in contention again.  I haven't played well, and I put myself in contention.  I had some chances out there.  Loren looked like he ran away with it, late, but it was anybody's ball game with a few holes to go.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You're sharing the lead with guys like Fred Funk, Fred Couples, Loren Roberts, guys that have won quite a bit on Tour.

GARRETT WILLIS:   It goes to say that the 40-somethings are really pushing a pretty big surge with those three names up on the leaderboard.
Q.  How many putts?

GARRETT WILLIS:   I think I counted up 26.  I was three shy of the record.  It would have been something else if the putt fell on the last hole.  It would have been record breaking or record tied.  I still had 96 putts for the week, which is -- if I can make a career out of that, I would be pretty happy.
Q.  How far was that final putt?

GARRETT WILLIS:   40 feet, probably, I would have to say. 
Q.  Three 40-somethings up there on the board.  Did that thought ever occur to you out there, like, hey, --

GARRETT WILLIS:   It never crossed my mind out there.  But after making that last putt and seeing that I tied with Fred Funk and Fred Couples.  I could hear the roars ahead of me so I knew those guys were playing well.  I kept hearing the "Freddie" chant, and I wasn't sure who they were for, but I saw they were both playing well, with Loren, up there also winning the golf tournament. 

That's one thing about this Tour, there are a lot of young guys that are very talented, and the 40-somethings obviously are very proven players.  Any given time they can show up and win a golf tournament. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks.  Good luck down the road.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT