SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2010
Tom Collen
Charity Ford
Dominique Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We now have with us Arkansas head Coach Collen. Coach, would you make an opening comment about tonight's game. 
 COACH COLLEN: It was a tough loss for us. I thought we came down and battled hard, got behind by a pretty good margin twice and battled back. Got a stop, goes into overtime. 
 It's hard. You get into these kind of games, and it's all about making plays. I mean, so it's hard. 
 Give Vanderbilt credit. They got good veterans out there to make plays when they needed to. I'm proud of the kids I got, because all our kids were making plays, even Charity Ford over here, our freshmen and sophomores. There was a bunch of 'em, and that's really promising for us for the future.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Could you talk about your play tonight, Charity. You seemed to be a big part of the scrapping. 
 CHARITY FORD: I just tried to make plays for my team. I just tried to go out there and play hard today. I just feel like the game was on the line. I felt like I had to go out there and just play hard, and the plays would come to me. 
 I just went out to look hard and play through it, and it just came. 

 Q. Dominique, you came out and showed your three-point shot tonight. Were you feeling that shot this evening? 
 DOMINIQUE ROBINSON: I think when we came to the arena, I was just private about the whole game entirely. I was just ready to play, show my team the heart that we have, just try to be vocal, just step up and hit shots that I knew I could make, so... . 

 Q. Coach, this game typified the SEC this season. Your thoughts? 
 COACH COLLEN: I told our players before the game, you know, when you're playing a 12 against a 5, if you get a win you're probably gonna be on SportsCenter tonight, because they like to talk about the 5-12 upsets. 
 In the same breath, I basically said that, you know, if you think about it, there's not a lot of difference between a 5 and a 12. I think we proved that tonight. I think if you look at the last week of the season, the upsets that happened, that scrambled the seeding. 
 And when you look at, I don't know whether you call them upsets or not, but two teams won today earlier in the day that were the lower seeded teams. It's just how good this league is from top to bottom. 
 I know every other conference in this country claims they're the best from top to bottom. I just really believe in my heart -- I know we finished in the 12 seed, and I know how good we can be on any given night. 
 You know, I feel like we can play with any top 25 team in the country, except maybe Connecticut. It's just a great conference to play in. It's hard on coaches, hard on players, but it's a great conference to play in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT