BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 1, 2014
Marinko Matosevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. MATOSEVIC/S. Querrey
  5‑7, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Been a couples hours or so.   Nice performance by you today and very encouraging.   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, it's not really on my mind at the moment.   I lost in doubles.   I'm pretty pissed of about that.  
   
 Q.   I guess the before performance and moving into the later stages of a tournament must be good for you.   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yep, it is, after obviously never winning a round here and now be in the quarters of Brisbane.   I've beaten two quality players like Benneteau who is like 20 0r 30, and Sam is 20.   That gives me a lot of confidence.  
   
 Q.   What about the chance of making top 50 now; is that something you set as a little goal?  
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Not really.   I was 39 earlier this year.   No, top 50 is not my goal.   It's much higher.  
   
 Q.   Obviously going to wait to see what happens tonight, but you might play Federer.   How do you feel about that?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   It would be nice to play the greatest player of all‑time obviously, but I give Jarkko a shot tonight.  
   
 Q.   Will you watch the match here or go home?  
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I've got an improvement stretch to go, and massage, an ice bath, and dinner.   So I don't know if I'll see any of it.   I'll let my coach watch it, Woodforde, the Hall of Famer.   
   
 Q.   Two wins now.   You've won more than two in a row, but can you pinpoint what it is?   Is it better fitness?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I mean, honestly, if you look up who I've played in Australia it's been pretty rough.   Here, Roddick, Tommy Haas, Nishikori.   Roddick ended up winning; Nishikori semis; I think Haas pulled out to make, I don't know, the oldest top 10 or something.  
I've had rough ones.   And then Sydney I played Bernard; he won it.   I qualified for Sydney in 2010.   I beat a guy top 70, and then lost to Seppi.   It's been rough.  
Then Cilic, Monfils Aussie Open.   I've had tough ones.   I've had one or two winnable ones.   I mean, they're all winnable, but, I mean, it's not like ‑‑ been like 50/50.   I've had some rough draws.   He is a rough draw.   Benneteau is like 30.   There are no easy matches here.   
I'm like third or fourth last into the tournament, so it's a quality field.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned on court in the post‑match you had some trouble with your back in practice.   Is that all right now?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, I missed the last four weeks of the season because it just gets so tired and stuff.   I felt like I couldn't rotate it at the start of the match.   Once I got going it was okay.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the fact that you just had the doubles match and you've got a fair few things to do afterwards.   How is the schedule?   It's supposed to get hotter and hotter out there.   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Something is going on with this tournament, because they release the schedule ten years too early.   We could have played the doubles yesterday.   Would have been perfect.   I would've had doubles, singles, doubles, singles.   
They released the schedule like at 1:00 p.m.   They could have just waited for the result of Hewitt/Guccione‑Cabal/Farah, and then I could've played doubles yesterday.   Instead I have to back up because they're announcing the schedule ten years too early.  
Overseas you wait until really late at night.   Sometimes you're calling at 9:00 or 10:00 for the schedule because they're waiting for all the matches to finish.   
Here they announce it as soon as they can for some reason.  
   
 Q.   Besides some of the tough draws, do you feel there is a big change in your tennis somewhere?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah.   In all honesty, Mark Woodforde has been probably the biggest reason.   After Wimbledon last year I had some personal problems.   I was going to pull out of the whole US Open Series and US Open and go home.   
He saved me there.   I went on to make quarterfinals of Washington, almost semis.   I was close to beating Tursunov.  
Then made quarters of a Masters Series there and then had pretty good results.   Lost to Raonic in Bangkok, and my last match of the season I lost to Ferrer in three; he's 3 in the world, so I was playing well before the shoulder and I owe Mark a lot.  
   
 Q.   What did he do in particular with you?   Technical thing?   Mental thing?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Everything.   It's been technical, tactical.   Yeah, mentally.   He's great in all areas.   With his Hall of Fame career, he can help me in every aspect of tennis.   He's worked really hard since Wimbledon.   We've worked really hard since Wimbledon.   
I finished a match in Bangkok like 9:15, and we went out on court at 9:30 at night.   So stuff like that.  
   
 Q.   Have you has many text messages about that L?   
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Just spur of the moment.   I don't know what I did.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT