AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2013
Marinko Matosevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. MATOSEVIC/F. Nielsen
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you assess that?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I guess it was a tough first set, but the second set was pretty good.   Freddie actually should have beaten Lopez last round, Feliciano Lopez.   He had six break points in the third and managed to lose 4 in the third, so I'm pretty happy to get my first win on grass this season.

Q.   Is it tough playing someone you know so well?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, I know Freddie really well.   I played him once before in challengers, and he was playing a lot of singles and challengers before he started doing full‑time dubs. 
Yeah, it is.   He's a great guy, one of the nice guys on the tour.

Q.   How are you feeling in general about your grass season?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, I'm feeling good.   I was on the clay for three months.   Happy to be off the clay.   Threw away all the socks from the clay season I wore.   Yeah, happy to be on the green stuff.

Q.   Did you take any consolation from seeing Ferrer make the final in Paris?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I don't know.   Not really.   It's a first‑round match, but I know I pushed him.   And, no, I had my chances, I mean, 3‑Love 4‑Love serving and 3‑1 break points. 
He broke me at 4‑All in the first and third.   So I pushed him, that was good.   But, no, not really.

Q.   In general, what are your expectations over the next couple of weeks? 
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Well, I had a good win last year in grass against Gasquet.   It's grass, and hard court is my favorite surface.   I'm looking to definitely win a lot of matches.

Q.   If you get through the next round, you potentially have a crack at Andy.   What would that mean?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I don't know.   I have to win my second round, and then he's got to win his second round.   That would be pretty cool. 
Playing a few big players this year.   Played Rafa at Monte‑Carlo in his home court, so it would be cool to play Andy in his home court.

Q.   What's the bigger aspect as far as going from clay to grass?   Is it, one, the footwork aspect, the movement, or two, getting your mind adjusted, the mental aspect of going from clay to grass?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   It's both of those, I guess.   I guess the other key is getting a lot of grass court time.   I stopped being on grass since last Friday. 
I mean, yeah, you've got to stay low.   I mean, you get a lot of misbounces.   Well, not on these courts.   These courts are pretty perfect.   You can get a lot of bad bounces, the ball shooting through. 
It can be very frustrating.   Like today, you know, Freddie just swung away and hit a bunch of winners, and that was pretty frustrating.

Q.   How long did it take you once you got onto the grass to feel reasonably comfortable?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Like three, four days.   Always the first day, two days is pretty tough.   But, yeah, couple of days.

Q.   Bernie has only just rolled into town the last couple of days.   Has he given himself enough time to make that adjustment?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I don't know.   I guess so.   I mean, he's really good on grass, and quarterfinal of Wimbledon two years ago, so I'm sure Bernie is doing fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT