BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2015
Marinko Matosevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. JOHNSON/M. Matosevic
  2‑6, 7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   All losses are tough, but is there something about it loss today that really bites? 
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, a little bit.   I felt really close to win the match.   I was Love‑30 at 4 all.   He was probably the better player in the third.   I was kind of hanging on.
But I definitely felt like I should have won the second set. 

Q.   Tell us what went through the second set tiebreak there?   Was there anything in your head? 
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   No, no.   He played a great tiebreak.   I made‑‑ I don't think I made many errors.   Maybe the volley error in the first point.   But he played a great tiebreak.   Made every single first serve; I missed mine. 
He just played a great breaker.

Q.   As entertaining as you are out there, gesturing and the yelling, is it fun to play tennis in Australia?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, it's definitely fun now since I won my matches at the slams and made quarters here least year and quarters in Sydney.   So now like I played on the biggest courts.   Played Fed at the US Open; should have won the third set there.   So now I just feel free to play.   I'm really enjoying my tennis.
Just a shame I couldn't get over the line today.   I felt like I was really close.   I had a really good first set, and then the next two sets didn't go my way. 

Q.   What do you think of your 2014 season?   I think it was five ATP quarterfinals.
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Six.

Q.   How do you rate it?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   It was weird.   If you would asked me if I'd win zero matches and get the two slams, I would take it.   I wouldn't give a shit.
But I just didn't go deep.   If I would've won two of those matches, like Isner in Madrid after I beat Kohlschreiber and after I beat Verdasco at Wimbledon I lost to Chardy where I was a break up in the fifth, if I win those two matches I would be 50.   So I would be like 1 or 2 in Australia.
If I win three of those matches I'm top 50.   I would be first.   So I didn't go deep like in previous years, like a tour final or semis of a 500, so that was the big difference.
But, again, I made quarters on clay, grass, and hard court.   I had the most tour wins, 23, like 8 more than any other Aussie.   Had the most wins on tour, but just didn't go deep in the tournaments.

Q.   What's the plan for the rest of the month?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Flying out to Hopman Cup tonight.   Yeah, playing Benoit Paire tomorrow and Andy Murray Friday.

Q.   When did you get the call about‑‑ well you probably knew about Matt's injury.   When did you get the call that you were in?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Straight after the match the Josh Eagle came up to me, the Davis Cup coach, and said, Matt's not up to it.   Do you want to play?   Yeah, I'll take any chance I can get to represent Australia. 

Q.   Is that the key as well to this month, just try and play as many matches as you can?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I haven't played since Stockholm.   Lost to Verdasco in three.   So it's been two and a half months.   I didn't play the last two weeks of the year, so it's been a while since I played my last match.   Didn't play much since the US Open.   Pulled out of Tokyo.   Beat Kyrgios and made the quarters in Kuala Lumpur. 
Then the next week played Troicki one match and he was on fire in Shanghai, and then one more tournament in Stockholm.   So haven't played a match for two and a half months.

Q.   Going back to Sydney?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, hopefully I get a Tuesday start.   They called the tournament director, and hopefully I should get the Tuesday start.   Yeah, I made the quarters there last year.   It's a great event.   Yeah, looking forward to that one as well.

Q.   Even though you have to crisscross the country?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah, that's the only negative side, the travel time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT