AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2014
Marinko Matosevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/M. Matosevic
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you sum up your week?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   It's been a good week.   If you told me before the week I'd beat Marin and Jo, I would have taken it.   But then when you get out there and there's those few small chances it's disappointing.
I mean, today the loss was disappointing but overall it's been a good week.

Q.   How have the hip and the ankle shaped up?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   The ankle, I played with it strapped.   And the hip was worse than the ankle.   I had to play with like four painkillers.

Q.   How does it feel now?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Well, the painkillers have worn off, so hopefully ‑‑it feels okay. 

Q.   Do you know what the problem is with the hip, what the injury is?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I don't want to talk about what the problem is with the hip.

Q.   Is this something that could worry you heading towards Wimbledon?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I don't know.   I'll see.   Tomorrow I'm having a day off, and I'll see how I feel on Sunday.

Q.   I know you said that you wouldn't think about Wimbledon before this match.   In hindsight, was that still the right thing to do to compete in this match?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   I mean, yeah.   I heard last night that Dolgopolov was going to pull out, and I didn't want ‑‑I mean, I didn't go out for that reason, but, I mean, you think about those things, and it was a good chance to test myself against Stan.
My coach really wanted me to play and I wanted to play, of course.   I went out there and I put in an okay performance, I guess.

Q.   I suppose it's part of respecting the tournament, as well, like you said?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Yeah.   You know, I rate Queen's just as high as like The Masters Series.

Q.   Did you have any targets coming into the grass court season?   If so, will you be readjusting them after this week's successes?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Well, my coach is always looking for lots of matches, so like wins in the interest of confidence and on grass just a lot of match play.   I feel like, yeah, I have really had that.

Q.   Will you reassess your targets for Wimbledon now?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Will I reassess, like ‑‑I haven't even thought about Wimbledon, to tell you the truth.   But, I mean, yeah, the last two weeks have given me a lot of confidence.   If I can get a good draw, I think I can do some good things.

Q.   We know that you have said that the monkey is off your back with the whole Grand Slam business.   When you look back on the time in Paris and then coming here on to the grass, where would you say your level of satisfaction is with your game, and what do you feel needs to be worked on over the next week?
MARINKO MATOSEVIC:   Lots of positives after the show of matches in Australia.   I've got the gorilla off the back.   My serve has improved a lot this year with the help of Wayne Arthurs.   Everything is going good.   The goal is just to stay healthy.
Yeah, today I didn't have the sharpness to return.   I'm really returning well I felt like in the three matches. 
You know, I think the two keys for tennis and grass court tennis is serve and return.   I feel like I have been doing those things well except for returning today.   I didn't have a great returning day.   He served really well, too. 
But, yeah, my game is pretty much where I want it to be. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT