NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 11, 2003
Josh Beckett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Josh, when you were coming out of the draft, Tampa Bay was deciding between you and Josh Hamilton.  They made their decision to take Hamilton.  How would you say things worked out from your perspective?
 
JOSH BECKETT: I don't know.  Josh is a great talent.  I played with him in the Futures Game.  I think he had nine hits in that game or something like that.  I don't know, I mean I think I'm the wrong guy to ask that. 
 
Q.  From your perspective, for you?
 
JOSH BECKETT: For me, I love it.  I like the team that I was drafted by.  I'm really happy with the way things worked out.  I've got great teammates.  I can't complain.  I've got no complaints. 
 
Q.  Are you going to try to make any different approach tomorrow when you start, and what is it in comparison to Game 1 in Chicago?
 
JOSH BECKETT: Yeah, I'm going to have to make some adjustments.  Game 1 was not a good game for me at all.  I'm just going to make some adjustments.  Like I say, I'm not too worried about it.  I have to pitch my game.  I have to execute pitches.  That's the main adjustment I need to make. 
 
Q.  Psychologically, Josh, it could be a big game for both teams, based on how this one comes out.  Do you think about that at all or do you try to block that out?
 
JOSH BECKETT: It's a big game.  This is the NLCS, I think every game is pretty big.  Game 1 was a big game.  Game 1 in the NLDS was a big game.  I don't think that bothers me too much.  I just have to go out and throw pitches, is the bottom line. 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the difference between pitching here in a pitcher's park and pitching in a place like Wrigley?
 
JOSH BECKETT: Either way, you've got to execute pitches.  And that is the bottom line.  And I didn't execute pitches in the first inning the other day.  And when they hit them, those were bullets.  Those would have been base hits here or in Yellowstone, it doesn't matter where you're playing. 
 
Q.  Talk about wanting to make adjustments, but you didn't pitch that bad.  If Juan would have caught that ball, it would be like a new game, if he didn't slip?
 
JOSH BECKETT: Yeah, but it's still a bullet.  Like I said, it was a hard hit ball.  That comes down to executing pitches.  And I wasn't executing the pitches. 
 
Q.  Was the atmosphere maybe part of the reason you weren't executing pitches, did you feel any differently?  Obviously they're big games and emotional for everyone and adrenaline and all of that.
 
JOSH BECKETT: No, I don't think that affected me at all.  I think certain days you go out there and you have it right from the start and certain days you don't.  I think I found a little groove after the first inning that day, and I pitched well for four innings, and then gave up another home run. 
 
Q.  Have you been able to pick up anything about pitching maybe working the inside of the plate from watching Kerry Wood and Mark Prior do that?
 
JOSH BECKETT: Not really.  I'm not pitching to my guys.  I've got to pitch to their guys.  I guess I could have learned some things if maybe we trade every one of our teammates, and then I can pitch to them all on one team, I can learn something from that. 
 
Q.  Obviously this is a bigger park.  Is there anything else that explains the vast change in the ERA you guys have at home versus the road?  Is it the mound?  Is it the back drop?
 
JOSH BECKETT: I don't know.  I guess it kind of factors in with the home field advantage.  We like pitching here, we get used to pitching off that mound.  I know rules say all the mounds are supposed to be the same, but they're not.  I think some mounds are big.  Some mounds are small.  Some mounds are bigger, round.  It's just different factors.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT