NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
John Smoltz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. John, have you had any second-career thoughts after your adventure the other day
down in Atlanta?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: None whatsoever. Not at this point. That was fun and over with, and now
I've got to get ready for tomorrow. 
 
Q. Is there any more tension involved in being the reliever than going out to start a
ballgame?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, the obvious thing is you have to get three outs, but you get out of
your comfort zone. I'm not used to coming straight from the bullpen straight to the mound.
And once you get out there and get the feel of the game as a starter, you have all game to
work up your feel and work up the way you pitch. As a reliever you don't have that
opportunity. You just need to make really quality pitches. And I said it before and I'll
say it again: I've really learned and appreciate a lot of what they do and how well
they've done it all year. 
 
Q. Obviously, you, particularly, have pitched in a lot of big games in these
situations. The Mets haven't really been in that many big games this year. How about you
pitching in a big game? It must be pretty much second nature to you now?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, it definitely is the role I relish and the role I want to be in. I
think that through all the years of pitching this many games -- it's interesting, because
from postseason to postseason, they can seem so far away, even though we've been there 8
out of the last 9 years. You have an in-between season, and then you have what you hope to
be a long postseason, and you don't know how long it's going to be. Each start is
important. You have to do it every time out. You can't rest on your laurels. And much like
me coming in the game and saving that game, it was nice and fun, but I have to get ready
to start Game 4. I pull from every experience I've been in. I think I've pretty much in
the postseason been in every game number, game situation: Game 7, game-clincher,
back-up-against-the-wall. And I know what to do. 
 
Q. What about the crowd and the possible effect they can have on you? In your
experience, do you find the crowds in Shea Stadium are more vociferous than anywhere else?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: It's different than any place else. If they could, they'd do whatever they
could to help their team win. If they felt like running out on the field and fielding a
ball, I think they would. That's what's awesome about this place; it will be rocking. As a
visiting player, you just hope to do the best you can to not be embarrassed, because
they'll embarrass you, whether it be verbally or with the pressure of the game on the
line. Much like we were able to at the times in our place where the level was high,
maintain that. As a visiting player coming in here, you know they want their team to win
really, really bad. And you will not hear any of your own fans, whether they're in the
stadium or not. 
 
Q. John, in basketball you have Dennis Rodman who is outspoken. In baseball, there's
something sacred where John Rocker can speak his mind, and it becomes frowned upon. His
own manager doesn't want him to do it. What's so wrong with speaking your mind in
baseball?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: It's kind of understood that that's not what you do. It's a long series. I
always say: "To each their own." But as a group, really, we haven't done much of
that because I don't think you ever win. Yeah, you can go out there and keep dominating
like he's doing, but our club is not about giving them something else to talk about. Our
club is about going out there and winning a championship. So it's probably a little
different than past times. 
 
Q. Have you or anybody else on a team felt the need to speak to Rocker about that?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: No. We're all treated as adults and that's, again, to each their own.
That's the situation at one time we were young, too. 
 (Laughter). 
 
Q. John, whether it be consciously or subconsciously, what differences in your approach
would there be if you're pitching in a 2-1 series or 3-0 series?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, there's a big difference. Obviously, it's a bigger smile on my face
if it's 3-0. 2-1, 3-0 are the same objective; I want to win. In a series like this, any
win gains momentum. So if they win tonight, they're back in the series. I don't care what
anybody says, they're back in the series. If they don't, obviously it's a lot more
difficult. But anytime as a pitcher you have a chance and you know your team can go to the
next level, there's no better feeling. I've had a chance to do it quite a bit, and I
really enjoy it. And tonight is one of them teeter-totter games. Right now, we're on top
of the pendulum, but tonight just determines whether or not it goes back to level ground
or not. 
 
Q. John, given that Rocker's comments were directly to the fans, do you expect the fans
to be more intimidating than usual?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: I don't think so. How he got portrayed, what he said -- I don't even read
the papers. I don't think you ever have to say a word to come in and know you're going to
be hated and they don't want you to win. So it's really a moot point. If the Mets jump on
top, it's going to be difficult. Momentum will swing, and that's what their crowd brings
to the park. 
 
Q. Obviously, you must realize that your postseason record has been so good. What is it
that you do differently? You seem to enjoy, thrive in big games. What is it you do
differently?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: I love pitching at this time of the year. I'm not afraid to fail. I've
gone through a lot of changes in my career. I've gone through a lot of tough times, but
through all that, I've been able to pitch without the feeling that I might not be
successful. I always pitch at this time of year knowing that I'm going to win. And I try
the same approach in the regular season, but the difference is when I pitch a postseason
game, my effort level as far as how I feel after the game is ten times greater than a
regular season game. The reason I say that is my approach in the regular season, if it
were like postseason, I would not make it through the season. When the postseason comes, I
pitch like it's my last game. Every time I get a chance to pitch, it's my last game. I
don't view it as pressure of my last game to pitch. I just basically approach it as: You
know what, I don't know if I'm going to get another start; so I'll make this one my best. 
 
Q. I believe you sort of answered it, but Rick Reed said before that he tries to shut
out the fact that it's a big game. Would you say that's close to impossible to do, just
because of all the circumstances and what's around you?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, unless you've been through a lot of them, and it could be my 25th or
26th game in the postseason; so obviously I have a little advantage there. I said before,
when a runner gets on first in the postseason, it's a rally. When a runner gets on first
in the regular season, it's no big deal. Everything is magnified. Imagine if each start,
35 starts, I had to talk about my start the next day. In talking about so many different
situations or scenarios, you can get yourself caught up in the atmosphere of what's
magnified a little bit over. Having not been through it, that's where the advantage only
comes for us. Other than that when you execute, it doesn't mean a lot. 
 
Q. What can you tell us about playing for Bobby Cox? What does he do for you?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Simply put, it's the best situation that you can be in as a player. For me
personally, I've been playing for him now for the last ten years. He doesn't disrupt any
flows. He keeps the team positive. He's not about disruption, about talking to his player
through the media if he's got a problem. It's an easygoing relationship. And he's the most
loyal guy I've been around, that as a manager, that really has gotten criticized for that.
I really think that the success this organization has obtained is because he's been so
constant in his belief in his team. He believes and makes you believe that we've got what
it takes to win it all. And I've never seen a situation -- I played for one other manager.
I've never seen a situation where a manager was so confident in the belief of the system.
And when we leave Spring Training, that's what's on our minds. This is the proof this
year, of all the setbacks we've had. 
 
Q. Mets hitters say because you've changed your delivery, there's so much more life in
your fastball. Do you intend to stay there, with your arm dropping down?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: I'll make some evaluations after the year. Usually after the postseason,
I'm pretty much worn out. And I'm finding the longer my career goes, the longer I'm going
to take even in between picking up a ball between Spring Training. I'm on bonus time now.
I've said this before, too. I probably am going to stay this way. As long as my elbow
feels this way, I'm going to stay this way and master it as best I can. I still change my
arm angles. I'm not stuck at this angle, but I can see some time down the road thinking
about what I'm going to do, and I think at this point, I'm going to stay the way I am. 
 
Q. John, specifically, how does your body tell you that you have given more effort in a
postseason game? Are you more sore the next day?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, without being corny, I basically feel like I've been hit by a truck.
The next day is a very difficult day. I love to play golf, and I play golf pretty much on
the road. After a playoff game, it's very difficult for you to invite me out to a round of
golf. That's just the effort that I go to. And the preparation is no different. It's just
the excitement of the game, the effort, the willingness to go as far as you can go, and
I'm pretty worn out the next day. In a regular season game, I love to tee it up the next
day and get the kinks out and exercise. 
 
Q. What's your handicap?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Two. 
 
Q. At this point, can you be intimidated by a hostile crowd, and was there a time when
you could have been?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: The situation in the game is what intimidates you; it's magnified by the
crowd. If it's 5-0 and they're going at an all-time pitch (crowd noise) and you're
winning, you won't be as intimidated as if it's 5-4, all-time pitch (crowd noise),
pressure situation. They want to pull for their team. Much like the Yankee series in the
sense that Boston could have easily won those two games. I'm sure the crowd does have an
effect at times with, whether it be you pitching on the mound or the visiting hitter
hitting. Otherwise, the most intimidating situation for a player is playing in front of an
empty stadium because you're used to something, crowd noise, either for you or against
you. 
 
Q. John, your club has been in a lot of postseason series. You've won a lot of
postseason series. You know how they work. Do you guys have a thirst for the kill for the
Mets right now?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: I'll be honest, this is nothing against the Mets. I think our take, it
really doesn't matter who it is. There's so much pressure on us anyways to win it all.
It's an obstacle we have to get by. We have to win. We've enjoyed this year more than in
the past because of the things that have happened. I wouldn't call it -- I don't think
anybody is minus a killer instinct. As much as you go through a series, you go through the
ups and downs, and it's the first team to win four games. And we're trying to accomplish
that. And you don't get caught up with if you lose this game or what you did in the last
seven years. 
 
Q. Because you've had the change of your arm angles, did throwing the inning the other
day, on your day you were supposed to throw, getting warmed up and throwing, is that going
to change your effectiveness or how you're going to pitch tomorrow?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: No, I don't believe so. Just getting down towards the end of the year,
we're all in the same boat. We're all a little tired and nicked up. You basically approach
those games -- like I said earlier, I'm going to approach tomorrow's game as if I'm not
going to pitch again, then see what happens after that, if there's an opportunity to pitch
later on in this series, if need be. But I don't believe that inning at all will have an
effect at all on my start, because I only threw 9 pitches. I didn't warm up that long, and
the adrenaline was flowing pretty good. 
 
Q. John, can you talk a little bit about the year-after-year you mentioned the pressure
on your team to win it all? Cleveland fires their manager; five straight Division
Championships, but they haven't won a World Series. What's it like year after year to be
in this position and know that nothing is going to be good enough unless you win it all?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, my take has changed in that respect because "What have you done
for me lately"? All I know is I can answer it as a player who has been through this
the last eight years, and I know there's 99 percent other people would love to be in my
shoes, given the opportunity every year to win. You can't do anything about the previous
seven years. Our organization has provided us a chance to win every year. It's easy to win
when you're not supposed to. It's very difficult to win when you're supposed to. Every
year, predicted. Our manager will probably never win the Manager of the Year when you're
predicted to win every year. And he's finally getting noticed for the great job he's done
because of the circumstances this year. I would say after the '96 year, those next two
years were very difficult for us, the pressure was phenomenonal because of how we lost in
'96. And then it became a sore thumb for some reason that we'd only won one. I don't care
what we're called. They can put any tag that you want on us in the 90's. Whatever happens
this year, regardless, it's been an incredible run, and one that seemingly doesn't look
like it's ready to end yet. I don't think as players we can be so much focused about what
we've got to prove, because we're enjoying this year and we're still playing, and that's
-- again, when teams lose early, it's easy to forget about them; go get them next year.
But the farther you go and then you lose, the lasting memory, it's kind of -- it just
brings up more topics. 
 
Q. You and Maddux and Glavine, the three guys that have been through most of this run
together, all approach these starts with professionalism. How would you characterize
particularly what Glavine brings on a night like tonight, when you see him go out to do
his work in a big game like this, what do you look for?
 
 JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, obviously, Tom is, aside from his credentials, what he does in
regular season, he may not get as much credit for the postseason play because things
haven't worked out in his favor. He's pitched extremely well. Maybe had one or two bad
games in the postseason that have stuck out. He's tough as nails when this time comes.
It's like trying to beat down that pillar, you might dent it, but you're not going to
knock it down. You might beat Glavine, but you're not going to -- he's not going to beat
himself. He's going to stay stubborn and keep his team in the game as long as possible;
stick to his plan. And if the other team executes, then they've got a chance. I enjoy
watching him pitch because of that. His idea is: Bases loaded in a 2-0 game, he'd rather
walk a guy doing what he does, keeping the game close, than giving in and maybe blowing
the game open. And that's what's been his success. Over the years of watching him, I've
never seen someone close a game out as good as he does. He stays in there. Everyone talks
about four or five years ago he had -- if you're going to get them, get them in the first
inning. That tag will never leave him. And he hasn't been that type of pitcher, but that
tag will never leave him. I've watched him, and what makes him so good is he closes the
deal. He smells victory, he knows from the 7th, 8th and 9th how to finish a game. And
that's why he's won two Cy Youngs and has had four 20-game winning seasons. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT