NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 11, 1998
Andres Galarraga
Ozzie Guillen
John Smoltz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. John, what's the team's state of mind right now?

JOHN SMOLTZ: Still playing, and that's all we can really be focused on. Aside from me
giving you 600 cliches of every team that's been down 3-1, and I'm not going to do that.
But we have a chance to win another game.

Q. John, very rarely has a team come in in this kind of situation with the three of you
guys backed up to pitch, so does it make your chances better, you think, than most other
teams that would be patching it together at this point?

JOHN SMOLTZ: I'd like to think of all the teams in history that have been down 3-0,
that have never come back. Sure, I like our chances better than all those. But still,
you've got to go through a brick wall in San Diego, I think most teams that are 3-1
deficits against St. Louis that we came back, but this is a totally different team and
totally different situation. Really unless those pitchers over there get really sick, it's
still a pretty even match. We're trying to extend the series and go back to Atlanta.

Q. Cat, you had a tough first couple of games of this series, both in the field and at
bat. Was it a big release to hit the home run?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yeah, that's true. When I hit, I said, "Thank you God for this
one." And I really needed it, especially the team, to stay alive. They haven't been
throwing too many good pitches to hit. So some day I tried to talk to myself to be more
patient, and I came with the bases loaded. So I took the first pitch, and then I hit a
grand slam. That's probably the best pitch I've seen all series.

Q. Is it a big situation there to get ahead in the count so you maybe can get a good
pitch?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Oh, yeah, no question. The more patient, the better count you get,
better it is, especially with the bases loaded. That's why probably that's better for the
hitter, too, hitting with a big count.

Q. Bobby Cox said you had a good BP. Did you feel your swing coming around?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yeah, I told you, I've been struggling and not hitting too good. The
only thing is I feel positive. I know the way they've been pitching. They've been pitching
really difficult, outside, inside, up and down. When you go 0 for 2, 0 for 3, I wanted to
do something for the team to win. We had a lot of frustration. Today for some reason, like
I said before, talked to myself to be more patient on the home plate. And I did get it. I
worked today. I hit a home run, and that's the way I feel most better at the home plate is
when I'm patient. 

Q. How will the gland slam compare to all other homeruns you've hit in your career?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Probably the best, keeping the team to stay alive; myself, to give
more emotion for tomorrow, too -- for me, for my family, because I know they've been
frustrated, too. We've been losing, and to make my mother, my kids happy, to see me do
something to win, to help the Braves to win.

Q. Did it feel like it took off a big lift from your shoulders when you hit a home run?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, not really, I'm not feeling any pressure. Before, like I say, I
know I needed to hit good to help the guys win the game. The way we've been playing -- and
I think it's no monkey on my shoulder, because everyone is probably on the same level
right here. The Padres have been throwing to us. Their pitching really works. When you
have some pitching like that, it's difficult to hit anyway. It's no question it made me
feel much better at the home plate.

Q. You had bases loaded in that situation. Obviously, you can't afford to walk. You got
behind 1-0. Are you looking dead fastball in that situation?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: I'm looking for something around the strike to get an -- at least a
base hit or drive some guy in. So as soon as I hit it, I knew it was a home run. It made
me feel much better after that.

Q. Andres, earlier in the game when you got tagged out on the bases and you grounded
into the double play, after the base hit, were you thinking at all what more can happen to
you in the series?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, I think I know Rivera. He's got a great hand, and so to -- I
think to tie the situation, I think I played that for the team.

Q. Andres, I'm wondering, are they pitching you any differently than any other teams,
than teams did earlier this year; have you noticed anything?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yeah, they've been throwing me more pitches outside. Early in the
season, they've been pitching more inside. That's why they hit me 24 times before that.
Now they've been throwing me outside, so it's kind of different now.

Q. Andres, what do you think are the Braves chances now?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, we've got -- today we hit it much better. I think that's the
pitching we've been needing. I hope we start the way we're doing today.

Q. You like your chances?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yeah, I think we've got a chance to do that. It's never happened
before.

Q. Did the team play with anymore emotion tonight than it did the first three games?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, I think the difference was -- when we no score runs, it's
difficult to play with emotion. But we did today; so that will help everybody to keep
going that way.

Q. What about scoring each half inning after the Padres scored? How important was that
for the club?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yeah, it's really good. It's really important for us to stay in the
game, to not let this game get open. So when we come back and tie the game or score
another run, it's more emotion to keep us positive to win the game.

Q. Did Javy's homer really get you going?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: No question. As soon as he hit it, I think he helped everybody.
Everybody started hitting bases, stealing bases. I hit a grand slam. So everybody jumped
in right away after that.

Q. Ozzie, can you tell us what Bobby said to you as far as why you were in the line-up?
Were you in there more to spark the offense or because Walt couldn't go?

OZZIE GUILLEN: No, really, I think Walt swung the bat real well yesterday. I think
Bobby believed I played good for them all year long. I think Bobby put in me in because I
played for 14 years in the big leagues, and I didn't have a chance to play in the
postseason. And I think he put me in to give me a chance to be in one.

Q. Ozzie, you started in this organization. What did it feel like? You never played any
Major League games here, but what did it feel like to come back here? Is this your first
postseason game, here?

OZZIE GUILLEN: Played against them in the beginning of the season. They picked me up
from the release. We come here and play. And it feel great. To see Flannery coach third
base this series has been great for baseball, and they gave me a chance -- signed me, and
gave me a chance to be in pro ball. And I just came here and the Braves made me really
excited. I came here, I was only 16 years old. And to come here. It's nice. I love the
city. I love the beach. I have a boat, so I enjoy it every time I come here.

Q. At the beginning of the line, he hit several foul balls and a long at-bat. Did you
feel good things were going to happen to you and the Braves tonight?

OZZIE GUILLEN: It was hard, because it was tough to see the ball. It was kind of a
shadow there, and it's hard. Hamilton was throwing pretty good sinkers. And every time
Bobby put me there, I want to have a good at-bat. Every time I have a good at-bat, I know
I have a job for the next day. I tried to make something happen, and they said -- as I
approached the ball, I saw the ball real well. And when I was in the line-up and I was the
lead off guy, Bobby wants us to score. We didn't really score the last three games. And
the way we scored today, I think it was great for everyone.

Q. Were you surprised you didn't get that low liner that was hit by Caminiti in the 3rd
or 4th?

OZZIE GUILLEN: It was hard, because I don't know how hard he hit it. And it was kind of
tough to pick the ball from the fans, because it was shadow between the mounds. And I
should have made that play. I made that play before. But that's why you play the game. I
think I have a chance to do it, and the difficult thing was I don't know how hard the ball
was hit.

Q. You showed a lot of emotion when he was going around the bases, with the grand slam.
Is this a very emotional moment for you?

OZZIE GUILLEN: I think more for the team. I know what Galarraga is going through right
now. He's one of the the best friends on the team, and the best friend in my career, we've
known each other for a long time. I tried to keep him positive, don't worry about the
past, whatever you do yesterday doesn't mean anything today. I think I was more happy for
the team. Finally we scored more runs. We're going to face a lot of tough pitchers.
Yesterday we had a lot of opportunity to score some runs. And today we scored four or five
runs with two out, that's special for us. It gives us confidence for tomorrow's game.

Q. Bobby suggested that you're going to play tomorrow, too. Has he mentioned that to
you?

OZZIE GUILLEN: I don't know why Bobby put me in this situation (laughter.) Hey, when he
put me in the line-up, I'll be there, play hard for him. I'll do what I was supposed to
do. But I'll do what I do all my life: Have fun, play hard, do the best I can, and help my
team have some emotion, give me a chance to play tomorrow, and it's good for me and for my
career. I think it's a great opportunity to be back in the line-up.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT