ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 18, 2014
Ricardo Santos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good is 3‑under around there?   
RICARDO SANTOS:   Well, really happy with the round.   Played really solid.   I just really missed one green.   Played really solid, like I say, and played quite well, so make the difference.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you got off to a nice start, having racked up the four birdies.   
RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, this was a good start after three holes, minus two.   So give me some confidence the rest of the round, and didn't drop a shot on 14.   It's quite a tough hole, so can't complain really.   On 15, missed the tee shot on the right and able to make four.   Almost made birdie on 18.   But like I say, really solid round.   
   
 Q.   How have you been playing?   
RICARDO SANTOS:   Well, last two weeks, I played quite good but on the greens, not really.   In Crans, I played quite solid, as well.   Last week, just bad mistakes with the putter and some chips.   And today, still improve my game and hole some putts.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the position you find yourself in on Race to Dubai,114th I think?   
RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, that's the truth.   I need a good week, and then if I play like this all the events until the finish of the season, I think I have a great chance.  
   
 Q.   Do you worry about it or just take it as it comes?  
RICARDO SANTOS:   If I still improve my game, I'm not worried about it.   
   
 Q.   Which is a good attitude.   Sometimes it's not easy when you have people like us asking you questions.   
RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, it's not easy.   The golf is not easy but you have to think it's easy, otherwise it's more complicated.   Well, with the good weather, I really like the course.   With the bad weather, not really.   It's quite a tough course with wind and if it's raining, as well.   But with the good weather, you can enjoy the course, and of course it's a great championship course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT