COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Ricardo Santos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A terrific opening round of seven under par, was any particular aspect of your game key to that today?   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   Well, I just played really well, especially my short game.   Today I missed a few shots from the tee but then recovered very well and just kept it like that.   
   
 Q.   How much is this performance built on the confidence you gained from a fourth place last week?   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, it means a lot because last week gave me a lot of confidence to play this week and the next week's, so I'm really happy for the last week and also for this.   
   
 Q.   You won in Madeira last year, as a Portuguese, how special was that?   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   It's really important for me and for Portugal as well.   We need to welcome more players and I think it's really important when you play the first season on the main tour and win a tournament, especially in your home country, I think it's very important and means a lot for me.   
   
 Q.   What sort of goals and targets have you set yourself for this season?   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   Well, I just want to enjoy it, the season, and I want to go to The Race to Dubai, I think that's my target this season, and play majors, it's really good for me.   
    When you start like, that the top of the leaderboard, it's really nice, especially when you play quite good, I can say, well, my short game today, again, really amazing, especially the putts, I'm really happy.   
   
 Q.   So you should be; is it in part down to the confidence of last week and finishing Top‑5.   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, definitely, last week, it's an amazing week for me, so gave me a lot of confidence to come here to Qatar and next weeks to improve my game, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Does it help that there's no break, you're straight back into action, and just continue?   
    RICARDO SANTOS:   Yeah, definitely, I think normal when you play good, the season before, you come to the next season with a different spirit.   So it's like I made today.   
    Winning Rookie of the Year gave me a lot of confidence, and for this season, I practice a lot to have a more consistent game and that's my target for this season and just enjoy myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT