ROGERS CUP
August 18, 2005
Gisela Dulko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you talk a little bit about when you saw that your opponent maybe was injured a little bit, did you change your game maybe to try to get her to move a little more?  How did that affect you? 

GISELA DULKO:  Yes, first couple of points that we play after she get treatment, I try to move her a little bit.  But then she was moving okay.  I mean, then in the beginning of the second set, I lost my concentration a little bit.  Maybe I start to think more about her than about me, so that's why I miss many balls at that time.  I was 4-1 down, then I start to play better again.  Was okay. 

Q.  She still gave you a pretty tough fight, two tiebreakers, especially the second one. 

GISELA DULKO:  Yeah.  Yeah, of course.  She's a great player.  I mean, she's No. 4 in the world.  She won the US Open.  I mean, everybody knows how she play.  That's why I feel really happy right now.  Was one of the best winnings of my career so far.  I'm really happy to be in quarterfinals in this tournament. 

Q.  How did the approach change once Svetlana did go down with the injury? 

GISELA DULKO:  Sorry? 

Q.  How did you approach the game once she did go down with the injury?  Did it change? 

GISELA DULKO:  Well, I think she start to serve not too fast because I think she had a pain in the back, so she was serving like second serve instead of first serve.  So I was able to return better.  I think that's was the change. 

Q.  Were you concerned with trying to wear her down?  I notice you didn't do any kind of drops.  Were you trying to move her around the court a little more? 

GISELA DULKO:  Well, yes.  My game plan was to move her a little bit.  I think I did it pretty well.  We both run a lot.  I think was a very tough match for both of us.  I think was two sets, but was two hours and a half match, so was pretty long for two sets. 

Q.  You're also known obviously playing in Argentina for your clay court game.  Are you trying to really work on your hard court matches now?  Is this something where you can use this as a positive now that you're winning?

GISELA DULKO:  Yes.  I think I like to play better on hard court.  I had my best result on hard court.  But, anyways, I grew up playing on clay.  So because of Argentina, it's all clay courts.  Yes, I'm working a lot in hard as well as I'm working in clay. 

Q.  You mentioned earlier this is probably your biggest win of your career.  Are you actually viewing it as the biggest win of your career, even though Svetlana was injured? 

GISELA DULKO:  Well, yes, because I think she was injured, but she fight till the last point.  It was a really tight match.  And I think, yes, it's a really big win for me because I get opportunity to be in quarterfinals of this big tournament.  Is really nice. 

Q.  Your next opponent most likely will be Anastasia Myskina of Russia.  You lost to her last year in Fed Cup on clay court.  What did you learn about that match?  How are you going to prepare for her if she is your opponent? 

GISELA DULKO:  Yes, I played her in the Fed Cup.  I lost in two sets.  But in the second one, I was 5-2 up and I couldn't win that set.  I start to miss a lot.  I think I learn a lot about that match, and I will try to play my best to beat her in case I play her.  But they have to play.  They didn't finish yet. 

Q.  When you were down 4-1 in the second set, you mentioned it was kind of a crucial time for you.  Are you getting stronger mentally on the court now?  Only 20 years old, though. 

GISELA DULKO:  Yeah, of course, I feel better now with my mentality.  I am playing lot of matches.  I think that is helping me a lot to improve, to control myself more in the court.  I am feeling pretty well right now, yeah. 

Q.  Did you think she was going to retire when she went down in the first set? 

GISELA DULKO:  Well, I have to say maybe I think about it when I won the first set because she wasn't moving.  I mean, she was doing this kind of movement and I thought she was going to retire.  But I tried not to think about it, just to concentrate on my game.  Well, it doesn't work because I start losing 4-1.  I think I didn't focus as well.  But was okay. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT