SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 4, 2010
Gisela Dulko
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DULKO-PENNETTA/Petrova-Stosur
  6-3, 4-6, 10-7

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I want to start off with the match. Your opponents looked like they were gonna take it into a situation that you could have beat them in the second set. What was the thinking going into the tiebreak? Usually what happens, not always, is the winner of the second set usually has a little more momentum. 
 GISELA DULKO: Yeah, it's true. I mean, going to the tiebreak was difficult for us because we really want to win that second set, and came back and couldn't do it.
 But they play strong and they play good. Nothing. We were just thinking positive and trying to play smart on the tough points, because we did a lot of mistakes, I think, on the tiebreaker. 
 We were I think both of us nervous. We wanted to win the title is bad. It was just a little bit of nerve in the tiebreak. 
 So I think we play good at the end. We maybe hit more first serves in. Maybe one or two less mistakes and we won the tiebreak.
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: And I think also with the super-tiebreak, everything can happen. You have to be always in the court and always ready to come back, because it's never finish. 
 You know, you can maybe lose four or five game, but you still in the match. 

 Q. In a couple weeks, Gisela, I'm writing for Canadian press about your Fed Cup match against Canada, which is gonna be in Montreal. A lot of times you play Canada in the past, Argentina has done well, but they've always had the home-court advantage. How do you feel about the matches going in?
 GISELA DULKO: This match I'm not going to play. I decide this year I'm not going to play Fed Cup. I been in Canada playing before, and it was very tough for us.
 It was in -- I don't remember right now the city we were. I'm not sure now. But, yes, I was there. They have a good team I think with young girls. Wozniak and Dubois. 
 It's gonna be tough for Argentinians. Maybe now we don't have a strong team, but we'll work on that for the future for sure.

 Q. Talk about in general what a big tournament this is for you guys. You beat the No. 2 and No. 4 seeds. What in general does it mean to win this trophy?
 GISELA DULKO: Well, it means a lot. It's my first big tournament with Flavia. We won few title before, but this is the most important. It feels great. We enjoy a lot this week. We had such a tough draw.
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Tough draw.
 GISELA DULKO: Since the first match we play Molik Kuznetsova, and then we play No. 2 seeds. Every match was -- 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: When we see the draw, it was okay... 
 GISELA DULKO: Because it was so tough. But I think we play better and better every match. It's great to win the title. 

 Q. How did the two of you pair up? What was the circumstances? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, we are very friends outside of court and we start to play together. Actually, we play good together, and we spend so much time outside of the court. 
 We have fun inside and outside, so I think it's important for when you are in the court we just always happy. This is the way we are all the time. 
 GISELA DULKO: I agree. (Laughter.)

 Q. Last year, Gisela, when you came in, obviously you did much better, but you were playing a lot with Shahar Peer. Were you surprised that going back to Dubai with the circumstances she had she did so well finishing as a semifinalist? You know her very well. What are the main assets of her game? 
 GISELA DULKO: Well, I think Shahar is a very competitive player, no? She is very tough on the court and is always fighting. For sure she's gonna be very good in the rankings, because she deserves and she's always working very hard. 
 Yes, before I was playing with her. We decide to separate, but in good terms. I wish the best for her.

 Q. You said you spend time away from the court. Here in Miami did you guys go do anything? Shopping? Partying? Eat somewhere?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, partying, no. We went to eat almost every day. We went to have breakfast together every day. We were like sisters here. We went to the beach. We went to the shopping. What else? 

 Q. So you really are like best friends on the tour?
 GISELA DULKO: Yeah.

 Q. And it was always that way when you were younger or did you just develop the friendship?
 GISELA DULKO: We became closer since, one -- or three years.
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: 2007 we starting to be more close.
 GISELA DULKO: Before we know each other...
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: We spend time together, but it was not like this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT