FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: ARGENTINA v USA
February 8, 2009
Gisela Dulko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DULKO/J. Craybas
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It really seemed like you were on top of your game today, hitting aggressively. How did you feel? Did you feel at your best today?  
 GISELA DULKO: Well, I think, yeah, I played a really good tennis match. Much better than yesterday. I was really focused from the beginning. I knew it was going to be a tough match. I really respect Jill.   
 Yeah, I think I played great. I'm very happy now. I'm really nervous for the next match (laughter).   
  
  Q. Were there any nerves involved? You seemed to be hitting the ball hard, playing your game from the very start.   
 GISELA DULKO: No, actually I felt very nervous. I think I handle it well. That's what I want to do, you know, don't show the nerves. But, you know, I think everyone is nervous before go to the competition, especially in Fed Cup or Davis Cup.   
 But I think I play good. You know, I'm happy with my game. I'm playing good, feeling confident. That's really important for me for this match and for the rest of the season.   
  
  Q. You played her in the past a number of times. What did you learn about playing her in the past and how did that prepare you for today?  
 GISELA DULKO: Well, I think I just was very aggressive today. If you play long points with her, she's always there. She brings back a lot of balls. So I think the key today maybe was my serve, you know, moving with my forehand, trying to dominate the point. That's the kind of game I like to play, that I am practicing more.   
 It's working. It's working well. I'm happy about it.   
  
  Q. Psychologically how important did you feel it was to come out strong?   
 GISELA DULKO: Well, I knew I had some pressure on me because I knew maybe my match today was gonna be a little bit deciding. For one part I was feeling nervous, but for the other part I was really motivated for this match. This is the kind of matches that I like and I enjoy more.   
 Yeah, I think I handle that pressure well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT