BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2011
Lloyd Saltman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing this morning?   
 LLOYD SALTMAN: Especially after obviously yesterday in the rain, but I played well yesterday, so kind of came off quite positive really. Was saving myself for par the first few holes but got on a run which was nice. Made some birdies, made four in a row from 6, 7, 8 and 9, and was flying from there really. I was making some putts, and you know, and I was making par and saving putts.   
 It's tough out there. You hit it in the rough, especially after the rain yesterday, you can't get some of the greens, and I wasn't in position as much as I would like to be off the tee, but I was playing well and putting our misses into good spots, and just a pleasing round of golf.  
  
  Q. Three shots off the lead, and you know, hopes for the weekend must be pretty high after the way you played today.   
 LLOYD SALTMAN: It was obviously a good week for us, because for me to get in after the re-rank and stuff is pleasing. So you've got to take advantage of these weeks and I've put myself in position to do that now for the weekend.   
 I was a little bit shocked when I came around and the cameras were on me and I thought I was five or six back and saw Stenson dropped a couple so obviously put me more in contention than I thought we were. Just a pleasing day, so it's nice the rain is coming in, I'm going to enjoy my lunch.   
  
  Q. I'm sure you were watching Rory the way he came out in America, and playing in the same Walker Cup Team, is that an inspiration?  
 LLOYD SALTMAN: Yeah, seeing the guys do well, it gives you the inspiration, and really watching Rory, I really did feel that coming into this week, because he did something special out there and it really puts into perspective how achievable I think things are.   
 It was great for Rory. I sent him a text to say well done and I was so pleased watch it, I was just so pleased the way he played the last round. I think definitely bringing into this week, it gave me a little of something, just a little bit of belief to know these are guys, like you say in, 2007 were playing on the same team and competing in the same level, and he's winning Majors, but not just winning them, he's blowing the field away.   
 So yeah, I think possibly it's maybe helped for this week.  
  
  Q. Look forward to the text from Rory to you to say well done.   
 LLOYD SALTMAN: Yeah, that would be nice. Fingers crossed for the weekend, definitely.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT