WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Robin Haase
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. HAASE/A. Falla
  6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember the last time you played Murray at the U.S. and you won the third set 6‑1?   What were your feelings about that match?   Did you think you went in there and maybe could have won?  
ROBIN HAASE:   Yeah.   I was fourth set even 4‑1 up, and then there were two long rallies with some smashes, and one I made mistake and one I didn't hit and he hit a passing shot.   
Then the momentum changed of the game.   If I can win that fourth set, you never know.   I mean, it's only one more set, but it's tough to beat a guy like Andy in the best‑of‑five, anyway.   But if you're getting close, of course you can win.  
   
 Q.   How surprised were you to see him suffering so much physically in that match?   He has a reputation as being one of the great athletes on tour.   He seemed to really struggle.   
ROBIN HAASE:   Sometimes it's like that.   A body reacts always different.   We are professionals, we try to prepare as best as we can, and so probably he did, as well, but sometimes the body just reacts different.   Maybe because of less sleep, maybe because of he didn't drink too much, he didn't eat well.  
You never know.   But then maybe he did everything right and it still happens, so that happens.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the challenge of playing him at Wimbledon?   It will be different with the grass court.   
ROBIN HAASE:   Well, Andy is one of the best players in the world.   To play him anywhere is difficult, but then in his home tournament on grass, it's gonna be even more difficult.  
   
 Q.   I think you have played each other five times as professionals.   I know you're both the same age.   Would you have played each other coming through the youth ranks at all?  
ROBIN HAASE:   No.   I don't think so.  
   
 Q.   Do you see any weakness in Andy's game that you would target in the match?   I mean, the serve, perhaps?   
ROBIN HAASE:   I will try to find a weakness.   I have proven that I have beat him once.   Maybe it's a long time ago, but still, I beat him.   I also played a few close matches.  
But as I said, in a Grand Slam it's even more difficult to beat him, but I will try to find a weakness.   If I can't find it I will still try to win.  
   
 Q.   Are you the sort of player who relishes when you're up against the home crowd?   Do you respond to that?  
ROBIN HAASE:   Well, of course there will be maybe only a handful of fans for me, but I'm here to play my game and hopefully entertain the crowd, as well.   
It's always a nice crowd to play here, so even if they will cheer for him, they like nice shots, so if I can play well, they will definitely applaud for me, as well.   
   
 Q.   The conditions this week, hot and fast.   You have a good serve.   Do you feel that gives you an even better chance?  
ROBIN HAASE:   Well, it's a different game.   The ball bounces higher on grass.   I don't know if that's an advantage or not.  
Yeah, the court is not slippery at all because it didn't rain for a while.   That means that Andy can move maybe even better than he already does on grass.   I don't know if it's an advantage for me or for him.   It's both ways, probably.  
   
 Q.   How do you assess your form at the moment?   You had good results coming in and a good win today.   
ROBIN HAASE:   Yeah.   Well, I'm happy I have been playing already for a long time.   Then it's of course nice to have made a semifinal in my home country.  
Then I had a good preparation for this tournament, and I wasn't happy when I saw my draw.     Falla is a very good grass court player, and then to beat him in four sets and also broke him a few times, yeah, it gives me confidence.   
   
 Q.   What are your memories of playing here as a junior?   You got to the final, didn't you?   
ROBIN HAASE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What are your memories of that?   How special is Wimbledon to you because of that?  
ROBIN HAASE:   I don't think it changes much that I made the final in juniors, that it's even nicer.  
You cannot describe the feeling to come here.   It's just, yeah, one of the nicest tournaments in the world if not the nicest.  
I can remember that in the finals the guy served the same speed as Roddick against Federer in the final.   That's what I remember.  
   
 Q.   Chardy?  
ROBIN HAASE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can gain anything from the fact Andy has so much pressure on him here whereas you can go out and play freely with nothing to lose?  
ROBIN HAASE:   I don't know.   Of course he feels pressure, but, I mean, how many times did he play here?   I mean, he won it.   He goes far every single time.   
I don't know if he feels the pressure that he felt maybe the first two years or maybe after he won it or after Olympics.  
I think it's something that he will handle and won't affect him that much, but I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT