ROGERS MASTERS
August 6, 2007
Robin Haase
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel for a qualifier to beat the No. 10 in the world?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Good (smiling).   
 I knew him.  I played Davis Cup against him last year.  Then he was too good.  I wasn't ready for him.  And now I knew how it's like.  I mean, I've played a couple of big matches this year, so main draw events, ATP tournaments.   
 Yeah, I knew what to expect.  I was ready for it.  I think I played a good match.  I did the good things.   
  
  Q.  Berdych said you played extremely well.  What exactly did you do let's say better than usual?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  I'm not going to tell my tactics (smiling).   
 No, I mean, I returned really good.  I didn't gave him a lot of free points.  He likes to play fast points.  I mean, he has a good serve, good forehand.   
 Yeah, every ball I could got back I tried to.  If I had the chance to do myself something, I let him run.  Yeah, I so I played -- and I didn't make a lot of mistakes, so that was good, too.   
  
  Q.  Where does it rank for you in terms of career victories?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  My own ranking?   
  
  Q.  Where does it rank for you?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Oh, sorry.   
  
  Q.  Best win you ever had?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  I mean, it's the best win if you look at the rankings.   
 Every match is different.  It's difficult like if you play in your own country, if you play Davis Cup, if you play a big tournament, big event.  But, I mean, to beat a player with the name "Berdych" is unbelievable.  I think it's my best win, for sure.   
 I knew last week in Washington I could have won against Safin, too.  I had chances.  So I knew I can bring up my level.   
 Yeah, I succeeded today, so it's good.   
  
  Q.  Do you think having played two qualifying matches gave you an edge over him, being warmed up?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  I don't know, because before this I played Washington, I played Umag, I played Amersfoort and I played a challenger.  When I got here, I was really tired.  I played a lot.  I'm not sure.  I mean, when I came here, I was like, Let's hope I can qualify.  Yeah, I couldn't move that well.   
 But luckily there are some good physiotherapists here, so they helped me.  I was fit again.  Maybe it was an advantage I played on center court.  I don't think so.  I mean, this is a guy who played so many on these big courts, it should be no advantage for me.   
  
  Q.  Now that you've beaten the No. 10 seed, do you feel you have a little bit more energy?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Well, of course.  I mean, I'm hungry to win another match.  But I have to bring up my level again.  I mean, there's not even one guy who's not good at this tournament.  I mean, there's no good draw at all.   
 Now I think I play Baghdatis or Moya.  I mean, these are unbelievable names for me, too.  Yeah, this is for me a good way to play these kind of matches at this level, so...   
  
  Q.  You said the physiotherapists helped you out.  Was it a specific injury?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  No, there was no more injury, but I was tired.  So I think I don't have to play tomorrow.  I mean, the physical is normal problem.  But like in the first-round quallies, it was like, Whew.   
  
  Q.  You've played five straight weeks?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Yeah.  I played a big challenger, then came semis and finals doubles in Amersfoort, a big tournament.  Took a special to Umag.  On a Friday of Umag I went home.  Saturday I went to Washington.  Monday I had to play.  Thursday I played against Safin.  I went here on Friday.   
  
  Q.  Qualifying over the weekend?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Exactly.  So it's been a hassle for me actually to work everything out.   
  
  Q.  Do you know the date today?   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Yeah.  I think it's the 7th.   
  
  Q.  It's the 6th.  Nice try.   
 ROBIN HAASE:  Almost (smiling).   
  
  Q.  You have a day off on the 7th.   
 ROBIN HAASE:  I'm thinking of that (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT