PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 11, 2011
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Okay. If you want to just talk about your round today and the high points.   
 STEPHEN AMES: Well, the high points were definitely my second nine. I was pretty much languishing out there on the back, which was my front nine. Couldn't really get anything to happen.   
 And then yeah, I made a good birdie on 1, three good shots, and then about a 10-footer for birdie on 10 to bring me up to 5-under par on the front nine.   
 So it was just a case of being patient and waiting for good things to happen. I think I've got some good things going on in my game, so it's kind of encouraging.  
  
  Q. What's your general thoughts of your first time here?  
 STEPHEN AMES: I'm thoroughly impressed. I love playing this course. I think it's fun to play. It's a good course for the wind. You know, there's a lot of interesting, kind of challenging shots.   
 It's not like there's anything just over-the-top scary or difficult, but you have to hit good quality shots and shape the ball the right way, and it's exactly what -- it's exactly the kind of course that oughta be right here in Puerto Rico. It's got length. It's got some short holes, but when the wind blows, you've gotta hit some creative shots. So it's a really fun course to play.   
  
  Q. Obviously you and Angel are up towards the lead. What do you think that means to a young tournament like this to have two major championships right up there going into the weekend?  
 STEPHEN AMES: I don't know what it means for the tournament. I'm just glad that they're in the tournament this week. I just missed out getting into the Cadillac this week, in a lot of categories. So you know, when I first started out in my rookie year, there wouldn't have been a tournament for me to play in.   
 So I'm happy that seepuertorico.com has sponsored this tournament and that there is a nice tournament here to play. This is a first class event, and it's good for me to get reps in, and I'm sure -- hopefully the people that will come out and watch golf will get to see some exciting golf this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT