RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously not what you wanted to do.   
 STEPHEN AMES: No. Obviously not, but I don't think anybody wanted to play in the rain like we did this afternoon either.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 STEPHEN AMES: It made it difficult, yes. The advantage obviously was to the guys that played this morning, without a doubt.  
  
  Q. How do you feel where you are now? I mean is it just a matter of sliding through?  
 STEPHEN AMES: In some respects. It always was coming into this event sliding through with a month off.  
 But I'm happy with the way things have turned out. We're making changes, Sean and I, with the swing, trying to get in better position obviously, because I haven't seen him in a month. Yeah, about a month.   
 So I'm just trying to get it back to where I can continue playing and work from then on to the other events. So in some respects that's what you try to do. You get four rounds under your belt, which is what I'm doing here now, and you get some playing time in there and you work on your golf swing as things go on.   
 I mean there are some weeks you're going to play well and there are some weeks you're not going to play well. This is obviously going to be one of them, and you go on from there.  
  
  Q. What kind of an interest will you take, if any, in Adam Hadwin and Jon Mills?  
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, especially Adam, to see how he's playing. He's still out there. I'm not sure how he's playing. I'll have a look and see after that, the stage. Nice to see that he made the cut.  
  
  Q. What do you think of the course? With all the talk about how difficult it was going to be coming into this week and especially to see a guy like Carl and how well he did today?  
 STEPHEN AMES: Carl shooting 60?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 STEPHEN AMES: You know it's always there. You put the ball in play, hit the ball on the right side of the pins, going to be successful to that because of the fact that the greens are so soft because of all the rain we've had this week.   
 If the weather was fair, lots of sunshine and dried out, I think it would be a different animal. Unfortunately it's not that animal.   
 11-under is only leading here right now. I think if we were at the Abbey, it might be 15, 17-under.  
  
  Q. We wouldn't be playing.   
 STEPHEN AMES: Oh, we wouldn't be playing. That's right, because they would be underwater. Big difference.  
  
  Q. How about that for a point?   
 STEPHEN AMES: Well, okay. This is old style. It's not built on a clay base. This is built on a sand base, and hence the reason why we're able to still play golf today.   
 Glen Abbey I think would be underwater to some respects, yeah. It's unfortunate, but it's true.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT