RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you do anything yesterday that was of concern?
 STEPHEN AMES: I'd say yesterday was better than today, even though I had more birdies. 
 Didn't hit the ball particularly well today. I was able to scramble it around fairly well. I also changed drivers last night. 

 Q. What did you change to?
 STEPHEN AMES: Quick makeshift one. Made up this morning, ended up being right perfect. That was fine. So just the shaft was wrong on the old one that I had. Just felt more comfortable with that. 
 And hit some good shots and made some putts. I putted very well. So I was happy with that.

 Q. When you see somebody shoot an 8-under today, do you figure maybe there's a lot of low scores could be had?
 STEPHEN AMES: Somebody shot 8-under today? 

 Q. Yes. Kevin Sutherland.
 STEPHEN AMES: Oh, did he? Yeah, it's there. It's so soft. Given the two-hour rain that we had, probably four hours of rain, didn't we? This morning, made the golf course really soft, the wind's coming up this afternoon. Hopefully it'll dry it out and hopefully we won't have more rain on the weekend.

 Q. With the wind coming up as it has the last hour or so, do you think it'll be tougher this afternoon?
 STEPHEN AMES: Oh, yeah. Couple shots tougher, without a doubt. 
 18 wasn't a peach. 16, 17, all those holes are going to play tough. The closing holes are going to be really tougher. The whole golf course is going to be tough in some respect.

 Q. Probably a good thing. 
 STEPHEN AMES: That's always a good thing.

 Q. Given your fellow Mike Weir is unlikely to make that cut, any words for him?
 STEPHEN AMES: He came in here with an injury and he's obviously still hurting, but weak in your leading arm, which is his right arm in this case, is not going to help a golf swing; and hitting in the rough is not going to help the golf swing either. 
 I think he did well going this far because if it was me, I think I might have withdrawn, Canadian Open or the U.S. Open, just for the longevity of my career. He could have ended it more than he has. We don't know. 
 Hopefully one-week rest, and I think he's off to Akron. Hopefully that'll help and get him ready for the next couple events.

 Q. Do you like your position going into the weekend?
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. A little too far back to some extent. I'd like to be a little closer, but I like where I am at this stage. 
 Scored well. I think I have a low one in me, if I get my golf swing in a little bit better position and make the putts that I've been making the last couple days, yeah, I think I have a low one in me.

 Q. 64? That low? 
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. 65, 64.

 Q. Going to take a couple of those probably to win?
 STEPHEN AMES: You know what, hopefully if it doesn't stay soft, not really. Might not. 

 Q. So Stephen, is the low Canadian going into the weekend, are you going to feel a little bit more stressed?
 STEPHEN AMES: No. Not at all. I did my feat, which was to get to the weekend. (Laughs). 
 But no, I don't stress at all. No. I'm just going to enjoy myself. That's all I can do. 

 Q. All right. Thanks. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT