RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2010
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you play today?
 STEPHEN AMES: Played well. Conditions were as expected in the afternoon, a little tougher than they were this morning. I think it shows with the scoring, a lot of the good scores were in the morning, only because the greens got a little bumpy. 
 There's 156 guys out there. But the course played nice. I thought it played very fair. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. Without a doubt. I'm happy with the way things have started, should I say. I was comfortable with certain things. 
 But I think that was my goal was to try and get as comfortable as I could over the golf ball before I actually pulled the trigger, and I think I accomplished my goal.

 Q. The U.S. Open, (indiscernible). What's the difference between bermuda and poa?
 STEPHEN AMES: The difference is there isn't bends in between. This is pure poa. And there's no --

 Q. Patches. 
 STEPHEN AMES: -- patches. This is pure poa, in certain respects that they made there at Pebble.

 Q. Are you surprised at 6-under? 
 STEPHEN AMES: I was surprised how many good scores there are. The greens are very receptive. They're soft. And I think as the week goes on, it's probably going to get a little firmer. 
 I think the fairways are getting firmer. It won't be long before the next couple days I'm sure the greens will get faster.

 Q. If it doesn't rain. 
 STEPHEN AMES: If it doesn't rain. I know. Then it's a different golf course again.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. Just a bit. Yeah. As you just noticed there on 18, the ball only advanced 20 yards. 
 So that tells you how thick it is. It's a little too thick in spots, and I think they know that. They're trying to address it, which is good.

 Q. If it rains, where could they put pins tomorrow?
 STEPHEN AMES: Probably close to the front. Yeah. Probably next to the fence, because the greens are going to get slower. They're going to force them to go a little closer to the edge. Some are there already. 
 But no, the golf course is set up nicely, played very nicely. It was a fun Canadian Open first day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT