THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2010
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Bogey-free 64 out there today, it was a little cool when you teed off but the wind didn't pick up at all as it  did yesterday?  
 STEPHEN AMES: No, definitely. I think we got the favorable wind today. Probably only about a half a club of wind which was nice at times. A lot different than it was yesterday afternoon when we played.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the greens. Have they stayed pretty receptive?   
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, pretty much, they have. And they are still quite bumpy, according to what everybody else has said when they played here in the past, usually these greens are really good. This is my first time playing here. I thought they were okay.   
  
  Q. Now, are you playing a little bit inspired because of your Canadian brethren that brought home the gold?   
 STEPHEN AMES: Brethrens.   
  
  Q. Brethren is plural.   
 STEPHEN AMES: Is it really? Look at that. (Laughter).  
 I am. I think everybody is inspired by the way the Canadians performed all together. Nice to see obviously and I think overall, I think the Olympics was a great success for Canada.  
  
  Q. What was the difference for you yesterday to today? 6-under today compared to yesterday, what was the difference?   
 STEPHEN AMES: Obviously upstairs (laughing). Big difference. Yesterday I felt like I wasn't quite focusing on the same things as the day went on. I think I had about 19 different things that I was trying to focus on, which is the wrong way to play golf. You want to basically have one thing and let it go from there.   
 That was my first goal when I got up here this morning on the range. You get up there and test the system, and obviously it came out and right off the bat, it was a big difference ball-striking, how it felt, and obviously the result was the same thing, too.   
 So it was a nice what we would say, a form of a breakthrough for me, getting the year kick-started. So I'm looking forward to the rest of the year from here on out.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT