RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2009
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Indiscernible).
 STEPHEN AMES: Eight? Oh, I thought it was two weeks. Sorry. 
 Yeah, it is a relief to get it over with. Finally. Yeah, got it done, though. Fine golf. Put it that way.

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 STEPHEN AMES: Better. Hit the ball nicely today. 
 After we went out after this morning, I kind of came back, in what was it, 16, 16 onwards, I started playing better. Had a 20-minute break, and then we were off and running. 
 For some reason the putter just all of a sudden started doing really well. I changed my routine up a bit, where I thought I took too long over the golf ball, so I just threw out my practice swing and jumped straight behind the golf ball and hit it, and that felt great. So I just continued with it and I had seven birdies today. So that was good. 

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 STEPHEN AMES: Besides long, pretty much that. It was good. I'm tied for 9th right now. I don't think it's going to stay there, but it was good finish overall, considering how long -- I'll say the week has been stop-go, stop-go, stop-go. 
 One of the press mentioned that I had the better end of the draw. I don't know about that one, but I don't think anybody had the better end of the draw this week altogether. It was just a long week, period.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 STEPHEN AMES: There is another part of Canada on the West that we can go play. We don't have to be here all the time in Ontario. It would be nice sometime to go over to that part of the world, and I think that would probably be better than keep coming back here. I think if we moved it around, we'd probably have a better chance of not getting these kind of situations, one after the other. 
 Glen Abbey is a good golf course. It's had its time, but I think there are other good golf courses and other people in Canada that would like to see the Canadian Open. I think that's one of the goals of the RBC, and they're going to move on from there, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Do you like your chances better? Sort of have a mixed history here.
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. I have a mixed history here, without a doubt. 
 It's all mental, though, isn't it? 

 Q. I don't know. You tell me.
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, it is, yeah. Without a doubt, it's mental. 
 Next year -- sometimes it suits you and sometimes it doesn't. I love St. George. It's a great golf course. 
 I hope the weather is cooperative next year, where the guys can see the true golf course, which is firm and fast. I think if it gets firm and fast, it could be really interesting to play, yeah, a little bit.

 Q. Casual water between 13 (Indiscernible). 
 STEPHEN AMES: Yeah. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 STEPHEN AMES: You know what. I don't think it's going to hinder it too much. I think we have some good players coming back again. 
 I think the job the RBC has been doing in having the players' BMWs here, giving us beautiful cars that we drive all week, I think you know what, by far and none, I think there's probably one event that's probably got better food service than this event. That's probably Jack's place, the Memorial. I mean the food, they look after us. They look after the caddies as well. I don't think overall it's a big hindrance. 
 It's unexpected. Something you have no control over.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 STEPHEN AMES: Oh, I'm sure they did. Without a doubt. 
 As it is, I think I have to go and sign a few hats for the superintendent boys. They did a hell of a job this week just getting the golf course the way it is right now, and it was a long and hard process, but we finally got it done Monday afternoon. 
 I can't believe how many people are unemployed in Canada right now. Monday, all these people are here watching golf. I think the economy is a lot better than the States. (Laughs). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT