TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2009
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Stephen, 33-33 and 66, a very nice start to the 2009 Transitions Championship. This is your low round since 63 of the last day of the Bob Hope, and that matches your low round in this event. Talk about your round today overall.   
 STEPHEN AMES: Well, obviously I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, which is I think the key this week, because it's a different golf course than when we normally played it in October.   
 The rough is very much up, and you miss too many fairways out here, it's going to be tough to make a lot of birdies, or any birdies, period.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You just want to run through, you started at 10, just run through the birdies and any good saves you may have made.   
 STEPHEN AMES: 11, it was pin-high left in two. Hit it to about four feet, the chip. Made the putt there.   
 14, laid back to about 109 yards, almost holed the third shot, hit it to about a foot and a half. Missed the fairway on 16. Couldn't get it up-and-down from front of the green because the pin was cut really close to the right side.   
 And 18, hit wedge about six feet there.   
 1, driver, 3-wood pin-high left and got it up-and-down.   
 3, I chipped in from just off the fringe and birdied there.  
 And then 5, I played that hole differently than normal. I hit 3-wood off the tee, 3-wood, second shot, tucked it a bit off the tree and ended up left of the tree, so I had a clear shot and made like a 25-footer for birdie there.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Give us an assessment of your early part of 2009?   
 STEPHEN AMES: Normal. Played a couple on the West Coast and start my year in Florida to some extent. I don't play well on the West Coast. Bob Hope is my first start, finished fifth there after a great last round because the wind picked up and that moved me up a little bit. I played L.A. and the Match Play.   
  
  Q. Did you have an indication coming in that you had this kind of round in you when you were playing well?  
 STEPHEN AMES: I played well last week, just Doral has become a bomber's course now, even more with the wind. Besides Furyk, everybody else in the Top-10 hits it almost 290 in the air. I'm not a bomber. I'm a guy who tends to want to keep it in play more than anything else, and unfortunately Doral has become that way. This golf course, very much emphasis is on keeping it in the fairway, and 10 or 13 fairways is a lot for the day. I'm sure Mr. Furyk was not far behind that himself, Mr. Accurate on the TOUR.  
  
  Q. And you have to be here --  
 STEPHEN AMES: Yes, for this golf course, I think it's a toss-up on this course between which one is better, the running golf course, or the soft-and-miss-the-fairway kind of golf course where you are penalized. I'm not sure which one is better at this stage.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thanks, Stephen. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT