CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What did you do on 9, Stephen?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  What did I do?   
  
  Q.  Par, birdie?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Oh, par.   
  
  Q.  How excited are you to play two more rounds at Angus Glen over the weekend?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know yet.  I haven't thought about it (laughing).  Hopefully, the conditions sustain, and they don't get any water on there again.  It's still too soft.  The whole golf course is very soft.  And I hope the wind picks up a bit and drys it out even more, and then maybe it will be a little sterner test instead of a bit of a biting competition, which is what it is right now.   
  
  Q.  Is that what it's turning into right now because everything's so soft?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  It's terribly soft, yeah.  I don't know why, but they are.   
  
  Q.  Are the conditions more bearable than it was yesterday afternoon?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, yeah, I'm just waiting for it to be the same for the rest of the guys this afternoon.  Doesn't look like it's going to be that way, unfortunately.  But that's golf.  That does happen.   
  
  Q.  Did you think the putting contest, did you think it was a little tougher?  I saw a few of the greens there you looked like you weren't sure?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Today, today was better, yeah.  I was a bit surprised that some of the putts didn't go in.  I had a very good putt right on my line, maybe I misread it.  But definitely rolled a lot better than it did yesterday afternoon.   
 Obviously, we had less footprints on there.  Yesterday we had practically the whole field on there.  So, yeah, it made it a little easier, definitely.   
  
  Q.  What do you think they'll shoot here over the weekend, Stephen, if it stays soft like this?  Is 20 under a possibility?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, yeah, definitely.   
  
  Q.  So is it just the greens are soft or everything's too soft?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Everything's too soft.  Yeah, everything's too soft.   
  
  Q.  I assume with your game and the weather, you'd like it to play a little firmer so you get a little bit more roll-off?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Not my game.  Just everybody in general.  Everybody in general.  Your mis-hits are going to run off and run and go offline, run into the rough.  The guy that's hitting it down the middle of the fairway is the one that is going to be rewarded, which is not happening right now to some extent.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT