CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2007
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is there a sense that the morning was probably the better time as far as winds picked up later in the day? 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Well, obviously, you can see that.  You can see that by the scoring itself, and also the conditions that we played under.  You know, the greens are still a bit too soft out there, and going out in smooth conditions, no wind and they were making a few putts.  Yeah, you're going to shoot the scores that they shot this morning. 

 Q.  The weather, if it's raining or something, kind of even things out for everybody, maybe you won't get that advantage, but that's golf? 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, that's golf.  That is very much golf.  It's even more playing at the British Open where you've got ten hours of tee times. 

 Q.  Is it fair to say things like that in the past, you say the weather bothered you, for example, in the British Open, but here you're saying that's the way it is; 'I didn't get the good conditions and that's life.'  Is that sort of a different mental approach than you've sometimes had in the past? 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Maybe, yeah, maybe it is.  You've got to get on with it eventually sometime.  Realizing the mistake that I made last week was basically how I dealt with it; that I dealt with the elements rather that than just playing them.  That hurt me the first round.  Second round scoring was stroke-and-a-half harder than it was the first round and I shot 70.  That was obviously all mental there for me. 
 At this stage, I mean, tomorrow another day.  Hopefully I get my putter to work a little better and hopefully the greens will be nice and smooth and continue hitting the balls close and hopefully make a few putts. 

 Q.  Knowing there was a 9-under, do you catch yourself at any point saying, don't press too hard or don't force it? 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, obviously, yeah.  You're going to take chances when you're -- not specifically.  But I think on the whole, chances that you normally wouldn't take, yeah, you would hold back a little bit obviously because where the pins were in that case. 
 I think with the score being 9-under this morning, we've got three days to go still.  The conditions I know are going to change as the days go on.  This wind is going to help obviously to dry the golf course out some more again and usually Saturday and Sunday at any PGA TOUR event, they are completely different than they were the first two days.  Scoring actually goes up. 

 Q.  For guys at the British also last week, talk about the mental grind. 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, it's a physical and mental grind obviously.  That's why we work out just so we can do this.  Thanks to the PGA TOUR for putting us in this situation, this wonderful schedule, yeah.  It's tough.  It is tough.  That's why Tiger doesn't play as many events as he does, just for that reason.  He wants to be prepared physically and mentally, so that every day, every week he goes out, he's going to be knocking on the door, and he does.  That's the way to play. 

 Q.  What did you have in the bunker? 
 STEPHEN AMES:  In the bunker?  A ball and sand.  What do you mean, what did I have in the bunker? 

 Q.  Okay, never mind. 
 STEPHEN AMES:  Left foot was up in my nose, and yeah, it was tough.  It was okay.  Just had to pick a spot and hit it.  That was a good shot.  I thought I made it actually, which would have been nice. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT