U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2007
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you feel about your position going into tomorrow?   
   STEPHEN AMES: I like my chances, obviously. I think anybody within 5 shots of the lead has got to like their chances. Aaron is 3-over right now.   



 Of course, the man that's moved into contention is Tiger; he's the guy to beat at this stage right now.  At this stage, I'm in a wonderful position.  I've never been in this position at this caliber of a major, but at the same time it's the same players that I beat at THE PLAYERS Championship, and I look forward to it tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to build on that thought?   
   STEPHEN AMES: Definitely. I'm going to come from behind. But this golf course doesn't lend itself to too many birdies. So the guy who makes the least mistake will be the guy to win tomorrow, probably.   
  
  Q.  Tiger hit 17 greens today; when he's striking it that well, do you feel like people have a chance to catch him?   
   STEPHEN AMES: Hard to say. I don't think he's going to do it again tomorrow; nobody has. He's 17; the guy was 12 yesterday, what was Paul? 14 or 15, it's tough to put-back-to-back rounds together like that, hitting 17 greens.   
  
  Q.  Do you think today was more difficult to put up a good score?   
   STEPHEN AMES: Yes, it wasn't as firm and fast as it was yesterday afternoon. Even Mike Davis and I were talking about it this afternoon. I had a chance to talk as we were playing the round, and he was saying they thought at the end of the day it was slowly getting to the edge of it, and they don't need to at this golf course; as tough and severe as this course is, it's still winning, leading score is 3-over par.   
  
  Q.  Tomorrow you know it's going to be harder.   
   STEPHEN AMES: Somewhat. I don't think they're going to do much. I think it's going to be the same. It all depends on where they put the pins at this stage. Today they were tucked, but the tee boxes were better. So that's the way they balance it. So you've got to hit the right shot no matter what.   
  
  Q.  Will you have to watch the scoreboard tomorrow?   
   STEPHEN AMES: To some extent. I think you have to take the opportunities when they come; play steady. I think the scoring nine is the back nine, not the front nine. I think you can make more birdies on the back than you can on the front, and I think that's where everybody is going to start taking chances; depending on where the pins on, which I think you have to; if you're in that situation, take them on.   
  
  Q.  You haven't been in this position before, the guys at the top of the leaderboard other than Tiger are in that position; how do you think that mind-set affects you versus someone who has won here before?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Not a clue.  I'm just going to play my own game.   
  
  Q.  Do you think not having that experience puts you at any deficit or doesn't matter?   
   STEPHEN AMES: To some extent, you know when you can take a flag on and when you can't take a flag on; you should be able to know your game at this level.   



 If you've got to take something off a tucked pin, why am I taking that shot on, if I hit it 15, 20 feet left of the flag and have a straight open putt, I'm going to have an opportunity for a birdie, definitely par.   
 At this stage pars are good; bogeys are not and doubles aren't.  Middle of the green is good golf out here.   
  
  Q.  After 7, it seemed like you played well, ended up birdieing on 12.  Can you talk about 7 and 12?   
   STEPHEN AMES: Seven, lapse in concentration. Missed a putt for bogey, that was it. Solid drive, solid second shot, tugged it a little bit on my second shot, but didn't hit the bunker shot the way I wanted to and it hung up in the heavy grass. And the chip down the hill was tough. I hit it four feet and I missed that putt, unfortunately.   
  
  Q.  12?   
   STEPHEN AMES: 12, driver, the pin was up in the front left. The tee box was on the ladies tee, which it wasn't really; it was 605 yards. And then I hit a 3-wood 10 yards short of the green up in the right-hand corner, so a fairly easy chip. Hit it to about three feet.   
  
  Q.  You usually don't see par 5s that tough, and it's obvious why it is so tough.  Do you like that hole?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  I like the hole itself.  But the green I don't, no.   
  
  Q.  For that hole, the green is too severe?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  I think a little bit severe, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Is there a key overall for playing the final round of the U.S. Open for you or just in general?   
   STEPHEN AMES: I think in general, yeah, it's 14 fairways, 18 greens. Yeah, two putts -- yeah, I think that's general, yeah, look at Tiger's round, he missed one green, 18, and that's the kind of golf you have to play, I think.   
  
  Q.  Are you the type of guy whose personality will change or get nervous?   
  STEPHEN AMES: Me, nervous? No. I'm going to go out and have a big smile and have fun with it. It's a game, not my life and death.   
  Q.  Playing a little bit out there today, you were reacting to the crowd a little bit; that's good.  That's your nature, isn't it?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  That is my nature, you know that, don't you?  We've played enough golf.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT