WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2007
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Another successful match in round three.  Talk me through it.   
 STEPHEN AMES:  It was a survival day.  It was cold; it was windy.  I felt like I was playing the British Open out here in Tucson unfortunately.  It was a day when pars were good.  I didn't make any mistakes, and I made some putts coming down the end there.  But overall I think it was a good day.  It was a survival day.   
  
  Q.  Completely different conditions.  Going into the fourth round would you prefer these conditions or hard and dry?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Actually these conditions.  I'll take these.  I don't know, it's just tougher on everybody altogether.  I think it ends up being more of a mental game than a ball-striking game.  When the conditions get with no wind and everything else then it's the guy who's hitting the ball the best.  In this case it's the guy who's surviving, who learns how to survive.   
  
  Q.  Is this the best you've played since last spring?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, probably.  I mean, I've had five months off since August last year was the last time that I played four full rounds of golf, commencing this year.  So coming into the start of the year I think I'm slowly kick-starting into what we call more of a golfing orientation mindset.   
  
  Q.  Have you heard you're playing Chad Campbell?  Thoughts?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Good ball striker.  I'm looking forward to it.  Should be a good match.   
  
  Q.  Did you hear Tiger Woods lost?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  No, just found out.   
  
  Q.  You wanted to play Vijay.  In your news conference you said, "I don't know who I'm going to play, but I'd like to play Vijay."  Would that have been the case, you're always looking for the better player?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  I wasn't looking at the fact that he was a better player, I was just looking at Vijay as a friend.  Playing with a good player, yes.  Playing with Vijay, the class golfer that he is and the accomplished golfer that he is, it's always good to play with somebody as good as he is and take something from there, which is what I did yesterday.  So it was nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT