WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 6, 2006
Stephen Ames
Robert Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 STEPHEN AMES:  Definitely.   
  
 STEPHEN AMES:  I guess half the island is here and the other half is swimming over; let's  put it that way, that's how close it is.  I think overall there are a lot of friends here with week which is  nice. Our families are here and parents  and a lot of friends that have come over.   
 For us it's a busy week altogether  because we have a lot of people that we know on this islands and also the fact  that we are here. So we've been  entertained, wined and dined every evening which is nice. It's difficult for both Jodi and myself to  get time for ourselves. We're coping but  I think so far it's been a fun week.   
 ROBERT AMES: Yeah, I would say it's really nice to be this  close to home where a lot of people could come and see Steve and I play,  especially I think this is about as close to an event besides maybe Doral for  Steve to be at home and a lot of people are taking this opportunity this week  to see Steve play and see myself play.  
  
  Q.  You also have Canadian citizenship, does it feel strange representing  the land of your birth in a tournament where Canada also has a team?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, it has been for last three times we played -- actually the only  other time that it did feel strange for me was 2003 when I did become a  Canadian.   
 So before that, it was normal but  this time it's definitely a little bit different for me. Especially the fact that home base is Calgary, and of course I've been  representing Canada since 2003. So the last three years, yes, it is a little  strange for me.   
  
  Q.  How have you found the course today?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Beautiful. From what I remember,  we were going through the back nine today, and trying to recollect where the  old holes used to be because I grew up in the old Sandy Lane, playing it, and I remember Robert  was only ten at the time when he played it, and for me I've played it a few  times in the past. It's still got the  same scenery of course that we remember of course the high winds I remember,  also. It's always very windy up here in  the bluff. But I think overall they have  done a fantastic job and utilized the land exceptionally well and I think the  golf course is fantastic.  
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the dynamics of playing together after you've caddied  for him so long and you're going to go out and play on your own now; just kind  of talk a little about your relationship.   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Easier.  
 ROBERT AMES:  Yeah, I think it is a lot easier.  It's a big bonus for me now to focus on what I need to do to go  play. Hopefully even though I've only  just stopped working for Steve in late October, the three weeks that I was able  to play last week was great in South America.   
 But we've done it in the past where  we played Kiawah Island and I was on the bag caddying for  him and that week was very difficult for me because we had worked two weeks  right up before where he was playing and I was caddying. At least this week I've had a little  opportunity where I've had a little play under my belt.   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Like Robert said, I think it's easier all together, for a couple of  reasons; that we know each other as individuals; how he thinks; how I think. In that case, I think it will be a lot easier  to cope with each other as playing partners.  As in the case with other people, they have been beating on each other's  heads for the whole year and all of a sudden you're on a team, so that's  different. In that sense I think it's  going to be easier for us. I can go up  to him being big brother, take advantage of him a little bit and tell him how  it should be done; not that he's going to do it.   
 ROBERT AMES:  And now that I no longer work for him, I can give him my opinion also  and be okay with it (laughter).  
 But I think we've done it, this is  now our fourth time and we're comfortable.  We always look forward to the week.  I'm glad it fit in with Steven's schedule this year, the last couple of  years to go all the way over to Europe after we've crossed the pond twice as players,  caddies, would be too much. This was  convenient and close to home, so it was a no-brainer.  
 STEPHEN AMES:  It was rude not to come.  
  
  Q.  What are your chances come tomorrow in the first round?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  I think overall we're both looking for the experience. Robert is definitely looking for some more  experience getting some exposure playing against some of the great players that  are here this week.  
 I think overall the opportunity of  competing will be tough. We have some  wonderful players that are here this week representing the different countries,  and some of these guys are seasoned veterans.  I think on the whole, I think if you finish anywhere within the Top 15 I  think we'll be very pleased with that overall.   
  
  Q.  I know how special PLAYERS was for you this year; can you sum up your  entire season?   
 STEPHEN AMES:  Short, overall. My last official  event was Bridgestone this year when I played, and I was plagued with back  injury unfortunately. Before that it was  enjoyable.   
 I had probably three chances of  winning other events which was fun. One  of them I had an opportunity in the Masters.  I was second to last group going out, and it was a great experience  playing in that. Showed me a lot for  what I had to do for next year.   
 Of course, if I took up the third  round at Colonial, I would have won this by six again. So overall I was quite happy with the year  how it went. It subsided; it was a bit  up-and-down after that. Overall,  obviously you're going to be pleased you won.  I won the biggest event on Tour which is The PLAYERS Championship. So that's given me a leeway of relaxing a  little bit or I can change certain things, which is what I'm doing now, to  change my swing to stop the back injury that occurred. And I've got the five-year exemption, which  is nice.  
  
 STEPHEN AMES:  Better, much better, thank you.   
  
 STEPHEN AMES:  I wouldn't be here if I would be worried about it. (Laughing).  
  
  Q.  How long did it take before you could hit balls?  
 STEPHEN AMES:  Three months. Up to last week,  the Skins Game. A long time, yes. That's almost two and a half, three months it  took to get it better.   
 Prior to going into the Skins Game,  I was definitely worried. I started  working with my new coach in Florida and I had gone three days of hitting golf  balls, and it was the first three days I had hit golf balls steadily for a  couple of hours. And I was wondering if  my back -- every morning after I got up after practising, I was like, oh, this  feels great. That told me that my back  was in better shape and I could go on from there.  
 It was the same when I played the  Skins Game. The Pro-Am was on Friday,  Saturday and Sunday we played and everything was fine there. No twitches or aching or anything like that,  and prior to coming down here, we've been practising and playing every  day. It's been wonderful. So nice to be back on the green grass again,  shall we say.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT