CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEPHEN AMES:  Part of my body just spasmed on me out there.  As the day went on, it got worse and worse and worse.  So at this stage, I have now decided to withdraw because of the fact that it's just getting harder and harder for me to swing the club as it goes on.

I guess it's all that post swinging I've been doing for the last couple months has aggravated it even more.
Q.  Is it a problem you've had before?
STEPHEN AMES:  It has been.  It's been there for about two months now.  It's just I've more or less maintained it, but this week it got worse as the time went on.
Q.  Are you taking treatment for it?
STEPHEN AMES:  Actually, I'm going to work with Dr. Craig Davis from the CJGA, who I met obviously at the Stephen Ames Cup this year.  We worked together for a couple times.  It worked out very well.  We're going to go back to the house now and work on it.
Q.  Hard thing to do, national open?
STEPHEN AMES:  Oh, yeah, of course.  I wanted to continue going.  But it was wise to withdraw and go because it could have been worse - could have gotten worse, should I say.
Q.  Soft, hilly course.
STEPHEN AMES:  No, I wouldn't say.  Just the swinging part of it more than anything else.
Q.  You have been kind of wanting to work on the swing for a long time.  It hasn't really been available to you, right?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah.
Q.  Do you think that's it?
STEPHEN AMES:  Oh, big time, it does.  It definitely does.  If you're in the wrong position through impact or even on your backswing, something is going to compensate and eventually something is going to give away.  Hence, the reason why that particular part of the body has given away, because that's the most where I feel it.  That's where I feel the worst, at impact.
Q.  Kind of lower back?
STEPHEN AMES:  It's more mid back than anything else, mid to lower.  Right in the middle of between the ribs and the lower back itself, which is a very funny spot.
Q.  Did it happen right before you withdrew?  Was it a few holes?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, from the 13th hole onwards, it was starting to hurt more and more.  And from the 16th hole -- 15th hole on was -- every other shot, Craig was back there trying to massage it a little bit and release it a bit more.

Like I said, we worked on it this morning.  But as time went on, I actually got spasm, got bigger and bigger.  It was time to stop playing.
Q.  What's the next thing on your schedule now?
STEPHEN AMES:  Two weeks off.
Q.  Two weeks off.
STEPHEN AMES:  That's scheduled, two weeks off now.  The Grove will be my next one, which is the World Golf Championships.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT