THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2006
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Stephen Ames, welcome to the media center.  Congratulations on winning THE PLAYERS Championship, shot a 67 today and pretty much routed the field.  If we could get some opening comments from you.
STEPHEN AMES:  Thanks.  It was a great day obviously.  I think overall it was just a matter of me getting out of my way, which I've done the last three days, and talking to Alan Fine this morning, my psychologist, and just reiterated the fact of keep doing what I've been doing the last couple days, and I did, and I think it shows out there.
Q.  You referred to out on the 18th green about your brother.  Could you take us back to what happened on 10?  You get a bad break, fried egg in the sand trap, make double bogey, shaking your head after the hole.  What did Robert do to make sure you didn't let it linger?
STEPHEN AMES:  It's just the fact that we started in the middle of the fairway and the ball did have mud on it.  That's what started the spin and came up short.  You start up there and I started walking off, and he looked at me, and said, you know, you've got eight holes to go, let's just forget about it.  It's just a great time to have bad luck in that situation at that time.  He kept going, said let's forget about it, you've got eight holes to go, and just play golf and go one shot at a time, basically what he was telling me.
Q.  Any flashbacks to a few years ago when you had your heart ripped out by Craig Perks?  Shoot 66, think you may have won it and he goes chipping in?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, none at all (laughing).
Q.  You responded pretty well from a double yesterday, and then you hit the good second shot at 11.  Was there a time in your career you might not have responded that well in those situations, and why were you able to put the adversity behind you as quickly as you did?
STEPHEN AMES:  I think if you look at my stats, I think my bounce back is pretty good.  Any time I do have a bogey or double bogey get straight back into it, if I recall my PGA TOUR stats.  I think it's pretty good in that sense.  It's a mental issue, just a matter of you just get over the next one and get straight back into it, forget about it and just go on.  That's the nature of the game and you've got to play golf that way.
Q.  The par putt on 14 was obviously pretty big for you.  You got the big lead with the holes coming in, and it looked like you were tied for the lead going after every flag.  Was that by design or were you just feeling that good?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know if I was going at every flag, but
Q.  It looked that way.
STEPHEN AMES:  Did it look that way.
Q.  Not 17.
STEPHEN AMES:  You know, I'm starting it in the middle of the green and I'm drawing it into the flag, yes.  In a way, yeah, I'm not going directly at it, but I am starting the middle and I am seeing the shape that I want to hit it.  That's how I play the game.  I start it in the middle of the green and I see a shape to the hole.  That's how I played the game today.  Every shot and every shape that I saw I hit it.
Q.  Were you nervous?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, I wasn't.
Q.  Where does today's victory rank in your career?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know, it's my second one.  What do you think (laughing)?  My first one was the Western Open.  Let's see, that was 2004, this is THE PLAYERS Championship, yeah, this is big.  Yeah, this is characterized as what, the fifth major, 48 or 49 of the top 50 players were playing?  I beat the top players in the world this week.
Q.  How aware were you of all the train wrecks around you?  There were a lot of very good players who had some very tough days.
STEPHEN AMES:  I think I was watching it with Vijay.
Q.  Yeah, you were eyewitness to one and I guess a couple ahead of you, too.
STEPHEN AMES:  Unfortunately for Vijay.
Q.  Well, I guess how much scoreboard looking did you do?
STEPHEN AMES:  From the first hole onwards I was looking at the scoreboards, don't worry.  I was very aware of watching what everybody was doing.  I was very aware of the fact of how Sergio and Mike were playing in front of me, as well.  Watching Vijay play, as well, it was heartbreaking watching them play as poorly as they did, unfortunately, but I just got on with my game and seeing the shots that I wanted to hit.
Q.  Robert says he's never been with you when you had a day when you hit the ball, thought so well, were all patient, so together.  Have you ever had a day like this on the golf course, and just describe what it was like inside your mind and your body.
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, practice rounds (laughing).  No, just a typical practice round right here, what I did today.  Hitting the golf ball on the range, hitting the golf ball when I played a practice round.  It's typical like this, and when a golf tournament starts I'm a different person.  It's something that we've obviously found out.
Q.  We know what Jodi has gone through in the not too distant past.  Maybe you could just speak a little bit about how that affected you and how it affected her and what this means to her as well as you.
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, last year my wife was diagnosed, obviously, with adenocarcinoma, lung cancer.  In July she had her operation, took out half her lung, and you know what    well, Tiger is familiar with it obviously, he's going through the same thing with his dad.  It's hard to focus and play golf.  It's next to impossible.

When I was playing the British Open last year I'm standing over each golf shot going what am I doing with this golf ball?  I had no thought what I wanted to do with it.  I knew right there I was in a distant zone somewhere else, and that's basically told me there, it didn't start to clear up    I didn't start to realize where I was until probably World Championships in San Francisco when I started playing golf again.

It was a difficult year for my wife and myself.  And my boys, yeah, they probably watched it all as they came in this afternoon.  They're probably sitting in front of the television watching it.  It's going to be a big thrill and a wonderful vacation now.
Q.  Have you spoken to Jodi yet?
STEPHEN AMES:  I haven't, no.
Q.  Is that going to be a two week vacation?
STEPHEN AMES:  Not sure yet (laughing).
Q.  Seriously, is there a possibility you won't play The Masters?
STEPHEN AMES:  I have no plans of playing at Augusta.  My kids have just come out of    for their spring break, and we had plans to go somewhere else.  My priorities have always been my family first.  If it comes down to that, it's probably going to be a two week vacation, yes.
Q.  What is the status of your citizenship?
STEPHEN AMES:  For which country (laughter)?
Q.  For your individual country.
STEPHEN AMES:  I am born in Trinidad and Tobago.  I am also a Canadian citizen.  I live in Canada and have been there for the last 12 years.
Q.  Is it possible your wife might talk you into Augusta?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know.  I'm not sure about it yet.
Q.  What will determine whether you go to Augusta?  Would your wife and children have to say go, pop?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, I'd rather go on vacation to be truthful.
Q.  So are you telling us you will not play The Masters?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know yet.  We'll see.
Q.  Where is the vacation planned for?
STEPHEN AMES:  Home, Trinidad and Tobago.
Q.  Can you give us a brief update on Jodi?  Is she making a nice recovery?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, she's doing very well.  She's doing excellent now.  She's at the stage now of her surgery where she's basically    she walks up the stairs now and she's trying to catch her breath.  That's where she is right now.
Q.  Would you call what you did on the back nine finding another gear?  Did you intentionally or unintentionally step your game up to that much bigger a level for the last eight holes?
STEPHEN AMES:  I think I did that this week, put myself in another gear and another place that I've probably felt a couple times in my career of playing golf, but not for four days like I did this week.  Coming down to the end there, it was a matter of seeing the shot and hitting the shot and not worrying about it because there wasn't    nobody was that close to me to worry about it.  You know, it was just a matter of playing the right shot, making sure that I wasn't going to leave myself short sighted, I wasn't going to make myself have a hard chip or a putt.  As you know, coming down to the end there, it was always to the safe side of the flag coming in.  That's just the way I hit the golf ball.  I hit the ball really well this week, and it helped.
Q.  Most guys would show a more exuberant reaction to getting into The Masters.  Not to rebill the point.  I think we all find your reaction somewhat interesting, in that you're not salivating over the chance to go, particularly after you've had one week off.  Is there any particular    anything in particular about Augusta, negative previous experience, or you just
STEPHEN AMES:  No, I've only had one experience and it was last year    I think it was last year.
Q.  Two years ago.
STEPHEN AMES:  I haven't had a bad experience at Augusta.  It's the greatest place in the world.  I have no bad experiences there.  Like I said, it wasn't planned, and we still have to talk about it.
Q.  A quick follow up.  When was Jodi originally diagnosed?  Do you remember where you were, how you heard?  How hard it was?
STEPHEN AMES:  May of 2005.
Q.  Were you on the road or at home?
STEPHEN AMES:  I was home.  We both went together actually.
Q.  In Canada?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah.
Q.  Just kind of rephrasing his question, you said a second ago I'd rather go on vacation than play in the Masters.  Can you give us a second sentence?  Why is that?
STEPHEN AMES:  Well, basically it wasn't on the schedule, and my kids are on their spring break right now, so I'm going to have to cut their spring break short by saying dad is going to go play another golf tournament.  It just wasn't on the schedule.  Now it is, obviously, so I've got to sit down and talk to them about it and see what happens.
Q.  You said a minute ago you'd rather go on vacation, it sounds like
STEPHEN AMES:  I haven't made my mind up.  Nothing is final yet.  I don't have to commit until, I think, next week Friday.  First I've got to get the invitation, don't I?
Q.  I think you've got one.
STEPHEN AMES:  Did I?  I've got to wait for the invitation.
Q.  Will you let us know when you make up your mind?
STEPHEN AMES:  Sure.  I'll get IMG to call you.
Q.  You'd be considered a longshot for winning this tournament.  Do you feel like someone    do you feel like a longshot for this week, or did you expect to win, think you could win coming in?
STEPHEN AMES:  I felt I played well.  Winning, well, probably not until walking up the 18th hole, then it was kind of done with that sense.  I've always enjoyed playing the TPC, this golf course.  It's always suited my eye and my game.

As the week went on it got tougher and tougher, but the wind helped the situation, also.  You're not going to get too many low scores.  Yeah, I guess I was a longshot.
Q.  Did any of the weird Canadian fans drift back from Weir's group?
STEPHEN AMES:  No.  You were up there with him, weren't you (laughter)?
Q.  You seem like a really glib guy who's been a bit reticent to talked about what happened at La Costa.  Now you've got this huge victory and a career redefining moment.  Is there any vindication, any    that was an awkward situation, you got caught on the wrong end.  Now six weeks later you won the biggest first place check in golf.  Is there any vindication there?
STEPHEN AMES:  No.  No.  Why?  He's the No. 1 player in the world.
Q.  So it wasn't
STEPHEN AMES:  I got beat by a better player.
Q.  But you got trounced, as you said.  Very few guys    I've been out here a while.  I'd wager that 20, 30 guys would never recover from something like that.
STEPHEN AMES:  I never thought about it.  I got my ass kicked and that was it.  Next week, next event; that's how I went on.  What am I going to do, sit down and cry about it?  It's second.  He's the No. 1 player in the world and he played exceptionally well for    was it nine or ten holes?
Q.  Ten holes (laughter).
STEPHEN AMES:  He was 7 under after 9 and I was 2 over par.  That was it.  Next.
Q.  You're playing on a day that's very difficult and there are those train wrecks going on around you.  How did you keep that practice round feel in your own mind that you talked about earlier?  How did you get yourself in that place where you could be that free and easy?
STEPHEN AMES:  Just back to the first day from the things that we've been working on all week with Alan.  It's just a matter of getting over each golf shot, committing to the golf shot, and if I didn't feel like I was where I needed to be, which was present, then I was to back off and start again.  That's where I was all week was trying to be present on every golf shot.
Q.  And he gets paid for that?
STEPHEN AMES:  Hey, at least he found it.  I couldn't.
Q.  Which was the better shot, second on 11 or the second one on 16?
STEPHEN AMES:  Second on 11, by far.
Q.  You got lucky a little bit on 16?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, of course, without a doubt.  It caught the downslope and kicked.  Like I said, the wind switched.  We thought it was down off the left, so we hit the club thinking it was going to help it but it never did.  When I hit the high fade it was floating back into us.  It came up a bit short, but, hell, I made the putt, didn't I?  That's eagle.
Q.  At various points today, you had Sergio, Vijay, Ernie, Retief all making runs at you.  Does that make it more meaningful?  I mean, that's the varsity right there.
STEPHEN AMES:  Again, I think it's more meaningful, the fact that there were 49 or 48 of the top 50 players in the world playing, more that than anything else.
Q.  Describe your putting.  Several players this week have told us they thought you putt about as well as anybody.  I don't know if the general public is aware of it.  Do you consider putting one of the strengths of your game?
STEPHEN AMES:  One of them.
Q.  Is there a secret there?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, no secret.  Soft, breathe, hit the ball.
Q.  Putting is about confidence.  You object obviously have expressed some lack of confidence, thus the head doctor.  That doesn't seem to jibe, a wonderful guy who doubts himself?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, I wouldn't say that was it.  Just never felt comfortable over some of the shots.  Putting wise it's been good but technical wise I've had to change it a little bit.  I've been a very good putter now, yes.
Q.  Aggressive or more of a lag putter?
STEPHEN AMES:  Depending on the situation where I was trying to get an optimum distance behind the hole, finishing 15 inches, a foot and a half behind the hole.  That's the way it should finish.
Q.  What's it like to have a six shot lead at the 17th hole on Sunday?
STEPHEN AMES:  Still go for the middle of the green (laughter).  That was a good two putt, by the way.  Yeah, same situation, pick your shot, pick your spot and hit it.  That's all I can do.  That's all I did.  It didn't come off that way today because the wind switched there, but that was a good two putt.  That was basically it, get out of there with par like I did every day there and go to the 18th hole.
Q.  Does the fact that you have a three year exemption into The Masters make a difference when you make your decision next week, and will you put it on the schedule next year?
STEPHEN AMES:  Probably, yeah.
Q.  How is it possible you've never been the Sportsman of the Year in Trinidad?
STEPHEN AMES:  No comment (laughing).
Q.  Do you think you have a chance this year?
STEPHEN AMES:  I doubt it (laughter).  I doubt that.  I'm going home in two weeks.  We'll see how good they're treating me when I get home (laughing).
Q.  Do you consider yourself a Trinidadian or a Canadian?
STEPHEN AMES:  I'm both.  I live in Canada, but I was born there, so that's where I'm going to be from.
Q.  Past the age of 40, what does a five year exemption mean to you?  Is that almost as important as money, if not more?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know, I haven't looked at it that way, in some sense.  You know what, I'm working at it very vigilant in the sense of keeping myself fit as I can to continue going and keep out here as long as I can.  I'm playing the game because I love the game.
Q.  Is that a big mental lift to know there's no worries in that regard for five years?
STEPHEN AMES:  Somewhat, but you can't still let your guard down.  You've got to keep working out, which is what I'm going to do.
Q.  Was this week a case of your game is in order, you had great ball striking, or did you feel like you found something this week, the mental stuff you were talking about, that's really going to enable you to play better all the time?
STEPHEN AMES:  It's probably that more than anything else, and the fact that Robert and myself have become better at communicating with one another and communicating about how to play a round of golf.  I think that's a very big key this week.  We both did a good job.  Both of us had to change a lot of things in how we approach and how we communicated with each other to get the job done.
Q.  You all had a game of 17 throwing the ball to the fans trying to get them to drop it in the water?
STEPHEN AMES:  No, we were just trying to throw it at them, not trying to get them to swimming.
Q.  Were you the only one to get one in the water.
STEPHEN AMES:  Was I?
Q.  But everybody plays that    is that something to do
STEPHEN AMES:  No, that was the first time.
Q.  How many balls did you have left going into 18?
STEPHEN AMES:  Robert?

ROBERT AMES:  I had about eight.  I overpacked.  Usually I just give everything to the kids.  I took everything out and I emptied it.  No gloves, no balls, nothing is in the bag.
STEPHEN AMES:  I've got clubs, though, right?
Q.  Which was a better final round, this one or the one at the Benson & Hedges?
STEPHEN AMES:  Probably this one.  Benson & Hedges was good, but I think this one was definitely a bit more class.
Q.  The number of players and courses in Trinidad and Tobago, can you give us an idea of the landscape there?
STEPHEN AMES:  Two, three golf courses, three 18 hole golf courses, and probably 900 or 1,000 players.  About right, Robert?

ROBERT AMES:  Maybe 1,500 players max.
Q.  How many people in Trinidad and Tobago?
STEPHEN AMES:  About 1.5 now, and I'm a minority.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could touch on your round today, going through the birdies.  No. 2, par 5.
STEPHEN AMES:  I hit driver, 5 iron to about 25 feet there, two putted.

6, I hit 3 wood too close to the green.  I hit a great lob shot about three feet.

Double bogey on No. 10, plugged ball in the bunker, couldn't get it up and down from there.

11, hit driver, 3 iron to about 15, 18 feet.

Par 3, 13, 8 iron, two feet, two inches.  I think that's what the board said.

15, hit driver, 7 iron about ten feet.

16, I hit driver, 5 iron out of the first cut just onto the green.  It was probably about 25, 30 feet, made the putt for eagle.
Q.  I've never been to Trinidad or Tobago.  Why are you a minority?
STEPHEN AMES:  That's just the way it is.
Q.  What kind of reception do you suppose you'll get when you take your holiday there?
STEPHEN AMES:  I don't know actually.  That's a good question.  Hopefully pretty big.  I don't know.
Q.  Are they upset with you for leaving or something?
STEPHEN AMES:  No.  No.  Somebody asked the question how come I've never won Sportsman of the Year.
Q.  It was me.  That's why I was kind of wondering.
STEPHEN AMES:  It's always been a very cricket and soccer orientated country.  Golf has always been a bit of a sideline and always been recognized as an old man's sport.  We were very colonialized, so in that sense cricket and soccer, soccer team, we know who's playing in the World Cup, Trinidad and Tobago got there.
Q.  Does Lara win it most years?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, him and Otto Bockus, yeah, they're the ones that won the last six or seven.
Q.  The sprinter?
STEPHEN AMES:  Sprinter who finished 3rd in the Olympics twice.
Q.  Any regrets of not taking up cricket for a living?
STEPHEN AMES:  You can answer that question yourself (laughing).
Q.  How are you doing today?  I just want to say congratulations on your success, winning today's game, and you and your brother, I don't know who's the cutest but we won't talk about that.  But what do you think about playing in May, changing the game to playing in the month of May from the month of March here in Ponte Vedra.
STEPHEN AMES:  I think it'll be a lot better for this event.  Probably we're going to get a better clientele of spectators because the weather is going to be hopefully so much better, and I think the golf course, too, will probably be in better shape.  Hard to believe that, but it's probably one of the best shape golf courses we play all year, but being in May it's probably going to be better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT