THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2006
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Start off with a comment on your day.
STEPHEN AMES:  I got up    no, it was a good day.  Besides taking the double on 5    was it 5?  I think    I don't know, whatever, the double that I had today.  Other than that, I think I played within myself and was very patient with the fact of how the day was going to be.  I took my birdies as they came along.  I hit some really quality golf shots at the end, which is what we all want to do in this situation, or when you're in this situation, and I did, which was nice.
Q.  With the golf course as tough as it is and the conditions the way that they are, is it one of those things where you know the mistakes are going to happen and you just have to prepare yourself for it?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, somewhat, yeah, you can play golf that way or you can play golf in a different way where you just get over the shot and commit to it.  I think a lot of guys when you're playing a golf course as tough as this, the hardest thing is to stand up to the shot and commit to it, not knowing what the result is going to be.  I think that's probably been my biggest asset this week is I've been trying to commit to the golf shot and not worry about the fact that two feet past the flag it's going to go 30 feet past the hole.  I've just got to get up and hit the golf ball; if it works out well, it works out well; if not, you move on.
Q.  Thinking back on coming down the stretch with Craig Perks a couple years back, how do you prepare yourself for tomorrow?
STEPHEN AMES:  The same way I did today and yesterday and the day before that.  It's nice to be in this situation.  I'm going to take it as it comes.

It's always a learning experience.  We call this the fifth major, this event, and it's got a nice lengthy exemption to it and stuff like that.  I want to go out tomorrow and play the same way I did today, commit to everything that I've had like I did today, and hopefully things will work out in my favor.
Q.  You seem like one of those players that doesn't really let the pressure get to him, just kind of let it go?
STEPHEN AMES:  I'm playing a game, try and have fun with it.  If I'm going to let things bother me in this situation, let the situation bother me, then the pressure is going to get me.  I'm just going to worry about my game tomorrow and not anybody else.  That's the only thing I can control.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT