BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2005
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Stephen, appreciate your time, 5-under par after a very long, long day, and maybe just talk about your day today and how well you played.
STEPHEN AMES:  I think overall, my first 18 holes ball-striking wasn't quite as solid as the second 18 was.  As the day went on, I had my 20-minute, what do you call it, lunch break, between the two rounds there.  I jumped on the tee there and had a different thought that went through my head for my technique as I went along, and out she came, and I started hitting the ball the way I remembered how to hit it.  Because I've had two weeks off prior to this, and the West Coast definitely didn't feel like I played very much golf because of the weather the way it was.

The second 18, I really hit it well.  I made two hiccups on 1 and 2 where I made two bogeys, but other than that, it was the solid round of golf.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Nice par 5 at 18, and you're glad to be finished.
STEPHEN AMES:  We were rushing hoping Vijay would hurry up and his hit tee shot so I could have an opportunity of finish out the ninth hole and not have to come back tomorrow at 7:00.
Q.  Did this long day today give you a chance to work out any kinks in your game to get into a groove?
STEPHEN AMES:  Probably, yeah.  I finished the 18th -- the first 18 feeling good, not great about my ball-striking but good about my scoring.  It played tough because the wind was blowing a little bit today.  And, as I said, my mindset of my technique was I changed something in there and my ball-striking started to come and I just continued with the same thoughts I had.  Probably the momentum did, help without a doubt.
Q.  How much of an advantage is it for you to not have to come back tomorrow to finish up round two?
STEPHEN AMES:  Big advantage.  I think 5-under is still leading after today, I'm off till four o'clock in that have noon.  I get to relax tonight and most of tomorrow.  A big advantage, I'm sure.  Though all of the guys had a big chance to relax today and tonight, as well.  It is a big advantage.
Q.  Do you think that 5-under will be leading, or do you think the other side of the draw actually got the better break because they are playing most of their golf in the morning?
STEPHEN AMES:  Never thought about that.  Yeah, they probably got the better end of the break at this stage, but that's golf, I guess.
Q.  You made a bunch of long putts on your back nine of your second 18, what were the lengths of some of those?
STEPHEN AMES:  13 feet -- I birdied 12 from 2 1/2 feet.  13 was eight feet.  14 was probably 15 feet.  16, I had a foot and a half.  17 was probably ten feet, 10 or 12 feet.

I hit it pretty close on the back nine, and I hit some really good shots on front nine, the pins got a little tucked.  The back nine the pins were a little accessible to get to, but the front nine were definitely a bit tucked so it was tougher scoring.
Q.  Do you feel more comfortable putting here on these greens than on the West Coast?
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, I grew up on bermuda, so I'm going to be -- I wouldn't call this true bermuda at is this stage, part of it's bermuda and ryegrass mixed in there, but I am comfortable with it, yes.
Q.  When is the last time you went 36?
STEPHEN AMES:  Oh, boy.  A while.  I think -- didn't we have a delay here last year or two years ago?  It might have been 32 holes here two years ago.  That was probably the last time.  Thank God for working out.
Q.  Do you like it?
STEPHEN AMES:  Didn't bother me.
Q.  If you decide to play the Presidents Cup you might get to do that.
STEPHEN AMES:  Yeah, I realize that.  (Laughter.) Yeah, I'm going to play with Vijay.  We finished him off early.
Q.  Did the rough cost you any strokes today?
STEPHEN AMES:  The what?
Q.  The rough.
STEPHEN AMES:  Not really, no.  I didn't have too many second shots out of the rough or second shots out of the rough that really jeopardized me too much, no.  I don't think I was in it too much, actually.  Maybe the first hole I missed the fairway.  I have to go back, I can't remember, the first hole and the ninth hole.
Q.  Did you make par on those holes?
STEPHEN AMES:  Three putted the first unfortunately.
Q.  The rough, what's it like?
STEPHEN AMES:  It not thick enough.  Needs to be about eight feet tall.  (Laughter.)  Because Vijay hit driver all day long and had only sand wedge and wedges in there but still was able to stop the ball.  Needs to be higher.  (Laughter.)
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Stephen, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT