SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2013
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Stephen, we knew scoring was going to be low this morning, go out, take advantage of the golf course and there it was.   
STEPHEN AMES:   Yeah, right.   I wish everybody knew that before they teed off.   I think it was the pace of play.   It was the first round of golf we've played all year under four‑and‑a‑half hours.   So that helps me.   I enjoy playing fast.  
   
 Q.   Well, you were the rabbit, so you went out there and set the pace for them today.   
STEPHEN AMES:   Perfect.   We were timed all day, which probably didn't help.   But anyhow.  
No, I played well, drove the ball very well and made a lot of putts which was nice.  
   
 Q.   There's been a lot of conversation about the work that's been put into the greens out here.   How did you find them from the putting standpoint?   Obviously you made the putts you needed to make today.   
STEPHEN AMES:   Yeah.   I think as a putting standpoint the ball rolled well, but I think consistency wise there is a difference.   Some greens are a lot softer than others.   I mean I hit a couple of shots that were at least 15 yards, that was the best shot.   I don't know if that was still because they were frozen or what.   But I think overall they were a little inconsistent.  
But like I said, the golf course didn't have much grass on it, what, a month ago.  
   
 Q.   Obviously an interesting year because it's a bridge year for the first time into next year but sort of the bridge year for you, the big 5‑0 is coming up.   So how are you approaching your game, this season, everything as you look at it from the beginning of a new TOUR season?  
STEPHEN AMES:   For me I'm still exempt.   I'm playing off of my career money list.   Lucky for me.   And I'm just going to take this as another year and move on.   My schedule's not going to change whatsoever.   I'm going to play my 20, 21 events and enjoy golf as much as I can and have my vacations when I want to.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday Graham DaLaet was asked if he was going to make any side bets with his Canadian friends.   Were you able to lay anything on him?  
STEPHEN AMES:   No.  
   
 Q.   Did the 65 today helping you?  
STEPHEN AMES:   No.   I'm not doing any of that.  
   
 Q.   Good playing today.   Thanks a lot.   Here with Stephen Ames.   Stephen, obviously a great round.   Got out very early this morning.   How did that benefit your day?  
STEPHEN AMES:   Besides the fact that it was extremely cold, the greens were very pure.   Obviously, there were no footprints on there, so I think everybody took advantage of it.   A lot of guys have taken advantage of it this morning and I was fortunate enough to be one of them.  
   
 Q.   So much is made of the wrap‑around year, the fact that the new season is starting now and not then.   Does it mean anything to you as a golfer?  
STEPHEN AMES:   Absolutely not.   No.   I think the way I look at it, I've always been playing the fall events.   I didn't play the PLAYOFFS, so I've had eight weeks off and it's nice that I get to play these four as well before I take another two months off before I start again.   So it's nice I get some golf in for most of the year.   But I've never been a big advocate for playing a lot of golf and this is my normal schedule like it always has been.  
   
 Q.   6‑under, 65, how do you back it up tomorrow?  
STEPHEN AMES:   Hopefully make the same amount of putts as I did today.   I've gotta work on a couple of things with my swing but overall very happy with the way things have gone the last couple of weeks that I've been practicing and some nice changes to the swing.  
   
 Q.   First out, first in.   Quick round?  
STEPHEN AMES:   Very quick.   Yes.   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT