DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 3, 2000
Stephen Ames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEPHEN AMES: I am playing with Shigeki, was very tough today. We both started off
pretty rapidly making birdies all the way and I think I kind of pulled both of us on the
way. Imagine shooting 67 here and feeling like you got left behind. This is what Robert
did. I think it was a great day. We both played well. Shigeki played very well himself, he
got 64.

STEPHEN AMES: 65. That was good.

Q. How many practice rounds had you gotten in this week?

STEPHEN AMES: One, Wednesday Pro-Am, I played nine holes -- nine holes on Tuesday.

Q. Anything you noticed yesterday that helped you today?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, there was a bit of relief off my shoulders. My son being in the
hospital for the last 24 hours with pneumonia and I spent Wednesday night in the hospital
with him so I didn't get much sleep. Wasn't sure if he was coming out of the hospital on
Wednesday afternoon -- well, yesterday afternoon 'til I got back after the round
yesterday. So it was a bit of relief there. I wasn't on the golf course on the first day;
today was a little different. I think it was just a relief that he is back home; well,
back at the hotel with us now. He is not as sick as he was when we started the week.

Q. Any idea how he got it?

STEPHEN AMES: Not a clue.

Q. Travelling?

STEPHEN AMES: Probably travelling as much as we do. Just came from the West Coast to
here, so, probably how he got it.

Q. How old is your son?

STEPHEN AMES: He is three.

Q. What is his name?

STEPHEN AMES: Justin.

Q. When you are shooting 61 is it almost feeling easy or effortless?

STEPHEN AMES: Of course it is. (laughs) you are hitting it down the middle of the
fairway -- six, seven times out so you probably got your right number for your club to the
hole itself, you don't have to play too many half shots or take a little off the club you
were hitting. Today I had a few of those right on the number. Course is playing a little
easier, the greens are receptable -- well, playing in the morning I guess it would be that
way. They were softer. The wind didn't get up as much as it can here, which I have played
in the past. Greens were perfect this morning.

Q. How many times have you shot a lower score?

STEPHEN AMES: No. This is low. This is low for me.

Q. Is this your lowest score then?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, it is. 11-under, definitely. 

Q. What was the previous lowest?

STEPHEN AMES: 63 twice, I think, or once. Bob Hope.

STEPHEN AMES: 63.

Q. Did you leave any out there?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, I did.

STEPHEN AMES: Yes, 10 was -- well, this morning it was dewey; didn't hit it very long,
driver, 2-iron to about -- it was on the front edge of the green, chipped it up to about
three feet. 11, I hit 2-iron, 9-iron about eight feet. 12, I missed about a 15-, 16-footer
for birdie. 14, I hit driver, 6-iron to about 15 -- 12, 15 feet. 15, I hit two-and-a-half
feet, missed it. 16, I hit 3-wood, sand wedge, ten feet. 17, I hit 3-wood off the tee into
the trap on the right, 8-iron to about twelve feet, made that. 18, I hit driver, 8-iron to
about twelve feet, missed that. Driver, 3-wood into the trap on the right-hand side of the
green got it up-and-down from about six feet for birdie on 1. No. 2 was a bit lucky 3-wood
down the middle of the fairway, ended up into somebody's pitch mark, marked ball was
sitting down. I had to dig it out, pin was tucked left, I ended up hitting it pin-high
right to about 30 feet and I made that.

STEPHEN AMES: Wedge. Only had like 115 yards. Next hole I hit it like eight feet, I
missed that. Then had another bonus on the fourth. 4-iron straight middle of the green
about 35, 40 feet, made that. Next hole I hit 3-wood, little 8-iron about 18 feet above
the hole, made it coming down the hill there. Hit driver, 3-iron. I didn't see it. I was
told my second shot lipped out and it finished about four feet past the hole, missed that
for eagle. 9, 8-iron pin-high right about 15 feet, 15, 16 feet, made that. It was easy.
Real easy (laughs).

Q. Did you start thinking 59?

STEPHEN AMES: No, I didn't think 59. I was thinking the 62 because I knew in the back
of my mind that 62 was a course record, just to shoot 63 out here is good.

Q. When you are playing that well it is difficult not to get too emotional or, you
know, kind of let things get away from you in that way, just to kind of maintain your
calm?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, I think it is. You can get excited. I bet for David it must have
been real exciting just to shoot the 59. Emotional-wise that must have been tough for him
there. For me 61, I just want -- I just wanted to catch Maruyama because I was so far
behind, he kept birdying on top of me. I make a birdie, he would put his in the hole. It
was tough to get on. I think that was the fun of it which was good.

Q. Short putts you missed made a big difference in your score. It sounds like you were
putting well; was that the greens themselves or is that just --

STEPHEN AMES: No, that is me. I am struggling to hit from ten feet in with my putter. I
have been for the last couple of weeks. It is a technical thing, trying to work it out
right now with my coach, the rest of it, it is coming out on the longer ones. We are
starting to see the difference, shorter ones. I am not quite seeing the difference yet.
Overall, the putter is starting to work better, feel better in my hands. My routine
changed a bit today which was good. I realized something last night when I finished the
round, overall I wasn't quite there, but at the same time felt that I wasn't putting 100%
effort into it so I had to change my tee shot routine and that helped a lot. It is
something I am going to continue for the next two days obviously.

Q. What happened with you at the beginning of last year I guess you only played -- how
many events did you play last year?

STEPHEN AMES: 18. I couldn't get into the country 'til June.

Q. Can you elaborate?

STEPHEN AMES: It is elaborated very well in Golf World, in Golf Magazine. Get a Golf
Magazine this month -- last month's Golf Magazine, you can read it there. I don't
elaborate here anymore. It is a sticky situation, let's put that it way.

Q. Who is your coach?

STEPHEN AMES: Dennis Sheehee (phonetic).

Q. He is here?

STEPHEN AMES: No, not this week. 

Q. Played college, Boca Raton, can you give us a bit of your background?

STEPHEN AMES: My dad basically kicked me out of home, said to go study, which I didn't
like. Not many kids at that age did. He came in here investigated a small college and I
ended up going there for three-and-a-half years.

Q. What kind of golf team?

STEPHEN AMES: It never had basically a golf team. Second division NCAA II, second
division I think it is called. I can't remember. Golf wasn't on my mind at that time.

Q. You were there three-and-a-half years you left as a senior there?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah, I left as senior, yeah.

Q. What were you studying?

STEPHEN AMES: Business administration to go home and eventually work which I never did.
Started to play golf.

Q. Will you go back to get your degree?

STEPHEN AMES: No, I won't.

Q. Did you have an inclining this morning that something like this was going to happen?

STEPHEN AMES: Geez, I wish we all knew that. Not a clue. I think the probably the
biggest difference was the fact that I was so relieved that my son was home back at home
with us in the hotel room and not in the hospital and I didn't have to worry about it
because I was probably this close from withdrawing, not knowing what the situation was and
the doctor relieved me yesterday by saying that he was going to -- hopefully by 3, 4
o'clock in the afternoon, yesterday afternoon, that he was going to be discharged which he
was when I got back down there yesterday afternoon. It is just -- it is the first time
that he has been this sick and it was a worrying thing for me being a father twice now.
Like anybody who has got kids, you know how the situation is, it is tough just to carry on
with life basically. For me it was, anyhow.

Q. He was admitted Wednesday afternoon?

STEPHEN AMES: Yeah.

Q. What hospital?

STEPHEN AMES: Baptist Health.

Q. If you had had a morning time, would you have withdrawn?

STEPHEN AMES: Yes, I would have, definitely would have because I had to spend the night
with him because we have a younger one which is still working on the good stuff basically
you would say, still breast feeding, so Jodi had to look after him so it was only me left
and if I had a morning time there was no way I was playing, no.

Q. Where was this baby born?

STEPHEN AMES: Both Canadians.

Q. Have you had a better ball-striking day in your career?

STEPHEN AMES: Oh, yes, I have, yeah. I think the difference today was just the putter
made some good putts, ball-striking has definitely been a little better than this,
feeling-wise, maybe not angle-wise, I don't know, but feeling-wise it has felt better.

Q. The changes in this course have obviously tamed it a little bit. The course, does it
lack the feel of a challenge right now?

STEPHEN AMES: I think the only reason it lacks the feel of a challenge is because the
wind is not up. Like any golf course if the winds get up, then it becomes a challenge, but
in the past with the changes that they have made in making it tougher and then adding the
25, 30 miles an hour that normally blow here wind-wise, it was too tough, yes. You got to
expect that with any golf course in Florida. If the winds aren't blowing it is going to be
easy. If it is blowing it is going to be too tough. You have got to balance it somehow.
You have got to accept one year you are going to have -- 24-under winning and you are
going to have accept the other year where 8-under might win. Which has happened in the
past, 13-under has won last four years. It's a balance. You have to balance it.

Q. You were chasing Shigeki (inaudible) lipped out a double eagle, missed a two and a
half-footer, 4-footer, 8-footer, could have shot 57 who knows. Any part of you that looks
back and says maybe I had a little unlucky 61?

STEPHEN AMES: No. No. Because I made three 30-footers, that is how I balance it out.
That is basically -- I made three 30-footers; missed a couple of short ones. That is golf,
isn't it? You don't know when it is going to come. You don't know how it is going to come.
That is how it ended up today.

Q. Never at a resort course at home, short course, anywhere that you have shot 61 or
better?

STEPHEN AMES: No. My home course I played at home is par 68. And I have shot 59 but it
was par 68. Not 11 birdies, no. Well, I had 11 birdies, yeah, I have had 11 birdies in one
day in Texas, I shot 64. I remember that. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT