NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 31, 2018
Amanda Lorenz
Jordan Matthews
Sophia Reynoso
Jordan Roberts
Tim Walton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida - 11, Georgia - 3   
THE MODERATOR: The Game 3 press conference featuring the Gators of Florida.  We're joined by Tim Walton, Jordan Matthews, Amanda Lorenz, Sophia Reynoso, and Jordan Roberts.   
Coach Walton, how important was it for you when they jump out to a 2-0 lead run, and you jumped back with a five-spot homer?  How big was that to you to answer back in a big way, too?   
TIM WALTON: Yeah, I thought definitely to be able to shift the momentum and get us back on defense with the lead, I thought that was huge.  Aleshia pitched a great game for us, but I thought the tempo of that first inning was really important to be able to get us back confident out there on defense with a three-run lead.  That was huge.   
 Q.  Jordan Matthews, you've just been coming up in these clutch situations, and hitting balls out of the park and into the wall.  What is your mindset at the plate, and what are you looking for up there?  
JORDAN MATTHEWS: I'm just looking to drive the ball, not do too much.  See ball hit ball has always been my motto.   
 Q.  Sophia, what do you have to say about her these last couple weeks?  
SOPHIA REYNOSO: It's amazing.  It's amazing to see her stepping up into her role and doing what she needs to do.  It's a great feeling as a teammate to have somebody like that go up to that.  As soon as she does that, we're like, yep, Jordan's got this.  It's an amazing feeling that she's doing so great, and we just love to see it.  It's awesome.   
 Q.  Tim, if you could mention or just speak to the two decisions, the one to start Aleshia, and the second decision to bat Jordan for Jordan, the pinch-hit decision?  
TIM WALTON: Yeah, we're always, I think, the one thing that I praise our coaches and our staff is to do the best job they can and know our personnel.  We felt like Aleshia was the best match-up with Georgia swingers.  Her athleticism in the circle, a lot of things that led to that decision.  Also the way she pitched against them last time, I thought that was key in making our decision, the second part.   
Again, you've got a lefty versus lefty match-up with Jordan Matthews, and their pitcher, and I liked our right-handed bat off the bench a little bit better.  Second furthest ball I've ever seen hit here in a Gator uniform.  Megan Bush being the first one against Michigan.   
But that was a bomb.  She came around the base.  I usually fist pump.  She high fived me.  We fist pumped, high fived.  Just to be able to be in the dugout when a kid comes back, and that's all she said she's ever dreamed of in her entire life in a softball uniform, that makes it special.  I think it's pretty fun.   
JORDAN ROBERTS: Yeah, that's crazy.  It really is a dream come true.  I've thought about this since I was a little girl.  It's just awesome to be able to answer to the call.  My dad texts me every day before the game and says just be ready, be ready to answer to the call.  And that's what I did.  I'm just happy to be able to help out my team.   
 Q.  Tim, what's it like coming back to Oklahoma City every year?  What have you seen changed from the crowd's perspective, and what does it mean to play in an atmosphere like this?  
TIM WALTON: Well, whether there are four people out there or 4,000 people, for the kids and players, it's the College World Series.  It's the cream of the crop.  It's all the things that they've ever wanted to do in their softball careers.  So that in itself makes it a special, special place.   
Oklahoma City has really turned this into a special place by creating a wonderful atmosphere, a tailgate atmosphere out in the parking lots, bringing in the vendors, bringing in the fans, giving away tickets, first pitches.  A lot of the details that most people don't pay attention to.   
I've seen a lot of nice things be able to come here and change.  Obviously, what ESPN's doing for us with the coverage, it packs them in.  I think I heard from the practice field that that was the first session game record.  It seems like every time I'm in Oklahoma City, and we've been here quite a few times, I hear that word over and over again.  That's a new game record.  That's a new session record.  That's a new everything record.   
By the way, the Gators set the NCAA record for walks in the season tonight, too.  So make sure you don't miss that one.  But it's fun because everybody's in tune to the game.  The fans come into the game and they really enjoy it.  The autograph line was as long as I've ever seen it, and I love it.  A lot of people had Gator gear on when we came here in 2008, so proud moment to see that, see the growth.  It's really, really cool.   
 Q.  Amanda, most of the time they're waiting for you at home plate.  How cool is it to see others circle the bases and you be there for them?  
AMANDA LORENZ: I'm just so excited for them.  I couldn't be a prouder teammate when I see that ball leave their bat.  Just so excited.  I see the work they put in each and every day.  So to see how bad they want to contribute to the team and see them come through, it really makes me proud, and I'm glad that we wear the same uniform.   
 Q.  Jordan Roberts, you were talking about your dad and text messages before the game.  Is he here?  
JORDAN ROBERTS: He's not.  My family didn't come.  My sister just had a baby, and my younger sister graduated, so they stayed home this year.   
 Q.  So I'm sure you're going to have a ton of text messages?  
JORDAN ROBERTS: Yes, I'm sure.  I'm very sure about that.  I just said that to Jamie Huber, like my phone's probably blowing up right now.   
 Q.  New, biggest, brightest star in Live Oak, Florida, right now?  
JORDAN ROBERTS: That's right.   
 Q.  Jordan Matthews, we talked earlier in the season that you have a plate ritual.  You like to listen, you sing your own songs, hum your own music.  Were you humming anything when you were up at the plate?  
JORDAN MATTHEWS: Today?  No, actually.   
 Q.  Nothing at all?  So this time was just calm, cool and collected?  
JORDAN MATTHEWS: Yeah (laughing).   
 Q.  I think, Tim, you said before the key to being successful here is winning this first game.  Just what does that do, remind us all, what does that do in terms of the psyche for the team and what have you, knowing that you're playing again tomorrow versus sitting out and having to win twice on Saturday?  
TIM WALTON: Well, again, the beauty of the sport is the growth.  Watching the game or parts of it, and you hear on the app as we're watching it on the drive over, I think the announcers, I think it was Adam who said there have only been two ever winners to come out of the losers bracket ever.  And only two teams have ever won if they lost on the first day ever in the history of the NCAA College World Series.  I think that tells you how important it is the first day.  '83 and 2003 are the only times that's ever been done.  So really important.  Very important come out and get the W right away.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT