ITALIAN OPEN
June 1, 2018
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 64, you must be very pleased.
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I knew I needed to go low today just to make the cut.  If it was similar conditions from yesterday, we're probably looking at minus five, minus six, so you knew you had to get on it early, and I didn't, and then it kind of happened middle of the front nine.  I managed to make some birdies and made some nice birdies coming in.  Very pleased.
Q. Nice to get little runs going, three in a row on the front nine and three in a row on the back nine?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I actually hit it really close at 7, the par 5, to six-foot and missed it.  Nice birdies.  I hit it to, what, three or four inches at 8 and nearly had the hole-in-one there and good putt at 9, good putt at 10.  11 is playing really tough up the hill today.
Birdies at 15, 16, 17, very pleasing.
Q. The wind seems to have picked up this afternoon.  How much is that going to change conditions out there for the guys on course at the moment?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, when you get tree-lined courses like we're playing, it swirls around, very much like Wentworth.  It's very difficult to trust where it is and then to pick the right club.
The thing in the guys' favour is the greens are still very soft, so it is still scorable.  They probably will sort of spike up a little bit like they did yesterday.  So yeah, it's going to be interesting for them.  I'll wish them good luck and sit back and relax and watch them do it.
Q. How nice is it to see your name at the top of the leaderboard going into the weekend?  It's been a while obviously this season, so it could be a big week for you?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, definitely.  These Rolex Series are great events.  They are huge events on our calendar, so you know with good weeks, you can set yourself up for the rest of the year, and get yourself into The Final Series and Race to Dubai.  That's what we're all looking for, and if you happen to win one, then that's even better.
So yeah, these are -- for me, these are my majors.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT