BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through that back nine.  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, really pleased.  I actually kind of came into this week not hitting it that well.  Last week at the Dunhill, I probably had my worst ball-striking round of the year, and you know, even though I finished 18, which was a huge positive, I kind of -- I saw Tim Barter, my coach, on Tuesday and literally couldn't hit it forwards.  Did some work on Tuesday and got back into some good habits and that's what I've tried to take from these last two days.   
 Q.  What was it that sparked the back nine?  
RICHARD BLAND: I just hit a couple of shots close.  Yeah, I played the par 5s pretty good.  I knocked it on on 15.  I hit it close at 13 and 15 -- no, 14.  It's the wrong way around.  So yeah, but just trying to stay aggressive and just keep going for my shots, and I putted great.  I've holed out fantastically well, not only these last two days but probably over the last sort of three or four months.   
If I can keep that going, hopefully I'll be there on Sunday.   
 Q.  And that aggression, that positivity, has been something that's evident across the year, isn't it?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, definitely, it's something I've worked massively hard on this year.  I sat down with my team in December last year, and we talked about what was possible this year and how it was going to be possible.  And that was the main kind of factor, really, is that I wasn't probably playing aggressively enough over the weekend when I was in contention.   
So what's got you there, why change it.  It's been a huge challenge for me to do and I'm still working on it.  Yeah, I'm just going to keep going the way I'm going and hopefully the putts will still drop.   
 Q.  As this is an event that's much closer to home than most, does it mean that much more to you?  
RICHARD BLAND: Whenever you play at home, either here or at Wentworth, you've got your family there supporting.  Other people come up, your friends, your mates, so it's nice just to hear those extra cheers for you.   
And the British Masters, yeah, it should be a tournament we have every year.  This is only the second time we've had it probably the last ten years and that's not right.  This is one of our premiere events.   
 Q.  Do you feel the extra support?  
RICHARD BLAND: I'm sure you ask any of the lads, their home event, they would feel that, as well.  It's nice that I can sleep in my own bed.  Yeah, just to have that extra bit of support does spur you on massively.  You don't really think about it too much out there but you can certainly feed off it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT