ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Startling way to move up the leaderboard?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, very nice way to finish.  I had three birdies.  That's going to make dinner taste a lot sweeter tonight.  I've played enough golf where I finished with a few bogeys, so when you finish with three birdies, it's always nice.
Q. And it came on the back of a double-bogey, as well, to actually have that run to the close?
RICHARD BLAND: I just got a little bit unlucky with my second shot.  Thought I hit a really good second shot and the wind didn't touch it and it went 15 yards further than we thought it was going to.  Yeah, I kind of made a bit of a mess of it from there.
I bounced back well, made a good birdie at 14, which is a tricky hole.  It's tricky.  Where that flag is, you can go a bit flag hunting and make five from 110 yards very, very easily.  I was pleased the way I bounced back and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Does this demonstrate a very good attitude?  Is it in part down to the fact that the money is already up so the game is in good shape, confidence is there?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I've got a great team around me.  I've got, I wouldn't say, a new caddie on the bag, be a couple of months now, but Gary, he's made a huge difference.  I trust him 100 percent on the golf course and if we make a mistake, we make it together.
He's been a huge help.  But yeah, once you do get that money up, it does take the pressure off you, of course it does.  So it does let you free-wheel a little bit when you do get in those -- in contention over the weekend, you haven't got to look over your shoulder so much.  Looking forward to the weekend.  I love this place now and yeah, should be a good weekend.
Q. Does it tell you to go for things a bit more, as well, rather than perhaps take a more conservative approach?
RICHARD BLAND: It does, but when you play a links course, sometimes it's very tough to go at everything.  In some ways, we can when we play normal golf courses, if they are a bit softer, you can go at flags with a 6- or a 5-iron, whereas here, just a kick left or right and you can make double in a heartbeat.
So you've got to tread with caution, of course you have, but then you've got to understand when it's a green light and have a go.  If you drive it well around here, you will give yourself chances.
Q. We won't get ahead of ourselves, you're in a lovely position for the weekend and there's also an Open spot up for grabs?
RICHARD BLAND: I've only played one Open and that was 18 years ago.  I'd like to play another one before I hang them up.  Obviously you'd love to play one at St. Andrews.  I was disappointed I didn't qualify there last year but hey, if I get into Troon, it will be fantastic.
There's a lot of golf still to play.  It's a world-class field, great players playing.  The job is only half-done, so I've got to just keep my head down and keep doing what I'm doing and just play my own game and don't worry too much about what everybody else is doing.  If I play well, hopefully it will take care of itself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT