ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2016
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICHARD BLAND: It's starting to get up now.  The front nine was playing okay.  Probably a club and a half, but it's up there with three or four clubs now.  The afternoon starters are going to have a tough time.
Q. So it was noticeable after two, 2 1/2 hours or something of play?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I think we started noticing it on 17, which was our eighth hole and we played 18, and 18 was playing tough, par 5.  Just making par and get out.  When you're playing into the wind, yeah, they are playing tough holes.  A couple of the par 5s, I think the sixth hole, hit drive and a 3-wood and a 7-iron and busted all of them.
But when you play downwind, yeah, it's tough to get it close to the flag, as well.  Sometimes you think, oh, I can take advantage of those holes, but you've got to then be so precise on your landing spots.  It's getting tricky.
Q. How hard is it to adapt when you're used to one wind and then it does pick up?
RICHARD BLAND: I think you adjust.  The wind is up, so you adjust quite easily.  It doesn't change the type of shot you're trying to hit.  You just hit a different club.  It doesn't really change it an awful lot.
And I think the good thing is, the way the wind is today, it's either playing sort of straight in or straight down.  If it switches sort of 45 degrees, then it's going to be a completely different animal where almost every hole is going to be crosswind and then it's going to get really tasty.
Q. It obviously makes it tasty, hard work but is it the kind of challenge you relish?
RICHARD BLAND: Of course.  Obviously we all want to play in The Open next week, so it's fantastic preparation.  And you've got to hit all the shots.  You've got to keep the flight under control.
Your distance control has really got to be spot on.  On these big greens here, sometimes it's all about the next shot in links golf, it's not necessarily -- obviously it's about the shot you're playing, but where is the best play for my next shot to be from, and maybe sometimes that's not on the green.  But yeah, I wish the guys luck this afternoon.
Q. The Open is very much in mind?
RICHARD BLAND: Definitely, it's my last chance.  You've got to finish Top-12 but I'm here to do better than that.  I want to be in the thick of it come Sunday.  So it's a good start.  That's all it is.  It's a good start.  There's a long way to go and it's a world-class field, which the Scottish always is.  It's a fantastic event.  Looking forward to the next three days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT