TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 30, 2015
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICHARD BLAND: I got told in the middle of the first fairway that I had sold my house and thought, all right, better try to pay for the new one, so that was that.  It was kind of -- going along the front nine, I thought I was playing all right and just not doing anything.  I couldn't really get it close to the flag, and then the back nine, yeah, just kind of clicked and holed a few nice putts, and back in 28.  Strange game.   
 Q.  Great back nine, you're right in the thick of this tournament.  What does The Final Series mean to you?  
RICHARD BLAND: It's huge.  To play these, I've had a pretty steady season, nothing spectacular, but I've got nothing to lose here.  If I don't get into China in a couple weeks, my season is done.  Just try and enjoy it, try to free up and just play, not care free golf but just trying to be a little bit more aggressive.   
If it doesn't come off, it doesn't come off.  And if it does, then hopefully I can play a little bit more this year.  But yeah, to get to these events is fantastic.   
 Q.  So how good can Richard Bland be with the handbrake off?  
RICHARD BLAND: I think I can give it a very good run this week.  If I keep swinging the way I'm swinging, hitting shots; I'm making good decisions and I'm holing out well.  If I can keep doing that, yeah, why not.  Let's see.   
 Q.  A couple hours into your round, you were solid, even par and then you made the turn and then something happened to close with a 28.  Just how remarkable was that feeling for you on the golf course compared to your opening nine?  
RICHARD BLAND: To be fair not much difference.  I didn't play that much different to the back nine to my front.  I was hitting good shots on the front.  Just wasn't really giving myself that good of looks.   
Then on the back, I just hit it a little closer.  I was still hitting good shots but kind of got it in that range where you go, right, this is a really good chance now.   
I took advantage of a couple of the par 5s.  I knocked it on the first and on the fourth, as well.  Yeah, just holed some nice putts coming in.  It's one of those, hey, you kind of don't feel like you're that many under, and then you sign your scorecard, and, yeah, 28.  You don't get that very often.   
Hopefully carry on from where I left off tomorrow.   
 Q.  When you close with a 28 like you did today, does it make you even more anxious to get back out on the golf course tomorrow?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, because if I can play the back nine, I'll have a good crack at 59.  The day's done, so just go and chill out now and relax this evening and just wait for tomorrow.  But it's just nice knowing that probably the front nine I think plays a little tougher than the back.   
So it's nice knowing that you can play that front nine.  And if you don't get off to that good a start, you tend not to panic so much because you know that there's some score in there and you know you can get it out.   
Yeah, I'll be looking forward to tomorrow, really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Since we are at the halfway point and you're 12-under and in the mix heading into the weekend does your perspective at all change now?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I've come in here not in any of the other Final Series events, so, yeah, I've got to play my way into those.  You know it's going to be probably 20-plus that's going to win this, if the weather stays like it is, which is perfect; I've got to find a lot more.   
So just kind of sitting back and hoping isn't going to get the job done.  So yeah, it's still just got to play within yourself but try to keep hitting good shots.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT