TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 29, 2015
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on 5-under?  
RICHARD BLAND: Nice, nice start.  Wanted to take some early advantage as we were second out on the front nine.  We knew the greens were going to be putting probably a little bit better than they were on the back.  But overall, very pleased.  I played really nicely.   
 Q.  And presumably this is in perfect conditions pretty much?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, you don't get much better than this, sort of probably 30 degrees and no wind.  With the standard and field we are playing in, you have to get out there early and try and get in the thick of it.  Fortunately, I've done that.   
 Q.  Talk about being involved in The Final Series and an elite event like this?  
RICHARD BLAND: It's really good.  Normally I'm fighting for my card with beads of sweat coming off me.  The last couple of years I've played here, and it's great.  It just shows you've had a consistent, solid season.  Obviously we are all trying to fight for the Top 60 which then putts your season into a different bracket.  I need a good week for that.  I've got nothing to lose this week.  So hopefully more of the same.   
 Q.  Does that affect your change, your attitude into the event?  Do you feel that it is all a bit of a bonus or just give yourself new targets to aim for?  
RICHARD BLAND: I think you try and free yourself up a little bit more.  There's no cut, so you know you're playing four rounds.  In that respect, there's that kind of side of it gone.  But you're still out there trying to hit the right shot at the right time and not make any silly mistakes.   
You can be aggressive, but being aggressive when you can be aggressive and not when there's sort of a flag that's hanging out by the water and you have a 4-iron in your hand.   
Yeah, it's just being sensible about it and just trying to take the opportunities when they come.  I played well enough to do that today.   
 Q.  Does that mean this is a course you've got to be sensible on, because essentially, it's a resort course and it's easier than some that we play.  
RICHARD BLAND: It's set up a lot different from last year.  I think the weather, the preparations of the course -- last year we played brutal rough.  You missed the fairway and you're hacking it out sideways.  Now, here you can kind of get away with it a little bit more.  So you would expect the scoring to be lower.   
But there's still four or five holes out there that you've got to stand up there and hit a proper golf shot.  Certainly you've got 5 and 6,9, as well, and a couple holes on the back nine.  We've got 12, so you can get away with it a little bit but also you've got to be on it, as well.  You aren't going to fake it around here and win.  The field's too good.  So you've still got to play some serious golf to get yourself in there Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT