BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 9, 2015
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Richard, you had to show a bit of mental strength early in the round today, a bogey-bogey start, but you very quickly got things back on track?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, yeah.  Not the start I was looking for really.   
And also to sort of compound it, I dropped a silly shot on 9 late on last night from the middle of the fairway.  So I kind of felt like I had just given three shots to the field in three holes even though one was last night.   
I tried to stay patient.  I knew I was playing well enough to give myself chances.  Fortunately, when I did give myself chances, I pretty much took them.   
 Q.  Tell us about the eagle on 11.  
RICHARD BLAND: I hit a good tee shot.  It was strange because I was struggling with my back most of the day.  I was struggling to release the club.  I wasn't really going at it that hard.  I had a good tee shot, a 3-wood just short.  I managed to pitch in from about 55 yards.   
Then I was getting treatment on the next tee.  I was stripped off and getting a back rub.  I had some pain-killers which have kind of helped a little bit.  It was a little bit uncomfortable walking around and not being able to sort of going fully into your shots because I'm protecting it a little bit.   
I was pleased with the way I came back from that start.   
 Q.  Good play recently at the European Open, took you inside the Top 100, which means you are pretty save for next year, does that mean you can play with a bit more freedom now?  
RICHARD BLAND: Definitely, definitely.  Hence maybe why I'm up again this week.  I started great last week in -- at the Dunhill.  I just kind of didn't do well Friday and Saturday.  I just want to make sure that I kept playing well, which I'm doing.   
Hopefully I can get some treatment this afternoon and my back will be a bit better tomorrow.  Hopefully give this a good run at the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT