ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lovely condition today?
RICHARD BLAND: Just perfect.  We played probably 16 holes with hardly any breeze at all, so you know you've got to get going pretty quick because the scoring is going to be very, very low.  Yeah, very satisfied.
Q. All the more important, given that it is Kingsbarns to start, which is widely perceived as the easiest of the three courses?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, all the par 5s are up.  There's a couple of holes out there that can grab you and bite you if you get a little out of shape, but it's generous off the tee, and it's pretty generous around the greens, as well.  So if you are hitting good shots, then you're going to give yourself plenty of chances and the greens are just probably the best I've seen them.  I've been coming here for 13, 14 years, and this is the best I've seen them.  They are pure.  You start online, it's going in.  So it's probably going to, the scoring around here is probably going to be pretty hot.
Q. It's a unique format.  How do you appreciate that, having a teammate; you are playing as a team.
RICHARD BLAND: It's good.  I played with Seth Waugh today, lovely guy from America.  It's different.  Sometimes it can be distracting but every guy out here now, they know what you're here to do.  They let you get on with it.  Yeah, it's just a fun format and yeah, we had a great time and looking forward to the next couple of days with him.
Q. Do you get involved, look after some of his shots, read his line, that sort of thing?
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, we help a little bit with lines if they want.  I kind of put the ball in their court.  I say, look, if you want some help, give me a shout.  Most of the guys probably have got local caddies and they know the greens like the back of their hand.  So they probably read them better than I can.
He did good today.  He came in on a few holes.  The beauty of this event you is never know who you're going to meet and I've made a couple of good friends out of this tournament with the guys that I've played with and we keep in touch.  I'm going out to dinner with him tonight, actually, so yeah, it's just a fun event.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT