JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2010
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you reflect on this particularly good start?   
 RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, just kind of all happened early really, 5-under through nine. And then the back nine, or the front nine, which is probably the tougher of the nine, I just hit a couple of loose shots and missed a couple of short putts. So you know, I made a couple, as well. You know, all in all, very happy.   
  
  Q. I know the weather conditions are particularly good around here today, but that kind of score around here, in any kind of condition is good, isn't it?   
 RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, this is a course I've actually done all right on in the past. So, yeah, just coming here feeling pretty good about my game. So I'm not sort of -- this has been kind of what I was expecting. To go out there and get myself in there.   
 It's a course that there's no real run on the fairway, so it's playing its full distance, so there are some holes out there you have to hit some quality shots, just to make par. If you play well, then there's opportunities, as well.   
  
  Q. Is this the best, the most consistent you've been in your career, because it's week-after-week you are putting in good rounds?  
 RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, it's just a testament to the work I've done obviously with Tim on the golf swing, also with Jamil. So just keeping -- not really changing, not trying to reinvent the wheel or anything like that. Just keep doing the same stuff. It's paying off.   
 So hopefully just got to -- if I keep putting myself in these positions, hopefully Sunday someone will be smiling on me and hopefully be lifting a trophy. That's what we play for.   
  
  Q. I know you said it's not always consistent across the four days but to do it week-after-week like this, shows the game is in very good shape?  
 RICHARD BLAND: Definitely. You know, the main thing is my bad shots are not really hurting me that much, which is massive. All of us can hit 6-irons to a foot and stuff like that, but it's what your bad ones are doing that really hurt you. My misses are just kind of on the side of the greens and I'm not really having to work that hard for pars.   
 So, okay, I made a few sort of mistakes today, but, hey, that's golf. But in general, yeah, I'm not having to up-and-down it from 120 yards for pars a lot. So, yeah, the main thing for me is the misses, that's the big thing is my bad shots are not killing me.   
  
  Q. Off on a tangent, but it's that kind of tournament, is all of the speculation something that you're enjoying, getting involved in conversations with?   
 RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, we have all kind of had our say. Obviously Pete sort of threw a spanner in the works last week, but you have to take your hat off to him. I've played with Pete on numerous occasions and he's a class act, he's a great player, and he's going to be a great foursomes player. Plus fourballs, as well, he makes a lot of birdies. He'll be tough to beat.   
 We are sort of looking at the picks. I guess I would like to see sort of Casey, Donald, and probably Karlsson as my picks. Probably everyone would probably think Harrington should get one, but in my view he's not playing well enough but everyone has their own opinion. But that's who I think should be the three picks.  
  
  Q. Why? Maybe more on Karlsson who has been out of form of late?  
 RICHARD BLAND: He ran Westwood close in America. I just think he's an all-around player. He's very straight. He's a good foursomes player and when he's on, he makes a ton of birdies, which he's proved. Obviously Luke's record proves -- obviously his Ryder Cup record is fantastic, has not lost foursomes, again. And Casey, he's such a good match player, and he's, what, probably the highest-ranked player not on the side, so it's hard to overlook him. So I think just his match play record, you've got to look at it. And you see Harrington.   
 Yeah, everyone's got their own fors and against, I suppose, but that's who I would be going for.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT