WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2016
Richard Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bit of mixed feelings?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, felt I played better yesterday.  I putted great today.  It was a tough day.  Anything probably around between probably par and 70 is a really good score.  So to get into the 60s is very satisfying.  So yeah, a little disappointed.  Silly 3-putt at the last which kind of leaves a bit of a sour taste, but I've got to look at the bigger picture, really.   
 Q.  You say tough day and you were absolutely flying through the front nine.  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, I holed some great putts.  Yeah, the wind is coming from a different direction.  It's tough to get to some of the flags, so, yeah, I just holed some really good putts and yeah, you know you're not going to keep that going.  But you're just trying to, you know, par is going to be a really good score.  The first was playing pretty brutal.  That was pretty much a par 5.  So yeah, so I managed to make a good birdie at 7, and you know, as I say, a little disappointed to give it back at the last but hopefully I'll be in a good position going into the weekend.   
 Q.  When you do see your name right up there in a WGC, what are your thoughts?  
RICHARD BLAND: Yeah, it's very -- yeah, delighted that I'm playing well in my first event.  So it's still a way to go and just got to keep trying to keep plugging away and just try to make some birdies.  Just try and keep the odd silly mistake off the card, which I've kind of just done a little bit this week.  But you know, it was difficult and I'm very pleased with 68.   
 Q.  Has there been anything different about actually playing golf in China?  I know it's not the first time for you, but playing in this part of the world.  
RICHARD BLAND: You're battling with jet-lag a little bit.  When you want to sleep, you're wide away and when you have to get up at 7.00 in the morning, you want to go to sleep.  But yeah, once you're out there and you're playing, yeah, it's no different.  It's just a usual game of golf, really, and go out and do the best you can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT