TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2012
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That was a most interesting day to watch.   It looked like, okay, he's out of it and then, oh, my gosh, he just went birdie, eagle.   He's back in it.   What in the world was going on on the golf course today?
ROLAND THATCHER:   I'm sure you guys had a bird's eye view.   It was a really haphazard golf.   Such a poor start.   I was really out of it.   I chipped in on 7 and it kind of energized me a little bit, picked up the birdie on 12 and the eagle on 13.   And all of a sudden at that particular point I was back in the tournament. 
You know, it probably comes down to the tee shot on 15 for me.   I just made a bad swing at the wrong time and made a bogey there where a lot of guys probably made a birdie was really costly.   But I was excited to have a chance there on the last hole and in the air I thought it was close.   So that's the way it works.

Q.   Tough pin.   You strike me as being a very positive person, and I'm assuming you're going to take definitely good things out of this even though you didn't get the win, but you cash a huge check which will secure you your card for next year, and you've learned something for sure. 
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   I was off to such a slow start this year, and this week probably gets me to where I need to be for the rest of the year.   It's been an expensive Sunday, however you look at it, but certainly with the way it was going after the first six holes, it could go a lot worse than that.   And also, on just a side note, I was maybe on the outside looking in to the Greenbriar in a couple of weeks, but this Top 10 will get me into there.   So who knows where that'll lead to. 

Q.   You gave yourself a chance the last two holes. 
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   You know, you never want to take the lead going into Sunday and then need two birdies on the last two holes to catch up, but I was fortunate to pick one up on 17, a really difficult hole, and I just gotta tell you ball in the air on 18 I thought it was close.   I was staring it down.   I really did think it was going to end up tight, but it just didn't quite end up carrying enough, and that's not a really good spot to leave it.

Q.   You went for it.   It seems as though you weren't playing it safe.   You were going for it. 
ROLAND THATCHER:   No.   You don't get very many opportunities to win out here.   And that was certainly one for me today, at least to get in that playoff.   So congratulations to Marc.   62 on a Sunday.   He deserved to win today. 

Q.   You were coming down.   Looked like Charley was blowing away the field, going up to 16 and whatnot.   Could you kind of say, wait a minute, all of a sudden it's starting to change now in the last hour?
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   There was definitely a feeling that it was his tournament to lose there towards the stretch.   I'm sure he'd probably tell you the same thing.   I felt like after the birdie on 12, I felt like if I eagled 13, even if Charley finished at 16 I'd have a chance.   So I was trying to energize myself.   Trying to get back into the tournament that way.   Picked up the eagle on 13.   Had really the sky was the limit at that point.   Everything was going well.   Wasn't able to pick up a birdie on 14 and then the poor tee shot on 15 threw a wrench in it.   But after that point I felt like I still had a chance if I picked up a few on the way one.   I just wasn't able to do it.

Q.   Pretty good week for you, though. 
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   Great week.   It had been a very below average year to this point, so this pretty much puts me right where I need to be for the rest of the year.

Q.   The shot on 18, hit it the way you wanted to?
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   I thought ‑‑ yeah.   I thought it was perfect.

Q.   Your thoughts on the final four holes in general and then sort of what they did for you to ‑‑
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, final four holes, they are ‑‑ it is a great tournament because of those last four holes, because of all the things that can happen in there.   No lead is safe coming down the stretch.   There's so many difficult holes, and there's some birdie opportunities there, too. 
For me in general today, dropping a bogey on the most legitimate birdie opportunity hole on 15 was just hugely detrimental, but I was real happy the way I played 16, making a good solid par there and played 17 as good as I possibly could.   Really happy with the putt and the shot, and like I said, I hit every shot the way I wanted to on 18 for all the good it did me.

Q.   Were you aware of anything that was going on, anything else with the lead, with Charley?
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   I was definitely aware.   I knew that he had gotten to 16 whenever I was on 12 or 13.   I knew when I picked up birdie on 12, I said if I was able to pick up an eagle on 13, I could get back into it.   And I did that.   So that was really amazing, and then coming down the stretch there I didn't really do what I wanted to on 14 and 15, but then I saw that 14 was going to probably be the overall number.   So I still had a chance there coming in the last three holes.

Q.   Were you surprised?
ROLAND THATCHER:   Of course, yeah.   He's a great player and any time you see somebody who's established and has won out here to get to that number, you assume he's probably going to stay there, but these holes are very difficult, and it's not surprising that some of these holes can jump up and take you.

Q.   Three bogeys first six holes.   Was there a point where you felt like you were out of it or back into it?
ROLAND THATCHER:   No.   Definitely out of it, especially after the bogey on the par‑5, No. 6, which is probably playing one of the easiest holes, if not the easiest hole on the course.   Poor drive, hit actually a pretty reasonable, laid up, hit a pretty reasonable wedge and I three‑putted, the only three‑putt of the week.   I was pretty down at that point. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ROLAND THATCHER:   I just chipped in on no. 7 and that's when it started to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT