CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 11, 2010
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Had to be a lot of fun in that group, Chris shooting 62 and you shooting 65. Just talk about the day overall.  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. Any time you pair with somebody who's doing what Chris was doing, which you get off to a fast start, make a lot of putts and obviously on his way to 10-under par, it surely can let you know that the birdies are out there and you can be a little more aggressive. And it kind of gives you that little competitive kick that sometimes you don't get with somebody who's not playing well. So I'm sure we both probably helped each other out in that respect.  
  
  Q. Can you just sort of talk about your round, sort of the highlights of it and any good saves you might have had?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. I birdied the first two holes and really felt like I was on the way to a good fast start, but I made a bogey on a reachable par-5, No. 14, which took the air right out of my sails; was forced to lay it up, laid up in a divot, just nothing good on the hole, made a 6. And honestly wouldn't have thought at that point that I was going to be on the way to 65.   
 But able to pick up a birdie on 17 and made the turn at 2-under, and I birdied the first two on the front side to get the four. And stalled out again, wasn't anything majorly wrong, just wasn't really making anything.   
 I was able to hit a 4-iron to inside a foot on No. 7, the par-5, for an eagle, and then hit a 5-iron into about three feet on the next hole for birdie.  
  
  Q. Good way to finish.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah, those two shots right there all of a sudden turned 4-under into 7-under and made me feel a lot better about the day.  
  
  Q. I know it's probably a real big week for you given your position and everything. Just sort of talk about that.  
 ROLAND THATCHER: I've played actually poorly enough that unless I win this event, I'm going to be heading back to qualifying school, and I just deserve it. I haven't put together four rounds all year.   
 Obviously with the 7-under today, I'm in a better position to do just that, but my goal at the beginning of the week, you know, outside the chance of winning the tournament, my goal is just to get a little more momentum heading into Q-School and try and have some positive feelings about the game and hopefully be able to earn my way back out next year.  
  
  Q. Okay. You're off to a good start. Keep it going, man.  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT