MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 23, 2008
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROLAND THATCHER:  Yesterday, I was 3-under on the back side and 7-over on the front side; I just couldn't seem to get through the stretch of holes on the front.  I was playing fairly good golf and hitting a lot of shots that were starting on the target line and wasn't able to dial on the distances.   
 Today with the wind down, I was able to dial in the distances and get through that stretch of holes on the front.   
  
  Q.  And so the 4-over wasn't really indicative of good or bad yesterday.   
 ROLAND THATCHER:  Yeah, very frustrating, I felt like I was doing a lot of things very well the first two days and wasn't getting a whole lot out of it and today I got more out of it than I probably put into it.  Somewhere in the mix there, it's probably evened itself out through three rounds.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever think about something like a 59?   
 ROLAND THATCHER:  I birdied No. 5, which is my 14th hole of the day.  I birdied No. 5 to get to 7-under par, which left me, if I birdied last four holes -- I did briefly think about that, especially I birdied No. 6 and I hit a shot on 7 that took off right at the flagstick and I started maybe kind of thinking about it, ball was in the air and got set up pretty good away from the hole.   
  
  Q.  You didn't let the round get away from you; sometimes people start out hot and sometimes their mind wanders a little bit and kind of fall apart down the stretch.   
 ROLAND THATCHER:  Yeah, I was able to keep a hot stretch going and stay aggressive for the whole day.  I played a marginal hole in the middle of the front side and was able to save par, and that was really the thing that kept it going.   
  
  Q.  And it looks like Brian Gay is at 14-under and is kind of trying to run away with it.  Obviously short of winning, you just want to probably -- you can't do anything about what he's doing, but just do your best tomorrow.   
 ROLAND THATCHER:  Yeah, being on the cut line, didn't start thinking about the tournament at any point in the week.  I'll go out and play as solid a round as I can tomorrow.   
 Like I got it hot out there today, I have to go out there and play solid and aggressive and see where it ends up at the end of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT