TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2012
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well done for 36 holes.   Nicely done.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   I'm in good position through two rounds, and hopefully I can do something special here over the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You're working on the weekend.   It's been a little while.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, unfortunately.   I'm probably the least consistent player on this TOUR, so whenever I go out and miss five, six cuts in a row, that doesn't really surprise anybody, nor should it surprise anybody that occasionally I put together four rounds.   So hopefully this is one of those weeks where I make a lot of money in a very short amount of time.  
   
 Q.   That's the thing.   When you get it going, it stays going.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, and that's the whole reason I've had a job here for as many years as I've had it is I've been able to get out of my own way when things start going well, and hopefully it's one of those weeks where that happens.  
   
 Q.   What have you found this week?   What's working?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   I don't know.   I guess I hit it a lot less than I've been hitting it before.   
You know, I really haven't been in trouble that often.   I've hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   I feel really like I left a lot of shots out there the last couple of days, which is odd for somebody who really hadn't been playing all that well to say.  
   
 Q.   Although that can happen here, because there are a lot of birdies to be had out there.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, definitely.   This is probably one of the shorter courses we play.   We're hitting a lot of wedges, so a lot of guys are having good looks and good opportunities, and I had a few today, and I wish I would have made a few more, but I'll be in position for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Are there any courses down there in Auburn that are anything like this because Claxton's playing well, Christian's playing well; you're playing well.   Dufner oughta be here.   He'd probably be playing well because he's playing well everywhere.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah.   I think we're all glad he's taking a week off, to tell you the truth.   No, nothing really quite like this.  
   
 Q.   How cool is this for all you Auburn guys to really get it going?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, it's great.   Jason and I have been really the only two representatives for the university out for a number of years, and it's great to have Will out.   It's great to have Gary out.   It really speaks to the program for what they've done, especially with the different ages of all of us.   To have that many guys come through at different stages, it's pretty fun.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, none of you have played together much, did you?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Jason and I were there for five years together, but we didn't share time with either of the other two.  
   
 Q.   How about.  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Yeah, it's nice.  
   
 Q.   Good luck.   Keep up the good work this weekend.   
   
 Q.   7‑under overall.   This is your first time making it into the weekend at TPC River Highlands.   Can you figure something out on this course or is something just suiting your eye more?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   No.   I learned a long time ago I don't figure anything out when it comes to golf.   It is what it is.   I've managed to put together two rounds and hopefully I can put together two more.  
   
 Q.   To me what's most impressive is you're coming off five consecutive cuts.   That has to be a little discouraging, but you obviously have pushed through, persevered.   What do you do to mentally keep yourself in the game?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   That's kind of business as usual for me.   I can't remember the last time making consecutive cuts out on TOUR.   So I'm the ultimate guy, I'll go out and miss a bunch of cuts in a row, but I'll play real well and get it done in a few weeks, so hopefully it's one of those weeks that I can make a lot toward keeping my card for next year.  
   
 Q.   For you heading into the weekend, what's going to be the key to really capitalize on the position you're in right now?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   Just stay out of my own way, basically, is the biggest thing.   Things are working pretty well for me right now.   I'm doing a lot of things the way I want to do them, and as long as I don't get in my own way and don't think too much about it, it should be just fine.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel out there today?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   I felt pretty hot and pretty sweaty.   (Laughs).   But I feel good with the number.   It was a good two‑day total for me, and I feel like I'm going to have a chance out here over the weekend and I'm really excited about that.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 18?  
ROLAND THATCHER:   I drove it in the rough and got the lie you should get when you're in the rough and didn't really judge the lie real well.   I really had a pretty reasonable up‑and‑down in the bunker.   But I guess it couldn't end up all good today, so a little sour taste in my mouth at the end of the day, but still a good day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT