JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 1, 2011
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Roland, Saturday is moving day, and you made a big move on the field?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. Very fortunate with the way the tee times shook out and I was able to get off on the second tee time of the day and post a number early.  
  
  Q. What was different in your ball striking? Just a superb round of golf.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. Today was very similar to the first two days. I just managed not to make the mistakes that I made the first couple rounds. Certainly made plenty of birdies and a couple of Eagles the first couple rounds, but kept making a lot of the other holes and other mistakes that took the momentum out of the round. Today I was able to minimize those and I had a clean scorecard, which is good.   
  
  Q. Now, I saw a beautiful birdie out of you at the 17, too. We don't see too many deuces out there.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: No. I hit it in the water there yesterday, so that was -- I wish I could say that was totally out of my mind, but it wasn't, but I was able to get past that and hit a really good shot in there, and it kept the momentum going.  
  
  Q. You know the deal with the surge. You've been the bubble boy the last couple years. You could take care of a lot of items tomorrow with another good round.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. I certainly would love to avoid having to wait till the last putt on the last green the last week, as I did last year.  
 Obviously off to a good start here this week, and the main goal is to go out and continue the momentum that I had today into tomorrow and we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Well played. We'll see you on Sunday.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Thanks a lot.  
  
  Q. Just talk about the course and how it played today. Obviously an 8-under right now is one of the best rounds out there.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. I thought the course played similar to the first two days. The breeze, while it's not blowing hard, seems to be light and variable, so sometimes I felt it was tough to determine where it was coming from, and I hit a couple shots today that I felt like could have been better than they were. But overall the course is in great shape. The greens are holding up well, and I expect to see low numbers not only the rest of the day, but tomorrow as well.  
  
  Q. Last few years you've finished right around the 125 on the Money List.   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you feel now you've got the confidence? Is this old hand for you?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah. I was 121st in '09 and 122nd last year, so yeah, being 126 heading into the final stretch is maybe not quite as nerve wracking as maybe it is for other guys because I've been there quite a bit over the last few years. That doesn't mean that I feel like overly confident or anything like that. I need to go out and play well tomorrow and take care of best as fast as I can.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT