TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2011
Roland Thatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROLAND THATCHER: I putted extremely well today. I made just about everything I needed to make.   
 And really rolling into the 6th hole, which was my 15th of the day, played virtually mistake-free. And then surprisingly, as bad as I drove it all day, I made back-to-back bogeys from 6 and 7 from the fairway. So strange as that sounds; but I was able to pick up a birdie on 8, stem the bleeding and made a good par 5 on 9. So overall a really good day.  
  
  Q. Talk about the birdie 8; not an easy hole.  
 ROLAND THATCHER: And especially coming off two terrible bogeys on 6 and 7, both from the fairway. Today 8 was playing a tee box farther back than it was yesterday, and I hit a 3-iron into 15, 20 feet, something like that below the hole, and had the right read and the right stroke.  
  
  Q. How much did that help the rest of your round going forward?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Well, there's only one hole to go after that, on 9. But certainly made me feel a little bit better about my situation, and to play so solidly from that point on it would have been pretty bad to finish up on a poor note.  
  
  Q. So gives you something to look forward to it going into tomorrow?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You said you were not able to play as aggressively because you couldn't hit the fairways with your drive; do you think that helped your scoring?   
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah, I think overall, it's not really a poor thing, because I wasn't able to make bad decisions on the fairway firing at pins I don't need to be firing at. I had to play safe a little bit more often today than ordinarily would have and worked out okay in my favor.  
  
  Q. You had to think a little more than you like to?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah, I'm not exactly going to go with that game plan again tomorrow. I'm going to try to hit a few more fairways and see if I can't do it a little differently. That bogey on 6 was my first bogey of the week and of course following up on my second one, the next hole. But up to that time, I really had not gotten a out.  
  
  Q. Having the two bogeys back-to-back, did you have it in your head that you needed to recover?  
 ROLAND THATCHER: Yeah, I certainly was very aware of my position and not making anymore mistakes on the way out there, and to pick up a birdie on 8 is a bonus, because that's not a hole you think about picking up a 2 on.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT