BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2008
Wendy Ausdemore
Lisa Bluder
Stacy Schlapkohl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We've got Head Coach Lisa Bluder and Stacy Schlapkohl and Wendy Ausdemore.  If you would start with an opening statement, then we'll take questions for the student athletes.   
 COACH LISA BLUDER: Obviously we're very disappointed, especially the way the game started out.  We thought we had taken pretty good control of this game.  And Purdue just did a tremendous job of fighting back and staying composed when they were down by 17 and they just kept chipping away at it.  Unfortunately, you know, we turned the ball over way too many times and we gave up 25 points off of turnovers and that's just too many.   
 I think that and the offensive rebounds, we gave up 16 offensive rebounds.  Those two things are really what caused a loss for us today.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for the student athletes.   
  
  Q.  Wendy, what about their defense that makes it hard to bring the ball up and keep control?   
 WENDY AUSDEMORE:  FahKara alone, she's a great full court defense.  Puts a lot of pressure on our point guards.  Our defense all around, they did a good job tonight.  Just physical.  And they did a good job.   
  
  Q.  Stacy, what was it like getting out with a 17-point lead; what were your feelings then and then going into second half with a small lead?   
 STACY SCHLAPKOHL:  Any time you have that big of a lead, we were excited.  We were pumped and fired up.  And we still had a lead at halftime.  So I don't think mentally we still had the lead but somewhere in there we, our defense kind of let up and like you said earlier we had a few too many turnovers that started their little run that continued kind of in the second half.   
  
  Q.  Stacy, how difficult was Mosley tonight for them, No 23, to keep off the boards?   
 STACY SCHLAPKOHL:  You know, she's very tough.  She's physical and she's got a big body in there.  And, you know, we tried to push her off the block, tried to box her out.  But we did the best we can.  Very physical inside.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, ladies.   
 Questions for Coach Bluder.   
  
  Q.  Lisa, your turnovers were big but not being able to turn Purdue over, they only had six turnovers tonight.  How big was that not being able to get them to cough it up a little bit?   
 COACH LISA BLUDER: It was both, compiling both those together and just the differential between that, it's a 13 differential.  They got to shoot the ball eight more times than we got to shoot the ball.   
 So I mean definitely I thought our defense was good to begin with.  But we just weren't able to keep that up.  But, again, I thought, you know, Purdue forced us into some turnovers that were very, very costly.   
  
  Q.  How is Johanna?   
 COACH LISA BLUDER:  You know, I don't know yet.  I haven't been able to talk to the doctor yet to find out how she is.  So hopefully she'll be okay.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT