AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS ROYALS
October 19, 2015
Ryan Goins
Troy Tulowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Blue Jays - 11     Royals - 8
Q. Troy, over the past couple of days it seems that your swings have become a bit more consistent.  Is there something you've locked in at the plate, you feeling better right now?
TROY TULOWITZKI: No, not really, just trying to get good pitches, put good swings on it.  Battling with the shoulder at times and trying to gut it out and give everything I have.  And tonight it was enough to help us get a win.
Q. Ryan, obviously it was a tough Game 2 for you.  Just talk about today and how nice it was to be able to contribute like you did?
RYAN GOINS: Helping the team win is going to be great.  But put the game in Kansas City behind me, had the off day yesterday, came in and worked out.  And today was probably the last thing in the back of my head, didn't think about it.  Came in with a mindset to do what was needed to win.
Q. Ryan, a lot of people talking about redemption.  Do you feel you entered this game needing redemption?
RYAN GOINS: There's no need to put any extra pressure on yourself.  Just come out and do what I've been doing all season, whatever I can do to help this team win is what I'm going to do.
Q. Can you take us through the first at-bat?
RYAN GOINS: Got down 0-2, and then it was a battle.
Q. Troy, what went on with Hirschbeck and you?
TROY TULOWITZKI: I think it was obvious I didn't agree with the called third strike.  And there were other pitches that were questionable.  I'm walking out to the field and he's looking at me.  And I told him that wasn't a strike.  And it was a quick trigger, obviously he was either holding on to something or something was going on.  But I didn't think what I did was going to eject me out of the game.
Obviously you don't want to get ejected right there.  Unfortunately I was.  But it will be interesting to see what he has to say.  Obviously he's been an umpire for a long time.  He's a good one at that.  And so I am surprised.
Q. Troy, you came from the National League.  What have you learned in two and a half months about this guy?
TROY TULOWITZKI: I can't tell you how happy I am to be sitting up here right now next to him after that game in Kansas City.  He was a special player, obviously, gives everything he's got.  And like I said, I couldn't be happier after that game, even though I didn't think it was a big deal.  I think everybody in that locker room had his back.  But for tonight him to be putting together the at-bats he did, play the great defense, he deserved it, because he didn't put his head down.  He focused on the next game and that's what you do.
Q. Is the feeling in the clubhouse with you guys for the most part that these type of nights are inevitable, no matter how poorly you might be swinging the bats?
TROY TULOWITZKI: There's no quitting in that locker room, I'll tell you that.  No matter if our backs are against the wall, we're faced with elimination, we still believe.  That's not the case with every team.  There's a reason why we're here.
And tomorrow is a huge game, hopefully we can even up the series and get this thing back to Kansas City and see what happens.
Q. Troy, you've been playing with pain, but the last two games your bat's come up really big.  Any reason why you're feeling more comfortable or has it just happened that way?
TROY TULOWITZKI: I think I got some pitches to hit, put good swings on it.  It's a tough game, you're not going to be on top all the time.  You try to find ways to contribute.  Sometimes when you're not swinging the bat people talk about defense, but you can win games defensively, too.
Tonight was definitely a huge win for us.
Q. Ryan, were you getting Jose a birthday present or getting your mind off the game?
RYAN GOINS: No, he was getting me a makeup gift.  We went shopping at the Canada Goose.  I know he has my back every day.  I don't read anything from the outside sources.  He came up to me on the plane and told me he had my back, and we moved past it, and that's what we did today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT