RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you remember it playing this firm and fast?  
DAVID HEARN: No, this is a new golf course this year.  Definitely I've played this firm before, but when we got here on Monday, I knew it was going to be a bit different here this year.  There's going to be a few good scores out here but overall it's a lot more difficult golf course this year.   
 Q.  How do you assess your round?  
DAVID HEARN: It was a lot closer than it looked.  I really think -- when I missed, I missed by a little and I paid for every mistake I made.  I just need to hit a few more fairways tomorrow.   
Despite the fact there's really not a lot of rough out here this year, with the firmness of the greens, if you don't hit those fairways, you're going to have a hard time getting it close.  That's kind of what I struggled with today.  I 3-putted a couple of times which I haven't done in a long time.  Wasn't quite my normal round today but it wasn't very far off.  A good round tomorrow, shoot 4- or 5-under tomorrow, I can get right back in this thing.   
 Q.  How different a week is this for you than a typical week on the PGA TOUR?  
DAVID HEARN: It's definitely different, but it's a good different, right.  It's our National Championship, and there's a few more responsibilities that go with that.  Obviously I had a great run here last year, so a little bit more attention on me coming in this year.  But you know, you learn to deal with it over the years, and it's great to have so many fans out cheering us on.  We don't get that every week on Tour.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have to change your game plan at all going into tomorrow?  
DAVID HEARN: I don't think so.  Like I said, I think it was so close today, that I didn't take advantage of the par 5s, especially on the back nine.  If I go out tomorrow and take advantage of the par 5s, that was my game plan today.  I think if I just execute it better, I'll be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT