ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2016
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Highlighted by a 3, 2 stretch on 16, 17.  You must be happy with that.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah.  I just left that one on 18 in the middle short, too, so it would have been a dream finish I guess.
But, overall, real, real happy with the way my game is going this week.  I played real solid yesterday.  Didn't get a lot out of it.  I felt again more of the same stuff.  Gave myself lots of chances and nice to see a few of those putts go in in the end.
Q. We all know it's a difficult golf course, appears more getable.  Is that for real?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah.  I have never seen scores quite this good around here.  I think partly because the greens are just so perfect right now.  Also I don't think we have quite as much rough as we maybe have seen in the past here and the course is playing fairly firm and fast.
I think that if they get a little bit tricky with the pins this weekend we'll see scores slow down a little bit for sure.
Q. Through 36 you're currently sitting T-7.  Does the number of Internationals in the Top 10.  Do you know why that might occur?
DAVID HEARN: I don't really know why that might be.  Lot of guys make their home here in Orlando and a lot of foreigners so maybe that's part of it.  They're just used to the grass and the temperature and the golf course so that could be part of it but I think here at Mr. Palmer's tournament we get some of the best fields of the year so I think that's probably more, speaks more to why we're seeing more Internationals up there this week.
Q. How much are the Olympics on your mind?
DAVID HEARN: I get asked about it a lot so it's becoming more and more on my mind.  In reality my focus right now each and every week on Tour, there's so much time between now and when the Olympics is actually decided.
It's early July that the team will be decided.  So, absolutely it's a goal of mine.  I'd love to be on that team representing Canada, be a tremendous honor.
Has it crossed my mind yet that I could be an Olympian?  Not really because I think there's too much golf between now and then who knows what's going to happen with the world rankings.
Five, six months, Kevin Kisner last year going into Hilton Head was 250 and he ended up at the year of a five, six month straight at 20th.  You just never know in this game and I have to play well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT