SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. David, what a nice birdie for you at that 18th hole of your opening round.  What was a tricky hole location.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it was a new one.  I hadn't seen that one the last few years we've been here, but yeah, I finished off the round real nice with three birdies, actually, on 7 and 8, as well.  I felt really good after missing my tee shot into the trees there, and I hit a nice wedge shot and made a good putt.
Q. 2 of 8 is always unexpected and welcome.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, that was a little bit of a surprise, but a welcome one.  Yeah, it feels great to get off to a good start this week, and I'm looking forward to staying aggressive and trying to make some more birdies.
Q. You're one of the players that's going to have to transition next year as far as anchored putter is concerned.  How are you going to approach that?  You're still using the long putter.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I've been playing at home a lot with the short putter.  I feel very confident.  I feel like I could go either way at this point in time, and right now I'm just focused on playing one good round at a time and doing what I can to get ahead for this week.  It's not really on the top of my head, I just want to play well, and I've put a lot of time in practicing and doing the way I do it, so I'll see what I can do.
Q. Have you experimented at all with not anchoring it, just holding it slightly off your chest?  Would that be an option?
DAVID HEARN: It hasn't been an option I've really explored too, too much, but we'll see what happens when the new year rolls around in 2016.  For now I'm just focused on doing well this week.
Q. I thought the golf course played beautifully today.  The greens were receptive and yet had some speed to them, particularly if you got on the wrong side of the slopes.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, absolutely.  We had a lot of wind in practice this week, so today it was nice to see the wind lie down a little bit.  The course was playing pretty much perfect as it's going to get.  The greens were great this morning, and you know, I think that there's a reason there's a lot of good scores on that board.  It's because the course is in such good shape.
Q. A couple top 10 finishes here.  You've got a pretty good comfort level on this course, don't you?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I've always -- for whatever reason, this course just kind of suits my eye.  I feel like I hit a lot of good tee shots here, and I have had good success here, and I just enjoy playing this golf course.  It's funny how that kind of happens over the years.  But yeah, I do enjoy this golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT