RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not as good as yesterday, but still a solid round of golf.  How do you feel about it?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I would agree with that.  I didn't give myself nearly as many chances today.  I missed a couple fairways getting going.  I kind of had a scrappy par on the 2nd hole, which is a birdie hole today.  I would say the winds were up a little bit more today, too.  It was definitely trickier in the afternoon.  We were having a hard time holding some of the greens in certain spots.   
The only bogey I made, I got unlucky.  I hit it in the divot, and it was the exact wrong time because we were straight downwind, so I ended up making a double there.  But, overall, I hung in there.  It was a scrappy day, but good enough to see two more.   
 Q.  What is the plan now when you get into a weekend in a situation like this, just put the metal down?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm going to do everything I can tomorrow to give myself as many birdie chances as I can, and see if I can't put together a round like I did on Thursday, and maybe I can get into this course 5-, 6-, 7-under tomorrow and make a little move tomorrow.   
That's all I have to do is move up and forward from here.   
 Q.  This golf course, everyone's talking about how it's very different from last year, being a little more lush and softer, but is it really?  We're hearing mixed reviews on that.  
DAVID HEARN: To me, this is the best I've seen this golf course.  I know the last couple years we had drought weather here in Ontario, so the course got really, really firm and fast.  This year it's definitely a lot more lush.  You can feel it being a little bit firm underneath still, so that little bit of rain we had yesterday certainly didn't make it too wet.  The balls are bouncing a little bit now.  I think it's just going to keep playing better and better as the weekend goes on.   
 Q.  Would you like it to play like this?  Would you like it to play harder?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think so.  As it firms up, it's going to put a little more of a premium on hitting some fairways, which is to my advantage.  I'd rather see it go that way (laughing).   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it was fine.  Like I said, I didn't really give myself a lot of chances to really give it a go.  I missed a bunch of greens and chipped it up close, it seemed like most of the time.  Made a really nice par save on number 14 coming up out of the valley.  So, yeah, the putter was solid.   
I would have liked to have given myself a better chance for birdie on 18.  But overall, everything seems like it's in good place, so hopefully we can put together a good weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT