RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bogey-free 64.  We spoke yesterday how to turn a 69 into a 67 or so.  I think you did a little better today?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I felt really good.  When I came off the course yesterday we talked, and I obviously wasn't happy with the way I finished up yesterday.  But I felt really good about my game.  Gave myself a lot more chances today.  I hit a lot more greens and my putter definitely got hot.  Making those two birdies at the finish felt really, really good.  So I'm happy with where my game's at and excited for the weekend.Q. Explain the feeling playing in front of the hometown crowd in the red and the white?  We've got media today also in red and white.  What is the experience like the only home game of the year and playing so well?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it feels great.  The fans have been incredibly supportive.  Every green we walk up to they're cheering you on and want to see you do well.  So I'm going to do everything I can to keep playing well and give them lots to cheer about.  It's been a fun day so far.Q. 64 today, no bogeys.  How happy are you with this round on this golf course that you're familiar with?DAVID HEARN: I'm incredibly happy.  Felt very good about my golf game yesterday.  Didn't get as much out of it as I thought I could.  Today I controlled the ball very well from start to finish and gave myself a lot of good chances.  I couldn't be happier with where my game's at and I'm excited about the weekend.  If I keep doing what I'm doing, I feel good about my game.Q. An exciting day to day.  Everyone's in red and white.  How were the crowds out there?DAVID HEARN: Yeah it was fun.  It was great to be here so close to home.  There were a lot of fans out here today.  They were very receptive on every green we walked up to.  Lots of warm cheers and high fives and all that good stuff.  It was fun.  It was nice to make a few birdies for them, and that got them excited to too.Q. How much will you draw on that as you head into the weekend?DAVID HEARN: It will be pretty busy tomorrow having a late tee time.  It will be a lot of energy out there, and hopefully I can continue to play good golf.Q. Graham DeLaet had to withdraw.  He had a thumb injury.  What are your thoughts on that?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I know how much he loves playing here.  That's got to be tearing at his heart strings not being able to finish his round today.  I know how much this tournament means to every Canadian in this field and how much it means to Graham.  I just hope he gets healthy again soon, so hopefully he can put that behind him.Q. Good round of golf out there.  What do you chalk it up to?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, yesterday coming off the golf course I felt very in control of my game.  I was obviously disappointed with the way I finished up, but today I picked up right exactly where I left off.  I hit some nice fairways on 10 and 11, and I was really good at giving myself better chances for birdie today. So the putter got hot in the middle of that round and then again at the end.  It was a lot of fun, and I definitely kept it in the fairway and on the greens, and that was the biggest difference.Q. What are you expecting tomorrow to be like?  You'll be somewhere around one of the last groups we assume.  What do you think it will be like out there doing so well?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I haven't gotten that far ahead yet.  Today was a pretty awesome day.  I really don't know what to expect.  I know the Canadian fans are incredibly supportive.  I'm sure I'll be nervous tomorrow without a doubt.  It's definitely going to be a lot of attention.  Everyone wants the Canadians to do well here like I do.  I want to see a Canadian do well and win this tournament soon. I feel good about my game, and if I continue to keep playing the way I am, I know I have a chance.  I can't control what Chad or any of the other players are going to do.  But if I keep doing what I'm doing and stay focused on that, I like my chances.Q. How close were you to not having a back swing on 5 (Inaudible)?DAVID HEARN: It wasn't too bad.  It was just enough to think about on the shot, and I played it a little conservatively.  But it wasn't in my path too much.  I got a bit lucky on that one.Q. But was that kind of a good break?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think so.  You need a good break here and there on a 64.Q. What about Graham?  Did you hear on the course that he had withdrawn?  And just your thoughts on golf fans looking to you now?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, we looked back on 16 and saw his name wasn't on the board anymore, and my heart went out to him.  I know how much this tournament means to him.  I know how much it means to me.  So for him not to be able to finish today and give it a shot not to be here for the weekend, I know that's going to be extremely disappointing for him.  I hope he gets healthy, and he can put this injury behind him really quick.Q. How do you avoid putting too much pressure on yourself when you say this is a tournament that means a lot to you and it's a big deal for Canadians?  You're in a good spot, but how do you follow a good round with another good round?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think I did a good job of that yesterday.  I felt like I played solid, and today I just sort of gave myself chances to make birdies and I got hot.  So as long as I stay focused on simple fundamentals and trying to fit fairways and greens and trying to keep it in perspective.  I'm not going to be able to win the golf tournament until Sunday afternoon, so I've got a lot of golf to go.  It's really hard. I haven't been in this situation in the RBC Canadian Open before.  So we'll see how I do.  I feel like my game is in a good spot right now, and I have a chance to do something fun this weekend.Q. Your experience at the Greenbrier kind of pays off?DAVID HEARN: I think so.  I felt incredibly comfortable that whole weekend.  When I got close to the lead on Sunday there and had a chance to win the golf tournament, I felt very controlled.  That's kind of the way I felt on the golf course today.  So as long as I keep my emotions in check and keep making good swings, we'll see what happens.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT