THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It was a long day?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's probably the longest round of golf I've played.Q. I saw your Tweet early in the morning.  You obviously didn't favour the way they handled things.  Do you still feel the same way?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I was disappointed with the way that they handled that restart this morning.  I feel like the tournament's responsibility as far as the officiating goes is to keep it fair among all the players, and we had a situation this morning where there was a group that was in hold, but all the other groups were encouraged to keep playing, and our group was one of them.  The conditions are what they are, but I think it needs to be fair among everybody.  If we're playing, everybody needs to play, and if we're not playing, everybody needs to be in a hold.  So I was disappointed that that's the way we got started this morning.  But you know, overall, I'm not going to let that tarnish my experience here this week.  Obviously it wasn't my best week of golf.  Now I'm going to be focusing on the RBC Canadian Open next week.Q. Are you going to stick around?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I'll hang around and catch the charter back on Monday night.  I'm not sure what I'm going to do.  I've got my whole family over.  I'm not sure what we're going to do for the rest of the week.  I'm pretty tired, so hopefully I get a good night's sleep tonight.Q. You said you're feeling tired right now.  You've played seven or eight weeks going into the Canadian Open.  How are you feeling in general?DAVID HEARN: I think I'm just tired now in the moment more because even with the restart this morning, that was probably the fastest turnaround I've ever had for a golf tournament in my life.  We finished playing close to 10:00 last night.  I got up at 4:30 to be here ready for a 7:00 a.m. start.  That's not much sleep to complete the round.  As far as the seven out of eight weeks in a row, I feel like my overall stamina will be just fine.  I've got a two-week break coming up after the Canadian Open.  When you kind of see the end in sight, you kind of have the energy to push through.  But overall if I'm hitting good shots, I don't think my energy level is going to be down at all.Q. Was it an okay day to play?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, the wind was definitely still blowing when we got back out there, but they made the right decision in the end for us not to continue, but I just wasn't real happy with the way they dealt with it to begin with.Q. Was it the lineup at the tee?DAVID HEARN: I think you'd have to ask the players that were specifically involved with that and find out exactly why they were in hold.  I have a feeling it was because they were uncomfortable with the way the balls were moving on the green.  They were waiting for the balls to settle, and any time we've ever had a situation like that on the PGA or otherwise, one group is in hold for an extreme weather situation, everybody is in hold.Q. You've had a busy couple of days, but Mike Weir is stepping away from the game for a little bit.  Have you had time to send him a note?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I haven't had a chance to reach out to him yet.  I'll do that when I get back to Canada.  Obviously I know how hard Mike has been working to try and get his game back, and it's really unfortunate to see this personal setback kind of get in the way of that, but he's doing the right thing, and it's family first no matter what golf has to do with it.  He obviously feels he needs to be at home to support his girls, and I'm behind him 100 per cent.Q. Despite coming into the Canadian Open in perhaps the best form, are you looking forward to having a good shot next week?DAVID HEARN: Absolutely.  I love playing Glen Abbey.  It's not quite as long of a golf course as it once was so there's probably a lot more birdies out there.  I feel like if I can continue to drive the ball accurately and give myself good chances, I can make enough birdies to be in contention there, so I'm excited about it.  As I said, I need a couple good nights' sleep and I'll look forward to getting back there and prepping to get ready for it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT