THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID HEARN: Real proud of the way I made the putt to extend the playoff and continued to give myself a chance.  Just didn't go my way on that 17th hole.  I hit a bad tee shot.  That was probably the only bad tee shot I hit all day.  I've just got to keep giving myself chances like this, and it's going to happen soon.Q. David, would you have been better off if the ball would have stayed in the trap rather than running through and getting into the high stuff there?DAVID HEARN: It would have been better off if I hit the ball in the fairway, I think.  (Laughter.)Q. What do you think about after he makes his putt and you've got 16 feet to keep it going?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, like I said, I had almost that exact same putt in regulation, so I was single minded whether he made his putt or not that I wanted to bury that putt and end it right now, so when he made it, you know, it didn't change anything the way I was going to hit it.  Like I say, real proud of the way I hit that putt, went right in the middle.  You know, big confidence boost and a little unlucky on the next hole, but like I say, my game feels so close and it just is very reassuring to me to have a good week like this. I've always enjoyed playing here at the Greenbrier.  I think it's one of the nicest stops we've on TOUR.  I just really enjoy this week, and I can't wait to get another chance to win a tournament.Q. How does it feel to know you qualified for the British Open?  Are you prepared for it?DAVID HEARN: I need to find a place to stay.  I was super thrilled to get to St. Andrews.  I got to Hoylake last year.  You know, I've been a pro for a long time, and to get into majors like this doesn't happen as much as you might think.  For top-tier players it seems to happen a lot, but for guys like myself, sort of plugging along, you know, this is an amazing opportunity for me to get to St. Andrews.  That was one of my top goals in the next two weeks, so I'm real happy that I took care of it this week.  I get to make a little bit of an early arrangement to get over there.  I'm super excited about it. You know, I'm going to be pinching myself the whole week.Q. After the Deere a couple years ago and certainly things didn't go your way, now today, do you feel like that putt on the first playoff hole is going to be something you can look back on and use as a confidence boost?DAVID HEARN: Absolutely, and when I didn't win the John Deere playoff, I didn't really go away with bad feelings there, either.  When you play well and you're in contention at a golf tournament, you pull off golf shots, you know, it just gives you the confidence to know that you're doing the right things.  I've played a lot of events on the PGA TOUR, and I've only been in contention with a chance to win a handful of times. I've got to get better at it, and I definitely feel like my game is good enough, and it's just a matter of time.Q. I understand that Canadian golf is undergoing a little bit of a growing spurt, more Canadians on the TOUR and everything, and you almost pulled off a win.  I mean, talk about the state of your country's golf.DAVID HEARN: Yeah, golf in Canada right now is really strong.  I think we have six players on the PGA this year, and that's the most, I think, that's ever been on the TOUR at one point in time as far as I can remember in history.  Nick Taylor winning this fall, you know, he's the first guy to win since Mike Weir did about a decade ago.  Golf in Canada is real strong.  Graham DeLaet was on the Presidents Cup team there a couple years ago.  We've got a real good core of guys on this TOUR, really good players, and you know, I think a lot of countries that Canada compares itself, like Sweden and Australia, similar-sized countries and similar weather, they've had a lot of success on TOUR, so it's great to see more Canadians on TOUR and doing well.  You know, we're a proud bunch up there, so they're all rooting for me, and I'll get one done for them soon.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT