THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  David Hearn, 6-under 64 in round 2.  The conditions, did you like them or would you prefer to play in windy conditions here?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I feel like we probably got the better side of the draw.  When I got to the tee at about 1:50, the rain had pretty much stopped, so for me I think -- the guys that played this morning obviously had a tougher go.  They had to play in the morning, so I was fortunate to get the tee time that we did, and the conditions were pretty scorable this afternoon.   Q.  So the soft greens obviously helped you with your target practice, especially on 4?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, absolutely.  I feel like this place usually plays a bit firmer and faster.  They've obviously had a lot of rain this week, so with the softer conditions you can obviously get a bit more aggressive on some of those shots, and it feels like you can go at some more pins with those 8- and 7-irons than you usually do around here.   Q.  Do you like this track?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I've always enjoyed playing here.  I've played well here a couple of times before, and it feels good to be in the mix this year.  I just feel like a lot of these holes set up nicely for me, so I'm looking forward to the weekend.   Q.  Great round, let's get some comments on your play today.  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I feel like today I didn't drive it real well yesterday, so today when I got off, when I started the round, I was focusing on trying to hit some fairways, and I did that, was able to hit some nice approach shots, and I got off to a real fast start, birdieing I think it was five of the first six.  You know, it just felt really good for me, getting off to a good start like that, just tried to keep the momentum going onto my back nine, and unfortunately I made a bogey there coming in, but I think I only had one over the two rounds, and I'd take that on the weekend, too.   Q.  You're a guy who I guess is the epitome of patience, no victory yet out here.  What drives you and keeps you going?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think when I came close a couple years ago at the Deere, the feelings that I had that week and how close I came, I think that's kind of what pulls me along.  I'm going to try to get back there as soon as I can.  I feel like my game is in good shape, and I can't wait to get another chance to win a golf tournament.   Q.  It so happens they've crowned two first-time winners here.  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think there's so much good talent on the PGA TOUR that a first-time winner can kind of come any week, but it's just funny how it comes in certain weeks sometimes, and this would be a great place for me to win one, but I get 36 holes of golf to go ahead.  I'm playing great right now, so I'm looking forward to the weekend and seeing what I can do.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT