THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 54 holes left, then there was 36, now there's 18.  You must be pretty excited.DAVID HEARN: I felt pretty good to finish with a birdie there today.  I gave myself a lot of chances today and hit some good putts that just sort of burned the edges. So any score under par around here is a good score and if I can get out tomorrow and get off to a bit of a fast start like some of the guys did today, you never know.  But I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and just seeing what I can do.Q. Was it a bit more of a grind today, maybe a few less fairways hit?DAVID HEARN: Actually, I felt like I was more in control of the ball today than I had been maybe even yesterday or before.  But the course is, I think, as the day went on today, it got firmer and firmer, it just got a lot harder to really give your self good chances, if you did miss the fairway. I missed a couple critical fairways, 14 and 15, those are good fairways to hit, because they're fairly long holes and it's tough to really control it.  But overall, no, I think I gave myself lots of chances.Q. You talked about your strategy, working on this course, your game working, can you think of another course where your game's more suited to?DAVID HEARN: I think when I'm playing well and I'm hitting fairways and greens I can play just about anywhere, but for whatever reason, I just like the way this golf course sets up for me and hopefully it will keep feeling that way for one more day.Q. Talk about a conservative strategy, yet you birdied the last hole on Thursday, the last hole here, so sort of a conservative bit of flair for the dramatic it seems?DAVID HEARN: Today's was pretty -- today's birdie on 18 felt really good, because I felt like I had given myself a lot of quality chances, and I was burning some edges, so it was nice to see some go in there at the finish.Q. Do you have a lot of people in town?DAVID HEARN: There's lots of Canadians here to support me, I'm sure there will be lots more tomorrow, so it should be a fun day.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT