RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good start today, only one dropped shot.  Tough spot on 7.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I played great all day.  I gave myself tons of chances.  I think you highlighted the only shot I really missed today.  But overall gave myself lots of good chances for birdie.  I would like to have been a couple more on today's round, but overall very happy with the way I hit it today.
Q. Great up-and-down on 9; that was a tricky up-and-down on 9.  You made that look really simple.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I hit two great shots, hit a good tee shot, and then the 9-iron I hit into the green, I thought I might be picking that out of the hole.  I just misjudged the distance a little bit, and always feels good to make a nice putt like that at the end of the day.
Q. What is it about Glen Abbey?  It seems like you're always in contention, that you always play well here.
DAVID HEARN: I wish it was always, but it seems like it's been the last few years I've had some good success, so I think we should keep it going.
Q. How did you feel out there today?
DAVID HEARN: I felt great today.  I hit the ball really, really nicely tee to green and gave myself lots of chances for birdie.  You know, 4-under was a good round.  I left a few out there today, but overall, I feel really positive about the way I played, and looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. How is the course looking?  It's a little softer than usual?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think to me this is probably one of the best I've ever seen it.  I think the last couple years when it's been firm, we've been in a little bit of drought condition.  It didn't play quite as well as I think it's playing here today.  Hopefully that rain holds off and it just continues to firm up a little bit as the week goes on.  But to me, I love the way the golf course is playing right now.  If you hit a good shot, you get rewarded, and if you don't, it is tricky.
Q. How comfortable are you playing here in Canada?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I feel very comfortable, but you still get those first tee jitters when you get on the tee and they announce your name and you get a little bit louder cheer than you get anywhere else.  Yeah, it feels great to be at home, and I was happy to make some birdies for the hometowners today.
Q. What's the season been like for you overall not knowing --
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's been a bit trickier, obviously, with not having my fully-exempt status this year, but I had a pretty good idea of what the year was going to look like at the beginning of the year.  I knew I'd be playing a lot in the summer, and that's kind of the way it's been.  I really just got off to a bit of a slow start, but I feel like right now, the last month, month and a half, I've really been playing some nice rounds.  I'm just focused on trying to do the best I can each and every day.  I'll get the full status back in no time.  If it doesn't happen by the end of this, then the Web finals if I have to.  But I feel very good about my game right now, and I'm very confident.
Q. What do those off weeks look like to you?  Are you staying with the kids?
DAVID HEARN: It just depends.  If it's multiple off weeks, you might take a little bit of time off.  But I've been working hard at it.  I realize out here it can be fleeting, and I've been working my tail off to try to get better.  My goal is always to each and every year feel like I'm better at the end of the year than at the start.  Sometimes the results don't follow with how you feel, but I feel like I'm getting better.
Q. You've put up good scores in individual rounds, like at the Greenbrier and --
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think so.  Like I say, the last month or month and a bit, I've seen a lot of good rounds where I'm starting to shoot more than just a couple under par.  Like today I got it to 5-under and had a chance to go even lower.  I think getting really into the golf course like that is a good sign for me going forward.
Q. You came into the hockey goal at 5-under, I think.  Was there a little club indecision there?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, a little bit.  That's a tricky hole for me.  It's a left to right green and really narrow, and I'm sort of more of a right to left ball shape guy.  I was hitting such great iron shots, so I tried to take on that pin, and I just pulled it a little bit.  But overall, I made so many good swings today, I'll forget about that quickly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT