THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Conditions were a little bit different than they were last night, were they not?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, this morning when we got back here definitely not as much wind as we were seeing yesterday afternoon.  I feel like the greens are firming up, they were definitely a lot faster than they were yesterday. That being said, I don't think anyone is going to shoot any really low, low numbers today.  Overall, this golf course is a test, no matter what the conditions are like, so it was nice to get out there with a little less wind today.   Q.  What's been working for you the past two days?  DAVID HEARN: Just been keeping the ball in the right spots.  Today I hit the ball in the fairway quite a bit more, which helped me out -- until the finish there -- but overall I think being in the right spots and having the right chips is the big key around here.  You're going to miss some shots, just missing them in the right spots.   Q.  Do you like playing this course?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's funny, I actually enjoy this place.  Every hole's a challenge, doesn't matter if it's a reachable par-5 or if it's one of the 500-yarders into the wind, this place challenges you right from the get-go to the finish.  So, I kind of enjoy that.   Q.  What a really solid round of golf.  I know a disappointing finish, but let's go back one hole further.  That's a tough hole to be bold at, the 17th, and you make a birdie there.  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it was.  We thought there was quite a bit of wind coming in and those shots flew a lot further than we thought they were going to. But I'll take the birdie, because that's a stressful hole even when you're playing well.   Q.  I thought you hit your driver well this week.  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's felt great.  A little bit shaky yesterday afternoon, but today it was really good all day.  I kind of just missed one on 18 there today, but probably not the only guy that's going to make bogey on the finish today.  It's a really tough hole. But overall, yeah, I feel like I've been getting the ball in play off the tee, and that's key around here.   Q.  Absolutely.  And you controlled your misses.  Especially around the greens.  It's not just when you miss a green, you've got to miss it in the right place and give your self a decent look at a chip and a par save.  DAVID HEARN: I think that's the key to good golf out here.  You can try to create opportunities out here and get in trouble.  I think you have to play conservative and wait for your birdie chances to come along and when you don't feel comfortable with a pin, you got to play away.  And I do a pretty good job of that around here.   Q.  What about your thoughts going into the weekend now?  DAVID HEARN: Yeah, still a lot of golf.  36 holes, anything can happen.  Feel great to be 6-under par right now.  I'm going to go out there and enjoy it and try to make a few more birdies.   Q.  Were the greens faster today?  DAVID HEARN: About a foot faster.  Half a foot to a foot.   Q.  Yesterday you played great here at Sawgrass, was it the same thing again today, more or less?  DAVID HEARN: I think so.  You're not going to shoot 5-under par around here very often.  I felt like I played solid again today.  I didn't give myself quite as many chances, I was a bit more conservative I think today.  But overall I'm happy with the way I played and my game.   Q.  Did you notice any Canadian fans out there?  DAVID HEARN: There were a few getting going.  They were wearing some red shirts and I definitely saw them, so it was good.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT