THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Early start today.  Do you think going late early kind of helped you out?DAVID HEARN: That late tee time is always nice when you're playing well.  You kind of have a quick turnaround, try and keep the thoughts you have Thursday afternoon rolling, and today I definitely felt good out there.  It was an early wake-up call but I got off to a nice start and played some solid golf on that front nine.Q. How do you handle the long wait between now and tomorrow afternoon?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it won't be too much trouble.  I've got my family here with me this week, so it'll be good to kind of get home, take my mind off of golf a little bit, and it'll be a fun weekend and a challenge around here no matter what position I'm in, but I'm looking forward to the next 36.Q. Wind is starting to pick up, sun has been out all week.  Is the course starting to firm up out there?DAVID HEARN: I think it is.  I think we had a little bit of rain last night, but the course didn't show it at all.  Greens were definitely a little bit faster today.  This wind is definitely going to pose challenges.  We felt it yesterday afternoon.  The course is just going to get more difficult as the week goes on.Q. What's the mindset for you, the biggest key this weekend to keep this up?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think I need to continue to stick to my game plan and try to hit some key fairways, and that's going to allow me to be a bit more aggressive with my irons in certain spots, but overall I don't play this golf course very aggressively.  I like to kind of sort of plod my way along and when I get an opportunity try to make those putts, but this golf course, it's a challenge, like I say, no matter what day it is, and I think if you try and force too many things out here you're going to get in trouble.Q. 18 is still playing brutal?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I hit a decent tee shot and I get up there and I'm under the trees, 200 and change away.  That's going to be a hard hole today.Q. How hard is it after a birdie on 17 to take a share of the lead, not to bail out a little right on 18?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I didn't miss my target by much there on 18.  You're really aiming down a pretty narrow little spot, especially with the wind coming off the left a little bit, and I'm a draw ball player, so pretty tricky tee shot for me today.  You know, we'll try to do a little bit better the next time around.Q. The nice recovery and the chip, take us through those two shots on 18.DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I hit a really good punch shot there.  I've had that shot out here before so I kind of know how it acts.  The chip shot I had a good picture in my mind how I wanted to hit it and I just didn't pull that one off.  Obviously not my best shot of the day, but I'm going to try to remember the good shot I hit on 17 and 16 and go forward with those thoughts.Q. What did you hit there?DAVID HEARN: I hit a 4-iron.Q. Do you see this weekend as an opportunity to show the rest of the world besides Canada a little bit more about who you are?DAVID HEARN: Yeah.  You know, I feel like my game is at a pretty good level, and I think always lots to room to improve.  I've been in contention a few times out here, and it's definitely a goal of mine to get into contention more often, and I feel like my game is good enough to do that, and I'm working hard.Q. If there's one thing that's held you back, do you know what that is?DAVID HEARN: If I knew what it was, I would have fixed it by now.  There's nothing really.  I'm pretty consistent and steady player if you look at my record.  I probably just need to shoot a few more of those low rounds early in the week.  I tend to play pretty well on the weekends, so you know, I can't isolate it down to one thing.  It's just a matter of gaining more experience and confidence out here.Q. Anything clicking this week better?DAVID HEARN: You know, I feel like I'm just sort of keeping the ball in front of me and keeping it where I need to be.  I'm not missing it in too many crazy spots and I'm giving myself good chances to get up-and-down when I do.  I was hitting the ball great two weeks ago in New Orleans, was one of my best ball-striking weeks on TOUR probably ever, so I'm really just trying to keep those feelings going forward.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT