THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome David Hearn into the media center.  You shot 5-under par 67 today in the first round of THE PLAYERS Championship.  Take us through your round a little bit.DAVID HEARN: Yeah, obviously felt very good out there today.  Got off to a nice start, made a nice putt for eagle on No. 11, and it's always nice to get started with a birdie, and in this case an eagle.  Really felt like I got into the round fast there, and after that, I just played steady. I wouldn't say it was my best ball-striking round of the year, but I felt like when I made my misses, I put them in the right spots, and when I did give myself birdie chances I made the putts.  Overall very happy with where I'm at.  Long way to go here, 54 holes, but looking forward to it.Q. You had a nice little progression in your -- the fourth time you've played in this tournament.DAVID HEARN: Yeah.Q. You've made every cut.  Talk about what's led to that steady improvement every year here.DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I just enjoy this golf course.  I feel like when I get on this golf course, it's a test of patience, and it really tests every shot in your bag.  The par-3s go from 4-irons to mid-irons to short irons.  The par-5s, some are reachable, some aren't.  I just find this is a really good test of your overall game, and I just enjoy this type of golf.Q. So the progression you've made here, is that just a reflection of that progression you've made as a pro?DAVID HEARN: It's probably just me getting more and more comfortable with this golf course.  You know, me getting used to some of the spots to miss on this golf course.  I've got a caddie that grew up down the road in Palatka, St. Augustine area, and he's been on TOUR for about 25 years and knows this place real well, so he helps me a lot and helps me around this golf course.  But I think overall, if you look at my record over the years, I've always been good at golf courses that are good challenges, and this one is right up there as a good test of patience.Q. With your good finish here last year and playing well two years ago, how did that change your approach heading into this week?DAVID HEARN: Not really at all.  Obviously big confidence boost to play well in New Orleans a couple weeks ago.  I felt like my game has been close for a while, and coming in here, you know, I've got my game plan down pretty solid.  Obviously playing well here last year, so I'm just trying to go around and keep to the same strategies that I've used here in the past.  You know, it's really just stay patient, try to hit as many greens as you can, and hope to make a few putts.  It's hard to do out here.Q. You birdied 18; not exactly a birdie hole today.DAVID HEARN: No.  I think those were -- I hit the fairway on 11 and I didn't hit the fairway again until 18, so for me my two best swings of the day, and I think that gave me a lot of confidence going into that front nine, which was my back nine.  I hit it better on my inward nine, and definitely my two best swings of the day there on 18.Q. Do you have any idea how few guys walk in here and say they enjoy playing this golf course?DAVID HEARN: I guess maybe I enjoy punishment or something.  This place is -- you know, I just enjoy a good test of golf, and I think this place is -- every shot is a challenge, and you really can't fall asleep out there.  You pay for it too quickly.Q. Is there another course where you reckon you use 14 clubs every day, which you could conceivably do here?DAVID HEARN: Absolutely.  I don't think there's too many golf courses that we play on TOUR that are like that.  I think this one is pretty unique from that standpoint, and I think when you look at the list of champions out on the walls there, that's the reason why this one is probably, arguably the best list of champions of a golf tournament on TOUR.Q. You said you felt close all year on Tuesday.  Is there anything in particular in the last couple weeks that's clicked with your game?DAVID HEARN: I think I'm just hitting a few more quality shots.  I think golfers always feel like their game is close, or else we wouldn't be out here doing it. I feel like just a few more quality golf shots -- in New Orleans, like I say, I hit the ball probably the best I have all year and gave myself a ton of chances for birdie.  I came up a little bit short from winning that golf tournament, but I felt like I played solid and I was in the mix. You know, it felt good, and last week I didn't practice a ton, I just wanted to keep the same feelings from New Orleans coming into here.  You know, it felt good today.Q. Have you used the same caddie since you turned pro?DAVID HEARN: No, he's been working with me the last three seasons.Q. So he's worked with you here then?DAVID HEARN: Every year that I've been to THE PLAYERS, yeah.Q. Does he play here a lot?DAVID HEARN: I don't think he plays here a ton, but he's got the experience of being here a lot.  He plays here every -- a few times a year, I'm sure, but I think caddies on this TOUR can be a great asset, if you get the right ones, and he definitely -- he helps me a lot around here.Q. What's his name?DAVID HEARN: Brent Everson.Q. Was there a time today that you can recall he may have specifically given up a little bit of local knowledge?DAVID HEARN: Yeah, he's just a really good green reader.  I think, growing up in this area, he knows this type of grass and how these greens sort of break.  You know, that gives you a little bit of confidence when you get over those putts that it's going to do what you're seeing.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT