THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID HEARN: I can't say that it was my best ball striking-round that I've had, but I felt like I really took advantage of the opportunities that I did have.  I got off to a great start making eagle on 11, my second hole of the day, and it always feels good to make an early birdie or in that case an eagle and feel like I got into the round fast there.  So after that I just played steady and it felt good to make a couple birdies coming in.Q. What about conditions today?  This condition was as difficult as sometimes we see with the wind.DAVID HEARN: I think we did have a lot of challenges with the wind coming down the stretch, some crosswinds and into the wind.  When you do have the downwind holes, obviously it's a little bit less difficult when you're playing those downwind holes, so the wind can kind of go both ways for you.  Into the wind's harder, obviously and downwind can be a little bit easier.Q. You did birdie 18 to make the turn.  How much confidence did that give you?DAVID HEARN: That was -- I don't think I hit -- I hit the 11th fairway and I'm not sure I hit a fairway again until that 18th hole.  So my two best swings of the day there were on 18, and that gave me a lot of confidence getting to that front nine, and I definitely hit some better shots on the front nine.Q. How much were you looking at the scoreboard knowing that 5 was the clubhouse lead?DAVID HEARN: I'm obviously not watching the scoreboard with too much enthusiasm right now.  There's way too much golf out here.  Every hole out here is so challenging that 54 holes to go is a long, long way to go.  But it was nice to make birdie to get on the lead here on the first day, and I definitely looked over and saw that I was up there coming down the end of that front nine.Q. At this point in your career what does this mean to have the clubhouse lead?  I know it's early, but...DAVID HEARN: We got a long way to go here, 54 holes.  I played well here in the past.  I enjoy playing this golf course, so my focus is just to get out there again tomorrow and just to keep enjoying hitting goods good shots and hopefully the putter stays hot.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT