ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2015
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Really good start for you to close out there with a nice birdie putt at 8.   A fantastic start for you?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it felt really good out there today.   I felt like my game has been close for a while now.   Getting off to that start that I did today, I gave myself a lot of chances and saw a few putts go in.   So it's definitely a fun day out there for me.  
   
 Q.   What do you find to be the key to this golf course in terms of sport?   
DAVID HEARN:   Even though it's generous off the tee, you have to put yourself in good spots.   You can't be in the rough out there.   We had lift, clean and place today.   I think we're expecting storms later today.   So keeping it on the fairway and being able to touch the wall made a difference.  
   
 Q.   For as much rain as this golf course has seen, there is still some fire in these greens.   How have you adjusted to the course?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, these greens, like you said, not ideal conditions coming in this week with all the rain.   So there might not be quite as much grass on there as they'd like.   Despite that, they're rolling pretty true and fast.   So these greens here are some of the best we putt all year on TOUR, so no surprise they turn them around that fast.  
   
 Q.   When you see any rain on this golf course how does it change?   
DAVID HEARN:   The ball wasn't really rolling much today even with all the rain earlier this week.   I don't think it's going to change this golf course too much.   It usually drains pretty well here, so I don't think we'll see a big difference.  
   
 Q.   So you came out and birdied six of the first seven holes.   Talk about your fast start?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, that was fun.   I gave myself good chances on all those holes getting going.   It's nice to see some putts go in.   I feel like my game has been close for a while, so nice to see a good result on a Thursday and get off to a good start.  
   
 Q.   Did you do anything different today coming out here or same old routine?   
DAVID HEARN:   That is the crazy part of golf.   I don't think I did anything different than I normally do.   Hopefully, I'll just try to do the same thing tomorrow and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Then going into the back nine you start off again with a birdie and then you finish off?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it felt good.   I felt like I gave myself a lot of chances on my back nine out there.   I didn't quite make as many putts, obviously.   So it felt good to see that one go in on 8, and then a nice two‑putt on 9.   So, overall, no complaints.   A very solid round for me and in exactly the position I want to be in.  
   
 Q.   What did you find challenging about the course today?   
DAVID HEARN:   I played it pretty well, so usually when you play well there are not as many challenges.   But like I said earlier, I think keeping the ball on the fairway today was key, even though it was lift, clean and place, and being able to touch the ball and give yourself a good lie coming into those greens, I think you've got to hit lots of greens around here.   The chipping area is going to be a little tricky, so I did a good job of hitting a lot of greens today.  
   
 Q.   What you do this afternoon will prepare for tomorrow?   
DAVID HEARN:   With this heat and storms coming, I don't think I'll do too much.   Everything felt good, so like I said, I'm going to just try to keep the momentum going for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT