RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2014
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You gave yourself a lot of birdie looks today.   Are you satisfied with a 67 or do you feel like maybe you left a few out there?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I think any day you come off the course and you shoot 3‑under and feel like you left a few out there, it's going to be a really good day.   I'm not overly disappointed with the way I played.   I hit the ball great from tee to green.   If I can continue to do that for the rest of the week, I know I'm going to play well.   
I'm not disappointed.   I feel like, yeah, if a few putts went down today it could have been a little bit better, but I think everybody in this field will say the same thing.  
   
 Q.   Considering the national open, the first nine, it seemed like there were no nerves, you were just in total control of your game.   Is that accurate?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I came off of a good week last week at the Open Championship.   I didn't finish real high but I felt like my game was in good control last week, so coming into this week, it's nice just to see it still the same.   Like I say, I'm just going to continue to try to do the same things and give myself lots of chances.  
   
 Q.   Were conditions tougher this afternoon?   Looks like there's a little more wind than maybe in the morning.   Was that a factor today?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think we had a little more wind pick up in the afternoon, but that's pretty typical for what we see on TOUR.   We'll see what the weather looks like tomorrow morning.   I really didn't watch too much of it this morning when I was at home, but it's always nice to play in the morning.   Usually you get a little bit smoother greens, and I'm looking forward to getting back out again tomorrow and seeing what I can do.   
   
 Q.   You drove the ball very well today.   Did that kind of set everything up?  
DAVID HEARN:   Oh, absolutely.   We don't have tremendously long rough here this week at Royal Montreal, but hitting it in the fairway is always going to be key.   The more you can control your shots coming into the greens, the better, and if I can continue to hit fairways like that, it's going to be a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT