RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2014
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about today?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, obviously if you look at the card, that's kind of the way I played.   I made some good saves when I needed to, and I just never really got the ball quite as close as I did yesterday and didn't have quite as many chances for birdie.   
Overall one birdie, one bogey today, it wasn't my day.   I think the course is playing a little bit trickier today than it did yesterday.   The wind is up a little bit and some of those pins are more into the back of the green.   I'm not too disappointed.   I didn't shoot myself out of it, so two good days on the weekend, we'll see what we can do.  
   
 Q.   There are obviously some low numbers out there, some 4s and 5s and stuff.   Are you surprised about that considering the course?  
DAVID HEARN:   No, not really.   Obviously it's the PGA TOUR, so the best players in the world.   The greens are fairly receptive, so guys are going to get into the golf course when the greens are receptive.   
But there's enough long holes out there where we're hitting 3‑irons into the green that I don't think that's going to be the general scores today.   I think it's going to play a little bit trickier with the wind.   Like I say, it'll be out there for me this weekend, and hopefully I can get it going.   
   
 Q.   Last year you made the cut right on the number and probably didn't feel like you were in the mix on the weekend.   Do you feel like you're more in the mix now, five back now?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I felt like I was in the mix yesterday.   Obviously today was a bit of a grind at times.   We'll see what happens by the end of today, but I definitely feel like I have a chance.   Five or six shots back, even going into the final round has a chance just about every week.   
This is a golf course that you can shoot some good scores on, but it's going to be hard to do it every day, so hopefully I'm going to save my best stuff for the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT