JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2018
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Recording in progress. )
DAVID HEARN: ...take advantage of that and make some birdies.
So obviously have good feelings around this golf course.  We're only halfway there, but I feel good so far.
Q. Got to ask you, we were waiting to interview you and you got in a cart with a rules official; took your putter with you.  What was that all about?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I guess I'm putting too well.  No, I honestly, it's to be expected.  There is a lot of opinions out there about the anchoring rules and whatnot.  They were asking me about the way that I'm doing it, and I can say with certainty that I'm not anchoring the putter.
I was for a long time one of the best putters on TOUR using that longer putter method, and I went back this, you know, a couple of months ago.  I had been tinkering been with it off and on.  I had gone to an arm lock a couple of years ago.
You know, I had done things to my putter.  I had physically taken length off it.  There is no reason that I can't be a great putter with it unanchored as well.
It definitely is taking a little bit of an adjustment period, but it's starting to feel good this week, so see how it holds up on the weekend.
Q. 117 feet of putts first round; 113 feet today.  Just in a good grove?  Is it the greens?  Why are they going in?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I don't know.  I don't really want to think about it too much.  Just sort of keep pointing and shooting, and hopefully they keep going in.
Q. We have had to start off with the obvious.  Soon as you signed your card you went off with a rules official with your putter.  What happened there?
DAVID HEARN: I guess I was putting too well.  They had to ask some questions.
No, in all seriousness, when you use this type of putter there is going to be those types of questions.  I understand that.  It's something that when I started to think about going back to this unique I definitely kept in mind that this might happen.
I was one of the best putters in the world with that technique when I used to anchor it.  I got away from it to arm lock for a couple years.
Going back to it I made some physical changes; I've taken length off the putter.  It has taken me time to get better at it, but there is no reason that I can't be even 95 or 99% as good as I used to be with it not attached to my body.
I can say with 100% confidence there isn't a single putt that I've hit that's anchored.  They had to ask and do their due diligence, and that's fine.  I know there's always going to be questions with it, but I'm not doing anything wrong.
Q. You came prepared obviously.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah.
Q. Let's talk about this round today.  Let's point out the positives.  A ton of birdies; you're starting to play really well, including with your putter.  What led to this?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, you know, I think I just have good feelings around this golf course.  I've always enjoyed playing it.  I am putting the ball in play off the tee, which isn't as hard here as some of the other golf courses we play, but when I am doing that, I'm giving myself good chances for birdie.
Like you say, the putter has been hot.
Hopefully I can kind of keep in that relaxed, carefree mode and keep making some putts on the weekend.
Q. Talk about the obvious.  We just talked about it, but we waited for you for a little while.  What went on?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, obviously with the technique of putter that I'm using there will be questions.  I had expected this probably, that when I played well that this might happen.  So that's fine.
I can say with 100% certainty that there hasn't been a single putt that I've anchored since the anchoring ban came into effect two and a half years ago.
In fact, I went to an arm lock putter for about two years and I think it helped me, because when I came back to trying this technique again without it anchored using the long putter, it made it feel good again, made it feel natural.
I've made physical changes to my putter.  I've taken an inch and a half off the length.  I've worked on a lot of things to try to compensate for what it used to do when it was anchored.
So it's nice for me to put in a couple good rounds.  Today unfortunately I get asked questions like that.  They got to do their due diligence and I understand that, but I can say with 100% certainty that I'm within the rules.
I'm only 36 holes through; see how it holds up over the weekend.  I'm looking forward to some more good rounds.
Q. It's a good problem to have.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah.
Q. And it was fantastic for you today.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it was.  I've always enjoyed this golf course for whatever reason.  I had a chance to win here a couple years ago.  I just have a good feeling around here.  I read the greens well.  I'm just really trying to not think about too many things and try to point and shoot.
Right now they're going in, so hopefully that continues on the weekend.
Q. How often have they asked you to come over and demonstrate?
DAVID HEARN: That was the first time, so that's what happens when you play well.
Q. How long did it take you to flush 2013?  Do you still think about it when you show up on this course?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, absolutely.  That was a good moment in my career.  I came close to getting a win and I was real proud of the way I played that week.
So getting back here this year and putting together two nice rounds to start like that feels very good.  Like I say, we're only halfway there, so see where we can go on the weekend.
Q. How does that set you up for the Saturday, just knowing you've had success today and yesterday to get ready for the weekend?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I feel good around here.  This is obviously a golf course I'm comfortable with.  I've hit good shots in clutch moments around here, so for whatever reason it suits my eye nicely.
But who knows what'll happen tomorrow.  I wish I could tell the future.  But it's good so far, and we'll see what you can do.
Q. You ever go back and think about the putt on 17 in the playoff and the opportunity you had?  You kick yourself at all or were you able to let that go?
DAVID HEARN: No, I hit the putt where I wanted and it lipped out.  That's golf, right?  Sometimes they go in; sometimes they don't.  Made a nice birdie putt there today, and I'm remembering that one.
Q. Missed only one green today.  (Regarding ball striking.)
DAVID HEARN: Yeah.  Thanks for the ball striking question.  I appreciate that.
No, I definitely -- soft greens around here and you have to try to stay aggressive, especially when you get some of the short irons in.
I hit a lot of really good wedges and 9-irons and 8-irons.  The 8-iron I hit in on 16 to sort of kick-in range, you know, I've hit a lot of really good shots like that.
So definitely feeling good over the ball and making good swings as well.
Q. What's the difference between playing in the afternoon and playing the next morning?  Been lot of hot days out here this summer.  Conditions any different at all?  Better?  Faster?  Softer?  Wind?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I don't think it was any softer or firmer this morning.  Typically the wind picks up a bit more in the afternoon, so I think it's more wind than we're used to seeing around here in general.
Definitely real hot this week, as it always is.  Kind of expect that.  It's nice sometimes when you have a good round in the afternoon and play that early morning Friday.  You just keep rolling.
I think that's what I did.  I think I kind of just kept that momentum going from Thursday's round.  Yeah, I mean, it's a little different.  The greens obviously get a little bit worse as the day goes on, but still very good and you can still make putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT