RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   David, very different golf course today that you played?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, obviously, the winds have picked up quite a bit today.   I was expecting it to play really hard.   It did play harder in certain spots, but it was nice for a few holes to be downwind a little bit.   Some holes were a lot harder, and some holes were actually a little more scorable.

Q.   So finishing low Canadian, do you take anything from that? 
DAVID HEARN:   I've been low Canadian once before, and it's obviously proud for me to do that here in front of everyone at home.   It wasn't the finish I was looking for.   I had a nice chance today.   I was playing pretty solid today and had a chance to finish the round with a little bit of style.   But I'll take away some positives this week, and I obviously appreciate the support from everyone this week.   It always feels good to play at home.

Q.   When you say you'll take thing as way from this weekend, you had such a great week two weeks ago. 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, obviously, coming off a big week like that, I was excited to get back in here and see if I could compete right away again.   My game was close this week.   It was just a little bit off.   I just didn't get it done on the greens.   I'll be looking forward to next week and another little rest for me and seeing if I can get playing well again for the PGA.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DAVID HEARN:   I don't think so.   That would be news to me.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DAVID HEARN:   I figure it should be fine on that.   Well, I'm pretty much‑‑ usually it's 80th on that list, and I think I was low 70s.   I know it's 70 guaranteed, but usually it goes about ten more spots.

Q.   What happened on 11 here?   What did you have in there? 
DAVID HEARN:   It was a nice wind for me to hit a 3‑wood off the tee, and I just mis‑hit it.   I had 209 front and 220 pin.   Everyone knows the wind swirls a lot down there.   I was hitting the 3‑iron, and I knew I had to hit it solid.   I just thinned it a little bit, so a little bit of an unfortunate mistake there.

Q.   What's it like having the ovation on the fairways (Indiscernible)? 
DAVID HEARN:   It feels great.   I would have been liking to make birdie like I did on Friday and get them a little more excited.   But it feels great.   The support from everyone here in Canada is amazing, and I can't wait to do it again next year at Royal Montreal.

Q.   Last couple of years you've come in here not having to worry about your card or anything.   How difficult is it now to not do that and just focus on playing? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   It's a nice position to be in.   I certainly hope to lock it up like that again next year before the Canadian Open.   But it is nice to come in here and really focus on getting the best out of yourself, and trying to play as solid as you can. 
I know everyone here wants to see us do well, and we want to do well for them.   I'll be excited to give it another chance next year.

Q.   Where would you like to see this tournament go if anywhere else? 
DAVID HEARN:   I like the rotation we've had the last few years.   I've always liked Glen Abbey.   It has a lot of history.   It's been here for a number of years in a row when I was growing up.   Now that we're hitting Hamilton and Shaughnessy and Royal Montreal, I think there are some great venues. 
I think if they keep rotating it to our great courses, the guys will really like it.

Q.   Announcing the Olympics a year ago today, do you have any thoughts about the Olympics?
DAVID HEARN:   Absolutely.   It's a pretty unique opportunity to play for your country in any venue like that.   To think of golf as an Olympic sports is pretty neat, and I'd love to be at the ceremonies in 2016. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT