RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you rate your round?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I felt like we kind of got the calm before the storm today, so we were fortunate to get it in before it looks like we're going to get some weather this half.   Pretty scorable conditions.   I played solid.   Definitely good scores were out there this morning.   It was nice to get on some fresh greens, and I'll be looking forward to hopefully doing a little bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is it more scorable today than it has been the first two days?  
DAVID HEARN:   I think so, yeah.   The wind wasn't up at all, and I think they got a little bit of water on those greens overnight.   They were getting pretty firm yesterday afternoon.   Definitely pretty scorable this morning, and we'll see what happens with the weather this half.   But there were some opportunities out there.  
   
 Q.   The momentum from the way you came in yesterday, does that carry over to your third round today?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I birdied the first hole, so I just kept it rolling.   I thought, this is good.   We'll just keep it going as long as I can.   I felt good yesterday obviously finishing up the way I did.   Didn't play my best getting to the weekend, but it's a pretty tight leaderboard, so a couple good rounds on the weekend and I can certainly move up.   Today was a good start.  
   
 Q.   What are your expectations for tomorrow?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I don't have too many expectations, but I've been playing good golf, so I know that if I go out and just do what I'm doing, I can put in a round like today or even a little bit better and hopefully move up into a little bit higher spot.  
   
 Q.   Do you prepare any differently when the weather conditions today might be carrying into tomorrow, like this?  
DAVID HEARN:   Well, I don't think I'm going to have too much chance to do too much preparation after this.   It seems like it might rain here pretty soon.   But with the greens softening up, if it rains quite a bit like it's supposed to, we'll play a little bit differently.   The course tends to get a little longer, and it's been nice, we've had a lot of the fairways running out.   There's not really much I can do.   You just sort of assess it early in a round and figure it out from there.  
   
 Q.   You played the U.S. Open at Merion.   I'm just wondering, what's the ideal golf course for playing a national open?   Would it be something like Merion or would it be something like Glen Abbey?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, you know, I think the nice thing that Golf Canada has done the past few years is we've kind of rotated around to some of Canada's better courses.   I think a lot of guys enjoyed Hamilton, a lot of guys really enjoy Shaughnessy, and it's nice to come back here where there's been so much history.   I think they've done a good job of kind of moving it around.   I'm looking forward to next year at Royal Montreal, as well.   I don't know if there's necessarily an ideal course for a national championship, but I think they're doing a good job with this little rotation.   
   
 Q.   Just your thoughts, too, on Brad Fritsch pulling out.   Tough break?  
DAVID HEARN:   I hadn't heard.  
   
 Q.   He's withdrawn.   Bad back.   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, that's really unfortunate.   He's been playing so solid all year, and I think everybody in Canada is just pulling for him to have a good weekend and kind of lock his card up for next year.   So that's really disappointing.  
   
 Q.   Especially with him sitting right on the bubble for FedExCup points.   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I know he's got to be just gutted with that.   I know what kind of player he is, and he's still got a couple of weeks to go and get it done.   I've got to imagine he couldn't be more disappointed.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT