RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In your dreams, birdie, birdie, birdie, bomb, make the cut?  
DAVID HEARN:   Well, I don't know if I would say it was in my dreams to just make the cut by one by doing that.   But yeah, it was a nice finish.   It was not my best day out here today.   I really didn't feel like I made too many good putts all day, so it was nice to make some birdies coming down the stretch, and obviously quite a bit of luck making that birdie on the last.   But I'll take it, and we'll see what we can do on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Birdieing the last three, how does it feel to do that when you had to do it?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it feels good, obviously.   I said to my caddie, let's run the tables, we've still got a chance here, and I did.   Any time you do that, it feels good.   I'll go into the weekend with a little bit of confidence, but I've got a lot of work to do.  
   
 Q.   Where does that moment rank in stuff you've done in golf?  
DAVID HEARN:   I'm not going to say it was on the top of the list, but it was fun to make the cut that way, and obviously the crowd went nuts, so it was fun.  
   
 Q.   What was it like the last couple days playing in Graeme in front of these crowds and getting that support?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it felt great.   I think Graeme and I both are a little disappointed we haven't played better.   Obviously he had a tough day today, as well.   We just didn't really seem to get too many birdies rolling early when we needed to.   Hopefully next time they put us in a position like this, we do a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   This is one of the first times you're coming here as perhaps a legitimate favorite to win among the Canadians.   Has it been any different in terms of the things you've had to do off the course, time management, that kind of stuff?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, maybe a little bit, but that just sort of comes with the territory.   It's one of those things that kind of shows that you've succeeded a little bit.   I've certainly got better at handling a lot of the off‑course distractions, if you will, over the years, and I feel pretty comfortable coming to the Canadian Open, and I certainly enjoy playing in front of everybody.   
   
 Q.   You didn't feel it had any effect on maybe you were tired or anything?  
DAVID HEARN:   I don't think so, absolutely not.   I had the whole week off last week, so I have no excuses.  
   
 Q.   Jim Nelford talked today about when he played here sometimes he felt like he had to do a little more to impress.   Did you feel you could completely play your game in front of the home fans?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I felt like I tried to do that, and I just didn't really do it.   Everybody wants to see us do well and we want to do well for them.   So I think it'll happen, and I'm looking forward to a good weekend and see what I can do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT