RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you sum up that round and how did it feel? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it felt all right.   I gave myself a lot of chances.   Didn't make as many of those putts as I would have liked.   But overall, it was nice to finish with a birdie, and looking forward to maybe doing a little better tomorrow.

Q.   Course very scorable out there? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, it is.   Like I said yesterday, there are a lot of opportunities.   The par‑5s are playing pretty scorable.   But then there are a few difficult holes out there too.   So, there are definitely opportunities for birdies, and I'm going to try to keep giving myself chances, and hopefully those putts will go in.

Q.   Fun day playing with Graham? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   He got off to a little bit of a rough start, but he hung in there nicely and made some birdies coming in.   So hopefully we'll get off to a better start tomorrow and start rolling the birdies early.

Q.   You talked about maybe not having as big a gallery as this on a Thursday before.   Do you feel the same way? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, especially when you're third group off.   You're pretty much the volunteers and yourself there for a few holes, but it was nice.   We got a lot of family and friends out this week, so it was good to play in front of everybody.

Q.   When you say the par‑5s are scorable, Graham said the same thing.   Are you reminding yourself to think of them as par‑4s? 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   When you get to those tee boxes, you're thinking how are you going to make a birdie, and start to hit the fairways.   So if you hit the fairways, you're going to have good opportunities for birdies. 
13 is the only one that is just a little out of my reach to be going for in two, but the rest are good drives and pretty good birdie opportunities, maybe even sneak an eagle.

Q.   What did you think of 18 and the one over there where Graham almost hit it out of bounds?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I hit a 3‑iron into both of those on 18.   I didn't have a good number to go into the pin.   I was in the first cut, so I was trying to hit it just short left.   I figured that would be a nice chip. 
Then I thought I had missed the fairway right on, I guess it's No. 2 now, and I was fortunate to be in the fairway there.   Another 3‑iron into the green and a nice birdie there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT