JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID HEARN:   I can't tell really you if I got it started exactly online or not, but I figured it was going in, and it lipped out.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID HEARN:   It's too soon after.   I'm still in the mode of wanting to be back out there and competing.   Congrats to Jordan.   He's going to have an amazing career, obviously.   He's an incredible talent to come on TOUR at his age and have as much success as quickly as he has.   So hat's off to him, and look forward to the next time I have a chance to get him.  
   
 Q.   What is your approach going left, down that‑‑ (No microphone).   Could you do something to stay out of the water?   
DAVID HEARN:   No, no.   The way that fairway cambers, it actually bounces right the closer you get to the hazard.   It just kind of kicks straight up there, and I was fortunate to hang up on the bank there, but there was quite a bit of grass between the green there.  
   
 Q.   How were you feeling on 18 today?  
DAVID HEARN:   I was 2‑under going into the hole today, so that's pretty good.  
   
 Q.   What's next for you?  
DAVID HEARN:   A week off, and I'll play the RBC Canadian Open.   That's a big tournament for myself, so I'm obviously happy with where my game's at going into that.   So I'll be happy to compete again.  
   
 Q.   What was tougher physically or mentally going into those playoff holes?  
DAVID HEARN:   That's a toss‑up.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Was it a good boost for you?   
DAVID HEARN:   Absolutely.   You can dwell on certain little things in any given round.   Had I made another birdie in regulation, we wouldn't have had a playoff.   You can always find a shot along the way.   So, overall, I was proud of the way played all day to day, going into the playoff.   I gave myself great chances.   I know the next time I give myself chances like that, I'll make them.  
   
 Q.   Were the third and fourth playoff hole (Indiscernible) at all?   
DAVID HEARN:   Absolutely not.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT