JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome David Hearn into the interview room at the John Deere Classic after a successful 7‑under 64 today, tying your low round of the year, I believe.   You are making your fourth start here at the John Deere Classic this week, and with that being said, just some comments on the round today.   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, obviously I was playing pretty well after Thursday and Friday.   My goal today was just kind of get out there and keep doing what I was doing, and I felt like I got off to a nice start birdieing the first two holes.   That kind of set the tone for the day.  
I've played here enough times to know that you need to make some birdies around here, and it's a fun way to play.   But I felt like I did a good job of it today, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   When you come into a course like this that has conditions like we have this week, do you have to kind of pin your ears back and be aggressive even more than normal?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, you know, my mentality isn't really to be overly aggressive, so I tend to do well at tournaments that are a lot closer to par for the winning score, although I have had fairly good success in tournaments like this, as well.   
But I play in a way that I'm not going to take chances that I normally wouldn't take.   Maybe on 8‑ and 7‑irons I might get a little more aggressive going for a pin or something like that, but I'm still going to be mindful to not take chances you shouldn't take because I think regardless you need to give yourself birdie opportunities, and to have a chance to make birdies here you've just got to keep giving yourself chances.  
   
 Q.   Is it fun for you to play this course?  
DAVID HEARN:   Absolutely.   I enjoy playing here.   That's why I keep coming back.   I enjoy this golf course.   I enjoy this tournament and the people are great here.   They treat us really nice.   And I grew up on a course that is a little bit hilly and tree‑lined like this, so this is the type of golf that I enjoy playing.  
   
 Q.   What's been the best thing about your game this week?  
DAVID HEARN:   I've been pretty consistent all around, I think, the last couple months.   I've been playing some really solid tournaments.   I haven't had a lot of top 10s but a lot of top 25s, so I feel like I've been driving it pretty well.   My iron play has been pretty good, and my short game has been solid.   I felt like all the pieces are kind of coming together, and I'm excited to be in this position to see what happens tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Talk about being in this position going into tomorrow.   How do you handle that mentally?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, you know, fortunately this isn't the first time I've been in a final group.   It will be on Sunday at a PGA event if that's the way it shakes out in the end.   I have played in the final group on Tour before on Saturday.   I've won on the Web.com.   I've been in final groups before.   I don't expect it to affect my play greatly.   I feel like it's a great opportunity.   Daniel Summerhays is a guy I've known for a long time, and we'll have a fun time out there tomorrow and keep making birdies and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Your best finish on TOUR is the Timberlake?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, I believe so, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Were you in the final group?  
DAVID HEARN:   No, I would have been‑‑ I think I probably started that tournament around the top 10.   I'm not sure exactly what I shot on Sunday at that tournament.   But I had a bunch of‑‑ yeah, I don't remember.   
   
 Q.   If you are indeed a couple strokes back starting tomorrow, what is going to be the mindset and the approach, and how do you go about playing catch‑up?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, you know, I'm really not going to think too much about if I end up being two back going into tomorrow.   I'm really not going to think too much about trying to catch him or things like that.   I'm really just going to keep the mindset that I had today.   I'm going to do my best to stay aggressive with the wedges and the short irons and try to give myself as many opportunities as I can.   
I think if you get too caught up in playing against one guy there's going to be a bunch of guys that come from in front of you and just go past you.   So for me it's going to be try to get off to a good start again.   There's a bunch of good birdie opportunities on this golf course, and try to get the ball rolling early.   
   
 Q.   You're assuming you're going to have to go low?  
DAVID HEARN:   Oh, without a doubt.   If you look at the leaderboard, I haven't had a chance to really look at it too detailed, but I'm sure it's very bunched up.   There's a couple guys that have pulled away a little bit, but I'm sure there's at least 10 or 15 guys that if they have a really good round tomorrow can win this thing.   
   
 Q.   You said you know Daniel.   What do you know about him?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, you know, he's a great guy.   He's a good family man.   He won as an amateur on the Web.com when he got status out there originally, so he's obviously had a great game for a long time.   He's obviously a good player.   He's proven himself.  
   
 Q.   Do you guys kind of marvel tomorrow (inaudible)?   
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, we've played enough rounds together.   I don't think we'll talk too much about that.   Yeah, it will be fun if that's who I end up playing with, so we'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT