SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2013
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, I thought you kind of built some momentum ending last year on a high note, strong performance in the FedExCup Playoffs, and apparently that's carried over here to the new year?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I got off to a great start here last year, as well, so I was really looking forward to getting back here to Hawai'i.   I played pretty well today.   I showed a little bit of rust there obviously bogeying my last, not a fun way to finish.   But I felt like I did a lot of really good things, and I feel like I'm in a position to have a really good week.  
   
 Q.   Unofficially 27 putts?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, that's accurate.   That was the number that I had for myself, as well.   I putted real solid, missed a few fairways, but you're going to do that out here, so tomorrow I'll just try to hit more fairways and greens and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   So many doglegs out here.   Is there a little bit of doubt if you pull driver or 3‑wood or something off the tee?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, we've got a totally different wind this year than last year, too, so I think more than just trying to figure out if it's driver or 3‑wood, it's just trying to figure out which direction that wind is coming through the chute.   Today it stayed pretty consistent from the east, so we'll see what happened for the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   Any holes or hole locations that should provide some drama as the afternoon wave starts?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, most of them were pretty good today.   They're not going too hard for us for the first round of the year, but I know the greens are going to get firmer as the week goes on, and they'll get trickier.   
   
 Q.   See any of your snowbird friends down here from Canada?  
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I played with a bunch in the pro‑am yesterday, and there's always a few Canadians running around saying hi, so it's always nice to have the support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT