RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2012
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about that round.   How do it feel?
DAVID HEARN:   It felt pretty good.   It was a steady round.   I hit a lot of very good shots, and I think you can always say that you leave a few out there.   I certainly didn't make every putt that I looked at today, but I felt like I played real steady and solid, and I'm real happy with that first round, and hopefully I'll get a few more like it the rest of the week.

Q.   Can you talk about the condition of the course?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   You know, I think this morning nobody really knew what was going to happen exactly with the weather.   Those storms last night were pretty good.
But the condition was great considering the weather we had.   I think the bunkers were a little bit firmer than they were in practice, but the greens were receptive.   But obviously by the scoring they're not too receptive.   So the course is in very good shape.

Q.   And is the wind an issue as well?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   It definitely picked up in spots out there today.   We had it pretty calm for the first little bit, and then it picked up, and you get back in those little valleys and the shoots on the golf course there, and it's always going to play tricks with you. 
It's supposed to be kind of southwest today, but it kind of flutters a little bit.   So the wind is definitely going to be a factor as the day goes on.

Q.   With the good finish you had here a couple years ago, do you think it's good vibes for you around this place?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I enjoy playing this golf course a lot.   It's a beautiful golf course, and it's fun walking up that amphitheater finish on 18.   And it's just a very fun course for me, and being so close to home I got a lot of family and friends out here this week that are supporting me.   So it's a good week for me. 

Q.   Easier or hard to play with all the people following you?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   I was thinking about that ‑‑

Q.   Because you gotta be aware of it; right?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   You know they're out there, and you want to have a good week and play well regardless.   But it is a little bit different feeling, no doubt, than if I was to just tee it up at an event without everybody here.   But I think the good players really thrive on it, and it felt good for me out there today.

Q.   Maybe in the past at a Canadian Open you could come under the radar a little bit more.   This year obviously not.   Do you feel that much more pressure here?
DAVID HEARN:   No.   I don't feel any more pressure.   I want to achieve certain things and I have certain goals, and obviously to win out here and to be competitive is one of them.   So I've had a pretty good season so far, and I'm pretty comfortable with where my game's at, so I don't feel any extra pressure from that standpoint.
But you know, I think the Canadians really want to see the other Canadians do well.   This is a big deal for us, and I'd love to see more than one guy have a chance to win it.   And who knows what's going to happen.   I can't predict the future, but you know, hopefully more good days and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Did you have a number in mind today?
DAVID HEARN:   Oh, absolutely not.   No, no.   I never really do that.   I just wanted to play steady and make a few birdies, and I got three, which is pretty good out here.   I didn't get either of the par‑5s.   So hopefully tomorrow I'll make some birdies on those.

Q.   Did you hear that thunder last night?   Did it wake you up at all?
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   About 2 in the morning.   I woke up right away.   I'm staying at home in Brantford, and it hit here probably just a little bit before it got here.   It was pretty loud.   I felt like it was hitting some of the trees in our backyard.

Q.   Can you talk about 18?   Obviously you're the furthest back off the tee, but it looks like you're in prime location.   You only miss it by, what, a couple of feet and end up in some pretty tough rough there. 
DAVID HEARN:   Yeah.   It's a tricky tee shot there.   It's kind of for a lot of guys here, 3‑wood is just a little bit too much, and the hybrids that we use are just not quite enough to get down to the bottom. 
And I hit a good tee shot, and it just sort of hung up on the hill, so I had a really side‑hill lie that was really tricky with the left‑to‑right wind hold it up against it, but I hit a pretty good shot and I left myself a good chip. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT