RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2008
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice birdie on 18 there to finish up. Tell me about another Canadian Open for you, and I guess it never gets old playing for the hometown crowd?  
 DAVID HEARN: It's always great to play here in Canada. It's our national championship. So I got a nice reception coming up 18 today, and that makes you feel special.  
  
  Q. I'm sure you heard over and over again, still 50 years since a Canadian has won this tournament. Do you feel we're getting closer?   
 DAVID HEARN: Absolutely. The level of talent in Canada right now is extremely high. I think that Mike's on his game. He's playing great golf these days. You never know, I think it's just a matter of time before someone wins it, then we don't have to talk about it for a while.  
  
  Q. The weather this week not exactly the British Open. But it wasn't pleasant all week, either. Tell me about the mental battle that had you to go through this week to get through 72 holes?   
 DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it was difficult. We had a lot of delays this week. I think everyone feels they lived here in the clubhouse this week. That was long and tiring on us.   
 But when the weather broke, it was fine. The course conditions were great, so scoring was good, obviously.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the work done by the RCGA and the crew here at Glen Abbey to make sure you guys got 72 holes in?   
 DAVID HEARN: They did an amazing job. We were all kind of doubting it on Saturday when we were going back out to finish the round. We got everybody except one or two groups finished on Saturday, which made today possible with the weather that broke today. They did an amazing job keeping this course playable all week. It's hat's off to them.   
  
  Q. When you first started playing in this tournament, I guess it was at its lowest point. Do you feel it's on an upswing now and getting back to where it used to be?   
 DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's difficult to say it's at a low point. It's always been our national championship. I started playing in '02, and Tiger had won it just a couple years previous to that. So I think it's a strong tournament. It's focus has shifted on tour as to the date we have.   
 But we've got a chance to see Chez Reavie or Anthony Kim or one of the young stars to win today, so that's something to be proud of.  
  
  Q. Do you think there is more buzz around this tournament now and it's more of an event?   
 DAVID HEARN: I think so. I think RBC getting behind this event will make the event grow. They have such a big part to do with athletics in Canada, so I think that's going to help.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT