THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. David, bogey-free.  You got five birdies out of it.  You got the round in.  I think it's a pretty good Thursday.
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it's a great Thursday.  Any time you can start with a 5-under round, doesn't matter what tournament you're at, it's a good start.  I am very happy, and it's good to be back here in West Virginia.
Q. And that's the odd thing.  It feels like just a year ago, but it was really two years ago you were in that playoff.  You came oh, so close.  Did it feel like there was unfinished business when you left, and what's it like waiting two years to get back here?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, real proud of the way I played here last time we were here.  Really good memories obviously coming off 18.  Made a great birdie to continue into the playoff.
I don't think it's unfinished business, but this course really suits my eye and I really enjoy playing this golf course.  I got off to a nice start today.  Let's see what you can keep doing.
Q. Is it the old-style?  Is it right there in front of you?  What's is it about this course that you like?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I'm not sure exactly.  I think the golf course isn't overly long but it's tricky.  If you don't put the ball in the right spot off the tee you're going to kind of get out of position quickly.
I like a lot of the changes they made here this year.  It's going to be interesting to see every day when it firms up a little bit.  We had a little bit of rain yesterday, so a little bit softer today.
But, you know, for me, I just enjoy the golf course.  Gave myself lots of chances today.
Q. How gettable was it today?  In your mind is 65 a good number?  Could have been better?
DAVID HEARN: Oh, I mean, you can always be better.  I feel like there is a shot here or there or a putt that just lips out.  Overall very happy with that round.  I played solid and made some nice putts down the stretch when I missed a few greens.
Just happy that I carded a nice 5-under.  Won't be the best round today I don't think, but it's not going to be far off.
Q. Bogey-free; five birdies on the round.  How pleased are you?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, very happy.  I got off to a nice start.  Made some good shots getting going, and then coming down the stretch made a couple nice up and downs and a nice birdie.  It was a good day.
Overall, couldn't be happier with a 5-under par start.  See what I can do over the next three days.
Q. Players talk about the firmness of the greens.  How was it out there?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, played yesterday morning in the pro-am and we got a fair bit of rain yesterday.  Surprisingly the greens are still very firm.  They're very receptive, but certainly not coming back toward us.  I can't say enough about how great the golf course is.
To see that two years after we were here last -- that was pretty devastating last year what happened.  The golf course looks like it's in amazing shape.  So green, so lush.
They made a few little changes to the golf course which were all very good.  We're all just very happy to be back here in West Virginia.
Q. Finally, biggest takeaway from round one?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I think I just have to try to keep giving myself chances and hit lots of fairways.  I think the rough is a bit thicker than it usually is around here.  Like I said, it's nice and green and lush this year.
See if I can keep making birdies and keep those bogeys off the card.
Q. 125, obviously great spot for you.  Obviously in the past that's a good spot for to you come back the surge you need.
DAVID HEARN: I hope so.
Q. What is it about it?  Two years ago, as you said, you made a huge putt to stay in it.  Something about this course that suits you?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, I don't know.  Sometimes you can't explain it.  I feel like I've played well here in the past, and for whatever reason, just the tee shots or whatever it is, set up nicely to my eye.
I feel good about it, and hopefully I can just kind of keep doing what I'm doing and keep the bogeys off the card.
Q. Did you know you came in at 125?
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, they send me a text, so it's hard not to know where you are -- unless you don't pay attention to those.
Overall, I got off to a really slow start this year.  I started working with a new coach and did some swing changes.  Nothing major, but it's taken me a little while to get some traction.  The last month and a bit I've been playing some really good golf.  I really close the PLAYERS.  Played some really nice rounds getting going there.
So overall my game has been trending in the right direction.  I'm trying not to watch that bubble because I know I'm playing good golf and it really shouldn't matter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT