CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Were you surprised about the low scores yesterday?
DAVID HEARN:  The scores yesterday were as good as they're going to get for this event.  There was no wind.  Still really soft from all the rain we had on the weekend.  I feel like if there was going to be a good day where all the scores were like that, it was going to be yesterday.

I'm not too surprised with the low scoring, but I don't think we're going to see much more of it this week.
Q.  Do you see yourself going for it this weekend, getting aggressive over the weekend?
DAVID HEARN:  I'm going to play the same way I have the last two days.  I don't feel like I need to change my game plan.  I'm going to try to hit a lot of fairways and greens.  I didn't really hit too many fairways today.  Hopefully I'll do a better job tomorrow (laughter).
Q.  By the end of today, 4 under could prove to be a score up there with the leaders.
DAVID HEARN:  Yeah, it's pretty windy out there, so it's playing tough.  We'll see.
Q.  You got to be happy with the way you've come in after two rounds.
DAVID HEARN:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  I'm happy with my game.  Today on the Back 9 I played well when I needed to.  Hopefully I'll just continue doing that.
Q.  Last year you led the PGA TOUR in total driving, didn't keep your card.  How does that happen?  Is that more between the ears?
DAVID HEARN:  I don't know.  I've laughed about that with some of my other friends.  I was talking to Will McKenzie earlier this week.  He said he was 10th in total driving and he didn't keep his card either.

I think probably the fact that I was playing at like the John Deere as opposed to the PGA Championship had a little bit of something to do with that.  No, it's a good stat, it's a good sign (laughter).
Q.  What did you hit at 18?
DAVID HEARN:  That was a good 6 iron there.
Q.  A chance there could be two Canadian amateur players around on the weekend.  What does that say about the state of some of the young guys coming up behind you?
DAVID HEARN:  I think it speaks volumes.  I think coming into this week, there was a little bit of talk about the Canadians coming up.  I think that just shows there's a lot of talent out there.  Just give us a couple years, I think we're going to have a lot more guys on the PGA.
Q.  Did you play at all with Victor?
DAVID HEARN:  No, no.
Q.  You're a bit older than him?
DAVID HEARN:  I'm a little bit older.  I don't really know much about him.  It was great round yesterday.
Q.  The crowds following you are probably going to get even bigger on the weekend.  Do you enjoy playing in front of big crowds, feed off of it?  How do you handle it?
DAVID HEARN:  I handle it just fine.  I had good crowds in Alberta when I won.  The first two days I had good sized crowds.  Hopefully I'll rise to the occasion.
Q.  Something about home soil seems to do well for you.
DAVID HEARN:  Yeah, I like it here.
Q.  How does the rest of your season shape up?  What is on the agenda?
DAVID HEARN:  Depending what happens this week, I'm going to do about five or six more Nationwides, maybe seven.  I've got a goal out there of still trying to finish in the top 20.  I've got a little bit of ground to make up.  I'm starting to play some really good golf.  Hopefully I'll start doing that.
Q.  How does this week change that?
DAVID HEARN:  Well, I mean, top 10 gets me into next week.  It just depends.
Q.  Top 10, you wouldn't hesitate playing next week?
DAVID HEARN:  No (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT