THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
David Hearn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  David, lovely start for 36 holes.  I was just looking back at your record here, pretty impressive.  I know you had a top 10 in 2014, but you've consistently performed well.  Why does this course marry up well with you?  
DAVID HEARN: I'm not sure about that exactly, but I feel like I enjoy the challenge of this golf course, and I think that this golf course doesn't suit any one particular style of player.  If you look at the guys that have won at this golf course over the years, you've got long hitters, you've got short hitters, you've got draw ball hitters and cut ball.  You've just got a good mix of everything.  So I think I just really enjoy the patience that this golf course requires, and I don't know, I just enjoy it.  Some guys, I think, cringe at the idea of this golf course, and I just try to embrace it.   
 Q.  There's been a nice little surge of momentum for Canadian golf, had a couple of wins already this season, yourself, Graham DeLaet have sniffed close a couple of times.  Do you take confidence out of what you've seen from your countrymen?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, absolutely.  I think Mike Weir set the bar for us pretty high there a few years back, and Graham and myself and Ian Leggatt a little bit before myself, as well, we've tried to do him right, but these young guys are coming out with a lot of confidence.  They're not intimidated, and it's nice to see those three young Canadians get wins on the TOUR.  I think Graham and I as we're getting a little bit older, we want to get one under our belt, too.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in your mind today?  
DAVID HEARN: Absolutely not.  I think this golf course lends itself to patient play.  I kind of knew that being second group off this morning had a good opportunity to put in a good round and see what I could do out here.  I took advantage of the par-5s on my front nine, and I made some nice putts on the back nine, as well.  I certainly didn't have a number in my head.  I know the wind is going to blow pretty hard this afternoon, so I'm happy with where I'm at.  I know that just stay around anything under par here is a good score, and if I can keep playing the way I am on the weekend, we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Was there any difference between the course yesterday and today?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, it seems a little bit windier.  We played in the afternoon yesterday, so we got the most wind there was on the golf course yesterday, as well.  But I think the golf course is playing pretty firm and fast right now.  The redo seems to be very good, but it is tricky.  These greens are very difficult to hold, especially when you get downwind shots.  You know, it's going to be a fun afternoon.   
 Q.  What was the secret to your success today?  
DAVID HEARN: I think just patience this morning.  I knew that we were going to have some softer conditions than maybe the guys will see this afternoon.  I feel like I played really well yesterday, obviously hit some really good iron shots and kind of controlled the ball coming into the green, and I just kind of continued with that today.  I managed to hit the fairways when I needed to, and I tried to take advantage of the opportunities.  I'm happy with where I'm at.   
 Q.  You've never led a PGA TOUR event after 36.  How does the mentality change?  
DAVID HEARN: I've always felt like I have the game to win out here.  It's been a long period for me, I guess.  I've come close a few times, but it's bound to happen here sometime.  I feel like whether I'm leading today or not, I'm in a great position heading into the weekend.  I enjoy playing this golf course.  Played well here in the past, so I just need to keep doing what I'm doing, keep my head down, and see what I can do this weekend.   
 Q.  Talk about that journey and being close a couple times.  What have you learned at those events that can help you here this week?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, you know, it's funny, you get in those Playoffs and you don't think it's going to be very long before you're in that position again.  That's the way golf goes.  I feel like I've played well enough in Playoffs that I was in, and sometimes the putts fall your way and they don't other times.  I really wouldn't do much different if I was in those Playoffs to change the outcome.  I think I've just got to do a better job of putting myself in those positions more often, and if I give myself more chances to win, it's going to happen.   
 Q.  After bogeying 15, how did you bounce back to go birdie-par on 16 and 17, two very challenging holes?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, and especially with the wind today.  17 and 18 are definitely playing a little bit tricky.  16, you know, I hit a great 2-iron into that green.  I left myself a little bit further back but hit a great approach shot, nice easy two-putt there, and 17, definitely a little bit off the left there, so it was tricky, and 18 is going to be a tough hole for the guys today if the wind picks up.  It's pretty hard off the left.  As firm as the golf course is, it's hard to get the ball shaping around that corner.  I bounced back real nice after that bogey on 15, like you say, and real proud of the way I played today.   
 Q.  A lot going on this month off the golf course.  You and your wife had your third child.  Safe to say life is pretty good right now?  
DAVID HEARN: Yeah, life is great.  We're not as rested as we were a month ago.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT