NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: SPURS vs WARRIORS
April 24, 2018
Ettore Messina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Game 5
Warriors 99, Spurs 91
ETTORE MESSINA: I think they have done an incredible job and tonight, in a night where shots were not falling in, we were kind of grinding to give ourselves a shot to go within two points and still have a game with I think one and a half minute left.  And when we shot I think an open shot in the corner, I think we still have an opportunity.
So I think that goes to -- as a credit, to the resilience of this group, and I can't be happier for them for what I saw on the court tonight.
Q. Was there ever a point where the season felt normal to you, after all that you guys had been through from the beginning?
ETTORE MESSINA: Every day you go to the office and to the court, I think we had a great group of people working, and you know, to coach in a league with Coach Pop is an unbelievable blessing.
I mean, we all know that there are ups and downs in sports, in life, in everything.  It's out of the question.  I have no doubt -- sometimes, not fun, of course, because you get upset for things that are not going your way but overall it's an unbelievable experience.
Q. What did the coaching staff learn from this group of fellas?  Bertans looked like a good quality player.  Rudy and Aldridge are coming back.  You have to make some decisions on Anderson but what do you learn from this group of guys going into the off-season?
ETTORE MESSINA: Well, honestly, there is nothing in the series that surprised me in terms of character.  You know, I knew that we had good people willing to play hard and sacrifice, so I have not been surprised.
They have been extremely professional, because to lose their leader in such difficult circumstances and keep playing, keep focusing, keep coming every day to prepare, I think is something that is really -- we all have to be extremely thankful to them.
As for what will happen in the summer honestly I have no idea.  It's probably not my job, so I'm very happy for that.
Q. Even after a loss like, this I know Gregg always would take them out to a team dinner.  Is that still the protocol?
ETTORE MESSINA: Of course.  Of course.  That's the way this franchise and this team and all the teams here like to win and lose together.  I think that's a big part of the message, the lesson, that Coach Pop has given through the years.  So absolutely, nothing changes.
Q. There's already been talk that you're going to be up for interviews for potentially being a head coach at some point.  I know the season just ended for you guys, but what would it mean to you to get the opportunity to do that, given it would obviously break down a barrier?
ETTORE MESSINA: I'm extremely sorry but I don't feel to talk about that right now.  If I will ever have an opportunity, the very first thing I do, I'll ask, I'll talk to Coach Pop and R.C. and see from that.  Right now, it's -- I'm sorry.
Q. I know the questions are going to start to come about Manu --
ETTORE MESSINA: I have no idea.
Q. It will, believe me, they will come?
ETTORE MESSINA: Oh, I have no idea what he will do.
Q. But I'm saying, if this was, indeed, his last game, how special was it that he went out and they fought like this for him down to the last minute?
ETTORE MESSINA: Is there anything that surprises you about Manu?  So, I mean, it will be another unbelievable proof of who he is as a man and as a professional player.  It's unbelievable.  What can I tell you?
He was not even doing well today.  He had a problem in his foot and he started a little bit -- he was not doing well but then he decided he wanted to play.  It's unbelievable, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT