NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Ettore Messina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
US Team - 157, World Team - 154   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, if you would make a brief comment about the game this evening?   
ETTORE MESSINA: It was a good evening, first of all.  It was a fun experience.  I think everybody enjoyed being here and being part of this event.  We saw some nice things from both parts.  They were better in two moments in both halves in the middle of the halves.  But we gave them a game.   
Again, it was fun, and we go back home with a lot of great memories for this first part of the weekend.   
 Q.  Coach, I wonder, how much exposure did you have to Porzingis when he was playing in Europe?  And what do you think about him and his size and his skill?  Is it unique?  
ETTORE MESSINA: Well, for sure he's a unique player.   
I was quite exposed because I knew pretty well Coach Scott Roth that coached him in Sevilla, in Spain, and we were in contact.  We talked during the year, and he was telling me how much this kid was progressing.   
But for sure his adjustment to the NBA has been pretty impressive.  I think everybody's absolutely believing that he'll be a great, great player in this league.   
 Q.  Coach, after being a part of this game, how much do you miss the league?  
ETTORE MESSINA: You mean that I'm fired and I need to go back to Europe quick?  Is that the sense of the question?  I don't understand.   
Well, I had a good defensive reputation that probably has not been reinforced with this game.   
 Q.  Exactly.  
ETTORE MESSINA: But it's an All-Star Game, you know that.  You know that.   
No, seriously speaking, it's been very interesting to have the opportunity during the day to connect with these young players.   
To understand to -- to try to understand them a little bit better, know them a little bit better.  It's been fun, really.   
 Q.  Obviously Porzingis is still very young.  Do you see specific areas where his game can grow and expand in the coming years?  
ETTORE MESSINA: Well, he's -- who coaches him knows for sure better than me.  Just talking like a fan that is watching TV or like an opposing coach when he's to scout that team and prepare that.  He can shoot the three.  He can go to the rim.  He's got a lot of (confidence) in my opinion in his game.  And Tony probably at his age was a better blender.  He could do more things off the dribble.  I would -- for the love of the game, I would love to see him improving that part of the game, but probably Coach Rambis and his staff, they disagree because of course they would like to see him maybe more close to the basket.  I don't know.  I have no idea what the plans are.  I'm just talking like a fan, like a lover of the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT