WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 6, 2013
Sue Witters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Hello, everyone, we would like to welcome Sue Witters, our lead rules official into the interview room.   First off, thank you so much for coming in and joining us today.   Just take me through, we all knew that the weather was going to be rainy today and it didn't look good in the forecast coming into the day, but take us through the morning, the whole process coming to make the decision to suspend play until tomorrow.   
SUE WITTERS:   Sure.   I mean actually the rain came in later than forecasted.   We thought it was going to start about 4 in the morning, and when I got up and didn't see rain, I was hopeful until I looked at the radar.   
Basically, we had a Lightning bolt within 10 miles at right about 6:15.   So we immediately shut down the practice facilities.   
The storm came in and sat, and we knew the golf course could take half an inch to three‑quarters of an inch of rain, and we got a half an inch a couple of hours ago.   
Basically it's never stopped raining, which once the threat of Lightning left the area about 8:30 we could open up the practice facilities, but the problem then became the golf course.   We had numerous greens underwater, fairways puddling.   And if it could have stopped raining, we would have had a shot at getting the ground to absorb the rain and getting it playable, squeegeeing the water.   There's no point in squeegeeing when it's still raining.   
And we went as long as we could, and it never stopped, and now it's coming down even harder.  
THE MODERATOR:   We know that the plan of the schedule now is for first round play tomorrow, Saturday play round two and then Sunday try to get in 36 holes.   We've seen some weather forecast that there's possibility of rain tomorrow.   How optimistic are you guys looking at the schedule and what have you heard about tomorrow's forecast?   
SUE WITTERS:   Well, I'd like to believe that today was our worst day, and I still think that's the situation.   
This was no surprise that it was coming.   I think it's a little heavier than we thought it was going to be.   The system we're in now is 140 miles deep.   It's going to take a good seven hours to get out of here, and then we should get a good break in the middle of the night, hopefully for the golf course to percolate the rain.   
And the morning, the last I was told, is supposed to be scattered and spotty.   And then we have a big window, and then late afternoon, depending on the sun activity, could be a chance of an isolated thunderstorm, but that's only 20 or 30 percent.   
Saturday is better, and Sunday is no rain at all.   So Sunday actually is our best day with the most golf that we'll have to play.  
THE MODERATOR:   And knowing this time of the year there's a lot of daylight hours in this area of the country, is that something that you guys are looking at as optimistic as well because you can stretch out the golf?   
SUE WITTERS:   That's huge, because we have room in the beginning of the day and the end of the day.   So if it had to happen, if we had to get into this situation, that's a big break for us.   With it being light, I believe it's a little after 5, and we think we could play golf until close to 9:00.   So that gives us extra room, which we may need.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Sue?   
   
 Q.   I know you don't want to play on Monday, but you don't have a choice probably.   You don't want to play 54; right?  
SUE WITTERS:   The goal is to get 72, and Monday is still on the table, yes.  
I will say the forecast right now isn't fantastic for Monday, but I look at it like it's Thursday.   We got a long way to go till we get to Monday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Sue?   All right.   Well, thank you very much.   
   
 Q.   Do we know how much rain has fallen to this point?  
SUE WITTERS:   A couple of hours ago we had ‑‑ we were right at the half‑inch mark.   I haven't gotten an update since.   I can tell you within the last week and a half in the area, they've had over four inches of rain.   So they got hit pretty hard on the weekend, and then we really were drying out well with the cool, breezy weather.   And now we're right back to being pretty wet.  
So over four in the last week and a half.   We had a half an inch right about 9:00, and we know it hasn't stopped.   So I don't have the latest, but we gotta be close to pushing an inch.  
THE MODERATOR:   We can get you a number.   We'll check in with our meteorologist and see exactly how much has fallen.   
   
 Q.   Is there any worry that even if it stops when you guys are expecting it to, that things will be too awful tomorrow morning at the planned tee times to get things off, even if it's not raining?  
SUE WITTERS:   Well, the superintendent, Rick Slattery, has been at this course for a long time and knows it probably better than any of us, is fairly confident that if we can get the cease in rain, that the course will be okay.   But it's gotta stop raining.   And that's what really hurt us this morning.   We never got that break to play catchup to get it to the point where we could even squeegee to play.  
   
 Q.   Also, does it make you nervous to trust meteorologists?  
SUE WITTERS:   (Laughs).   It's Rochester, and everybody's been through this dance before.   And I've seen this golf course with the help from the Rick Slattery and his crew get it in some amazing shape.   So I'm not nervous yet.   I wish we could have gotten some golf in today.   I certainly hadn't planned on this.   But we still have a lot of time.   
And like I said, the best part is, in my opinion, the worst day is ‑‑ was ‑‑ hope ‑‑ will be today.   And it just gets better going out, with Sunday where we need a long day, that's our best forecast.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Sue?   All right.   Well, thank you very much for joining us.  
SUE WITTERS:   Okay.   And if anybody has any pull with the rain gods, we'll take it.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT