SYBASE CLASSIC
May 19, 2006
Sue Witters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We're looking at definitely trying to get 18 tomorrow.  No more than that, correct?

SUE WITTERS:  I don't think we'll have time to    the last time would be 2:01.  I figure the last group would play anywhere between, I'm thinking 5:10 to 5:20.  So that puts us at almost 7:30.  With no cloud cover, we could play to maybe 8:00.  If we have cloud cover that cuts down on that.

So the goal would be to get the second round completed tomorrow and make the cut.  After we see how much golf we get finished tomorrow, then we look at 54 versus 72.
Q.  You have never started a final round on Monday?

SUE WITTERS:  Well, we have never started a final round on Monday.  Again, that takes seeing where we are tomorrow tonight, seeing what the weather forecast is like.  We haven't played on Monday in close to eight years.  I know it was Rochester.  The last group got to the 10th green.  We had to suspend.  We had numerous storms.  And we resumed on Monday and they played from 10 to 18.
Q.  This golf course, is it holding water?  Is it more challenge I thinking?

SUE WITTERS:  The thing is, I've been here almost two weeks and we started the battle on Thursday.  Thursday night we got two inches of rain.  Friday, the golf course was closed.  It was similar conditions to what you see.  We had a great drying day on Saturday and Sunday and got us almost back to where we were before the two inches and then we started again with Monday.  It rained in the morning for two hours.  I believe it was about a half an inch.

We had to cancel the Pro Am.  We were able to play the qualifier.  Tuesday, the same deal.  More rain in the morning earlier.  We were able to start practice rounds.

Actually, they went out    we closed the course from 8:15 to 10:15.  Reopened it until about 11:15, and then closed it to 2:30, and it was again what you see out there today.  We just can't get ahead of the game.

Wednesday we were lucky.  And yesterday, we thought we were going to be lucky.  We got close, but then the storm came in and there was electricity.  It was too dangerous.  So we brought them in.

We did go back out.  Played anywhere from one hole to two holes, hoping today being decent we could get back on track for Saturday.  And we all know what happened today.
Q.  The decision on Sunday being two rounds or one pretty much will hinge on if you finish tomorrow?

SUE WITTERS:  Exactly.  Our weather forecast has gotten a little better for tomorrow.  We still are going to run the risk in the afternoon of thunder storms, possible scattered.  If we could get it like we did last night, we could get absolutely nothing, like we did Monday afternoon.

Sunday, the best weather is looking like in the morning into the afternoon.  And then once again we get into afternoon, we have the chance.
Q.  Would you consider an early start on Sunday?

SUE WITTERS:  That could be a possibility, an earlier start, maybe split tees.  It all depends on our decision tomorrow night what that's going to be.  You know, 24 hours from now, the weather forecast could be a lot better.  We have to weigh all those factors before we make a decision.  Tomorrow night we'll decide.
Q.  If you don't finish up tomorrow, it's unlikely that you would go 72?

SUE WITTERS:  The odds are not good.
Q.  Last year we had a tournament finish on Monday.

SUE WITTERS:  Was it last year?
Q.  In L.A. I have a sheet that I can help you pass out on that.  We had fog and darkness and had to play 10 holes on Monday.

SUE WITTERS:  I should have said the last tournament I was at that we played on Monday.
Q.  (Inaudible.)

SUE WITTERS:  Our responsibility to this sponsor is to get their event in.  And that's what we're trying to accomplish.  That's one of the problems with Monday; there are other things going on.  But our responsibility is to the sponsor.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT