UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Barry Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Vanderbilt - 21, Missouri - 14
BARRY ODOM: Obviously disappointed with that performance. I feel like you look at four quarters of play, I think we got out-coached, and I think we got out-executed the entire four quarters. We could not run the ball, which is frustrating to me that we couldn't, and we didn't convert near enough on our 3rd downs to give ourselves a chance, and then defensively felt like we were close, we just couldn't get off the field. You know, also you look at 120 yards of penalties, we won't beat anybody when we do that. So got to take a hard, long look at that, and obviously there were a number of them that I recall off the top of my head that were in crucial moments, but also we've got a decision to make on how we're going to respond.
What we'll do, we're going to go on the road again next week to play a really good Kentucky team. We'll find out about the toughness and the resolve on how we bounce back, but again, credit to Derek; he had a really good game plan, and his kids played hard and executed.
Q. You mentioned the running game struggles. What do you attribute that to?
BARRY ODOM: I think it's a combination of all guys, yeah, and I'd be foolish to make a lot of comments right now without understanding what I saw, but I think it was all involved, including coaching, and obviously we've got to be a lot better.
Q. Was this one of these games you could maybe see coming earlier in the week?
BARRY ODOM: I sure didn't, and that's maybe even more frustrating because I felt like we had great practices. I felt like we were ready to go, and pregame felt right, and we obviously didn't bring it for winning football in a lot of areas. We weren't close.
Q. Did Vanderbilt do anything defensively that you were surprised by?
BARRY ODOM: A few different looks, but everybody does different looks throughout the game. We had some different looks, also, so you find a way to make in-game adjustments, and whenever we got a great lead of what we were doing and what they were, they had a real good plan and kept us off balance, and then when we had opportunities we didn't make them. So that's -- you feel like you're so close to making a play or doing this and we had pressure or had a breakdown. It's just not winning football.
Q. Did the rain have an impact?
BARRY ODOM: No, not really, I don't think so.
Q. The penalties, what was the biggest thing that changed since last week?
BARRY ODOM: I don't know, I need to look at it. I felt like we were either fundamentally incorrect or -- obviously I know what the last two were on defensive offsides. We had a defensive holding early on that turned into a pass interference, a hands to the face. A number of them, I think, by all positions. It was obviously -- we didn't do a very good job coaching.
Q. Is there anything preparation-wise --
BARRY ODOM: We're going to evaluate it. I felt like once we got here on Friday, it was locked in just like I talked about, just like a normal home game for us, to the minute. You know, we'll evaluate that and look in the mirror and find out what we need to do, because we turn around here in seven days and we're on the road.
Q. Did you get a look at Gillespie's --
BARRY ODOM: It was targeting. The quarterback went into a slide, Gillespie had already gone into the position of making a tackle and he lowered his head at the last minute, and it appeared to me just like they called it.
Q. Tucker is usually pretty good from that 45- to 50-yard range. What do you think was different today?
BARRY ODOM: I don't know, I need to talk to him. I haven't had a chance to visit with him and kind of see what he thought. Those two were momentum plays that we missed out on, and I'll visit with him in a minute here when we get back inside.
Q. What did you think of Kelly's performance today overall?
BARRY ODOM: I felt like overall offensively we weren't very good, and that's all 11 guys. I thought the opportunity to connect on down the field throws, we weren't there. We were off, and that, again, credit to them because they made us off, and we weren't good enough to overcome that.
Q. Do you feel like Kelly was more eager to scramble if maybe the first option wasn't there?
BARRY ODOM: I don't think so. I felt like he did a lot, but I don't know that it was more than normal. I felt like there were a couple times that there was a little bit of pressure, and just reaction-wise he felt like that was our best option at the time.
Q. That early sequence of J.J.'s penalty and sack and Tucker missing it, did that do anything to your momentum?
BARRY ODOM: Oh, absolutely. Yeah, anytime you're in position to maybe convert on a 3rd down and you've got a penalty and then the next snap you miss a field goal, that's draining, but also you're going to have plays that don't go your way. That's the game of football. So let's regroup and snap out of it and get on to the next one, and we didn't do a very good job of that the entire game.
Q. What do you telling your players in the locker room?
BARRY ODOM: Well, kind of the same things I'm telling you guys. It was not a very good performance. We didn't do a very good job coaching them, obviously, leading up to the game, because we didn't execute. So why did we not? Those are reasons that we've got to -- we'd better rally around the opportunity to continue to move forward if we don't, then next week we'll be sitting here playing Kentucky, and what are we going to do, we're going to sit here -- nobody feels sorry for us, so let's find a way to get better and then go to it.
Q. What did you say after the unsportsmanlike --
BARRY ODOM: We've got to be smart. One guy said something, he said something back, they flagged him. They usually get the second guy. That's the way it works. We've talked about that over and over and over. It doesn't matter. Be in the moment of controlling your emotions, and we didn't do that.
Q. (On the play of the defense today.)
BARRY ODOM: Well, we didn't win the game, so it wasn't good enough. I don't think we tackled very well. There were times on the line of scrimmage that we felt like we had him in position, that we had him bottled up, so to speak, and didn't make the play, but we didn't play winning ball. We didn't coach winning football. Not good in any area.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT