MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Alan Dunbar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about what was going through your mind as that round progressed. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   I was just trying to stay positive.   I didn't get off to an ideal start.   I had trouble at the first and then trouble at the second and then I just kept leaving myself the wrong side of the hole on the front nine.   I couldn't get going.   I kept making bogeys.   I shot 9‑over on the front nine, I think. 

Q.   Do you start to wonder at all that when the snowballs don't stop. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Yeah, you do.

Q.   Do you start to wonder what the number is going to be at the end of the day at all?
ALAN DUNBAR:   Definitely.   Yeah.   I was hitting good shots on the front nine and kept making bogeys. 
And even at 9 I hit two shots into 9 and had to hole a long one for a par. 

Q.   Was there a score you feared shooting today at all?
ALAN DUNBAR:   No. 

Q.   Graeme said he was feeling like he must not have given you very good advice in your practice rounds. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   No, he did, but I got a couple yardages wrong as well and went long a couple of times.   And it's Augusta.   If you wrong side yourself you're going to struggle.   That's basically what happened on the front nine. 

Q.   Must be quite pleased that you played so well at the end.   You finished well. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Yeah, I hit the ball fine.

Q.   Trevor posted a pretty good score. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Obviously here if you're hitting the ball well and attacking the greens you can score.

Q.   When you've had tough days when you're an amateur and you can say, look, it's a learning experience and, you know, talk about that. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Well, it's definitely a learning experience on a course like this.   Trevor hit the ball great all day and put the ball in the right spot all day. 

Q.   Did you have any kind of encouragement from Trevor and George along the way?
ALAN DUNBAR:   Yeah, they were both chatting away to me and to take my mind off it a bit and yeah, they were two nice guys.

Q.   How much did that help you maybe calm you a little bit?
ALAN DUNBAR:   I was calm the whole day.   I just kept leaving myself in the wrong place.   I was hitting good shots to the wrong places. 

Q.   You said you played well on the front nine, did you do something different on the back nine because the story was vastly different. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Not really, I hit a good tee shot off the first and then I didn't hit a great second shot, but I left it above it. 
The second one was the worst shot I hit all day.   I had to take a drop out of the hazard and I didn't know it was on a rope because of the straw, I couldn't make the straws of the ball move, so I hit it and it just shot right into the trees and kicked back into the hazard. 

Q.   Did you enjoy the round out there?
ALAN DUNBAR:   I did, I enjoyed the whole way around.   It wasn't scoring great, but I enjoyed it.   It was a great experience. 

Q.   The second round tomorrow.   Obviously you have a chance of just making a good impression the second round because the cut's probably, possibly out of reach. 
ALAN DUNBAR:   Yeah, so I'll go out and, as I say, I'll try to leave myself in better positions.

Q.   Who did you practice with the last couple days?
ALAN DUNBAR:   Graeme yesterday, Henrik Stenson, Webb Simpson and Michael Thompson on Monday. 

Q.   What kind of expectations, after having seen the course, did you have coming out?
ALAN DUNBAR:   Well, that I would have broke 80, to be honest.   But I just wrong sided myself so many times. 

Q.   Did you see your friends out there?
ALAN DUNBAR:   Yeah, it was good to see them, they were watching, they were giving me encouragement.   But there's not much you can do.   If you're struggling on the greens, it's hard to hole putts if you can't get the pace.   You get the right line at things and then get the pace wrong.

Q.   Did the course change much from practice to today?
ALAN DUNBAR:   I felt it was a bit firmer today, yeah.   Firmer and quicker, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT