SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2010
Ben Crenshaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 BEN CRENSHAW: The wind did switch a little and so we haven't seen this wind before. It wasn't so much a head wind or anything. 4, 5, and 12 it was blowing the same direction. And they were a little bit more across today and you felt like you could play them.   
 I thought they did a pretty good job in setting it up. But it's good to see some good scoring and that's what we want. These greens are beautiful. They're really good. The fairways to me are a little soft, very soft. And I would like to see a lot more firmness to the ground, but I don't know if we're going to get that. But it played okay.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: I don't know. That grass, it's a baby Kentucky bluegrass, it's very hearty. You can -- it will be fine.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Great. Well played. He played a really good round and got some balls in there pin high and the greens are beautiful. Like I said, these greens, he used some good judgment. I know he hit the ball, he had to have hit the ball pin high or just short, and that's what really helps here. You can't go past too many holes here. But it's very hard to judge in the wind and the altitude. It's dry. The ball's going a pretty good ways today.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: I did. I did. I hit a few good shots, but I hit some, I'm a little bit -- I hit some not solid approach shots, just off the greens. But I did a good job of getting it up-and-down. But you're going to have to do that on days like this.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Unbelievable. When the wind blows like this, there's a few putts that I don't particularly like. We didn't build the course that way. You want to have latitude, this should be a running, bouncing course. That's why we built it the way we did. But it's constricted in areas and it's, gosh, there was, you know, there was a few patch that's are really, really thick. Really thick. I was afraid if I took a swing at it I was afraid I might hurt myself. So I opted for a long third. But, you know.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Well, I have a lot on my mind. I'm looking at a lot of different things and I got some very nice reactions and a lot of them feel like they can play it even in a breeze. I hope it doesn't get anymore than this. I know it's forecasted not good tomorrow and I'm worried about that. You don't want to, if you get any more wind and the greens get fast, then the ball is going to blow around and then you're worried about the disruption of play. So I'm worried, I'm worried with the weather. But they put a good amount of water on the greens too and they dried out pretty good today. They're beautiful. They really are.   
  
  Q. Because you are the designer and your playing here it's really tough on concentration, is it really that much more difficult for you this week than maybe any other Major you've ever played?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: I never have done it before. Yeah, you know you're going to be under scrutiny and you know that not everybody's going to like the course. So that's the reality. I just hope they enjoyed playing it and I hope it's interesting. So, but it is, it's very difficult for me.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Not so much, I think maybe, you know, obviously we have had tough practice conditions. Some people are seeing it for the very first time too. The more they play it, the more they know it. They know what to do and what not to do. Familiarization of the course helps.  
  
  Q. Did you have any wow moments like, wow, this is better than I thought?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Well, no, I had my favorite holes, I have a lot of favorites here. The second hole is really a neat little par-3. It takes a precise shot. It might be one of the best holes on the course. It's only 155 yards, and that, but there's a lot of different types of holes. We have lots of mix of par-4s and par-3s and very good par-5s too. So I don't know, some people like some holes rather than other ones, but I don't know. Let's hope the weather cooperates.   
  
  Q. As you walk around do you see things that maybe you would change now that you didn't originally envision?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Just a couple of things. I think that the 8th green, it's a short par-4 up the hill, I'm not sure we left enough green on the very top, because it's a very, very tough pin position on the very top left. And I want to look at this this week and see. I'll talk to my partner Bill and I think we'll have to expand it a little bit and we would like to do that.  
  
  Q. How soon would you do that?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Well we would have to talk to the club. But it was something that, it was in our minds and it was a tough green to build because it's a short par-4, but there's just not quite enough room up there.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Yes, it is. The players are this adept in the things that they can do, the way that they feel like they can play a golf course, I mean they're looking at everything. They're looking at everything under the microscope. But no question, I've known these guys forever and I know what they like and dislike, I think, sometimes. But it is a different piece of property. It's a very undulating piece of property. The ball is always moving, it seems like. We had to be real careful on the routing.   
 Hopefully, we took a path that is the least resistance in walking. If we would have gone the other direction on say across, it would have been more of a climb. So that's very much in the mind too of everybody.  
  
  Q. Are you more comfortable in these shoes or in your mud boots?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Well that's a good question. It's been fun playing and practicing this week and seeing what it will do under really harsh conditions. And then playing it in competition too. That's fascinating to me. I mean I've never done it. But I sure enjoyed building it.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: I did.   
  
  Q. Does it play the way you designed it to play?  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Yeah, it's still windy.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BEN CRENSHAW: Hopefully they will, you know, hopefully they will do well. They have had their moments. But there's a lot of really, really fine memories. They have put a lot of money into this clubhouse.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT