U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2007
Ben Crenshaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you assess that thing?  It looks like it's going to be really good, but not quite enough?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: No, it's too many. But we had a heck of a test of golf this week. I played well for the most part today. A little bobble at the finish again. I just didn't play quite well enough. It was a nice week.   
  
  Q.  When you made the three birdies going into the early side of the back nine, did you start thinking?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: No, I really didn't, because I really only looked at the leaderboard one time and I saw that Tom Watson was 9-under. And I was way far back at that time.   



 So I didn't give it much thought.  Because my hands were still full playing the course.  And believe me, it's a, you have got to pick your spots out on this course.  It's a really heck of a test of golf.   
  
  Q.  Plenty of heat where you come from, obviously, but how did you deal with the heat today?  What did you think of the conditions?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: Gatorade and water. I really thought that in some parts of the golf course the wind blew harder than others. I can't explain that, but it felt like it was real brisk at times and then it would go a little bit softer.   



 But on a course like this, you just got to be on your toes every second.  The greens were keen today.  The pins were tough.  I thought that driving areas this week, it was a really tough driving test, I thought.  Because the ball, if the fairways dry out, then it starts playing a little more elusive, so.  It was a good test of golf.   
  
  Q.  Are you tired?   
 BEN CRENSHAW:  Yes, I'm very tired.  Very tired.  Mentally so, yes.   
  
  Q.  Where do you think this course ranks?  You played them, just about played them all.   
   BEN CRENSHAW: This is an incredible creation. I knew what happened here and what was put together and how it was done is astounding. I mean, it just doesn't, you cannot, there's not too many people in the world who have an eye and a will to work and to do things in a bold fashion as Pete Dye does.   



 As I said earlier in the week, he's probably the best at working with a certain material.  And just, he just goes at it like a badger.  But he's remarkable.  I mean, if you go out here, if you looked out there, you, and if you knew something about what the property was and what it looks like now, you, what a creation.  It is a heck of a creation.   
  
  Q.  Do you get greedy when you get that close?  I mean, you want to get into contention and then you're there, and is your assessment kind of knowing that there was a little bit of room there?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: Well, you have to take what the course gives you, I mean you can't, you have to assess each shot. And each value of something that you'll try. Given the contours and the approach shots. And it's a -- it's risk/reward management all the time. So it's tough.   
  
  Q.  Where do you personally take a finish like this, momentum-wise for the rest of the year, what does this do for you going forward?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: Well, I played well for the most part. I just hit some really dumb shots. And some kind of strange things happened. But it happens to us all.   



 On a course like this, you are going to be, there's spots where you're going to lose one or two shots just like that.  And your comportment and your attitude just, you just get defensive.  But for the most part I played pretty well.   
  
  Q.  Since you saw Tom at 9-under and then there's been a lot of movement with him and the other guys, the back nine, is it lending itself to just, you got to hang on type of thing?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: Yeah, and this direction of breeze, the end of the course is tough. 15 -- 14 on in, because you're hitting up wind.   



 15's a very tough hole.  I'm sure a lot of people dropped shots there.  But anything could happen on 17 and 18.   
  
  Q.  Got any Brad Bryant stories?   
   BEN CRENSHAW: He's the funniest guy. Yeah, I'll give you one. I teed off in Abilene, Texas one year we played a tournament, professional tournament, I was playing with Lanny Watkins. And we had this guy on the first tee who would announce you. And at that time Brad had not won a tournament.   



 And I played with Lanny Watkins and he goes through Lanny's spiel, tournament wins; and he goes through my spiel; and then he gets and he said, "And Brad Bryant."  And that's all he said.   
 Brad just dropped the club and he said, "Now God dang it", he said, "Everybody around here knows that I've never won nothing."  So he's a great guy, he's a very self-effacing guy.  He's played some unbelievable golf, he's played spectacular on the Champions Tour.  He hits it long, he's putted well, he's done everything well.  He's managed his game well.   
  
  Q.  Nobody mentioned him all week until the last couple days.   
   BEN CRENSHAW: Well, that's always his statement in the paper today, he said, "I try to get in position to where if I play my best, I can win." It looks like it's going to happen.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT