MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Ben Crenshaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Talk about your day.  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Jonas played a wonderful round of golf, did a lot of things well.   He hit some really pretty iron shots, made a couple of key saves, and he played well.   It was fun watching him.   The speed on his putter wasn't correct, it was a little short or a little long and he battled it all day.  
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying it?   You enjoyed playing ‑‑  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Um, no.  
(Laughter.)   No, I'm having fun being here, I'm not quite capable.   I have to play really precise.   My fairway woods have to be sharp.  
   
 Q.   Do you still feel some memories?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Oh, sure.   Sure.   You see different shots and different shots that people play that you, it reminds you of shots that you have seen in the past.   And it's fun to still work them out.   Most of the time Carl and I will always look at people's shots and we'll kind of read and size up the shots and which direction, what touch, it's still fun to watch every ball out here.   That's what's fun.  
   
 Q.   Anything come back from the first time you won here?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Oh, yeah.   Sure.   I think each champion relives their tracks wherever they were.   Regardless of whether it's the last round or the first round, you just remember shots.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel like it's been 30 years?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   No, it's 43.  
(Laughter.)   Well, no, I look at it these days with Carl.   Carl is, he's just such a special person in my life.   This is his 53rd time around here.   Jonas Blixt I told him, he said, I said, he's been here, this is his 53rd time.   And he just went, oh, my gosh.  
But, no, since 1976 with Carl.   That's a long time.   But, no, I said something at the dinner the other night, I told Arnold, we're commemorating your 50th win in '64.   I said, Gary, it's 40 years since you won, '74.   And then I said, Jack, we didn't know how to attach a year to you, I said, you won it so many times.  
So, no, we had fun.   It was a great dinner.   Adam is just such a polished gentleman.   He's just a wonderful guy.   He's smooth and calm and very gentlemanly.   I met his parents at Kapalua, you could tell where it comes from.  
   
 Q.   As an architect, what do you think about 17?   What should they do there where that tree was?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   I think they will watch all the shots this year.   They chart every shot, so let's see where the balls land to the average and then they will take the weather into consideration, whether it's up‑wind or whether it's the temperatures and, I don't know, they will make a calculated move.  
I think that it's wise of them to hold off for awhile and just study it.   I think that's good.   I don't know.   I can see another tree in there somewhere, I'm sure.   But who knows.  
   
 Q.   Jonas hit a great shot in 13 there.   It looked like it was way back.   Is that a pin you've seen a lot?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   That's a good one.   And, yeah, I've seen it, but it's a wonderful pin and it's more conducive to get the balls close.   I think there's enough firmness in the greens with guys going at it with the second shot it's going to pitch forward and go up the slope.   He played it beautifully.   He hit a pretty good putt too.  
   
 Q.   It's just a brutal putt back there.  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Yeah, it is.   The middle pin right is exciting as well, they will probably have that one or day probably but left and then the back.   But it is, it's amazing how that green gets that ball in there if you hit it right.  
   
 Q.   Some old guys on leaderboard.   Did you notice that?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   I did.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Sandy Lyle?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Yeah, it's wonderful.  
   
 Q.   Jimenez?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   Jimenez.   I'm not surprised with Sandy, and Fred loves this place, I wouldn't be surprised if he stays in there most of the week.   He loves it.   Sandy, too.   I mean, they have the game to do it.  
Jose's one fascinating player.   He hits the ball right in the middle of the club almost every time and he's a good thinker.   It's hard to believe he's 50.   Somebody said that he's going to play in Atlanta next week, they better watch out.  
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Is it realistic to think that somebody that's over 50 can win here?  
BEN CRENSHAW:   It would have to be the Freddie‑type, length and height.   Sandy has got height, too.   But at this point probably Freddie has a little better touch, so to speak, not belittle Sandy at all, but I wouldn't be surprised.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT