THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2011
Gordon Brand Jnr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON BRAND JNR: Very good score today. I played really well, to be honest. I think I hit 18 greens and probably missed one fairway. So it was very solid. If I could have got my putter going, I could have shot, well, not lower but a couple better. But I'm very pleased with how I played. 
I thought the course, from when I played it in the past, has always run faster. But the back nine's tough. You can't drive the ball well. Can't play from the heather. So really, really pleased with how I played today.

 Q. Were you inspired with playing with the defending champion Bernhard Langer?
 GORDON BRAND JNR: Yes. He's always nice to play. He goes about his business very well. If you can sort of hang around where he is, you're not going to do too bad.

 Q. Big week for you this week, Gordon, and this is where there's some real money?
 GORDON BRAND JNR: Big week. You've got to treat them all the same. So I've done well. Looking forward to coming here. Bonus to play with Bernhard, and I played well today.

 Q. What do you make of the big news of the day? Tiger Woods and his caddie, Stevie Williams, are splitting. Are you surprised to hear that?
 GORDON BRAND JNR: No, not really. It's professional golf. We have changes every so often. So it's a bit like a marriage, isn't it? Sometimes it's good.
 So I can understand Steve Williams as well. Tiger is going through what he's going through. Maybe he's going to try to find someone who is playing better or playing more. I can understand that.

 Q. Steve Williams says that he's wasted the last two years of his life. I think there's a little bit of anger from his point of view, that he's just, the last two years have slipped by without Tiger really saying too much to him. 
 GORDON BRAND JNR: Well, I'm not aware of the comments of Tiger. But I think obviously from a bagman's point of view you would want to be competing, doing his work, and obviously he's been on the sidelines. And from world domination to where am I, what am I doing, and I can understand that. 
 I think like everybody, you want to be out there competing, doing your job, and getting in the mix. And he was very lucky for a long time that he was in the mix an awful lot with Tiger.

 Q. From Tiger's point of view, he's on his way back. Do you feel this is a case of him trying to make a cleaner break, trying to get all of his past baggage out of the way and making a new start?
 GORDON BRAND JNR: Yeah, I'm sure it possibly is the case. Tiger needs to reset and rego and so that may be one way of let's have a new look and someone who is going to talk to me differently and it's a different view. 
 So whatever. And Tiger's an extraordinary man. Game of golf misses him badly. For whatever reason he's not here, knee injury or personal problems. But I think golf is not quite as exciting without him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT