U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Gary Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, that was a good finish.  How would you characterize your two days?
GARY NICKLAUS: That was a much-needed birdie on the last hole, just mentally.  But I mean, hey, it's the first professional major I've played in a long time.  To be here and play the first two rounds and be playing on the weekend, it's -- that's the first step, right?
I wish I would have played a little bit better than I did today.  I actually hit the ball better today than I did yesterday.  But just left a few shots out there.  Didn't -- my last six holes weren't the best, but to finish with the birdie was nice.
Q. Did you see any difference in the course yesterday to today, or is it pretty much --
GARY NICKLAUS: I think it's a little quicker today, little quicker.  Not a whole lot different.  I think the wind started to blow the last few holes just a little bit, not a lot.  Hopefully it starts blowing a gale and hurricanes and everything else.
Q. You had your son caddying for you, your dad was watching you.  What's that been like to sort of have three generations of your family all out there with you?
GARY NICKLAUS: We're got all kinds of people out here.  My mom, my dad, my son, my daughter, my girlfriend, friends, my business partner and his family.  So we got a good group here.  We're having a good time.  And never been to Notre Dame before, but it's an amazing campus and glad I got to see it.  It's amazing.  It's fun.
Q. I know you're an Ohio State fan.
GARY NICKLAUS: I am.
Q. Is it a little strange being out here in Notre Dame country?
GARY NICKLAUS: I am less of a non-Notre Dame fan now than I was.
Q. Have you been on the campus?  What have you seen from the campus?  Have you had a chance to get around?
GARY NICKLAUS: I actually have.  In the registration we got to see the stadium and locker room and stuff like that.  And I actually -- my girlfriend and I were walking around, we went to the cathedral the other day, and we came out and there was a police officer and he looked over and he was like, are you guys lost?  I'm like, no.  And he's like, well, what are you looking for?  I was like, We're not quite sure.  And he's like, Have you ever seen the inside of the golden dome?  He took us inside there, and he's like, how much time do you have?  So we drove around with him in his police car for about two hours, went all over campus, and it was fantastic.
Q. Did you go to the Grotto and stuff like that?
GARY NICKLAUS: The Grotto?  We thought it was closed.  So we didn't go over there.  But we'll get over to the grotto.
Q. She's still there.
GARY NICKLAUS: Okay.
Q. What do you want to do better this weekend to move up the leaderboard?
GARY NICKLAUS: I just got to make more putts and make birdies.  Not -- I'm hitting the ball decent.  I hit enough fairways today.  It hit enough greens.  I hit it close enough to the hole.  I just didn't really make anything.  And then when I had a chance to make a bogey, I did.  (Laughing.)
Q. How old are your kids now?
GARY NICKLAUS: 16 and 14.  And my stepson just turned -- I should know this -- 25 two days ago.
Q. And you mentioned the four businesses that you have to keep an eye on.  What percentage of your time goes to the business versus the golf?
GARY NICKLAUS: Well, I've got good partners.  So they take care of that stuff really well, which has allowed me this year to put more time into playing golf.  But it still takes up a good bit of time.
Q. And then the satisfaction you get, when you're successful business-wise, this almost becomes hobbyish, I suppose.
GARY NICKLAUS: It is, but be a little bit more than a hobby.  But yeah.
Q. I guess the gratification you've gotten in your life now from business and making good decisions there.
GARY NICKLAUS: Mm-hmm.  It's good.  I mean, we've -- we've -- my partner and I, we started in business about nine years ago, and we've -- we're doing well.  Camden Capital, I think we're managing close to 4 1/2 billion now.  So we're -- hey, it's -- we've -- my partner and our executives that run the company, they do a great job.  Good people.
Q. Has your son caddied for you before, or is this the first time?
GARY NICKLAUS: I've caddied for him a lot, and there's usually like a lot of yelling and screaming back and forth when I caddie for him, as most dads with their sons.  But he caddied in the qualifier and then this.
Q. Is there less yelling when he caddies for you?
GARY NICKLAUS: There hasn't been any yelling.  It's been good.  GT, no yelling yet, huh?  He's very low key.
Q. Did he get a haircut?
GARY NICKLAUS: No.  No.  I'm trying to get my hair like his.  See?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT