BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 2, 2000
Gary Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Would you take us through what your thoughts were, what club you were hitting, what
you were trying to do with the ball?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Well, I had -- I was playing 163 yards, a little downwind, off to the
left. I chose an 8-iron, just trying to hit a nice, smooth 8-iron. I caught it about, you
know, an eighth inch, quarter inch heavy, but I still thought it might get there. But it
ended up obviously right in the lip, and I didn't have -- not much I could do from that
position. I tried to get it out, tried to get real steep on the ball, but it caught the
top and came back in the bunker.  
 
Q. Did it hit against the lip and roll back?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: It was right on the edge, yeah, where it pitched. When I watched it from
the tee, I thought it was plugged, but it came out of the plug lie and was sitting on the
edge of it.  
 
Q. If it had gone five feet more, would it have made the green?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: If it would have gone a foot more, it would have made the green. Might
not have, because there's kind of a little roll on the front of the green. If it was three
feet farther, it's right next to the hole.  
 
Q. It's got to be a little kind of empty feeling not being able to really play your
whole game on your best chance to win. 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Yeah, I mean, it was -- you know, it was kind of -- you know, it was
kind of a Catch-22. Yeah, I'd like to play 18. Worst that could have happened today was
second place. A lot worse could have happened if I had to go out and play 18 which, you
know, I wasn't anticipating. You know, I finished in second place. I had a chance to win
against one of the greatest players in the world right now, and I think it just lets me
know that there's good things to come, good things coming down the road.  
 
Q. Three rounds in the 60s. I guess that's as good as you could have done. What did you
learn here? What did you find out? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Well, I mean, basically I have to sit back and reflect a little bit
about it when I get back home and see what exactly happened this week, what I could do to
improve. But I would say that the weeks prior to this kind of have helped my patience.
Yesterday I started out with, you know, a bogey on the 1st hole and 3rd hole. I was 2-over
after three. I came back real strong and played 6-under the last 15 holes. It could have
gone the other way, but I was patient with myself and things went my way. I made a lot of
birdies and played solid.  
 
Q. That putt at 18 yesterday that spun out of the hole, that could have been the
winning putt depending on how things turned out. Do you kind of smile as how close you
came?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I thought I made the putt. Actually from the fairway, I knew the weather
forecast, I knew there was a chance we weren't going to play today. Really wanted to make
birdie on that hole. I hit a great shot into the green, hit a good putt, it just didn't go
in. You can look back at Phil's putt on 17 or 16 that he missed -- 17, right?  
 
Q. Yeah. 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: He missed about a 4-footer there. Either of those putts, you know, it
could go either way. If "if and buts" were candy and nuts, every day would be
Christmas.  
 
Q. The fact that Phil made birdie on 16, did that take a little string out, knowing if
you hit a really good bunker shot, might not have made a difference?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Yeah. But he didn't have a whole lot of pressure on his putt. I mean, if
I would have hit a good shot in there, who knows what he would have done on his putt. I
was looking at 4 at best. He just kind of stepped up, hit it, let it go. I mean, I wish my
shot from the tee would have been a little better so it would have been a little more
interesting.  
 
Q. Did you talk with your father and mother last night, anytime before today?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Yeah.  
 
Q. What encouragement did they give you?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Just very happy for me. Just, you know, rooting me on, wanting me to do
my best. 
 
Q. You mentioned yesterday and today that patience -- you've mentioned that several
times before. This has got to be your best tournament so far. 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: You're correct (laughter).  
 
Q. Was that a turning point for you?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I hope so. I mean, this is a big milestone for me. I mean, I came out,
you know, I proved to myself that I can win out here. You know, I was one shot away from
winning the tournament, one putt away yesterday. Playing one hole against one of the best
players in the world away from winning the tournament. You know, it gives my confidence a
boost. I'm looking forward to playing in the MCI in two weeks.  
 
Q. Do you think you were more patient in this tournament than in past tournaments? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Well, I think I played a lot better in this tournament. When I did have
some, you know, trouble along the way, it didn't bother me. So, I mean, yeah, I was
patient, but I played better as well.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT