THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2000
Gary Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Wanted to come out today and get off to a good start. Obviously my first
Memorial Tournament. Very excited about that. Got off to a good start, 2-under on the
front nine, and I hit three bad iron shots on the back -- actually, all of them 6-irons on
13, 16 and 18. I hit them all left and made three bogeys. But other than those three shots
and a couple putts that could have gone in, it was a pretty solid round.  
 
Q. Gary, how old were you the first time you ever played this course? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: When did it open? '75? So I would have been five. 
 
Q. You would have been five years old and you played it then? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Well, if you want to call that playing. (Laughter.) I hit golf shots on
the golf course.  
 
Q. What's your first memory of this place, something you did as a little kid around
here or something? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I have a lot of memories of this place, and a lot of the GMs that have
been here don't like some of the memories that I have. (Laughter.) Cleaning out the messes
that my friends up here and I made in the junior locker room and stuff like that.  
 
Q. This was also off-campus housing, right? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Yes, it was. But I had grown up a little bit by then.  
 
Q. Did you live here when you were in college? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: For the most part. I lived on campus for the first three years, but I
spent a lot of time out here all the years.  
 
Q. When you went home over the weekend after Colonial, and talked to your dad later
that afternoon, he wasn't real happy that you chose to go to Florida instead of coming up
here. Did you need to get away from for a day or so before you came up here?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I went home and tried to figure out why I missed four cuts in a row. 
 
Q. Did you figure it out? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Played a little better today, didn't I? I was planning on not playing
any golf when I went home, but I actually went out and practiced and still had time to go
out for a nice dinner out on the boat.  
 
Q. How about the greens today, Gary, how did you put those greens today? A lot of
people have said if you're not in the right spot, you're dead?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: They are -- a little more speed to them today than they had the during
rounds. If you get above the hole, you've got to be pretty careful. Which, like here on
18, you know, I hit above the hole and left of it, and the thing probably had a 15-,
18-foot break coming down the hill. And I hit a pretty decent putt, but the strong wind
came up which kind of held it short of the hole, so I still had a 3 1/2 -, 4-footer still
going down the hill. And if I had -- if I'd hit that hard and be aggressive on that putt
and don't hit the hole I've got a 6- ,7-footer coming back, so you couldn't be aggressive
on downhill putts at all.  
 
Q. Could you see this coming after your practice? Did you turn your -- had your play
changed? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I kind of -- something clicked when I was playing my practice round
yesterday, and I started playing well about the last 12 holes of my practice round and
felt pretty good about what I was going.  
 
Q. Clicked on the swing, the attitude?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Just the swing. Just figured out how to hit good golf shots. I had been
hitting -- last four weeks I've been hitting good shots, but I've been also hitting a lot
of bad shots and not consistently. And when I say that, I mean not consistently left or
consistently right. I've been, just -- like a shotgun, just scattering everywhere. And
when you're doing that, you have to kind of figure out to kind of close the golf course
down a little bit where you can get rid of one side of the golf course or the other. And I
haven't been able to do that at all. And I feel a lot better with my game at all, my good
shots are better and my bad shots are better than they were, and that's what you're
looking for. 
 
Q. Is that something somebody pointed out to you?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: No. It was -- actually just came from playing -- played a practice round
yesterday with Aaron Batteley and Billy Andrade. We were walking down the second or 3rd
hole and Billy looks at me and goes, "I love how these young kids coming over from,
like the Swedish Golf Federation and Australian Golf Federation starting these kind of
regimented training at a very young age, and their backswing is perfect right to the back.
No nonsense, just right there." And I just kind of -- that's kind of what it should
be. Just no nonsense, just take it back to where you want it to go and hit it. And that's
kind of what I just started -- taking that thought in my own mind and I started hitting
the ball well.  
 
Q. Did you get hurt by the wind in 16 or did you just not hit them where you wanted to
be?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I just did not hit them where I wanted to at all. 16, 13 and 18 were all
three the same shots, same club. All pulled hooks.  
 
Q. How about the putt at 15?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: 15 was a bad putt. I did not misread it. I just hit a bad putt.  
 
Q. How long have you dreamed about playing in this tournament, from the first time you
saw it or were you a lot older? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I spent a lot of time up here watching this golf tournament and knowing
what this golf tournament means to my father, to my mother, and what it has grown to mean
to me over the years. I've wanted to play in this tournament for a long time. It's very
special for me to be here. 
 
Q. What is the most responsible for the scoring out there today, would it be the wind
or would it be any of the course changes, would it the greens, the fact that the greens
have been able to dry out so well?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: It's all of the above. The rough is pretty thick. So if you're missing
fairways, you can't get it close to the hole. The fairways are narrow. Some of the subtle
changes in the greens. Some of the greens have little bit more pitch to them, not a lot. 
 
Q. Seeing a lot of pars on the par 5s which you don't usually see?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: The 5th hole is no longer a two-shot hole. It can be, if the pin is in
the right position, but you're going to see a lot more guys that are within the distance
that they would normally hit at it will lay up just because of the severity if you miss
the green. And the greens will no longer become soft, where the golf course used to be if
it rained. It would take a couple days for the greens to dry out and get firm. And when
they got firm, they probably were harder than they will be now. But now they will be more
consistent and -- if it rains six inches tonight and then stopped, you know, tomorrow they
would still be pretty firm, just because of the construction of the greens and the way
they will drain the water. 
 
Q. Once you got inside the ropes today, was there anything different about the feel of
this tournament than you had expected from being on the outside of the ropes all those
years?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I've been on the inside of the ropes here twice before. I played as a
marker two years when I was in college. I played with Hal Sutton one time and I played
with Vijay Singh -- actually, I played with Vijay two years ago. So I've been inside the
ropes playing during the tournament and kind of seen what it's like. But it's still a golf
course. It's a golf course that I played a lot, and you still just have to go out and
shoot a good score. 
 
Q. Do you recall what your scores were as a marker? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: No. I just tried to keep out of their way.  
 
Q. I've read where you really wanted to qualify for this tournament. I've also read
where you already had qualified by your finish in the Q-school is that right? You had not
qualified by being second in Q-school?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I wasn't second in X-school. I was 12th. I was 12th at Q-school, but
when I finished second in Atlanta, that put me up to No. 2 in the reshuffle from Tour
school. But as far as getting in the tournament, it wasn't -- I know it's Top-70 from last
year, and all the other, you know, past champions things like that and then they fill the
field from this year's money list. And I didn't know where I was going to fall. I didn't
think that I would have gotten in after missing he last four cuts, even though it was
pretty high up on the money list.  
 
Q. Knowing what this tournament means to your family as you talked about a minute ago,
and also having played here the last -- did you have any more butterflies or more
nervousness than when you normally might?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Yeah, on the first tee kind of started out a little shaky on the first
shot and my opening second shot. The bunker shot, it almost went in on 1; kind of settled
things down a little bit and went to work. Forgot about the surroundings a little bit and
got in my zone and just started playing.  
 
Q. I would think that in your first full year on TOUR you would be pretty pleased. How
do you think your year is going overall, and any goals from this point on the rest of the
year?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Not extremely happy with how my year has gone. I've had one good
tournament. I've had a couple mediocre tournaments, and then I've had, you know, quite a
few missed cuts. And there's a lot of room for improvement in my game. And that's what I
have to work on and that's what I have to get rid of, the mediocre and not-so-good stuff
and have a lot more good tournaments. I mean, financially, my year is going okay, but as
far as my play goes, not real thrilled with that.  
 
Q. How many tournaments do you think you are going to play total? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: 28 to 30.  
 
Q. Do you know what might be best round you've had on this course recreationally,
practice round, anything? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Lowest I can remember is 68. But I might -- I might have shot a couple
-- I might have shot 67 at one point, I'm not sure.  
 
Q. Do you remember the circumstances? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Just playing.  
 
Q. How much of an impact does your dad have on your game right now? Does he work with
you at all? Do you work with him? Do you ask him? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: A little bit. When he's around and I need some help, I'll obviously ask
for his advice. But I've played, what, 15 tournaments this year and he's been at two. So,
there hasn't been a whole lot of interaction between the two of us because we're in two
different places. But, I mean, he knows my game very well. And he -- he and I do have some
different ideas of where we think that we should be -- or where I think I should be and
where he thinks I should be, but I kind of leave that arguing up to he and Rick. But he
understands what I'm trying to do and he understands what Rick (Smith) and I try and do.
So when Rick is not around, his eyes are good. And when, you know, Rick is around, his
eyes are obviously good, too. So it's -- I've got a couple people that know my game and
can help.  
 
Q. I was wondering, from the tournament in Atlanta, what you might have learned from
that, taken from it or my any -- how much has that helped you, other than the financial
aspect? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I'll never know how much it really helped me until the next time I get
into a playoff or a position to -- coming down the stretch to win. But I would think that
when that time comes, I'll be able to reflect on what I did then and what I did wrong and
how I can improve it.  
 
Q. Did you think you might have tried to hit the ball too close or something in a
playoff hole?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: No. If I got to do that over, I might have choked it a little bit and
tried to hit it hard because it was a smooth 8-iron and wasn't a big one at all. And I
kind of just tried to make it real smooth, and I think that under that circumstance, if
I'd have tried to hit it hard and been more aggressive with the shot, I might have got a
better result. 
 
Q. You came within what, a foot of having a better result?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: It was about two or three feet. Probably three feet. It landed about a
foot short of the lip -- and above the lip, there's about -- about that much of slope
against you, and then that's what kind of -- where everything started; so about three
feet.  
 
Q. You said your dad has been at two of the 15 tournaments. How much is that by design
--
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: He may have been at more than that. 
 
Q. How much of that is by design to kind, of keep him away so that he doesn't put
pressure on you? Is that something you guys talk about? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I don't know if that's by design. Those are tournaments he's chosen to
play in, and he wants to come out and be at some of the tournaments I'm playing in, which
I enjoy when he's around. So, I mean, it's whatever -- whatever fits into his schedule,
between his design -- design business, the company at home, the senior events that he
wants to play in, and, you know, the TOUR events that he wants to play. I mean, there's
one other tournament later this year that I would love for him to be at, is Loch Lommond
over in Scotland, but he's got the SENIOR TPC. I'm sure that he'd like to be at Loch
Lommond, but he also wants to play all 8 majors, four SENIOR and four regular TOUR.  
 
Q. Are you staying here on the facilities this week?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: I am staying at my parents' house.  
 
Q. A lot of young guys find it easier to take advice from someone else other than their
dad. Are you that way?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Sometimes. That's why I said sometimes we have different ideas.
(Smiles). Even though he's the greatest player that's ever played, he's wrong 
 sometimes, at least in my mind. (Laughter.) But he is getting smarter as he gets older.
(Smiles). 
 
Q. What is the atmosphere like when you disagree? 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: We don't disagree that often. But we're both pretty stubborn.  
 
Q. We know your father is stubborn. 
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: Really? You figured that out?  
 
Q. Can you think of an example of something small where you guys disagreed on, like
scheduling, can you give an example?
 
 GARY NICKLAUS: He thought I should have been here on Saturday and I wanted to go home
on Saturday. He wasn't real happy with me; I wasn't real happy with him questioning what I
wanted to do. We talked about it and that was the end of it. I was already home before we
talked. (Laughter.) 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT