NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Shelden Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Going to Atlanta, any reaction? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  It feels great.  I mean, Atlanta is not too far from Duke.  I feel truly blessed being in this situation.  I think it's going to be a great experience, and I'm ready to go out there and work right now. 

 Q.  What was it like sitting in there, everybody else is kind of wondering what's going to happen.  You were the one player that all of the projections seemed to be right, you going to Atlanta.  Did you have a good feeling sitting in there thinking that's where you were going? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  I didn't have a good feeling until I found out.  People can say a lot of things, but until your name gets called out, that's the sure thing.  There's no guarantee or anything like that.  Like I said anything can change, last-minute trade and things like that. 
 I went out there wide-eyed just like everybody else and waited for my name to be called out and fortunately it was called out with Atlanta and I was grateful for that. 

 Q.  You're going to a very athletic team.  What are you going to bring to the Atlanta Hawks? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  Same thing I've done in my four years in college.  I'm a defensive player who is not afraid to bang with other people, being physical.  I'm a rebounder, and also a low-post presence.  That's something I've done in my four years at Duke and something that I will continue to do at the next level with Atlanta. 

 Q.  You didn't work out for the Hawks.  What do you think you did that caught their eye so dramatically, was it just the body of work you had over your four years at Duke or was it someplace else that they saw you or what? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  I'm assuming, you know, just the way I play, the style of play I think is something that I was suitable for the team and they needed somebody who could rebound and be a b banger.  That's something that I fit in pretty well and they had a lot of interest in me and fatally, they drafted me. 

 Q.  Basically any Duke graduate has their choice of jobs and here you don't have your own choice; is that frustrating? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  No, this has been a strange couple of months for me.  I was telling my dad the other day for the first time in my life that I didn't know what I was doing the next day.  I'm pretty much on a schedule the whole course of my life and this is the first time I didn't know what's happening and everything is in the air. 
 So it's been kind of a crazy kind of few weeks, but I think it's paying off well. 

 Q.  Atlanta is a very young team.  Do you think you can make a serious impact right away with the Hawks? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  I think the things that I provide, I think I'll be able to help and like I said, I'll be a player with lowest-post presence and I can rebound the basketball.  I think I'll be able to contribute pretty quickly. 

 Q.  You came back for your senior year, does it feel like it's paying off now? 
 SHELDEN WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I always predicted late in the first round last year one of the main things that brought me back was education.  My family stresses if you start something, you have to finish that.  That's something I kind of weighed heavy on and I wanted to come back and get my degree and finish what I started with the players I came in with, and I think it paid off well, with the relationships that I've built with my teammates and then also moving up in the draft.  I think you know, it's been a great thing for me. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT