U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 29, 2012
Camille Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Camille Adams is here.   Winner of the Women's 200 Meter Butterfly.   Camille, talk about how you felt. 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   Yeah, definitely before did my own thing, was many my own world kind of like always and just scam my own race.   That's something Steve likes us to do. 
So first 100, just felt nice and relaxed and after the third 50 I kind of swam my race from there.   I don't go off Steve so much from there, I just do my own thing and last 50 came home with everything I had. 

Q.   On the first day, I think it was the first day I talked to your twin sister, Ashley, after her race.   She wanted to talk more about you than about herself.   Can you comment on the support that she and your family and the Aggie team have meant to you? 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   For sure, Ashley is my biggest fan and I think I'm hers, so I think it's such a bond that so many people don't get to experience.   I'm so privileged to have that bond with somebody.   Just the Aggie family in general is something that‑‑ coming from a club team I trained more or less with just a couple of other people or by myself. 
Training with 35 girls every day has been so much fun, and I think I picked the perfect school, and I can't imagine going anywhere without Ashley.   It's surprising A&M was the only school we looked at going together, and I'm so thankful we both ended up choosing to come to A&M.

Q.   Can you tell us about Steve.   He doesn't seem to have the persona that so many other college coaches have, but success continues to come to A&M. Tell us about Steve and how he affects the program. 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   For sure, Steve is an interesting, quirky kind of guy, and he definitely has a plan for each and every athlete that comes through A&M, and each of our plans is a little bit different. 
He's the best coach that I've ever had and he's so supportive and he listens to what you want to do.   Tamika has been a blessing being on the team this year as well, and he's good at doing things with "200" girls, and we do a lot of 200‑pace stuff, which works for Breeja as well, and I'm just so thankful. 

Q. Aggies and Longhorns are supposed to be rivals, but you and Kathleen have a good relationship.   When did you guys meet? 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   I've known Kathleen, I've seen her name for quite a while now.   Just really kind of don't know exactly when we met. 
She is such a great girl, has such a sweet heart, and I'm so excited to be going to London with such an awesome person, for sure. 

Q.   You breathe to the side.   Have you always breathed to the side, and why do you do it?   Is there a particular reason? 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   I started breathing to the side in the sixth grade, and we were playing around with my timing of the breathing and that sort of thing, and Scott MacFarland, he coaches for the Magnolia Aquatics Club in Texas, and it stuck.   People ask if it gives me an advantage or something like that.   I mean, I don't think it gives me too much of an advantage because I can't see from the other side as well, but I still saw Kathleen there on the last lap, so I don't think it hinders me, either. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CAMILLE ADAMS:   Yeah, it feels more comfortable and when I tried‑‑ we've been working on my timing of my breaths the past couple of years and it was weird, I was like, "I don't like this.   Let's go back to the side." 

Q.   I'm curious to know how much inspiration did you get from seeing Breeja win the other night? 
CAMILLE ADAMS:   For sure.   I can't begin to tell you.   She is such an awesome girl and has such a sweet heart.   She wants the best for every single other person on the team.   Just watching her go up and make the team, it was so exciting.   I was crying on national television!   I was excited for her and I think it gave me excitement for the next day, and I'm happy to be going to London with someone so sweet as Breeja.   It will be fun. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT