US OPEN
August 30, 2003
Karol Kucera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  What is it like mentally to know that you're facing match point, you're going back out there to face matchpoint?
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, mentally, it wasn't so tough.  I would say I was pretty relaxed, you know.  Because after four and a half hours, the match, you know, is going through a lot of things, you know. But in the end you got to be relaxed, you know, and try to do your best.  So it was my case also, my mentally.  
 
Q.  Have you been looking at James Blake and Andy Roddick throughout this tournament? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, I saw a little bit of Roddick's match yesterday, first or second set I saw.  
 
Q.  How difficult is it going to be to beat these guys, even in Bratislava? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, very tough, you know.  I have one good match under my belt against Mardy Fish.  And today wasn't my day, really.  You know, I didn't felt so well as the whole week before.  So if I keep continue, you know, working hard, I think I can play some good tennis.  In Bratislava, it's gonna be completely different atmosphere, you know.  Hopefully, the crowd's gonna be fine.  And just going to prepare for Davis Cup now. 
 
Q.  How close did you get to resuming the match when it stopped raining the first time? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, I think the first time  -- you mean when I went to the umpire?  
 
Q.  After the first rain delay, Agassi got to play one point, but you guys could have finished your match.  How close did you get? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Because there was a point where it started to rain a little bit, you know, in the fourth set.  I wanted to stop to play, but didn't happen actually.  Then your question is how...?  
 
Q.  When it finally was suspended...
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Okay. 
 
Q.  Play resumed in other places.  How close did you guys get to actually resuming the match?  Had you warmed up?  Did you come back to the court? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  No.  No, no.  We went to the locker room. 
 
Q.  So you never made it back to the court the first time?
 
KAROL KUCERA:  No, no, no.  
 
Q.  You're one of the most veteran and intelligent players in the game.  Perhaps that was a big advantage against Mardy Fish, who was playing very well at the time.  But maybe you out-thought him a little bit in the match.  Andy Roddick is just 21.  Will you be able to out-think him a little bit on the court also, and will that be an advantage to you? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, you know, there are couple things in tennis, has to be everything 100 percent, you know.  Then you can  -- only then you can play the best tennis, you know.  And it's tough to put this things always together.  And like today, I had a little mentally slump I think during first two sets.  But, you know, if I can put everything together, I can beat I think everyone now.  I'm pretty confident right now.  I think my strokes are all right.  My serve is okay.  Even Andy, I know he's tough now, but I think we have good chances in Bratislava.  
 
Q.  What did you do during the rain delay?  How did you spend the time? 
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Just trying to rest, you know.  Trying to renew, you know, the cutters for nails and stuff like that (laughter). 
 
Q.  Did you have any problem with the rain delay?  It was pretty much the only alternative, the right decision?
 
KAROL KUCERA:  Yeah, I think it was right.  Just it was very strange, you know, how they stopped the play, you know, during the point.  I never saw that.  I saw matches like it started to rain, you know, and the court was completely wet, you know.  Even then, they finished the point.  So it was... 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT