STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2015
Michael Rector
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 36   
 Q.  Your feelings right now in the aftermath of this win?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Yeah, I still can't believe it.  I'm still in shock.  Still in awe.  I saw that kick go in from Conrad, huge kick.  Ice in his veins.  And everything, just to have the fans rush the field.  That's just nuts, they're all on the field celebrating together.   
 Q.  Take us through that touchdown.  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Yeah, that was actually a play where we had the option to hand it off or throw it if we saw the coverage was right.  And we saw the coverage.  I knew Kevin was going to throw it my way, so luckily, I was able to break that tackle.  I told my friend Rollins, another receiver, that if they threw it to me, I was going to break a tackle and score.  And luckily, it happened all like that.  So looking forward to next week against USC.   
 Q.  So in your offense, you guys are used so frequently as blockers, maybe compared to some schools.  What is, kind of, that like for you?  How do you not go stir crazy and then capitalize on the opportunities that are presented?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Absolutely.  We knew coming into Stanford that we are here to block, primarily.  And at first, you know, that's what we came in to do.  So we take pride in what we do.  We always talk about executing, making the big play when it comes to you, and just staying positive and knowing that when your number's called, you'll be ready.   
 Q.  A disappointing year for you last year.  To bounce back like this, are you able to put that in perspective, are you able to look at that and take some accomplishment from it?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Absolutely.  All credit goes to the team, how we responded the last season, came in and worked throughout the off season, the summer, training camp, it's us just unbelievable.  It's been fun with these guys, it's been special and I look forward to the next few weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT