STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Michael Rector
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon - 38, Stanford - 36   
 Q.  Those center snaps really cost you the game.  
MICHAEL RECTOR: That's, obviously, very disappointing.  But beyond that, there are other things that we could have done to win the game, so I'm not going to put all the blame on one thing.  But that definitely hurts us, but we'll bounce back and be all right.   
 Q.  It looked like there were a lot of opportunities out there in the passing game.  What were some things that you saw in the Oregon secondary's game?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: We saw a lot of single coverage, man-to-man, and we wanted to kind of attack those areas.  We were able to do that, as you saw.  Myself, Francis, Trent, Devon.  And that was a big thing in the game plan for us tonight.  But, hopefully, we come out with a better result next week.   
 Q.  Coach talked about the fact that you guys didn't look down 35-23, you guys kept fighting.  Was that the sense of you guys as well?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Absolutely.  Our big thing was to stay the course and when it comes to the fourth quarter we'll be there ready to fight.   
Unfortunately, we couldn't come up with it there at the end, but I'm proud of the guys for the way they fought down 12 points coming back.  It was good for us.   
 Q.  What's the big lesson for you coming off this game?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: We just got to play the entire four quarters.  We expected that to be back and forth, and we expect that again next week.  So we're going to come back, try to have our best week of practice, and hopefully, have a better result.   
 Q.  Good game for you, personally.  What was working out there for you?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Kevin and I just had that connection going tonight.  He threw great balls.  I was able to get some separation and make those plays.  But that goes all credit to the O line for protecting Kevin, and Kevin having that time and putting the ball right where it should have been.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular in the red zone, that you felt like either wasn't working or that they were doing, that was effective?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: No.  They were kind of stopping our run a lot.  But that's okay.  We had our chances to make plays.  Hopefully, we'll have a better -- we'll have better luck next time.  But proud of the guys the way they fought, fought until the end.   
 Q.  Coming right off the field, Devon really didn't seem that down about the game.  Is it safe to say you guys won't have any trouble ramping back up for Cal this week?  
MICHAEL RECTOR: Absolutely.  As we come into every season, our thing is to win the PAC-12.  And, obviously, we could have clinched the PAC-12 north with this win.  But with a win next week against Cal, we'll be able to be there, right back in the PAC-12 championship.  So, we know that this loss was tough, but we know that there's still our goal out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT