PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2015
Grant Haley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. James was just in here and said that tackling has become an epidemic in college football, you guys need to tackle better.  What are your thoughts on that and what do you think you guys can specifically focus on to improve?
GRANT HALEY: I definitely think we need to work on tackling.  We need to go back to the fundamentals, do tackling drills, practice, we just really need to stay focused on really the techniques.  It's the small things that matter.  Sometimes in practice we can kind of take it for granted, because when it comes to games it may not work the way you want it to.  We really need to go back to the fundamentals.
Q. When you look at Geronimo Allison on tape, he's leading the Big 10, second in yards.  What do you see there?
GRANT HALEY: He's a big body guy, he's about 6-4, 200 pounds.  He has good ball skills, as well.  I think him and the quarterback have good timing with each other.  He's really stepping up with him this year.  It will be a good challenge for our defense.  I'm really excited.
Q. When practice is dialed back so you guys aren't going full tempo to preserve your legs and things like that, how do you specifically work on wrapping up better tackling drills when you aren't necessarily going full speed?
GRANT HALEY: I mean we go full speed.  It's just that we're dialed back a little bit.  And today I know we don't have our pants on, but we have shoulder pads, so we're able to set up and get our forms really well, work on techniques, as well.
Q. Have you seen enough of Lunt and what is your impression of him?  Is he more of a classic drop back than the guys you've seen?
GRANT HALEY: Yeah, he's not really a dual threat quarterback, he can run little bit.  But he's more of a pocket passer.  That's different from what we've seen the last couple of weeks.  You know he's a big body guy, good quarterback frame.  He's a strong arm.  And it will be a good challenge for the back end.  And I think our defensive line will do a great job.
Q. There have been a couple of situations this year where you guys score then, boom, they answered right away, whether it was last week or earlier in the season.  Can you talk about just the whole approach to complimentary football once your offensive gets a lead, if the defense or special teams respond immediately?  It seems there have been a couple of times where they've had some quick answers for you guys?
GRANT HALEY: Yeah, I think as a team, anyway, possible we're going to have each others back.  If something happens with the offensive, we're going to have our offensive's back.  And same with defense, and special teams, offensively and defensively, we're going to have each others backs.
Q. James had mentioned his name coming up as head coaching job.  Do you pay attention to that kind of stuff?  What kind of a distraction is that?
GRANT HALEY: We don't pay attention to that.  We're focused on going to this week.
Q. Can you talk to me a little bit about the rotation that you guys used at corner back?  It seems that in any given circumstances it will be a set of two guys here.  Is there any method coach uses or does he just go with the hot pair?
GRANT HALEY: He has a little method at first, then he just goes with if you're feeling comfortable in the game.  I know he wants to keep us fresh, as well.  He does a good job of rotating us in and out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT