CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2006
Ian Leggatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A little different out there today with the wind swirling again?
IAN LEGGATT:  Yeah, it was kind of like Friday all over again with the exception of the wetness yesterday.  Still the greens are very soft, so I think that's protecting the course a little bit.
Q.  Talk about your round.  How did you feel you played out there?
IAN LEGGATT:  I played nice today.  I hit the ball very solid again.  I putted poorly.  I think I had 33 or 34 putts today, to that's just not going to add up to a lot of low scores.  But I'm hitting it very nice and I'll sort out the putting the next week or so and hopefully have a nice end of the year.
Q.  Talk about how you played all week.
IAN LEGGATT:  I played really well.  I was really happy with the way I played.  My game is coming around.  It's not firing on all cylinders just yet obviously.  I think all around I felt like I hit it very good or probably as well as anybody in the field with my ball striking, I just need to start making a few putts.
Q.  You mentioned the wind.  Just how much of a problem was the wind?
IAN LEGGATT:  It's tough out there right now because it's a cross wind.  You don't get too many holes that are straight down.  That always makes it difficult.  You don't know whether it's like in and across or down and across, so it gets very tricky.
Q.  What do you think you need to do    I don't know if you've looked at the math, but do you feel you need a couple Top 5s, and how close are you to being able to playing that type of golf?
IAN LEGGATT:  I think obviously depending on the event, a Top 3 in an event or something like that would do it for me.  But I'm happy with the way my game has gone.  I've got lots of weeks left and I'm playing well and getting momentum going, so I'm really looking forward to the end of the year.  There's a couple events I really like to play and I've played well in the past, so I'm looking forward to that.
Q.  Which ones are those?
IAN LEGGATT:  I love playing Disney, the course is set up really good for me, and Vegas, as well.
Q.  No definitive plans yet to bring this golf championship back here to this particular club, but you'd welcome that?
IAN LEGGATT:  Oh, yeah, you wouldn't find anybody in the field that would disagree with that.  Who was on the range yesterday, I think    I don't know who it was I was standing with on the range wants to play here every year.  I don't know if we can do that, I don't know if the members would like that very much with the rough like this.  But I think in Canada we have an opportunity to play golf courses all over.  I think there's an opportunity for us to play venues like this every single week, and the players on the PGA TOUR knowing that, they put the Canadian Open in their schedule every single year primarily because they know they're going to play a great golf course.
Q.  I don't know what your game was like when you were 21 or 22, but plenty of guys like Richard Scott and Victor Ciesielski coming out and really holding their own.
IAN LEGGATT:  Yeah, they did great.
Q.  Just give us some thoughts on that.
IAN LEGGATT:  I think it's great.  Hopefully they can keep going.  This is just in the grand scheme of things of getting on the PGA TOUR just a pretty small step, but just keep working hard and obviously it's great.  Any time an amateur makes the cut it's a great feat on the PGA TOUR.  It's great for them.
Q.  Would you have worn plaid pants?
IAN LEGGATT:  I don't think so.  I'd have to tear the curtains off my dad's old camper to get a pair of those made up.  I don't think you're going to catch me in a pair of those unless there's a Bad Pants Open coming up.  The young guys are    I'm a little bit behind them (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT