WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 15, 2001
Ian Leggatt
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
IAN LEGGATT:  The course was really good.  The greens, you know, it just might even be better than yesterday.  They were a little bit softer, but they rolled just absolutely perfect.  You could tell from 20 feet away if you had a good chance of making it.  It was a little bit wet, the fairways.  We had a few mud balls out there today that got away from us, but other than that, the course was great.  
 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, the golf course did play a little bit softer than the practice round days.  But as far as Ian and I go, we had a great day out there.  As the United States would say, we "ham and egged" it well, which means I birdied a hole and Ian birdied the next hole, and it wasn't just one person.  We both made a number of birdies, both had chances for a number of birdies and that's what you want; that we both had some chances. I think it just gives you a little bit of comfort level when there's two people putting for birdie, and that's what we seemed to do quite a bit especially as the round got on.  And as we got in the middle of round, we both started playing a little bit better and giving ourselves some chances.  I think that's why we scored well.  
 
Q.  What is it about playing in November that seems to suit you so well? 
 
MIKE WEIR:   You know, I can't really put my finger on it.  You know, maybe I'm just a little bit more relaxed.  It's the end of the year.  Maybe not taking my game as seriously as I do earlier in the year; that may have something to do with it.  I can't put my finger on it.  But whenever you play well, whatever time of the year you play, well you'll take it.  So, I'm just happy that both Ian and I are playing well this week.  So, hopefully, we can continue.  
 
Q.  You had such a great score today, 10-under, tied for the lead.  You had several other chances to make birdies, so you could have a better score than 10-under? 
 
IAN LEGGATT:  I think especially the front nine, Mike played great on the front.  He hit it close the whole way around.  There's a couple of holes that he did miss 8- or 10-footers, but, you know, all in all, there's just no  -- we're pretty happy with the score that we had today.  Anything less would have been a bonus, and so we are pretty happy with the score that we had.  
 
Q.  It's getting pretty cold right now.  Did it bother you playing golf?  Are you used to this climate? 
 
MIKE WEIR:   Well, I think Ian and I, when we were younger WE lived in Canada and played some junior golf and high school golf; we probably played in a little bit similar weather to this.  Even for myself, where I WENT to college, I played in quite a bit of cool weather in Utah.  I think we are not as used to it as what we used to be, but on the other hand, it is familiar to us.  I think it doesn't bother us probably as much as maybe some other teams.  
 
MIKE WEIR:   We birdied 1.  I made a nice putt on No. 1.  It was probably ten 20 feet.  Birdied 3.  Probably 20 feet, 15 feet maybe, one-putt.  7, made probably an 8-footer maybe.  Off the tee, I hit a 6-iron. 10, I made probably about eight feet again.  Ian birdied 11, it was a good bitch to the front of the green.  Chipped it close to about six feet maybe.  12, we birdied 12, too.  I made a lucky putt there from about 15 feet that sunk in the right side.  Then Ian made about a 25-footer on the next par 3.  15, Ian hit it really close on 15 to probably three feet. 
 
Q.  You decided who is going to hit first tomorrow, on the first tee? 
 
IAN LEGGATT:  Mike is going to play all of the odd holes and I'll play the even holes tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Have you made any tactics on how you are going to play tomorrow? 
 
IAN LEGGATT:  You know, playing alternate-shot, sometimes it's hard to get into your rhythm because you are not hitting every tee shot, but I think the way the course sort of sets up  -- it sets up quite good for both of us, most of the tee shots.  You know, we're just going to go out and play the way we did today.  We are not going to change any clubs that we hit off the tees or anything.  There are a couple of holes that I hit driver today that I may not tomorrow, but other than that, I'm just going to play the same way we played today.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised that Team USA had a two-stroke penalty and they are not in the top?  Do you think that they will come back to the top and rival? 
 
MIKE WEIR:   Obviously, they are great players, Tiger and David.  From what I hear, I know Tiger is not as healthy he would like; his back has been bothering him a little bit.  So, obviously it's not the start they wanted today, but, you know, at the end of the week, they will probably  -- as good of players as they are, they are going to fight and they are going to battle hard.  So you can never count them out.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT