WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 13, 2002
Ian Leggatt
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Second round, 5-under par and you're at 18-under for the tournament through two rounds and have put yourselves in great position for this weekend at the EMC2 World Cup.  If we could get some openings comments and we'll go right into questions. 
MIKE WEIR:  I think it was a good, solid day.  I think we probably  -- we got the most out of our round yesterday, and Ian will agree, we left a few out there today.  But on the other hand, we played really solid and gave ourselves a lot of chances, and that's what you want to keep doing.  You're probably going to have one day out of the four days that you're not going to convert everything, but I think we still played nice and solid. 
It's just a little different format today.  It's tougher to get into a rhythm and flow.  There were some great scores out there today, but I think we are fairly happy with today. 
IAN LEGGATT:  I think last year, you know, we kind of had a little bit of trouble with the second day, just the first nine holes and this year we got off to a good start the first nine.  Hopefully we are over that hurdle that kind of held us back last year from having a chance to win. 
I think we played well today.  I think the course set up well for the way that we decided to play odd and even holes.  But we did leave an awful lot of birdies out there on the back nine. 

Q.  Some of the teams earlier indicated that it was a good day to shoot a low number.  Would you agree?  Did the course set up easier? 
MIKE WEIR:  I don't know if it was set up easier, but it was just so still today.  There was hardly any wind at all and the greens were nice and receptive and soft.  As Ian said if we could have just maybe converted on a couple of par 5s on the back and I could have made a couple more putts, I think we could have been 8- or 9-under as well. 

Q.  Can you talk about the save at 5 and how that just kept everything rolling? 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah that was a big putt Ian made there.
IAN LEGGATT:  I hit a bad iron shot there.  I tried to hit a hard 7-iron in there and tried to swing it in there and left it out there to the right. 
Those are the things that kind of keep you going in alternate-shot, when you can make those.  That was really about it today, that we sort of had a chance to really make a bogey.  So that kind of just kept us going because we didn't get off to a pretty good start.

Q.  How long was the save at 16? 
IAN LEGGATT:  Might have been four feet. 

Q.  What about at 5? 
IAN LEGGATT:  Ten or 12 feet probably. 

Q.  Downhill? 
IAN LEGGATT:  Downhill, yeah. 
MIKE WEIR:  It was a good putt.

Q.  Do you think having so close to the lead, there will be more pressure for you in Saturday's round? 
IAN LEGGATT:  I don't think so.  We're in good spot.  We played well in the best-ball yesterday, so we just want to make sure that we get a chance on Sunday.  I don't think there's any pressure until we get to Sunday and having a chance to win. 
No one has a chance to win the tournament tomorrow.  You just set yourself up for what might happen the last nine holes. 
I think Mike and I were playing good. We're driving the ball good so we are going to hopefully have a chance to shoot a really low score again tomorrow in the best-ball format. 

Q.  Half of the tournament is six shots over the United States and one from the leader; do you think the scoreboard will change a lot?
MIKE WEIR:  I think there's a number of good teams that are playing this week, and there's still two rounds to go together.  That's half the tournament left.  If a team gets hot, if Ian and I happen to get hot with our putters, we're going to have a good chance. 
There's a lot golf teams here.  You never know what's going to happen.  You just have to play your game and see what happens at the end. 

Q.  Same, odds and evens for Sunday? 
MIKE WEIR:  Probably.  We'll probably talk about it, but there's no reason to change. 

Q.  You've played well in the World Golf Championships, but this tournament, the World Cup you have not done as well.  Do you think it will be different this year, do you think you have a shot at the title of this tournament?
MIKE WEIR:  Oh, yeah, I think we do.  I think Ian and I had a pretty good chance, except for nine holes last year, we had a good chance to win. 
This year, I can see that Ian's game, he's playing much better.  I think I'm playing even a little better than last year at this point in time.  So I think, yeah, we have as good a chance as anybody. 

Q.  Who do you think is the team to beat right now? 
IAN LEGGATT:  There's so many teams.  It's going to come down to what happens on Sunday.  I think the alternate-shot, you saw what happened with Fiji today. 
5-under is not a bad score.  If you would have told us today you were going to shoot 5-under, we would be pretty happy with that, I think. 
We left a lot out there, and there's a lot of teams out there.  Obviously United States has the capability of going out and making a lot of birdies.  Obviously with Vijay and Dinesh, they are a very strong team, as well  -- Australia.  There's a number of teams.  Right now, it's so log-jammed, there's nobody that you could pick right now to win. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT