SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 14, 2002
Ian Leggatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  We have Ian Leggatt, 9-under, 204, two strokes off the lead.  Ian, kind of a roller-coaster day for you but you hung in there and kept it under par.
IAN LEGGATT: Yes, I played pretty solid.  Although I didn't drive it quite as well, I did yesterday.  I did miss a couple of putts.  I started out with a 3 putt on the first hole, but I'm pretty happy with 69.
TODD BUDNICK:  You bounced back every time you had a bogey, but how hard is it to keep that confidence going when you are having trouble like that?
IAN LEGGATT: Well, you know, especially tomorrow, everybody is so negative about the weather like we might not even play, so you got to be real offensive and I was trying to be and I made a bad swing off of 15, I guess, the par-5 is just --there's a house over there with people yelling and screaming, got set off there, hit a bad tee shot.  That was disappointing because you have to make a birdie there.  I already bogeyed every one of the other par 5s. (Inaudible).

Q.    You are putting in the middle of the downpour; how did you stay focused there?
IAN LEGGATT: Just kind of took the thrill out of the whole thing thinking maybe we may not play tomorrow and Billy hits it a couple inches, I was thinking I would have a putt there to tie for the lead.  It wasn't as fast as I thought it was.  I had a very similar putt on Thursday for birdie from there and it was a lot quicker.  I just thought it was going to have more speed on it there.  It was kind of slow.

Q.    Was that because of the rain?
IAN LEGGATT: I don't think so.  It hadn't rained enough yesterday.  It was distracting.
TODD BUDNICK:  You had it in your mind that could be a putt for a third-place finish?
IAN LEGGATT: Or second, you know, thinking Billy -- when I hit the shot I hit as good a shot as I could hit in there trying to make eagle, thinking where Billy hit his, and up and down, wasn't for sure.  He hit a great bunker shot there so that might have been the difference.
TODD BUDNICK: Thanks, Ian.   



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT