SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 13, 2002
Ian Leggatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  Welcome, Ian Leggatt 7-under for the tournament; one behind the leader.  Ian, had a great back nine there, just kind of rolling on, rolling on, go ahead.
IAN LEGGATT: Yes, I made a bad bogey on 11.  I hit a wedge right at the flag and it flew over the green and kind of got stymied back there and then I went ahead and birdied the next 5, and actually missed about a three-footer for birdie on 17.  Had a reachable on 18.  So chances were there today.

Q. Tell us a little bit about the course and how you felt throughout the day today?
IAN LEGGATT: Obviously the wind picked up from this morning, but the greens got a little bit bumpy this afternoon.  I think they put a little bit of water on them last night and they are a little softer today than they were yesterday.  So that's the way poa annua is, they get a little bit bumpy later in the day.  Other than that, the course is in great shape.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.    Were you thinking of taking this week off concerning all of the pressure you had last week in Canada?
IAN LEGGATT: No, I was planning to play these three in a row and take the next two weeks off, so irrespective what would have happened last weekend, if I would have one, I would have come and played this week.

Q.    How much easier is it to play this week compared to last week?
IAN LEGGATT: Quite a bit different, you get thousands of fans out there every day cheering you on, everybody, you notice, wanted me to win one as much as I wanted to win last week so it turned out to be a pretty exciting week. 

Q.    That stretch you had from 12 to 18, how good are you hitting those irons, that stretch there, is that some of the best stretch of iron play you've had?
IAN LEGGATT: Well, you know, last week I hit it great, too.  Even though I shot 65, I shot 7-under last week on Friday with 28 putts, so I could have legitimately shot 59, I'm not talking about missing 30-footers.  I was missing it from six, eight feet.  Hitting good putts that were lipping out, I had two or three of them today.  Just putts that kind of rolled over the edge.  It's not a putting issue.  It's getting a little bit of luck out there when you are making those. It started in Vancouver, started playing better, better and now I'm sort of playing a lot more.  I haven't been playing a whole lot so I have been taking a couple of weeks off here and there through most of the summer.  I think now I'm starting to play more.  I'm starting to get a little better rhythm with my swing.

Q.    Ian, would you talk about winning in Tucson and what that did for your confidence out here?
IAN LEGGATT: Quite a bit.  You feel like you belong out here more definitely.  Getting that first win is, you know, a tough thing out here because there is so many great players week in and week out, guys might complain, you know, even like this week is a weak field.  The players will tell you there is no such thing as a weak field on the PGA TOUR.  Just because you don't have Tiger Woods here or somebody like that, you know, I don't know how many tournaments he has played this year, but he's gotten beat by a lot of guys this week and a lot of guys that are here playing here this week.  I don't feel there are weak fields on the PGA TOUR.

Q.    When is the last time that you had five in a row?
IAN LEGGATT: I don't really know.  I'm not sure.  That's not really something that I keep track of.  I'm sure someone will find out.

Q.    It's something that doesn't happen all that often?
IAN LEGGATT: It definitely doesn't happen all the time, for sure.  It would be nice if it did.  You know, I just felt good about it and it's just something that kind of rolls a long and sort of happens.

Q.    The book says that you have done speed skating.  Could you talk about your speed skating career?
IAN LEGGATT: Yes, I used to do it in the wintertime.  I trained through the summer and things like that, but mostly golf consumed most of my summertime as a kid growing up.  But it was just something that evolved through getting involved in that from playing hockey as a kid and it just turned out I was pretty good at it.  That's sort of what I did until I was about 18 years old, 19 years old before I went to University, so you know, it is an enjoyable thing to do in the wintertime.

Q.    And you were a national champion?
IAN LEGGATT: Yes.

Q.    What distance?
IAN LEGGATT: I used to skate short track which at the time it wasn't an Olympic sport or anything.  But I never raced outdoors.

Q.    Is that the thing Ono does?
IAN LEGGATT: Exactly.  When I used to do it, it wasn't -- it was more of -- a lot of people used to do that in the spring after the outdoor season ended, now it's evolved into an Olympic story.

Q.    Mike Weir gets so much headlines in Canada.  Are you close to him?
IAN LEGGATT: Yes, he and I grew up playing golf as kids.  We are best friends out here, very good friend.

Q.    Do you ever travel together?
IAN LEGGATT: No, we travel with our families, so we do, you know, catch flights together every now and then and stuff like that.  But most of the time we have our families out here.

Q.    What would it mean to you to finish top 30 and be eligible for THE TOUR Championship; is that a goal right now?
IAN LEGGATT: That's definitely a goal.  It obviously became a goal when I won in Tucson.  It's early in the year and you have a long year to go, looking like you are probably going to make -- I need to make probably another 6 or 700,000 to get into THE TOUR Championship.  But with the event coming up and I'm going to play a lot the rest of the year and I feel pretty good about it and that definitely is a goal.

Q.    How do you see the weekend?
IAN LEGGATT: I feel good.  This course, I enjoy, most of the holes set up pretty good for me.  I grew up on a golf course very similar to this.  I definitely enjoy it so I'm looking forward to it.

Q.    What was the name of the course?
IAN LEGGATT: Galt Country Club. 

Q.    In Ontario?
IAN LEGGATT: Yes.

Q.    What town?
IAN LEGGATT: In Cambridge.

Q.    (Inaudible) Do you worry about some of these shots, some of the missed opportunities to grab that lead today?
IAN LEGGATT: We's not done yet, so unless you are going to let somebody beat me by one, we are not going to play tomorrow.  But I don't even think about it.  Obviously you look back at Tucson and I won by 2 there.  I reached over and went to putt out over someone's line there and missed one from a foot and a half there, obviously it could have come back to haunt me but it never did.  You don't even think about stuff like that.  That's a little different than from out here.  I'm still giving it 100% every time I putt.  It wasn't that three-footer, I nonchalantly went up there and whacked at it, I still gave it a full effort.  It just didn't go in.  I will still be able to sleep on Sunday night if I lose by one.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Ian.  Good luck.
IAN LEGGATT: Thanks.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT