MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2008
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously disappointing, Steve, just talk about it. 
 STEVE FLESCH: I was playing all right. Wind just got really tricky on the back nine and we just pulled the wrong club on the 12th hole and it went straight up and went in the water. 
 And then I was just kind of trying to make some putts, trying to make some birdies, trying to be aggressive, and got a little too aggressive on a couple shots and made a couple more bogeys. And a little disheartening, very disappointing, but that's all right. Still my best finish in a Major and hopefully if I get in the situation again I'll turn out differently.

 Q. What did you pull on 12?
 STEVE FLESCH: I hit 8-iron. I had 154, I think we figured -- and when I was over it there wasn't much wind at all and I was aiming it left of the bunker and I hit it solid, but halfway through the flight it just stood straight up into the wind and I could tell halfway there when it got stood up that it wasn't going to make it. But then I hit a good shot. 
 And as good as I putted, the first three days, I just didn't putt very well on the back nine and that's just how it goes. Back nine on Sunday out here, they get a little more difficult. 

 Q. Was it a little, could you sense it being different being that close and to have the pressure?
 STEVE FLESCH: A little bit. But I tell you it was just hard to, it was just hard to pull the right club because the wind just kept kind of switching around and quartering on you and it never was downwind, except on 17. And 16 was straight left-to-right out there. 
 So it was just, it was just hard to, it was more not so much hard to pick the club, but hard to fit the shot into where, you know, if you're trying to be aggressive, it made it even more difficult. But that's all right. I was trying to make birdies I just was making bogeys instead. 

 Q. What do you take from this for now for the rest of the year?
 STEVE FLESCH: I played well. I played nine bad holes and I made a couple club selection errors and I think that I probably hit driver a couple times where I probably should have hit 3-wood on that back nine but that's okay. I played well all week. I just played nine bad holes and that's the way I'm going to look at it. 

 Q. Do you think it might have been different if you would have got through 12 there to keep the pressure on? He did have a big lead there. 
 STEVE FLESCH: He did have a big lead and yeah, if I could have gotten through 12, I still wasn't going to get home on 13 and 15. I knew that just because of the wind direction. But I think that the rest of my round might have had, might have taken a different complexion for sure, but he still had an, I guess, what, a four or five shot lead. Four shot lead. Five shot lead after 12. So I had a lot of ground to make up. Even stumbling a couple times like he has, he's still leading by I guess three or four now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT