MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well done. How would you describe this as a ball striking day for you?  
 STEVE FLESCH: One of my best. The key was I drove the ball in play today. I hit a lot of fairways and the few fairways that I did miss actually my angles were great into the holes. And then my iron play was as solid as it usually is.   
 So I just gave myself a lot of opportunities. I only missed a couple greens and I made a good, made a few good putts out there.  
  
  Q. What in your career has prepared you to be in the penultimate group at the Masters on Sunday?  
 STEVE FLESCH: 11 years of playing out here. And five years of playing in Asia. And just a lot of persistence more than anything.   
 I think drawing on my experiences from my four wins out here, just all of that. And I turned 40 and getting older and just being a little more patient, I think it's all just kind of added up. And when I get some confidence going with my iron game, I can play pretty well.  
  
  Q. You were candid when you admitted what it was like not to be here. Can you compare that experience to this one, to watch it on TV versus now?  
 STEVE FLESCH: Yeah, I can't wait to see the whole video of the tournament next week when I get a hold of that. But I said to my caddie coming up 16, I said, you know, all the Masters I've watched I've always wanted to be in one of the final groups. And I said, no matter what I do the rest of the week, this is the best day I've ever had at Augusta. So that pretty much sums it up.  
  
  Q. How do you manage the pressure and how would you describe the collective experience of guys in those groups who have no Major Championships whereas the guy in fifth has a few?  
 STEVE FLESCH: I just -- I'm looking at it I have nothing to lose. As of six months ago I wasn't even in this tournament. And then I won a couple events late in the year and it got me in. So I'm bummed if I'm not here and I'm thrilled to death to be here. And that's how I kind of have played all week.   
 I have nothing to lose, nobody expects Steve Flesch to do much in the Masters tournament, but I have a big heart and I'm a gritty competitor and I want to play well and I'm showing a few of my wares this week.  
  
  Q. What have you proven to yourself?  
 STEVE FLESCH: Just being yourself a little bit. But it's kind of hard it always is. My game revolves around my putting and iron play and I'm confident in both of them this week. As long as I'm not too hard on myself, which being in such a nice stage like this and a great atmosphere helps you kind of stay in the moment. I'm having fun out there too, which is a lot of playing well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT