MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about 13.   
 STEVE FLESCH: A little bit one of those things this year, kind of like what Zach was saying last year, I wasn't planning on going for any par-5s this week, but I got the tee ball out where I only had 233 downwind, 200 front and I thought you can't hit it out here this far and not go for it. I could get a 4 or 5-iron on the green.   
 So I hit a 3-iron, aimed it right at the pin. The hard part being left-handed is the lie is hanging so much there off that side hill. So yeah, I made a good swing, I hit it flush and I actually thought when it landed on the green it went over. Because I gave my club back to the caddie and then all of a sudden you could hear the crowd kind of groaning a little bit and I saw it roll down there a couple feet from the hole.   
 But I actually thought it was over the green. That pin was so is far back there I didn't realize you could get it back there and still have it where I did.   
  
  Q. Again reflect on this round of golf.   
 STEVE FLESCH: I played great. The way I kind of planned on playing this week was attack the par-5s when I could, not necessarily go for them in two, because getting far enough out there now, as wet as it is, I'm not getting much roll on my driver. So if I got a chance to go for one I would, but just lay up, let my wedge kind of do the work there. And try and just play the 3s and 4s, not try and play them even par, but that's kind of how it's been working out. Because I'm having a lot of 3 to 6 and 7-irons into the par-4s and on these greens it's hard to get the ball close to the hole.   
  
  Q. Going into the weekend in the position that you're in it's got to be a pretty good feeling.   
 STEVE FLESCH: Great. Yeah. It's one of my favorite events. I haven't been here in three years and I'm glad to be back. And I had a great week. I practiced hard in Jacksonville for three days before coming here. And I got here on Sunday and had three good days of practice and was looking forward to the week, hitting the ball well, and that hard work is paying off right now.   
  
  Q. How is the course playing?  
 STEVE FLESCH: Not as fast as I would like it to be. I need a little more roll out there on the fairways. I like to hit some more mid irons and shorter irons into the par-4s, but that's just how it's going to be. It's still a little damp, I don't see the ball running in the fairways all week and I'm sure the greens will get firmer and faster. But it's as tough as ever.   
  
  Q. Conventional wisdom was that a 66, 67 might not be out there. But obviously you found it. Is this a good score if everything works out for you?  
 STEVE FLESCH: If everything works out. I hit the irons great, kept the ball underneath the hole. All these those cliches of saying how you got to play fast greens and a difficult golf course, I did it today. I drove the ball in the fairways, I think I only missed two fairways and a couple greens. But I've been chipping the ball well and I got it up-and-down the couple greens I missed.   
 But it's out there, especially I played the par-5s 5-under today, the rest of the golf course I played even par. So if you can take advantage of the 5s and just hang on the 4s and 3s, there's some good scores out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT