ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 27, 2008
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I heard you use the word demanding when it came to describing today's round.  Was that more the course or the combination of the course and the wind today?   
 STEVE FLESCH:  Well, the course is demanding, especially if there's no wind.  But you throw the element of a 15 mile an hour cross-breeze in there, very few of the holes are straight downwind or straight into the wind.  There's always a cross-wind.  Demanding is a great word for it.   
  
  Q.  Woody Austin talked about how the wind picked up on the back nine for him.  You kind of experienced the same thing.  How much do you have to make an adjustment there?   
 STEVE FLESCH:  Well, the adjustment is just in your clubbing, but the hard part is you want to play certain holes downwind, the long holes, and a couple of the long holes today were straight into the teeth of it.   
 It just makes it more difficult.  Obviously those holes, not that they were birdie holes to begin with, but now they're just good holes to make pars on.  It's tough out there.   
  
  Q.  Will it be a lot harder to win here than at English Turn?   
 STEVE FLESCH:  Well, yeah, I haven't made a cut here yet, so I can't say that the TPC holds as fond a memories for me as English Turn.  But they're totally different golf courses.  Nicklaus and Pete Dye built totally different places.   
 You know what, I could have fallen asleep in a rocking chair around English Turn and probably played well, and this place I feel like I've got rattlesnakes in my bag.   
 You know, it's just an entirely different place, and I'm getting used to it, and I played well today.   
  
  Q.  It is incredibly tough, isn't it?   
 STEVE FLESCH:  It is, but I think -- well, I don't agree with where we're playing the tees.  It's not a 215-yard shot.  It's a great 180-yard shot.  It's a 6-iron or a 5-iron shot, not a long iron.  There's nowhere to miss it.   
 But that's okay.  It's hard.  It's the same for everybody, but it's hard.  And the fact that the water is left on 17 and the water on 9 aren't real comfortable for me.   
  
  Q.  But overall, 69?   
 STEVE FLESCH:  Oh, I'm thrilled to death.  I played good, and it's the best I've played here so far, so maybe I've figured something out about this place.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT