U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2017
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone)?
STEVE FLESCH: I'll do my best.  I hung out in the left rough all day.  I didn't hit a lot of fairways.  I hit about four or five fairways at most.  I birdied one out of the left rough, made a nice 30-footer down the hill.
I -- let's see.  I bogeyed 4, I think, right?  I bogeyed 4.  I actually hit it out of bounds to the right on 4, lost my focus, made a bad swing, but I made birdie on my next ball to lose just one shot there.  Then I hit a 5 iron about 15 feet on 5 and made birdie.
7, I hit a nice 8 iron -- excuse me.  9 iron in there about 8 feet and made another nice birdie.  Trying to go through the holes.
11, hit driver off the tee, tried to kind of cut it around the bend.  Missed another fairway there, but I hit a gap wedge in there about 3 feet.  Made a birdie.
15 -- 16, hit a really nice 9 iron in there about 10 feet and made that.  Missed a 6-footer for birdie on 17, which was a great shot in there with a 7 iron.  But then on 18, I hit a nice driver and an 8 iron out of a divot about 7, 8 feet, and I played about 3 feet of break.  Somehow it found the hole.  I was trying to make it, but I was just trying to make sure it didn't get away from me.  So somehow it found the bottom and had a nice day.
Q. Sounds like, from your description, that your iron play was probably the best thing you did today.
STEVE FLESCH: Iron play was pretty good, but I putted very well.  I made a nice, 10-foot save on 4 after hitting it out of bounds, just to lose a shot there, making bogey.  I've been working hard on my putting, been hitting it pretty well all year.  Didn't drive it that well today.  It's normally kind of my strong suit.
The putter, around here, if you get it going, you can make a few putts because the greens are so tricky.
Q. Did it help that Corey was playing so well?
STEVE FLESCH: I think it always helps when you're in a two-ball and you're both kind of riding the momentum of each other.  I birdied 1, and then he birdied 3 and 4, and then I birdied 5, and we had a nice best ball going.  But we just kind of had a nice rhythm.
Sometimes, when one guy is struggling and they're missing greens, you're kind of waiting around on them.  And not that it's anything against them, but it kind of takes you out of your own rhythm.  But we were hitting a lot of greens and making some putts.
Nice flow to the day, played quickly, and Corey's easy to play with too.  He's fun to play with because he plays such a different game than we see anymore.  So it's interesting.
Q. You made a good move on moving day.  With the conditions maybe changing again, are you looking like you need to go deep again to try to possibly --
STEVE FLESCH: Absolutely.  Brandt Jobe shot 8 under today.  I kind of saw he was off to a good start.  That rain just softened up the greens, albeit they're very slopey and tricky and the hole locations are tough, but if you land it on the green, it's going to stay there unless it's close to the false front.
So whenever you get greens this soft, guys are out here so good with irons, they're going to have birdie opportunities.  It's a matter of converting them.  Today, I did.
Q. Well played.
STEVE FLESCH: Thanks, appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT