THE INTERNATIONAL
August 12, 2006
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Steve, congratulations on a great day today.  You got 13 points, just one point behind Zach Johnson heading into the final round here at The International.  Maybe some comments.  Seven birdies, I believe, today, against just one bogey.
STEVE FLESCH:  Continued striking the ball well.  I've been really hitting the ball well all week, but I really didn't play very aggressively the first two rounds and I was kind of kicking myself because I got off to great starts both days.  I'm not saying I played too conservatively, but I don't think I really    I felt like I should have been leading the tournament after the first and the second days.  I just was kind of kicking myself because I didn't feel I took advantage of my opportunities.

Today I continued to hit the ball well but I made a few of the putts, and I finally got enough points to get up there in contention.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You're a player that can make a lot of birdies and you go on a big birdie run at times.  Do you feel this format is good for your game?
STEVE FLESCH:  I like it because I tend to    I'll make a bogey or two here and there, but I always    my iron play is usually good enough where I have enough opportunities out there where I'm going to have maybe 10 legitimate birdie opportunities throughout the day.  If I can capitalize on a couple of them and I can get to the par 5s this week, you know, since the altitude is helping    I haven't made any eagles this week, but I'm trying to take advantage of those par 5s, too.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  It seems like you're rolling the ball pretty well.
STEVE FLESCH:  I am.  Albeit, I've thought about putting three different ways this week, I'm still putting conventionally.  I thought about going cross handed early in the week.  It's one of those things I play by feel, and whatever feels best I'll do, whether it's right hand low, left hand low, whatever.  I'm putting well.
Q.  You mentioned feeling like you should have led the tournament after both the first and second days.  Did you feel good about your game coming in or was it maybe just Thursday starting to feel good?
STEVE FLESCH:  I've felt good about my game all year with zero results.  It's been frustrating because I've hit the ball well every week, pretty much every week, and just kind of sporadically putted well here and there.  Not putted poorly, just never really kind of    I've hit a lot of edges all year.  Last week in Flint I hit the ball well, also, but if you don't make any putts in Flint you're not going to beat anybody.  It's kind of a birdie fest there.

But this week a few of the putts are falling and I've hit some shots really close to the hole.  Like I said, I think I could    not easily, but I should have been leading the golf tournament after the first day and second days, simply because I don't feel like I played as aggressively as I should.  I made par on 17 twice    I bogeyed 17 one day, parred it yesterday, finally birdied it today, stuff like that.  But I'm happy where I am now.
Q.  You said you did not like your results this year, but you played well here in the past.  Did that help you going into this week mentally?  And I assume you're going to stick with the same putting stroke tomorrow?
STEVE FLESCH:  You never know.  It all depends on how the first couple holes feel.

I have played well here in the past.  I really enjoy it.  You have to hit the ball well around this golf course.  People think, oh, you're going to make a lot of birdies, but if you don't drive the ball in the fairway you're not because the rough is tough.  I think every time I've driven    I drove the ball in the rough today and I didn't hit the green in regulation.  I'm not the strongest guy in the world, but the lies you get, as broad and heavy as that rough is, it's tough to get the ball out of it.  First and foremost you have to drive the ball in the fairway to think about being aggressive to some of these pins.  As most Nicklaus golf courses are, the greens are kind of tilted and slanted in certain directions where you've got to hit a good iron shot in there.

That's generally the strength of my game is my iron play.  If I can get the ball in the fairway, I'm going to have some decent opportunities out there.  If I keep that putter going a little bit, I'll be okay.
Q.  What were the putting grips you used?
STEVE FLESCH:  Cross handed, and I've thrown the claw in there but never used it in contention.  I don't understand the principles behind that.  I'll be conventional.  It'll either be conventional or cross handed.  I've putted successfully both ways.  So to switch really, it's really not that big a deal to me.
Q.  You said you had no eagles.  Is that because you lack the length?  You say you're keeping it in the fairway pretty well.  Why haven't you had an eagle?
STEVE FLESCH:  I don't know, man.  Maybe you've got the answers to that.  I don't know.  I can get home on 1 pretty easily, I just haven't hit the green.  I haven't hit the green in regulation.  The last two days I've been just off and made birdies.

8 really doesn't set up well for me.  I don't hit it left to right off the tee on 8, and especially when the tee is way back, it's just not a good tee shot for me.  Going for that green, I don't usually draw like a 5 wood or a 3 wood, either, and I don't want to hit it up over those trees because God only knows what can happen if you hit it in those trees.  That hole definitely doesn't set up well for me.

But 14 I hit it on the back fringe of the green today for eagle, just didn't make it.

And 17, I've been in the fairway one out of three times, and today I two putted from a long way.

It's just a case of maybe not hitting a good shot at the right time or putting myself in position for it.  I've made quite a few birdies on the 5s, just laying up or hitting some wedges, but you never know when eagles are going to come.  But the big hitters have a definite advantage.
Q.  Some guys sleep on the lead well or if they're in contention and some guys have restless nights.  What do you do before the final round?  Some guys might want to watch The Golf Channel, some guys that's the last thing they want to watch.
STEVE FLESCH:  I'm going to see Ricky Bobby tonight at Talladega Nights.  I'm looking forward that that.  It's been out for a week or so now.  I'll see a movie, I've got some friends in town.  We're planning on going to see that and catch a bite and be here ready to go tomorrow.

I hate to say it, but as long as we've been playing golf, if you're in the lead, especially in a format like this, anybody can go out there tomorrow and win.  I mean, a five point eagle    some guys have made two eagles this week.  Ten points in two holes, that changes the whole complexion of everything.  It's not like you've got a two  or three shot lead going into the last round.  Those points keeps it interesting.  That par 5 17th, you've seen in the past anything can happen there.  You've got to be aggressive.

It's not to say I've got this locked up or I'm here, but you've got to know tomorrow you have to play well.  I don't think there's any sense in worrying about it because you can only do your best.  The point system kind of keeps it real going into the last day.
Q.  What would it mean for you and your career to play in the Ryder Cup?
STEVE FLESCH:  Well, I had a chance two years ago and finished 11th in the points.  I finished like 45th or 50th in the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits, and I think if I would have finished    well, not where I would have finished, if Chris Riley wouldn't have finished 10th, I would have been 10th on the team.  You know, Chris bumped me out there finishing 10th.

But it would be great.  It's really not something that's kind of been on my radar these past two years because I haven't played particularly well, but it would be a little redemption for me because I had it in my grasp two years ago and I let it go.  I didn't play well like with six or eight weeks leading up to when the Ryder Cup cutoff for    leading up to the PGA.  I had no Top 10s in the last six tournaments I played.  I had the opportunity and I let it slip through my fingers.  It would be fun if I got the chance again.
Q.  (Inaudible).
STEVE FLESCH:  Well, I would say representing your country, first and foremost.  Secondly, I think the camaraderie of being on a team with your fellow countrymen, representing your country, and it's almost like you see the aura there, they have the team meetings and the behind the scenes stuff and none of the players ever really talk about it.  It would be nice to kind of find out what really goes on.  Maybe they're in there hooting and hollering drinking beer and watching TV, who knows what they're doing.  But it's kind of like all that.  It's kind of like a week experience that you remember the rest of your life.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Steve Flesch, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT