JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 29, 2011
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 6-under par, 65, not the greatest round in the world but it's a soul rid round of golf in Vegas.   
 STEVE FLESCH: Exactly how you have to start out here. If you don't get off to a good start here, you feel like you're just trying to play catch up the whole week as you know. My mind-set is I've got nothing to lose the last few weeks, so I'm going to play all four, see what happens. I'm going to play aggressively. That's how you have to play in Vegas.  
  
  Q. Do you just think five a day? The golf course, a little earlier in the year, the fairways, there's not much fire in them, and I don't want to say plugging, but popping up in the air and not chasing down the fairway.   
 STEVE FLESCH: It's a little wetter than we normally see it. Probably because it's still hot enough, that they have to put a little more water on the fairways to keep them going. Normally when we are here later in the year; it's skidding on the bermuda fairways.  
 But it's definitely playing a little bit longer. Not a whole lot because the ball goes so far now and the guys kill it. Playing a little bit longer, I don't know, I kind of like the way it's playing.  
  
  Q. How about the rough? There is a little bit this year. It's that judgment rough, not really whack it out but you can get a lie or two out here that's pretty bad but you really have to judge the ball out of this rough this week.   
 STEVE FLESCH: Yeah, and they have actually narrowed it up in a couple of spots on a couple par 5s where there was a lot of fairway out there, they brought it in, but 13 especially they brought that hole off-side about 30 yards so you can't just bomb it over and go for it.   
 If you do hit it in the rough you have to think about what you're doing. And a couple of guys in our group did not have pitch-out lies but they had lies where they could not get to to the green from about 160 yards. It's sketchy in spots but you still have to drive it in the fairway.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT