BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 13, 2004
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE FLESCH:   You know, I wish I could attribute it to driving well, but I obviously missed some fairways.  I missed quite a few yesterday.  With a little bit of lack of rough, as long as you can hack it up around the greens, you know.  My short game is good.  I've putted well.  I just played well, played solidly.  When I missed greens, I've left it where I didn't have too tough of an up and down.  I made a couple of great up and downs yesterday.  Today, if I wasn't in the fairway, I was right next to it.  I just played well.


Q.  Yesterday the South Course didn't yield as many lower numbers as it did.  Were the conditions a little different?  Was the wind down?

STEVE FLESCH:   I'll tell you what, it was cold.  I was watching the news this morning, they said it was going to be 70 on the coast.  I'll tell you, it never got within 10 degrees of that.  Every time I took my pullover off or whatever, I would play one hole or play one shot, and the sun would go behind the clouds and it would get chilly. 

It's a tough golf course.  It's a long golf course.  I played in a practice round over there on Tuesday, and I was playing with a buddy of mine, Dan Olson, he said, are we using this tee or this tee, all these new back tees.  I thought no, they're not going to use them.  They used every one of them.  He was in the group behind me today.  He was probably cussing me out.  They made it a man size golf course.  You have to drive the ball in the fairway on those long holes.  If you don't, you're going to have to make some great up and downs.  Fortunately, I drove the ball well on those longer holes, and the ones I didn't, I scraped it around.


Q.  If you could pick out part of your game that's going the best, is it putting, driving, chipping?

STEVE FLESCH:   Yesterday, it was my putting.  Being on the North Course on the poa annua greens, a lot of guys are scratching their heads.  I was making these 8  and 9 foot par putts like I was putting on a pool table somehow.  Yesterday my putter saved me quite a bit.  I made some good birdie putts, obviously.  Today, I putted well, but I made the ones I had to.  I didn't make anything I probably shouldn't have made today.


Q.  You really didn't get into too much trouble?

STEVE FLESCH:   I didn't get into too much trouble.  The par  5s, I made a couple great up and downs to make birdies on the last hole, my ninth hole, and then 6 and 2, I 2 putted twice from about 90 feet today.  So I guess my putter has been my strong suit. 

Finally I went back to the belly putter, which I won with there at the Bob Hope.  After hitting it great for two days and not making anything I figured it couldn't get any worse, so I went back to the belly putter.  I played great in Phoenix last week, and I think I was 19 under par in my last three rounds at the Hope with it, so quite a bit under par with it since going back to it.


Q.  Why did you go away from it?

STEVE FLESCH:   I had a poor putting week at the International with it.  I started with it at Bay Hill and then I won New Orleans and I played consistently with it.  I was missing a lot of putts where I was saying to myself, I knew I could make that conventionally with a regular putter, the awkwardness of it, that 10 foot putt off the fringe.  Sometimes with a belly putter, it's tricky because you're worried about chunking it more than making the putt sometimes.

I got ahold of this new putter from Never Compromise and it's simple.  I'm not    not to be praising the putter so much, but I'm more comfortable with it.  The belly putter allows me to set up the same way exactly every time over the ball.  If my eyes are over that ball and that putter is touching the same point on my midsection, then I'm going to be the exact same distance from the ball every time I pull the trigger.  I just think it made me a little more consistent, especially from 10 feet in, because the stroke just didn't get off line that easy.


Q.  Are you asking yourself why you went away from it?

STEVE FLESCH:   Pretty much.  Honestly, I putted well at the end of the year.  And I putted well, actually, at the Mercedes Championship with a conventional putter this year.  This is one of those things, I'm sure I'll go back to the regular putter some time, maybe not until they outlaw this.


Q.  Is it a feel for you, whatever feels good as you're warming up, that you're going to use that particular putter?

STEVE FLESCH: No, it's usually toward the middle of the round.  If I'm frustrated or whatever I'll decide I'm going to make a change, especially with a driver.  I put a different driver in play today.  Every club in my bag is on waivers pretty much.  I'm not married to any of them.  I feel like if I'm not happy with the one I'm hitting, why not try something else because I might hit it better.


Q.  Are you one of those that think the belly putter ought to be illegal? 

STEVE FLESCH:   I was browsing around.  I went to the grocery yesterday and I was browsing through magazines.  I saw an article that I guess somebody wrote on Colin Montgomerie, who was talking about the belly.  He mentioned all the pros of using it.  I don't know if he listed any cons.  And he said, "I'm going to continue using it until they tell me I can't."  I agree.  I don't think    I might not even say, I don't want to give the USGA any ideas, I don't think you should be able to hinge a club on your body.  But if somebody isn't going to tell us we can't, I think it's an advantage to do it.  Langer and Sam Torrance putt almost straight 90 degrees off their chin.  That's just a perfect pendulum.  I think it's got to be addressed because I do think it makes the game easier.


Q.  (Inaudible)

STEVE FLESCH:   Well, if you can hinge a club off a point of your body, that's just    that's the easiest way to make a pendulum.  The pendulum is hinged at one spot.  Obviously your hands are on the golf club, but the butt of the club is hinged on your belly, or a long putter is hinged on your chest.  I'm not saying it's cheating or anything, you still have to make the stroke and you still have got to read the stroke, you still have to do all that, but for me it has made putting easier.


Q.  What club are you most married to?  What one have you had the longest?

STEVE FLESCH:   I say that, but I don't switch irons and I don't switch wedges.  Those are pretty much a staple.  I haven't changed those at all.  It's always putter and driver and 3 wood and 5 wood.  It's pretty much all my woods and my putter, you know.  I only have a couple of putters with me.  I have plenty of drivers.  My caddie's trunk is full of drivers. 

I'm using a 580 TaylorMade right now.  I have four or five set up right now with different lofts and different shafts.  That's how I mix.  I don't jump brands and stuff like that.  I stay committed to one look.  I think I have three or four driver heads that all look exactly the same but they have different shots which give me different launch characteristics or whatnot.  I travel with a bunch.  I usually end up, after about three or four weeks, getting a box together and throwing half a dozen clubs in them and shipping them home because I can't carry them.


Q.  Did you sense your gallery growing in size?

STEVE FLESCH:   Definitely, but it wasn't because of me.  J.D. was playing well and it looked like he was really having fun out there.  We were out there talking, Charles Howell and I and John.  John, he's enjoying playing golf right now, I think.  He's playing well, too.  He's driving it fairly well, but around the greens he's really playing well.  I just think he was having fun.  And the fact that he was making birdies and the crowd kind of    I think some people heard the hoopla when John hit it close a couple times, and our gallery grew.  And I assure you it wasn't because of me.


Q.  (Inaudible)

STEVE FLESCH:   For me it is because the last time I played with him was the 84 Lumber when he had all his problems I guess last, when he retired early in the second round or midway through the second round and he had to leave.  The PGA TOUR needs guys like John Daly.  He makes the game exciting.  I think a lot of people can relate to a lot of the problems that he's had.  He's just a regular guy.  He's got a heck of a lot of talent and he's had some problems.  I think the better he plays, the better he feels and the better the Tour is going to be with him out here.


Q.  Did you catch yourself watching him?

STEVE FLESCH:   Always.  I hope I have the tee so I don't have to follow him.  People see him hit it 325 or something, and they say, how far is this little skinny guy going to hit it.  Like I said, I'm glad John is playing well.  I'll probably get to play with him tomorrow.  He's a guy that I think it's easy for everybody to root for.  Everybody wants John to play well and I'm glad he is.


Q.  (Inaudible)

STEVE FLESCH:   Maybe.  I don't know.  I hope he enjoys playing with me.  As long as we have fun, that's all that matters.


Q.  (Inaudible)

STEVE FLESCH:   Not that he's an underdog, but I think he has been through so many problems I think everybody wants him to play well    from my standpoint, if he plays well, I think it makes him feel better about everything.  He's got enough distractions away from the game, God only knows.  If he can come out and be in that bubble on the golf course and play well, I think it makes him feel better.  For that reason, he's an easy guy to root for because people want him to turn the corner and get his life back to himself and have fun with it.


Q.  Does it make it difficult with a big gallery?

STEVE FLESCH:   They all shout words of encouragement to John.  I hate to say the common man, but that's just kind of    I mean, it's people from all walks of life and they're just out there to see John hit it 320 and just bomb it, and then he's got such a phenomenal short game.  People who watch him are surprised by it.  They know he can hit it a mile, but around the greens    I can't think of a time    today he was all happy with his 60 degree wedge he's playing with it     Cleveland, by the way.  Every time he hit it, he chipped it this close. 

Our last hole, No. 9, he hit an unbelievable shot to a foot.  I lost track of what my point was.  He's fun to play with and the crowds they don't distract him because they're always shouting encouragement.  Whether he's making double or making birdie, they're shouting encouragement to him.


Q.  Didn't you outdrive him on 5?  How did that feel?

STEVE FLESCH:   I did.  Following up on that, we were talking about how we don't think    you know, Charles and I don't think the ball he's playing goes as far as what he was playing with last year.  I don't want to go into that whole deal.  He'll be in here to talk about it, if you want.  I don't think what he's using now is affording him the distance that he's accustomed to, I'll put it that way.


Q.  You mentioned an interesting thing.  You played with him at the 84 Lumbar when he retired early.  What is different about him now, mannerisms, and the way he plays?

STEVE FLESCH:   Well, that's hard for me to say because I really don't know what he's going through off the golf course.  I just know back at the 84 Lumber, all that buildup and a lot of stuff had come out in the paper, so it was all kind of right there.  I'm sure he's taken care of a lot of that.  It seems his mind is clear out there, to me.  It seems he's able to concentrate on the golf.  Where before, there was so much going on, golf was his only salvation of getting away from it all.  There was so much pressure on him both on and off the golf course, even on the golf course he couldn't get away from it.  Now it seems he's just enjoying playing golf, which is how we need him.


Q.  How is your game?

STEVE FLESCH:   I don't know.  My caddie keeps telling me I'm so much more relaxed this year, I don't know why, because I'm still a stress case.  I think winning last year really relaxed me, because I got that burden off my back.  I don't know.  Everything is good for Steve Flesch right now, both on and off the golf course.  I'm just trying to enjoy it, trying to have fun.  I mean, that's it really.  I'm just trying to have more fun playing than I have in years past, not killing myself and beating myself up when I hit a bad one, just go find it and hit it again.



End of FastScripts

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT