WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 23, 2003
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.
67, 3-under, you're right in it here?
STEVE FLESCH:  I've just been hitting my irons great all week and the putter is starting to come around a little bit.  I'm kind of giving myself chances out there.  I haven't made a ton of birdies but I haven't put myself out of position too much just kind of textbook play but not running the tables on the greens.

Q.  Birdie on 16, that hole has been playing tough that week.  Could you run me through the hole?
STEVE FLESCH: I finally drove it in the fairway the first time this week.  That hole is 100 percent easier when you get your drive in the fairway.  I hit a wedge in there about two and a half feet and made the putt whereas I've had 6-iron and 9-iron in there the last two days, and that green is harder than any other green on the course in terms of firmness so it's hard to keep the ball on the green.  You've got to hit a wedge in.

Q.  The course is playing tough this afternoon.  Do you like your chances?
STEVE FLESCH:  I do.  It's a big hitter's golf course.  I know Ernie and Tiger and all those guys, it's kind of perfect for them because as fast as it's playing it's really short for them, so I have to keep playing aggressively, hit my driver as much as I can because if I don't, I'm not going to be able to compete against their short irons.  I love it, I love the old style golf course that it is, but I've got a lot of guys between myself and the lead right now.  You never know, get it going early tomorrow and you never know what can happen.

Q.  Can we go by the hole by hole, just club selection?
STEVE FLESCH:  I hit a sand wedge on 1 to 15 feet, made it. 
Driver, 7-iron on 2, about 40 feet and two-putted. 
Bogeyed 4 after driving it in the left rough.
3 was just a 3-wood and a wedge about ten feet, two-putt. 
Birdie on 14, a 3-wood and a 9-iron to about nine feet, made it. 
Birdie on 16, driver, 4-iron, sand wedge to two feet.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT