PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2009
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 3-under par 69, nice to get a round in the 60s, especially in the third round of a major championship?  
 STEVE FLESCH: Always. I played well today. I made a bunch of mistakes and I was glad to shoot under par. I haven't played that well this year, so it's nice to play well on the Saturday of a major.  
  
  Q. No. 12, you had a birdie, and 13, the chip-in?  
 STEVE FLESCH: 12 is a par 5 for me. I've hit wood in there two times this week, so any time in a par 4 I've got to hit a wood, I pretty much play it as a par 5. I made a nice eagle there today in my book. You know, a lot of long holes out here, just a long golf course, but you know, it's tough for me to compete when I have that many woods in my hands.  
  
  Q. Talk about the chip-in on 13.   
 STEVE FLESCH: It was good. You know, another tough hole for me. I made a double-bogey early in the week. So I hit a 3-iron today and pulled it right of the green and hit a perfect chip. It's really fast. The greens are finally kind of picking up and getting some speed on them today. You know, just ran right in the hole. If it didn't hit the stick, it probably would have been about eight feet by.   
  
  Q. Talk about the weather out there.   
 STEVE FLESCH: The weather's fine. It's just windy. You know, I'm actually glad it's not sunny. It's easier to play when it's not so bright and sunny. It's not as hot that way. The wind is a little tricky, making a lot of the long holes longer and a couple of the par 5s more reachable. The wind is the only factor out there right now.   
  
  Q. Some of the medium-length guys are doing well; the length of the course doesn't seem to have skewed a lot of things in terms of the competition.   
 STEVE FLESCH: Well, as long as you drive the ball in the fairway, it doesn't. If you drive the ball in the rough, on some of these 600-yard par 5s, it's going to be tough. I bogeyed a couple of them today, but both of them are out of the rough, too. The length is only a non-issue if you're driving the ball in the fairway.   
  
  Q. The fairways are drivable?   
 STEVE FLESCH: They are wide enough, yeah. But the big thing is you've got to get in them. If you're not, that rough, even though they say it isn't that long, it's been growing all week and now it's over four inches. It's pretty healthy out there.   
  
  Q. What about the course setup generally, have you been pretty pleased with it?   
 STEVE FLESCH: Yeah, pretty much. You know, there's kind of nowhere for them to go on 12. They either have to play it at 510 or 440. So they need a tee in between there.   
 No, I think the setup's been good. I don't get the 14th hole being up two days in a row like that, because it's not an easy hole from the back of that tee, but I guess trying to add a little bit of excitement.   
 Hey, they have got 7,600 yards to work with and they are probably using 7,450 of it. I think it's nice variety. The course is finally drying out where the greens are getting some decent speed on them. The first few days they were slow and bumpy, but I think they are drying out to where the putts are rolling a lot truer today.  
  
  Q. When you get wind here, it's going to have an effect because it's fairly open in a lot of areas.   
 STEVE FLESCH: It's definitely wide open. They cover a lot of acreage out here.   
 It's good. If it was no wind and it was 7,400, 7,500, it would be kind of a brutal test. Plus with the heat, it keeps it a little cooler out there; so I think everybody is kind of glad the wind is blowing around a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT