TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2008
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's it like coming back to a place where you've won before? 
 STEVE FLESCH: It's a lot fun. Got a lot of good VIBES playing here last year. Big change in the golf course. A little softer this year. Big change in the weather two weeks later in the year and the wind is out of a different direction so far. 
 So not much is the same, but I'm hoping for the same result.

 Q. How did you enjoy broadcasting during the Ryder Cup for the Golf Channel? 
 STEVE FLESCH: I totally enjoyed that. Makes it easier because I know those guys so well and they don't throw me too many hard questions. I'm comfortable around them, so I can kind of get let my guard down. As long as I don't fumble my words I'm okay in an atmosphere like that.

 Q. Had you ever been on property at a Ryder Cup before?
 STEVE FLESCH: No, that was any first one. And the fact that it was only 60 miles from the house made it even more special, Kentucky as well. 
 I wanted to be playing, but I had a great week that week.  
 Q. Keep playing well. 
 STEVE FLESCH: Thanks. 
 JOHN BUSH: Steve, you played this morning in the Pro-Am. I know it's a different golf course this year. Just get your take on how the golf course looks.
 STEVE FLESCH: It's fantastic. Everything about this place is the same as last year, it's just a little softer. I guess two weeks later in the year makes a big difference. It's chillier so the ball is not going as far, so the whole golf course is playing longer in those respects. 
 Got a lot of good memories from here last year. The greens are perfect, too, so if you can get the ball on the green you got a good chance at making some putts. 
 JOHN BUSH: Take us back to last year. What do you remember most about that final round? 
 STEVE FLESCH: I remember it was quite breezy and just tough to get the ball close to the hole. I more or less just kind of hung in there. I had a big lead going into the last day, so I was just trying to hang in there. 
 Fortunately I had a couple shot lead coming into the last hole where I could kind of goof up a little bit like I did and make a bogey, but I still won. 
 It was a tough day. Got off it a tough start, but I hung in there well and made a couple birdies and then just kind of rolled on the back nine.
 JOHN BUSH: And the state of your game right now.
 STEVE FLESCH: Unfortunately I've had four weeks off. Didn't play the last two FedExCup events. But, yeah, I played well. I played a lot with my ten year old over the break. We played almost every day. 
 At least I was out there swinging a little bit, you know, keeping my game in shape. So, yeah, it's fine. I played well the last two days and I look forward to tomorrow.
 JOHN BUSH: And you're plans for the rest of the year with the fall finish? 
 STEVE FLESCH: I'm going play three of the next five: Vegas, Scottsdale, and then Disney. Got the big Father/Son we gotta do at Disney. Can't miss that. That's a major for us. 
 You know, four of the six in the fall finish, I think that's pretty good. I'm not big in the off-season. I'd rather keep playing, so I'm kind of sad to see the year coming to an end. 
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Good luck this week.
 STEVE FLESCH: Thank you. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT