PRO FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
August 4, 2012
Jack Butler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Please welcome Jack Butler. 
JACK BUTLER:   Okay.   It is difficult to remember and to thank everyone who has had an effect on my life.   I have to give special thanks to my parents, to my four brothers, my two sisters, and my wife, Bernadette.   I'd also like to acknowledge our four sons and our four daughters, and our fifteen grandchildren. 
I can't figure out what caused all of this.   It is important to acknowledge the Rooney family and the McGinley families.   They have impacted my life and the lives of my entire family tremendously.   I would also like to thank the people of Canton, Steve Perry, and the Hall of Fame staff. 
I have been very fortunate and I've had a lot to be thankful for.   I was born with a talent to play football, had the motivation to become the best player that I could, and I also was fortunate enough to play in the great city of champions, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
I never envisioned being here in Canton.   This induction is the highest honor I have achieved in my professional career.   I've always been grateful and happy to have played and to have a 56‑year career doing the things I've always loved being involved in professional football, as a player, as a coach, as a scout, and as an administrator. 
I am truly honored to be included with all of these great players that have received me here.   I humbly thank the voters who deemed me worthy to be here. 
I am grateful and very proud to be part of this great class of 2012, and I congratulate the five tremendous men who join me here.   I am thankful to God for all that I have been given throughout my life.   I am thankful for the support of my family and friends.   I am thankful for my brother, my sister who are here to witness this.   I am thankful for my wife, my children, my grandchildren that are here to see this also.   Heck, I'm thankful I'm here. 
I thank you all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT