CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 21, 2011
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Crazy round on the Palm Course. Just a nice solid round that built off kind of a crazy round yesterday when you did go low on the Magnolia. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Definitely got off to a great start yesterday and was able to kind of keep it going and shoot a nice score over there on the more difficult course.
 And then today, you know, I don't do good in cold weather. Was able to scrape it around the first couple holes and make a couple nice par saves. Then hit a real good 3-wood on the par-5 and made about a 15-, 20-footer there for eagle. 
 Was kicking myself after 11, not birdieing there, being just over the back of the green in two.
 Then I hit it close on 12 and missed that one, so I was kind of a little aggravated because I felt like I was -- you know, I had a chance to really kind of get to double digits a little sooner. Then held serve on the other par-5 and birdied it. Then played solid coming in. 
 To go bogey-free is pretty good. Wind is a little tricky out there. Definitely blowing a little bit more than you feel. So I'm not too disappointed.

 Q. Best news is Saturday you'll get a much later tee time and it won't be nearly so cold. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Exactly. That was the thought process. For some reason I just don't do good in cold weather and have a hard time. I've no different than anybody else. I have a golfer's back that's tough to get loosened up in the morning. When it's cool out, it's just really tough. 

 Q. They were reflecting on your attire today. I like the pink shoes. I think they work. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, you know, I get a lot of flack for these shoes. Obviously everyone thinks it's for cancer awareness. I have been fortunate enough not to know anyone who has cancer. I'm really just wearing a pink belt and shoes because they match and they look pretty cool. 
 If people think I'm supporting something, great, because I'm never going to not do that. But it's strictly just a pink shoes and pink belt.

 Q. As long you don't put the pink hat with it and carry the pink purse, you're be okay. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, I'm good. No problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT