DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good start, 5-under today, you've got to be pretty happy with this stage of the Playoffs right now.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, it was definitely what I needed to do, definitely outside looking in for next week, and used the long week this week to stay and practice a little longer. I did the two pro-ams first part of the week. Actually had planned on going home and just kind of thought about it and said, well, you know, if I play poorly this week I'll have three weeks off, so why not hang around and -- not that I don't put forth my best effort every week, but hang around, work on some things, try to take advantage of the nice practice facilities here, and so far it's paid off.   
  
  Q. Coming through Q-school you'll get a couple extra looks at the golf course. It's only advantageous to do it.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, being able to play on Monday and Tuesday, being so hot, we were able to ride, which was cool. It was nice. I just was able to take advantage of Wednesday and Thursday to work on some things, implement some changes I'm making in my putting stroke, not my stroke but how I approach it, and so far it worked really good today.  
  
  Q. You got to ride in a golf cart and you got paid, pretty good gig.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, not bad. It was good. I got to go buy some new furniture for my house down in Florida, so it's good.   
  
  Q. Talk about the general course conditions. Obviously the rain came after the morning wave.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, I'll tell you what, it definitely was off and on. We kept pulling the umbrella out. We had a little over-and-under bet on how many times we were going to open up the umbrella today, and it was actually really good that we were the first group out and that we were all fast players, so there was occasional times when it was coming down pretty good, we could actually wait it out for a minute, let it clear, because we didn't have anybody riding us, and we were never going to catch the group in front of us being that it's a smaller field.   
 Really we only did that once, which was on 17 tee, and I ended up hitting the worst shot I hit all day anyway, so I should have just hit it in the rain. The course is holding up well, the greens are perfect, and --  
  
  Q. What's your take on the foresight of doing lift, clean and place? The morning was perfect but they were thinking ahead to you guys. Talk about that.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, I mean, obviously they were trying to make sure that they're making it as fair as possible. I'm hoping they maybe -- my biggest fear is I'm at 7:00 tomorrow morning. We don't have a thunderstorm coming through, we have a hurricane that's going to hit our area. There's going to be debris everywhere. I'd be shocked if they can get the golf course prepared after a night of torrential downpour and 60-mile-an-hour winds at 7:00 in the morning.   
 I'm hoping they kind of look ahead and say, we only have 100 guys, we can push it back to 10:00, give the maintenance crew some extra time in the morning. But I'll be here at 5:30 ready to go. If they tell us there's a delay we'll just hang out in the locker room.  
  
  Q. The winds never came up. Do you think the course played a little easier this afternoon than maybe even this morning with the rain?  
 KRIS BLANKS: No, I heard this morning was like playing in a dome, so I'm not going to say it played any easier this afternoon. I'm not sure the rain has been enough to really soften the greens up. Obviously everyone being able to lift, clean and place makes that fair. I played the whole day, really only had a significant wind on one or two shots that really blew my ball off line. I think it was fair enough of a -- like I said, my biggest thing is just -- my biggest fear is getting up at the crack of dawn, getting here and waiting for them for three hours to blow off greens or make the course presentable. But that's my own thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT