AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice playing, two birdies on the last three holes, nice way to finish up.   
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, started to get the speed of the greens a little bit today. Kept leaving my putts short by a couple inches. But just playing to play smart. I hadn't really fired at many pins, just taking my 30-footers and two-putting and going on. Anything under par is a good score.   
 I wanted to make sure I attacked 16, the par-5, and was able to do that. Hit a good 3-wood in there about 20 feet and left it right on the lip. Other than that, birdied the last, and just kind of in good position for the weekend.  
  
  Q. Take us through those last two birdies on 16 and 18.   
 KRIS BLANKS: I was trying to hit a really big drive on 16 over that bunker so I could go for the green, and I kind of blocked it a little bit. I hit it in the rough and actually stayed on the right edge of the fairway, and because it caught a little bit of slope it actually ran down a little bit where I had the perfect 3-wood and hit a real good second shot there. Was kind of on the up-slope, was able to get it up in the air and I had to land it soft on the green there, and then left the putt literally about an inch short. One more roll and it would have been a really good 3.   
 I actually hit a great shot into 17, missed about an eight- or nine-footer there.  
 And then 18, I just had it right up the gut there. I tried to hit it right at the hole and it just of wiggled and went in. So it was good.  
  
  Q. You've been up there a couple times this year, a couple Top 5s. Is there anything you've learned?  
 KRIS BLANKS: This year has actually for me has been a whole lot better than last year. Last year I was surprised I could play 20 events out here and not play one tournament or even a round that I felt like I was capable of. Going back to Q-school last year, getting my card back, I felt like I got a second lease on life basically, and actually got off to a slow start this year, also.   
 I went and hung out with some buddies of mine during the Honda, some friends down there, and we just played some golf, and they're like, man, you're playing fine, don't worry about it, just play golf like you're supposed to. It's hard to do.   
 I played great in Puerto Rico, which basically just springboarded my whole year. I felt like I let that one get away. One or two back with two par-5s to go, I felt like I should have won that tournament.   
 I played great in Hilton Head, and then I played good at Colonial. It's just been a steady progression of -- yeah, I'd have a good round last year but then I'd follow it up with a poor one or get off to a slow start and have to play great to make a cut, did or didn't do that, and then couldn't do anything on the weekend.   
 Initially I got off to some better starts, first rounds. I've gotten kind of away from the cut line to where it wasn't always over my shoulder worrying about making the cut, or I don't want to fire at this pin because I might mess up and make bogey.   
 So it's just been -- been doing the little things a lot better this year that I wasn't able to do last year.  
  
  Q. Was there any one round in that stretch of fun golf?  
 KRIS BLANKS: No, actually I played horrible. I played so bad when I was playing with my buddies, and I was -- and all it was was the way we were set up -- Puerto Rico was going to be really my only start until probably New Orleans. I wasn't going to get in Transitions, wasn't going to get in Bay Hill. I was like, oh, my God, I've got to play good in Puerto Rico, it was wearing on me, and I couldn't play good.   
 I got down to Puerto Rico and literally one afternoon I was on the range just kind of screwing around and stumbled onto something ball-striking wise that worked great for those four days and actually made a few putts that week, which was good. Finishing second there got me into Transitions, Bay Hill, kept playing good, got into PLAYERS, started getting in more tournaments, and it's just been a steady climb. It's been building and just enjoying the time out here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT