PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 13, 2010
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Kris, if you'd start off and just talk a little bit about your round today and how it's been getting to this point after three days. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Obviously it felt good to get out and actually play some golf after all the waiting around for the last three days. 
 I had talked to the grounds crew. They did a great job. The course was in great shape today. Even yesterday afternoon it was very playable. 
 So you know, just made a few putts today, so it was good to finally see some balls go in the hole.

 Q. And have you been working on your putting this year and have you seen any improvement?
 KRIS BLANKS: I guarantee you I've been dead last for putting all year. I've struggled on the greens. 
 I did some work at the Honda. I was first alternate at Phoenix, didn't get in there. Felt like I was playing pretty good, was looking forward to getting in the Honda, didn't get in there. I was second alternate there. 
 Worked with some friends of mine that have known me for a while. We changed some things in my putting because the way I was doing it wasn't working, and today was kind of -- I knew I'd been putting better just on the greens, practicing, hanging out with them last week, but I wanted to see how I would react in the tournament, and it was great. After the round got on, I got a little more confident with it and was able to hit just better and better putts.

 Q. You've got a big break now. You come back tomorrow morning. Kind of give your thoughts on what are you going to do the rest of the day and thoughts on playing 27 or more tomorrow. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Probably going to hang out, my kids are here, wife's here, probably hang out at the pool, try not to get sunburned, go have some lunch. I'm going to practice a little bit this afternoon afterwards, but just really trying to stay focused. 
 This is a very, very important week for me being this is probably going to be the only start I have maybe for the next two reshuffles. So if I don't play this week, then who knows what's going to happen on the next reshuffle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT