JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 1, 2011
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Four birdies on the front nine. You've done a lot of work because the Back 9 is usually where the scoring gets done. Did you feel the same way that, okay, now I got something really going?
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah. I definitely had a nice pep in my step going into the back side. That tee shot on 10's been bothering me all week. Tried to hit a different club and still hit it in kind of the same spot, and then same thing on 12. You know, those are really the two holes that I've been struggling on, been fortunate enough to have decent lies in the rough and it hasn't really affected me. Today I got myself out of position for sure, but it was nice, good to bounce back and make some putts coming in.

 Q. A lot of us have mental issues with 18 holes. If you only have mental issues with two, that's not so bad. You did get it going again coming back in. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, definitely. You know, to be able to hit a good drive off of 12, the very next hole, and then reach that green in two, to make a two-putt. You know, I was out of position on 15, but hit a real nice chip, gave myself a look and was able to get that ball to roll one more inch over and then fall in. 
 And then making that one on 17 was just a bonus. But I'm very pleased with how I've been rolling the ball this week, and the belly putter's been working.

 Q. Two 66s and a 65. Do you look at the board? Do you think maybe another 65?
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah. I think you're going to need something mid 60s to maybe even better than that. It gets bunched up there a little bit at the top, and really anybody that's 13-under right now can go out tomorrow and shoot 7, 8, 9-under and get in early and have a chance.

 Q. Do you have to stay patient, then, when you're in the final groups because you know guys are going to be ahead of you making birdies and particularly on that Back 9 run, don't worry about that because you're going to get your chance?
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah. Exactly. Very similar to when I won in Chicago. Chicago had a very same feel. Everyone runs out and makes birdies on all the par-5s and some other ones, and you just have to stay patient and know that you're going to have to play those holes also and just really try to make sure you capitalize on the three par-5s that are out here and stay away from any -- if you do get out of position, don't make worse than a bogey. 
 My main goal tomorrow is just going to be to play -- if I can play without making any mistakes, you know, making any bogeys. I'm making enough birdies that I should be in good shape.

 Q. Good luck to you. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT