JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 30, 2011
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just kind of talk about the afternoon wave seemed to not score as low as maybe the morning. What do you think that kind of attributed to that?
 KRIS BLANKS: It seemed like, you know, there was a little more wind this afternoon, but it was very, very minimal. I wouldn't be able to put a thought into what exactly that reasoning is. Obviously the greens do get a little more bumpier in the afternoon, but I was fortunate to be able to hole some putts. 
 So I really wouldn't be able to -- because yesterday the lower scores were in the afternoon, too. Maybe just the better players were playing. 

 Q. You never know. 
 KRIS BLANKS: The guys that were playing. 

 Q. Sure. Sure. 
 KRIS BLANKS: More than condition or weather. Obviously we've had perfect weather the last two days.

 Q. You obviously found something out there. What did you see in your game that's got you to 11-under here?
 KRIS BLANKS: I played -- tee to green I played great yesterday, had two three-putts on the front side and bogeyed 9 on my last hole yesterday. So that kind of put a damper on what could have been a six, seven, 8-under round and still 5-under wasn't bad.
 Today, got off to kind of a slow start and then been working real hard on my putting, using the belly putter this week. 
 So I'm always having to try to -- I spend a lot of my time trying to figure out some of the nuances of it, and found something last night that worked real good today, so I'm looking forward to playing.

 Q. Now, the delay of 40 minutes or whatever, is it more of a hassle? Obviously it didn't affect your play. You came out and birdied the last?
 KRIS BLANKS: No. Definitely. I hit some good shots coming in. It was kind of neat because it gave me a little time, we walked up 18. I had been, you know, questioning where I had been trying to hit on that tee shot and it gave me a little time just to kind of get up there and analyze it a little bit. 
 And we went back out, itself able to make a couple of good swings and then holed another 25-footer.

 Q. Yeah. Talk about that one there. 
 KRIS BLANKS: Yeah, it was similar to what I had, and it's just good to get the ball started on line. I hadn't seen that in a while, and I've just been really struggling on the greens. Even the good weeks I've had are more good ball striking. I can only think about one week this year that I actually putted great, and I lost in the playoff and so on and so forth. 
 So I'm trying to really work on that aspect of my game and get that -- if I can get that anywhere close to how I hit it, I'll be really excited.

 Q. What about the belly putter? How long have you been --
 KRIS BLANKS: I've been tooling around with it during -- when I was eliminated from the FedExCup. And obviously you see a lot of people have success with it. 
 I'm sure all the reps are making all of us belly putters to try, and for me it's more of a way to kind of wipe the slate clean. I can kind of -- I feel like I'm really trying something new and not being so radical. Even though it is different, there's some subtle nuances to it that aren't the same as putting conventional. But like I said, I'm trying to learn something every day on it and hopefully I can keep doing what I did today. It would be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT