RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2011
Kris Blanks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KRIS BLANKS: Very pleased with the putt I holed on 17 and 18 to get in the playoff. I'm still a little pissed right now.

 Q. Tell me about the two bunker shots you had at 18. Same bunker, how different were they? 
 KRIS BLANKS: You know, it's funny, the one in regulation, it was heavier than I wanted it to be. It definitely rolled out a lot. It wasn't quite -- I was a little shorter in the bunker. Thought I hit it pretty good. It just was a bit too far. Got down there and obviously it rolled down against the grass. There was a little tuft of grass behind the ball. I chipped and I didn't get it up-and-down.

 Q. The decision to use the wedge there, did you think about that? 
 KRIS BLANKS: No, there was too much grass in right behind it. I couldn't get a putter on it. Early in the round I three-putted three times from right off the fringe. So obviously right now I'm pissed and the more I think about it, the more I'll probably get upset at the shots I gave away today. 
 But all in all, it was definitely the week I needed. I can kind of relax and not play so much because I've got my card locked up for next year. Hopefully looking into the PGA Championship and go on from there.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 KRIS BLANKS: I made some good putts on 17 and 18 to stay tied for the lead and get in the playoff.

 Q. You say this is a spring board and you maintain your card for next year. Can it be a spring board for the rest of the season? 
 KRIS BLANKS: Oh, sure. It definitely changes things. I'm going to go next week and play Greenbrier. I played four or five weeks in a row already. I haven't checked yet, but hopefully the points and the settings might give me some other stuff also. I might need to readjust my schedule a little bit. 
 I think I'm not going to go next week and play. Just kind of relax next week and then probably go to Reno still. But definitely makes the whole rest of the year a lot easier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT