U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 2, 2016
Missy Franklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Replays!  
MISSY FRANKLIN: I know.  I can't remember who was swimming the other day, but someone who had retired, oh, Kathleen Hersey, and I was like, what?  I didn't know she was here!   
 Q.  What did you think of that?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: You know, I've been saying I don't think I swam it as well as I could have.  I think based on the 100 I probably went out a little bit too timid, and Kazan last year, that last 50 was so rough, but I think there's so much room for improvement in terms of how I raced that, because I had so much more left in the tank there.  But, you know what?  I got a spot, and that's all I needed to do.   
 Q.  Missy, did you feel the same way four years ago leaving here, or did you feel more on top of your game then?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: You know, it's a good question.  One of the things I've been trying to do this whole year is not compare myself to where I was in 2012.  I think coming in a lot of people thought in order for me to be (Away from mic.)  I had to do the same thing that I did in 2012, and that's not what I came here intending to do.  I came here to be the best of who I am right now not, not the best of who I was four years ago.  So to get two individual spots and a relay spot, of course I'm happy with that.  (Away from mic.)  To be on the team in three events is great.   
 Q.  What did you think of Maya's swim?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: Oh my gosh!  Amazing!  And I think we all knew it was coming, too.  You look at how Maya's been swimming this year and how she's been training.  I know she has improved so much (Away from mic.)  This next month, too, and she is an incredible competitor, and I'm excited to see what she can do in Rio.   
 Q.  She talked about being able to swim so freely, how much can that help the team in terms of when you guys are sitting around and the perspective she can lend?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: I think I race when we are coming to the team with a different perspective.  You have someone like Maya, where this is her last go, and she's going to give it all she has, and like you've seen this week, it's obviously gone very well for her.   
You have someone like Michael, who is coming on now with four Olympics already under his belt, and now his fifth, and it's all about what you can bring individually, and I know Maya is going to bring a lot, and even the rookies are going to bring something new and different, so I'm excited to see that.   
 Q.  Would you say expectations are tougher to deal with or pressure, or are they the same?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: A little bit.  I think they're one and the same, but I learned a lot at this meet about how to deal with that, and I don't think that all kind of hit me until I got here, so it's very good for me to take into consideration that, you know, I still need to prepare for that even though I may not be feeling it at the time, so if I come in and all of the sudden I do feel that pressure, I know how to handle it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MISSY FRANKLIN: I think one of the biggest things I've learned is it's okay to ask for help, especially as I get older, too.  I've been having trouble sleeping, so I had my mom come over and sleep with me a couple of nights, and that's okay.  It's okay to ask some of my Cal swimmates to come over and hang out for a bit and get my mind off of it.  It's okay to reach out to Todd and Lauren and have them come do visualization, like, whatever is going to help you be the best that you can be, it's okay to ask for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT