U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 30, 2012
Missy Franklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you doing? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Good, how are you? 

Q.   Big night for you tonight, huh? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Yeah, second double.   I am so happy to know that my double nights are over and I only have one more event and it's my favorite, so I'm thrilled. 

Q.   Your third event‑‑ how many are you going to collect here? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   This is more than I could have ever dreamed of, I'm so excited, I'm absolutely over the moon.   I couldn't ask for anything more at this point. 

Q.   We're live in Phoenix, with all your fans, Missy, what do you say with all of these events that you've qualified for? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Honestly, I am the luckiest girl in the world.   I have worked so, so hard, and the fact that it's all paying off, it's so incredible. 
It's just the proof that if you give your best, love what you do, anything can happen. 

Q.   Is this how the dream went when you were a little kid? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   No, it definitely didn't happen when I was 17 years old.   This is a bigger dream and I can't believe it happened, and I am speechless and over the moon about it. 

Q.   You talk about your kicks, but you were seventh after the‑‑ did you know you were seventh coming off the wall? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I didn't.   I had no idea, and I knew I would have to get out there on my first 50 and I thought I was doing but apparently not, definitely have to work on that in my 100 back and 100 free, getting out there and pushing myself.   But lucky I was able to bring it home on the second 50. 

Q.   You have the best time coming in.   Is winning here important to you at all? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Just top two, top four, top six, any of those I would have been happy with.   I'm thrilled to get that individual swim in London this summer and hopefully I can be better there and push myself. 

Q.   You have a chance to qualify for seven events if you do well tomorrow.   Was that the goal coming in?
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Honestly the goal coming in was to make the team.   I could never have dreamed to do 7 events, and the fact that it's a possibility is just unbelievable.   But I've made the team, that's all that matters.   Tomorrow is my favorite event and I can't wait to get out there and have fun with it. 

Q.   Coughlin made it. 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I know, I'm so, so happy for Natalie, so excited that she made it, and I'm on the team with her, and I think we have an incredible team, and Lea Neal made it.   We've been on tons of National Youth Team trips together, so we've grown up going on trips together, so excited for her.   Jess had an amazing time, "Sprinter Schmitty" comes out of nowhere, and I think we have a great relay. 

Q.   Potentially with relays, you could get two gold, right? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   With the line‑ups that we have, there is definitely big competition out there but I think if we all come together as a team we have a great shot. 

Q.   You didn't back off on that last 50.   Was that your top gear? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Todd and I knew that I had the 100 right after, so it's hard to take one race at a time when you know they're so close together, but I think the goal tonight was to get a good lane for finals and thankfully Elizabeth Beisel was there to push me, but you know what, we tried to stay a little off the legs so I wouldn't be too tired for the 100.   But overall I felt great and strong and I'm excited for tomorrow. 

Q.   You almost even split the race.   Is that because of the double or is that something that‑‑
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I think that's something I'm starting to do, which is really not good, and I should stop, but I have to work on my first 50 a lot, and it's nice that we have had this meet to notice that I have started to do that so hopefully during training camp we can make sure I'm ready for that first 50. 

Q.   What else did you learn by doing a double tonight? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Honestly I think I surprised myself and I learned that if I just keep a positive mental attitude that I can go out there and do whatever I hope I can do.
It's all mental in getting out there and having confidence in myself and having strength and knowing that I can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT