U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 27, 2012
Missy Franklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Missy Franklin joining us, the winner in the 100 Meter Backstroke.   
   
 Q.   Hi, Missy.   Curious exactly what you did the moment you left the pool deck after the semis and raced right back through the Mix Zone.   What did you do for those thirteen minutes before you were back on the deck?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Just warmed down; that's all we did.   My coach had everything ready.   I hopped out of the pool, ran straight to the warm down pool, got an 800 in, which is good for the time we had.   So I warmed down and ran back over to the ready room and tried to get back out there for my 100 Back.   
   
 Q.   After the final when you came down the steps, I heard you and Todd.   What did you say to each other?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I think we were so happy, I don't remember what we were saying but a great big hug afterwards and I can't explain.   I think he's as happy as I am right now.   We have worked through this together and to be a part of it and to have him with me, incredible.   
   
 Q.   Missy, Todd told me doing the 200 was good for both of you because he thinks it might have relaxed you going into the 100.   Did that relax you and help you a little bit?   Give your general feelings about being an Olympian.   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I can't even‑‑ you just said I'm an Olympian, oh my gosh!   Well definitely for the 200‑‑ I thought it was beneficial to get out there and have my nerves be gone and get out there in that race and have a good warm‑up, honestly, for a sprint, to be able to race Allison in that other heat.   
So to get out there was awesome, and come back.   I love doing tough doubles like that, and I can't believe I'm an Olympian!   It seems unreal, but I've dreamed about it for so long and the fact that I'm here, and it's happening right now, it feels like a dream.   
   
 Q.   When you warm down in that space of time and you know you are going to race again, how is that different from a warm down after a race, and how long does an 800 warm down take?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Normally I do between a thousand and 1200 at a big meet so it was a good warm down considering the circumstances, but I think we had‑‑ I'm not sure how much time we had exactly, probably like 18 minutes, I'm not sure if anyone knows the exact time.   17:45, right there!   So just enough time to get that 800 in.   
It's mainly trying to relax like I do with every warm down, putting the swim behind me and focusing on my new swim.   
   
 Q.   Missy, can you talk about Natalie Coughlin and what she meant to you as you were coming up through the sport and having her not on the Olympic Team in the 100 Back, you know, the significance of that.   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Natalie means the world to me.   I have learned so much from her, and I plan to learn so much from her.   She still has other chances to make the team, and I am absolutely praying for her that she does because I want to learn more from her and I would love to be on another team with her.   
She has made such an incredible name for herself, and to be part of it and watch her while she is doing incredible things is amazing.   Hopefully I can take all the things that she has taught me and continue on after she is retired, or whatever it is she plans to do.   
   
 Q.   Missy, on that subject, Natalie said to us, "It's time for Missy."   Are you ready for that?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I don't think I'm ready for Natalie to go, because I'll miss her so much, and I think she still has so much left in her.   
I am ready.   I think I'm ready to be part of an Olympic Team, ready to represent Team USA, and I hope I can do the best job I can to make everyone proud, and I feel ready.   
   
 Q.   Now that you've been here a few days and have a few races under your belt, can you give us your best guess as far as what London is going to look like for you as far as relays?   Are you going to do the 50 free?   Maybe you can talk us through about how many events you might be in?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I think it's hard to say since it's day three of the meet, because the fact that that just happened and I have so many more events to swim, I think I'm still at this point not even going to consider London.   I'm going to focus here still in the meet.   We're not even halfway through it yet, so staying here where I am right now and focusing on the other swims that I have ‑‑ last day could be fun but we'll find out.   
   
 Q.   What did you want to say to your mom and dad?   
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I can't think of anything to say I'm so excited to see them right now.   And I know we're going to be babies and bawling our eyes out, and I can't wait to give them a big hug.   There is an Olympic commercial where it's like a "Go Mom" commercial and it has moms doing all these things, and every time it comes on I just start crying.   I would not be here without them.   I am so blessed, I have the best parents in the world, the best family in the world.   So much of my family is here right now, and I could never, ever thank them enough for what they have done for me.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Missy, and congratulations.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT