U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 1, 2016
Missy Franklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So what did you think?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: It's great.  I'm in this phase right now where, like, the worst thing that hurts me in my 200 Back is my butt, and last week my glutes were on fire!  It's never really happened before, but, hey, kind of getting used to it.  That's a new aspect of it.  It felt great, it was great race out there tonight, and I have tomorrow morning off, so I can destress a little bit, and I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MISSY FRANKLIN: I have no idea.  It's really funny.  I'm sure (Away from mic.)  I won't be able to, like, sit down for two days.  Hey, it's something you can easily fix, go get it worked on and move on with your life.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MISSY FRANKLIN: Exactly!  See, I love it!   
 Q.  Missy, what do you think Natalie Coughlin's legacy is going to be?  She may swim again, but --  
MISSY FRANKLIN: You know, I think Natalie has left such an incredible legacy in my mind.  She is one of the most decorated Olympians of all time.  She is the most decorated female swimmer of all time.  She has been a role model of mine since I started swimming, and to be her teammate and to have grown into her friend means more to me than anything else.  Watching her still so much at this stage in her career gives me hope, and it gives me so much inspiration.  I hope she is not done, because she makes me a better teammate and a better person so I would love to continue racing and competing with her in the future.   
 Q.  I talked with Janet Evans about (Away from mic.)  She would like to meet you if she could, talk to you about the things she has gone through.  What's it like to hear that and know people are hurting for you as you go through this difficult week, and it's probably going to end on a high note?  How does that make you feel?  
MISSY FRANKLIN: It means so much, because you have this idea in your head that everyone's careers are perfect all the time, and as soon as yours starts to waiver you feel like, oh my goodness, why is this happening, and you start to realize other people, too -- no one has a perfect career, no one makes every team, every Olympics they try for (Away from mic.)  And taking what you do in stride.   
 Q.  She says she treasures the difficult moments as much as the good ones.  
MISSY FRANKLIN: Absolutely, and that's the stuff you take away from the sport.  Those are the lessons and those are the times that you feel that grit and you feel that heart and that's what you take -- (Away from mic.)  Chances are things in life are going to be so much harder than missing an Olympic Team in an event that you wanted to make it in or things didn't turn out the way I wanted it to, but I'm still a second-time Olympian, I get to go to Rio and be a part of this team, and I'm still really proud of how this has gone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT