U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
July 1, 2012
Missy Franklin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Missy Franklin, the winner of the 200 Meter Backstroke. 

Q.   Missy, so seven events at the Olympics.   How does that sound to you? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   It sounds absolutely amazing.   I am so thrilled to be able to compete in seven events, definitely my biggest dream.   I never thought I would be able to accomplish it, but the fact that it's done, it's made it the hard work with it, and I'm thrilled with seeing what's going to happen this summer. 

Q.   You said you never thought you could accomplish it.   Why not?   And did anything come close to flustering you this week? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I have been flustered all week.   I think just because when I think of my biggest dream it would be competing in the Olympics in as many events as I possibly can, and I think I achieved that this week, so accomplishing that biggest dream at this age is so exciting and I couldn't be happier. 
This whole week has been an emotional roller coaster.   There has been up's and down's with seeing people make the team that you really wanted to and people who didn't thatyou really wanted to, so it's definitely been up and down, but I think we have done a good job of keeping our emotions under control and conserving our energy and it's nice to be done and have a few days. 
THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Todd Schmitz.   Go ahead and as him anything. 

Q.   Is there anything that you did to try and keep your emotions in check this week? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   I think just having a lot of downtime between prelims and finals was huge.   We had a lot of time, and it was nice to go back to the hotel, put on a movie, and not think about what was going on over here.   It helped us feel like there was an outside world happening while we were here. 
Whenever you're at a meet it feels like it's just you and everyone there.   Todd and I did a little Starbucks run the other day because we realized we had been outside once since we'd been to Omaha, which is a bit of an issue, so got some fresh air and went out. 
Just keeping it really relaxed. 

Q.   Missy, today is July 1st, the first day that college coaches can talk to recruits.   Did you get any calls?   Seriously, you stand to gain riches if you ever want to go pro.   Can you explain what you're looking forward to with college swimming and the process? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   Absolutely.   I haven't even checked my phone, so I'm not sure, but none of the college coaches have come up to me and talked to me about colleges.   They have all come up and said, "Congratulations.   We're excited to see you this summer," so it's been awesome to have their support and know that they're behind me. 
I think for college swimming, the biggest part, like I've said 100 times is being part of it and getting to know my sisters and brothers and whatever other teammates that I have that we become close and we have that bond that lasts forever.   I think everyone here can say that their college friends have been with them their whole life, and I think teammates reinforce that and you do everything together, and that's what I'm looking forward to. 

Q.   What are you going to fine tune between now and London, particularly your first 50 in some of your races which are driving your coach batty? 
MISSY FRANKLIN:   We definitely need to work on getting out there my first 50, really just having no worries and just not thinking and going out there and racing. 
I think we can definitely work on that.   There are smaller things that we can work on, but probably in the next few days Todd and I will sit down and go over all the things, even the little things that we can work on the next weeks in training camp, and I think it will be exciting. 
We will have an Omega pad to train on for backstroke starts, which will be awesome, get to work on those, so things to look forward to about getting better and getting excited for the summer. 

Q.   To both of you, backstroke/freestyle is there a difference?   Often people ask about fly and free ‑‑ one is on and one is off, but are they complementary strokes?   Is one better when one is not so good, and how do you handle the balance on a multi program like that? 
TODD SCHMITZ:   I would say she has been a freestyler and backstroker her whole career.   I think the exciting thing is that Missy and I both walk out of Olympic Trials with phase one of our plan in the books, and her and I both know we can dial in a lot of things that weren't necessarily hitting 100% this week. 
The name Olympic Trials is truly the best name for this meet; it's not called a swim meet, it's called Trials, because it's a trial.   You watch every night and see the swims that happen and the swims that don't happen, and it's an emotional roller coaster each day.   I said I truly feel we will be relaxed in London because the work is done and now we get to enjoy it, like last summer at Worlds you aren't worrying what the person next to you is doing, you just get out there and race and get your hand on the wall first. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, everyone.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT