BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2000
Mario Bland
Leonard Hamilton
Vernon Jennings
Elton Tyler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What about when it popped out?

COACH HAMILTON: I was very happy. You know, really, basically, seriously, I'd like to
see our guys get up, be there on the courts, contest shots. You just have to hope that the
things we've been doing all year long are good enough to win these types of games. We gave
the one kid, the 15, Macura, a wide open look, he knocked it down. I was surprised he only
hit three threes. I can't believe the stats are correct, because we he felt that they had
some good looks, just didn't fall tonight.

Q. Mario and --

COACH HAMILTON: According to this it says what? He had six. Hit threes, 225. I guess I
should be happy that we held them to 24.

Q. Mario, why do you guys have so much success against Murphy? You were really banging
them tonight? He's gone for 14, 14 and 15 against you in the three games.

ELTON TYLER: Just got to try to, you know, stay in front of them and limit his touches.
There's a different game plan every time for every big man. It may be something different
for someone else.
MARIO BLAND: Basically what El said. We want to limit his touches. Troy Murphy has
played a year in the conference. He's a good basketball player but a good basketball
player can't score without the ball.

Q. Were you trying to time it so you could knock it down at the buzzer?

ELTON TYLER: I was trying to finish the play basically. You know, we have great
defense, so after that, I knew we were going to get a stop on something like that. I was
just trying to confirm another play.

Q. The next play on their inbounds pass, did you just time it?

ELTON TYLER: Coach said watch the eyes of the inbounder. I know he caught back and I
just jumped. I knew he was about to throw it, so I jumped inside as I could.

Q. Leonard, could you talk about holding Murphy to 14, 14 and 15 points. Tonight he
shot 5 in 16 in the field.

COACH HAMILTON: Murphy's such a physical player with such good touch. If you give him
good looks, he's going to score. So we just try to make him work hard and we've been very
fortunate that he hasn't gone all force. Our kids work real hard. The guy is the person --
I'm not sure we were banging him. I don't know who was banging who. He's very aggressive
and very physical. He makes you work in possession. You know, I think he's dishing it out
about as much as anybody I've ever seen. We've just been very fortunate, and our respect
for him, I think he brings the best out of our kids defensively. We know we don't play
them for a lot of concentration, he'll knock down shots.

Q. Vernon how did you feel in the second half? Seemed like you guys were in control,
Notre Dame was hanging around. How did you feel about the second half?

VERNON JENNINGS: Second half we knew we had to come out and play harder because we felt
that they outplayed us in the first half even though the score didn't indicate that.
Second half we came out, stepped up our pressure and tried to control the game and contest
all the threes because we knew they was a good three-point shooting team.

Q. Mario, seemed like Johnny got into it a little bit with Murphy. Then you got into it
a little bit with Murphy. Was he getting chippy with you guys?

MARIO BLAND: Nothing like that. We was just playing a game of this magnitude against a
team, Notre Dame, obviously we beat them twice in the regular season. That moment, we both
were fired up. I guess myself and John just got caught up in the moment. Things happen. We
stopped ourselves before anything escalated, anything happened further than what happened.

Q. Coach, can you talk about last year you made the semifinals, played St. John's, you
may make them again. Do you feel like the program keeps progressing, maybe this is the
year, on Saturday?

COACH HAMILTON: You're not going to get me to start talking about playing St. John's.

Q. Either one. For you guys to take the next step to get to Saturday night.

COACH HAMILTON: Yes. This would -- we're building tradition. Every time we accomplish
something it's good for our program. For us to have an opportunity to be successful
tomorrow night would really mean an awful lot to us. And so we're going to come into
tomorrow night's game realizing that it's just more than just a game for the University of
Miami. When you're building tradition, you have to take advantage of every opportunity to
keep building that solid foundation. Whoever we play tomorrow tonight, whether it's
Villanova, whether or not it's St. John's, will have an awful lot more going for
themselves than we are. In order for us to accelerate our progress, we have to be
successful against this team. Tomorrow night's game will be very important for us.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT