LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2013
Hee Kyung Seo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I know probably not the outcome you wanted, but in regulation play you played solid all day.   Take me through that.   
HEE KYUNG SEO:   I mean, unfortunately this is third time, I guess, and I couldn't win at the playoff.   But I played really well last two days.   Just I think big miss was No. 14 hole.   I miss short putt.   That was a big one that I could not win.  
I'm really happy for Amy.   She was waiting for really long time.   I think I can wait more than her.   I know it's going to be coming soon for me, so I will just wait and do my things.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you had an eagle out there on No. 12.   Did that kind of kick start you a little bit, get the momentum going?  
HEE KYUNG SEO:   I was struggling on tee shot, yeah, so it was in the rough.   I just tried to get on to the top part of the green, and I hit it really good.   Me and Dean just punched our hand that we were making the green, and then we were walking onto the green crowd was screaming and it was really happy moment.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Seems like from talking to you this week that you're really happy, almost the happiest you've ever been.   Do you think that's the case?  
HEE KYUNG SEO:   Yeah, my wedding is coming soon and I'm really excited that I could play very well in front of my family and fiancee.   
That was happiest thing of my life.  
   
 Q.   How was it hearing everybody cheering for you and having all that support?  
HEE KYUNG SEO:   Many people said, Congratulations.   Go for it.   Get married.   
Yeah, I was really thankful that they are cheering for me and happy for me.  
Very happy.  
   
 Q.   We still have tournaments left this year.   You haven't won since 2010, but seems like your game is right up there.   Is that encouraging at all?  
HEE KYUNG SEO:   I played really good last week and this week as well.   I know it's going to come soon.   I'm sure there will be more chance for me to get at that time top, so I'll just believe myself.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT