KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 28, 2010
Hee Kyung Seo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Congratulations on your first LPGA victory. Can you talk about your round? It seemed to be a little up and down; you made a bogey, came back with birdies, made a double, came back with a birdie on 17. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, I was a little tired on the back nine so I couldn't make my own swing. That's why I made lots of hooks. But I think I did great job because I made two chip-in birdies, and I made lots of up and down. 
 Well, I was very comfortable, so I didn't care about the scores. I was just trying to show my talents in the last round and I think I did it, yeah. 

 Q. You had a comfortable lead throughout the round but when you made that double bogey did you feel nerves after that? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Oh, not really. There are two more holes left and the stroke was a little bit -- yeah, so I didn't get nervous. 

 Q. You have a little bit of a decision to make to join the LPGA. Have you decided, or what's your thought process there? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: I did not decide yet. I just want to finish this season well, and then I will think about it. My goal is the KLPGA this year, and then the season after that I will think about it. 

 Q. So you don't think you will take membership this week? You will wait until 2011? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: I don't know, there are lots of things to do now, so I couldn't think about that yet. 

 Q. You decided to play next week, no matter what happened this week, huh?
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yeah, yeah, next week, yeah.
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: She was in the field based on her performance from the KLPGA money list, and it's part of the criteria from Kraft Nabisco that she had fallen under. 

 Q. Can you tell me the relationship between you and Jiyai Shin? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, when I won first competition of my career, I played with her at last round, and I was very nervous, at the 16th hole. She came to me and said, "Just relax and enjoy your shots and game. You can do it." 
 Now she's playing LPGA Tour, but we have a good relationship. I have a good relationship with her, and I didn't -- I couldn't talk to her when I arrived here because we have to do our things, so it's a little bit, yeah, (speaking in Korean) a little sorry about it, but we still have good relationship, yeah. 

 Q. This course played very difficult for most of the players in the field. How do you explain how well you played this week and how does your play this week compare to other times that you've won on the KLPGA? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, it was difficult to me, too, but this week I had very good swing, I think. I didn't have tension in my body at all, so I just made my smoothness, reading and tempo, and that's why I kept many fairways and greens. 
 The greens a little bit small, so if I shoot the green at second shot there is lots of chances to make birdie, so I think the reason is my shot, yeah. 

 Q. How nervous were you at the beginning today? You made a poor chip on 1 and made a bogey and then on No. 2 you made another poor chip and saved par. Did that settle you down a little bit? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes, I mistake -- I thought today's play was no -- I will make last mistake, but at first hole I mistake easy chip shot, so I was a little bit upset but I was trying to calm down and just think about next holes and next shots. 
 Second hole I made a little tricky par putt and then I could get confidence in my game. 

 Q. Can you tell us about your chip-ins? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: I had two chip-in birdies, first was the 8th hole, it was, like, 15 yards, I think, and a little bit downhill, slice lie. 
 I was just trying to get close, I didn't think about getting in, but I made it, and I was like, "Wow!"
(Chuckles.)

 Q. How about the other one? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: The other one was 14, oh, yeah. It was a little bit easier than 8th hole because it was uphill and it was same slice break. I used 52-degree wedge and chipped smoothly and, yeah, it was, again, "Wow!"
(Chuckles.)

 Q. Is that one of the strong parts of your game, your chipping? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: When I win in KLPGA yes, sometimes I make chip-in birdies last round. I think I'm very lucky. 

 Q. On the par 5 No. 11, did you see Michelle Wie splashing around in front of you and did that change your decision to lay up there? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: No, I didn't, no. 

 Q. Are you aware of what happened with Michelle at all? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: No, I didn't care about that. 

 Q. You said yesterday that you watched the leaderboard. How did that affect the way you played today? Nobody was really making a run to get too close to you. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, I was looking a little bit at front nine, but I did my work and there's -- I think it was a little bit windy at the front nine so not that many players get scores down, so I was really comfortable and I didn't look at leaderboard at back nine. 

 Q. Do you see this as a bigger win in your career than any of your other wins? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: A little bit, yeah, it's different Tour and the LPGA Tour is international Tour so it's a little more big, bigger than KLPGA Tour but same competition to me. 
 My thinking is this is big competition, but it's same as Korean, so, yeah, it's really, really big to me. I think this is turning point of my golf career. 

 Q. Will you be more apt to say hello to Juli Inkster next week at the Kraft Nabisco? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: I don't know. She is very big to me. (Chuckles.)

 Q. Your parents were here? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes. 

 Q. Have they been here all week? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes. They came here with me. 

 Q. Did I hear you say that your goal this week was to make the cut? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yeah, because I missed the cut last year. So when I departing from Korean, I decide my goal is just make the cut in Kraft Nabisco. Well, I won this week but it's nothing different thinking. 

 Q. Before the event Lorena Ochoa was asked what the winning score might be and she said, "Anywhere from 2-under to 12-under." You shot 12-under. What are your thoughts about shooting that score on this course? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: The condition of green was very different from the first round and the weekend. The green was very soft Thursday and Friday, so the players could shoot their second shot close to the pin, but yesterday and today was a little bit hard and it bumped out from the green, so, yeah, it was a little bit difficult to make the correct distance, but I don't know, I just focused on my game. 

 Q. You mentioned on Friday that you liked the houses you saw on the course and if you won a lot of money you might buy one. Now what do you think? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, I saw the house what hole is, it was 14th hole. (Chuckles.) I don't know how much -- how much it is, so I think I need to earn more -- lots of money! (Chuckles.)
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Congratulations on a fabulous win. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT