KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 27, 2010
Hee Kyung Seo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: We're here with our leader, Hee Kyung Seo. It seemed like you had another easy round today and extended your lead. Can you talk about that round? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yeah, I started with a bogey. I was nervous when I was starting, but I was trying to get relaxed and had a big breath, and then I could concentrate on my shots and my game. 
 Back nine I had confidence in my game, so I think I had a good round today. 

 Q. It seemed like the course was playing difficult today, but not for you. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: The green was harder than the other today, so it was a little bit hard to get the right distance, but it's the same condition for all players, so I just trust myself and, yeah, I did my best, I think. 

 Q. Can you talk about what it's like playing with a big lead going into the final round? I know a lot of players don't like that because concentration is hard. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Five strokes, I think? Yeah, I think five strokes is big, but there is lots of great players under the leader so I have to forget about today and these three rounds and I have to go back to start and the beginning tomorrow, and I want to just play my game. I don't want to think about other things. 
 Today I was trying to erase any other thinking in my brain, and I will do it tomorrow, too. 

 Q. Do you watch the leaderboard when you're out there? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yeah, maybe three times. (Chuckles.) On the back nine. But I think it's a little bit helpful to me, yeah. So when I see the leaderboard and the scores, I know what I have to do in this hole, so I can concentrate well, yeah. 

 Q. You talked about being nervous on the first hole today. Tomorrow did you expect to be nervous or are you going to flashback to other victories you had in other tournaments? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, in final round, every champion team -- every championship is nervous in Korea, too, but I have many experiences to do it, so I know how to play for tomorrow so I think I will enjoy it, yeah. 

 Q. You've won so much in Korea. Does it seem that much different to now be leading an LPGA event? Maybe because of where you are, the different place, a different country, how much different does it feel to you? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: It was much different when I was playing last year, but I think it was great experience in my career for playing last year. 
 I think it's same now, yeah, it's same as Korea. 

 Q. You said you were nervous at the beginning of the round, bogeying the first hole. How did you calm down? How did you settle down? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: It was just first hole and I have two rounds more left, so I didn't care about bogey, everybody can get a bogey or a double when they're playing so I didn't care about that, and I just tried to get relaxed and take a big breath. 

 Q. Are you impressed with your own round, given that not many of your competitors could go low today? Do you feel that much better about it because you were able to build on your lead? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yeah, I think so. I was trying to get -- I had lots of chances today, but I missed lots of putts, but when I see the leaderboard on the ninth hole, I think I could make lots of other birdies so I think, yeah. 

 Q. Your a sponsor's invitation this week. The KIA Classic presented by J Golf, it looks like you were a great invite on behalf of the tournament. 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: I appreciate KIA Classic and J Golf to give me great opportunity to play here. I think it's a big chance for me in my career, so I don't want to -- I just want to catch it, and I think I'm ready to go. 

 Q. Did you ask for a sponsor's exemption? Did you personally ask J Golf for an exemption? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes.

 Q. And how long did you have to wait to hear? (Chuckles.)
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Well, they just decided in the place, so they didn't think about other player, I think, so, yeah, I really appreciate it. 

 Q. So you pretty much expected that you would be able to get in after your year last year? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes. 

 Q. You design your own clothes? 
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Yes. No, I didn't -- they just sent me. 

 Q. Because they were saying on television that you design --
 HEE KYUNG SEO: Couple of designs last year but not this. 

 Q. Not that?
 HEE KYUNG SEO: No. 
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT