PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 25, 2013
Hee Kyung Seo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   Hee Kyung Seo, 3‑under par today at the PureSilk Bahamas LPGA Classic.   You're 6‑under par overall, tied for second right now.   If you would just tell us about how you played today. 
HEE KYUNG SEO:   It was a little windier than yesterday.   It was a little calmer yesterday.   We were the last group that finished the 12 holes.   So I was really happy that I made, you know, 12 holes yesterday. 
And then today it was just a new day, so I just concentrate shot by shot and then try to figure out where the wind comes from, and it was a little hard to decide what club I'm going to hit, but I think I did really good job with my caddy team, and I really enjoyed the ocean view out there.

Q.   Sure.   We heard yesterday that Na Yeon was sprinting to the final hole so you guys could tee off before the horn. 
HEE KYUNG SEO:   Yeah.

Q.   Just talk about this week.   It's been different, only playing 12 holes a day.   Has it been easier or harder to get ready to play golf? 
HEE KYUNG SEO:   I think we got right decision that we decide to play even 12 holes because it's really nice area to be here. 
Well, also, you know, we're here for the tournament and for the sponsors, so I really like to play 12 holes, but it's a little different, but it's more easier to play ‑‑ easier than playing 18 holes.   But I think we have to concentrate more to make more birdies at the beginning of the round.   So it's I think more putting competition.

Q.   Yeah.   Just talk to me about the state of your game this year.   How do you feel you've been playing?
HEE KYUNG SEO:   I feel much comfortable than last year.   I was struggling on my iron shots last year, so I worked a lot during the wintertime, and had lots of discussions with my caddy.   So I think I found my things.   I was too much relying on lessons and trying to find something from my swing, but it wasn't anything.   It was just my rhythm.   And so I think now I got my own thing, and even on the green I got more confidence because I make more green and I have more chances.   So it's more ‑‑ I'm having more fun.

Q.   Hee Kyung, thank you so much. 
HEE KYUNG SEO:   You're welcome.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT