U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2007
Kimberly Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RHONDA GLENN:  Our defending champion Kimberly Kim, certainly acquitted herself well by coming from behind in a number of matches to get to the semifinals.  Kimberly, it just didn't appear that in the early part of the match that your putter was working for you. 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, I don't know, I was hitting good putts, and I always thought it was going in, but then they either like burned the edge or lipped out.  There's nothing I could do about that. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  I want to ask you about one hole 5, the par 5.  When Amanda wound up hitting the green in two and two-putted for a birdie and you laid back.  What was your reasoning there? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I just thought I was too far.  I just hit my drive, and I probably had like 250 to the green, so I could never clear that bunker.  I went right. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  What is your overall impression of the match today and how the tide went against you? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Well, I can't believe she played that good, but she played good.  Like if she plays that way tomorrow, that's going to be a good match against Maria and Amanda. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  What do you take away from this? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  That's match play.  Sometimes there's nothing you can do about it.  I don't know.  Like even when I tried to come back, it was like I couldn't do anything about it. 

 Q.  You had quite the birdie run at the start of the -- 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  So did she (laughter). 

 Q.  Well, first of all, what were you telling yourself to stay in the game there at the turn? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I knew I was out of it.  She just kept birdieing and she never made any mistakes today.  It was just one of her solid rounds, and I just tried to not embarrass myself -- just kidding.  I tried to take it as far as I could.  But oh, well. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  What was it you said to The Golf Channel about continuing to try hard? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Well, I didn't want them to say I gave up, so I didn't give up. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  You mean like they said -- 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  -- about Mina, because sometimes you're having a bad day and you may look like that.  But I didn't want to give up or anything. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Where do you go from here? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Hawaii. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Back home? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, so in one way it's a good thing -- just kidding.  I have to pack, and then our flight is like 5:00 or 6:00 tomorrow. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  You get a medal for this. 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I know, yay.  I didn't get one until today. 

 Q.  You got a medal at the Girls' Junior. 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I did?  Yeah, I did.  I got two medals this year. 

 Q.  Would you put into perspective what you've done the last two years?  You came to the Women's Public Links and not many people knew about your game, and all of a sudden two years later you've got a runner-up, you've got a Women's World Championship, you've played in an Open.  Talk about where your career has gone these last two years. 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I don't know.  I don't know at all.  I just think it was being in the right spot at the right time and getting lucky.  I think it was a lot of luck that I played good at certain times.  I'm definitely a lucky person, too, that I've experienced everything I have in the last two years. 

 Q.  Can you put into perspective just where your game has come from, how much you've improved? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  In the past two years?  I don't think my game has improved dramatically.  Like last year it was just okay -- well, when I lived in Hawaii it was up and down.  Like I could shoot 7-under and then like 5-over or something.  But over the last two years, I've become just a more consistent player and stuff.  Maybe that's why I play good and good.  But I know I'm not going to play good every time. 

 Q.  What has to happen for you to actually believe you're a good player and that you're not lucky?  I mean, do you have to win the Women's Open for you to finally believe that you're a good player? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  But that would be lucky, too, though (laughter). 
 Isn't that what Tiger said, like all good players have luck?  Even whoever wins, they're lucky to win. 

 Q.  But it takes skill to put yourself in this position.  It takes more than luck to go 10 and 1 in women's amateur golf the last two years.  That's more than luck. 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  How about those iron shots on the closing holes today? 
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I think on the front nine I was trying to hard to put it close and I kept on like hooking it, and then on the back I was just like, just hit it straight.  So I just hit like at my target, and I didn't care where it went, and then it turned out good. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  You've been a great champion.  You've represented this championship very well, and we wish you all the luck in the world.  Enjoy your little bit of time off.  Best of luck in the future.  Thanks so much for coming in to see us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT