U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2007
Kimberly Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RHONDA GLENN:  How long was your putt?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  It felt like 50 yards.   
 RHONDA GLENN:  How long was it really?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Maybe 20, 25 feet.   
 RHONDA GLENN:  Gosh, match after match you're just barely hanging on.  What's going on?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  They're hard.  I don't know, they're just really hard, they're really good.  And I think like a lot of our games are almost the same every time we play each other.  So it's, like -- yeah could have made a birdie and I might have missed.  I don't know what I'm talking about.   
 RHONDA GLENN:  How tired are you?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Not that tired.  I slept like ten hours or something.  I didn't wake up until like 11:00.   
  
  Q.  Was it hot under that towel?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, if you put the towel on it's not even hot.   
  
  Q.  Keeps the sun off?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  It cools off my whole head.  It's not even hot.  You guys should try it and you'll see I'm right.   
  
  Q.  Could you not stand watching?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, I don't watch.  I swear if I watch, she'll like pin it or make the putt.  Like I decided to watch on 18 from her bunker shot.  She almost went in (laughter).   
  
  Q.  That was a great bunker shot, don't you think?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  It looked like a real hard shot.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  It was a hard shot.  She hit a real good shot.  She hit a lot of those crazy good shots.   
  
  Q.  That little chip she hit on 12, that was --   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, and she almost chipped in the hole I birdied, too.  I didn't watch it, but everybody was like, "ooh."   
  
  Q.  What made the difference for you today?  Why did you win and Jennifer lost?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I don't know, I guess I just got lucky on that hole.  But either way, if she hit the green, she could have made the putt probably.  I don't know, I think our games are almost the same.   
  
  Q.  You out-hit her, though, by about 30 yards?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You were 50, 60, 70 yards past her on the last.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How often have you and Jennifer played?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Actually I first met her at the U.S. Open.  We played ping-pong for like three hours in the weather delays, and she still won't admit that I beat her (laughter).  But when we find a ping-pong table, I'll whip her (laughter).   
  
  Q.  I think you're having fun with this week with your friends and stuff, aren't you?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, I'm kind of glad I'm still playing because if I lost or didn't make the cut then I'd be in my room and bored and waiting to go to Hawaii.   
  
  Q.  But you enjoy being with the other players?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, I kind of like when people are there and supporting me and stuff.   
  
  Q.  Did you have support today?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, I saw Jennie on the par 3.  She didn't walk, but she was there.   
  
  Q.  That last putt, when did you realize it was going in?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  At least I thought -- like the whole way I thought it was too low, but then it went in, and I was like, thank God.   
  
  Q.  Have you allowed yourself to start thinking about what it would be like if you won this again?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, not really.  I don't know if I'll make it there.  I'll definitely have a really tough match tomorrow.  And the other bracket is really hard, too.  I have no idea who's going to win.  You guys can't bet on that (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Have you felt at all any pressure this week to defend this title, because it's so difficult to win this thing once, and you're close to becoming the first person to defend this thing since Kelly Kuehne in '96.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  That makes me nervous.  No, I haven't really put that much pressure.  Like I've got this far, and I'm pretty proud of that.  I don't think people expected me to do as well as -- as far as I've got so far.  That's what I think.   
  
  Q.  Can you put into perspective what it's like to win this many -- you won six matches last year, now you've won four this year.  That's ten in a row at the Women's Amateur.  Winning matches -- put into perspective how difficult it is just to win that many matches.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  It's hard and it's stressful.  I don't know, I think the hardest part is staying positive even when you're down.  I'm not the type to stay positive, but like each year I've had a really good caddie, and they're -- I think that's what made the difference today and other matches.   
  
  Q.  Do you work with a sports psychologist now?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No.  They're so expensive.  They like charge you $1,000 for ten sessions, and even when you're talking on the phone, they're charging you (laughter).  So I was like, no, thank you.   
  
  Q.  So you have worked with them in the past?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No.  I asked how much they would cost and stuff.  Like after I won, like I wanted to know how much it would cost to have a psychologist.  It's just way too much.   
  
  Q.  Who is the one who gives you the best pep talks and helps you mentally?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I think my sister is.  She's like a negative person, which -- (laughter).   
  
  Q.  She's just like you then?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, when she caddies for me or something, and if I lose, she'll be like, "What do you expect?  It's not like you'll win everything.  You'll lose and it's too bad."  I guess I take that in a good way because she's right, I can't win everything.  So when I talk to her, it's kind of good for me because I know that she's supporting me, but like even when I do bad, it's not like my family is upset.   
  
  Q.  She's realistic?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, she's realistic and I like that.   
  
  Q.  Have you played with Amanda at all?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, we were on a team together.   
  
  Q.  Which team?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  The South Africa one.   
  
  Q.  Women's World Amateur, sure.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Me, Jennie and Amanda.   
  
  Q.  So you're pretty good friends?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, we didn't talk that much after the tournament; we're like, hi.   
  
  Q.  Have you played your best golf yet this week?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yesterday's back nine I had like four birdies and all pars.  That was pretty good.  That was good.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're going to need your best golf tomorrow?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, I saw her in the group in front and she birdied like -- I think the first two holes, first three or something, and I heard she had like six birdies.   
  
  Q.  You said a little earlier that you didn't feel like people really expected much of you this week even though you are the defending champion.  Do you feel like people have looked at all differently this year because you had won last year?  Do you feel a sense of that's Kimberly Kim, she's the Women's Amateur champion?  In the summer just going around, you're the defending Women's Amateur champion; do you feel like anyone has a different perspective about you?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Well, any time I play bad, people tell me to keep my head up because I'm the champion and stuff, just things like that.  But in tournaments I don't think it's made a huge difference.   
  
  Q.  Is anyone in your family particularly positive (laughter)?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  My mom kind of is.  All she says is to pray.  She's like, pray to God, pray.  And like she was watching me on TV yesterday, and she was like, you have to thank God because I prayed for you on that shot and you hit it good.  So I was like, yeah, so I do.   
  
  Q.  Is she watching from home?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, and when I play bad, she'll be, like, this is the sign that it's not your time.  And when it's your time, then God will let you win.  So that's what I think.   
  
  Q.  Is your mom is back in Hilo, Hawaii?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, she's in Arizona right now.   
  
  Q.  Your dad has an orchid farm?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  In Hawaii.  We own a house in Arizona and we still own our farm and stuff in Hilo, and my dad flies back and forth but mainly stays in Arizona, and all my family lives on the mainland.   
  
  Q.  In Scottsdale?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  No, in the middle of nowhere, Queen Creek, Arizona.   
  
  Q.  Where do you live during the school year?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Arizona.   
  
  Q.  Did you get a bed yet?  I remember last year you didn't have a bed.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, actually like a month ago we got a bed frame.  But I didn't want one because I don't like when there's darkness under the bed (laughter).   
  
  Q.  How long have you had a bed now?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  We got one in March, although I didn't want one.  It was like $500 or something.   
  
  Q.  What do you think is under the bed?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  I don't know, I'm just really afraid of the dark.   
  
  Q.  And your sister, is she older?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, she's 19.   
  
  Q.  What's her name?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Christine Kim.   
  
  Q.  Is she a golfer?   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Yeah, she hurt her wrist, though.   
 RHONDA GLENN:  Well, you're doing great, kiddo, terrific.  Congratulations, and good luck tomorrow.   
 KIMBERLY KIM:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT