WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SHOCK
September 6, 2006
Nicole Powell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   NICOLE POWELL:  Well, clearly, we're disappointed, you know, obviously, with the outcome tonight. 
 We just didn't give it our best effort.  We didn't play our game, and that's what it came down to.  They killed us on the rebounds.  You know, that's their bread and butter.  They took advantage of that.  I mean, we shot 31 percent.  It's just a lot of things didn't go our way tonight, and we're not too happy about it. 
 But on the upside, you know, we feel like we still have a great opportunity.  We feel good about our chances in Detroit, so we're going to get ready and go to tomorrow.  That's it. 

 Q.  You guys have been pretty even keel throughout the playoffs, not too high after wins.  How hard is it not to be really frustrated after especially the second half? 
 NICOLE POWELL:  It's frustrating.  We felt like we had a great, great opportunity.  You don't get this again.  It's disappointing.  But at the same time, we're a team that we bounce back from things.  You know, we can beat this team.  We just need to focus a little bit more and I think pull some things together.  You know, I mean, really, none of us had a very good performance.  I know everybody is going to be fired up and ready to come out and play their game. 

 Q.  You kind of touched on it a little bit, but looking at that stat sheet, did it even look like a Monarchs game, especially that second half, two points in the fourth quarter? 
 NICOLE POWELL:  When you look at the stat sheet and you see so many things that are just so one-sided, we didn't have a chance.  We didn't shoot the ball well, they outrebounded us, they shot decent.  It's just, you know, at this level playing against such a good team, you're not going to come away with a win. 

 Q.  On Saturday you've got to play at Joe Louis Arena versus the Palace at Auburn Hills, how does that factor into playing on a first-time court for you guys? 
 NICOLE POWELL:  I don't think it really matters.  It's going to be a hard game.  We're just going to have to go in there and do what we do best.  It doesn't matter where you play at this point.  It's just a battle of wills.  It's about getting down and getting the rebound and not giving them second shots. 
 I think Coach said they got 48 percent of their offensive rebounds.  You're just not going to win.  It doesn't matter where we play.  We have to play hard. 

 Q.  This is the first time the League has ever seen a five-game series go to five, last year you guys took it in four.  In that fifth game, what is the key?  Is it rebounds, what is the key? 
 NICOLE POWELL:  The key is going out there and not letting them do what they want to do, period.  We just have to find a way to stop them whether it's getting the defensive rebound, making them shoot a difficult shot, not letting their post do well.  They had a few people off the bench come in and do really well for them.  It's just not letting them get rebounds, not letting them get easy shots, making everything tough.  Of course, we've got to do, we can do better on the offensive end as well.  So those two things I think. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT