U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
John Riegger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   John Riegger with a 3 under today for a 67, 3 under for the Championship.

Q.   3 under come from better ball striking or putting? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   No, I hit it unbelievable today.   The only green I missed today was 17.   It tempted me that I could probably drive it on the green there, and I laid it up, and I still chunked it in the bunker.   So something about that hole.

Q.   It's got your number this week?
JOHN RIEGGER:   I think I need to let my caddie hit that shot.   I think my legs are just tired walking up the hill or something.   I don't know what the heck's going on.

Q.   When you say you hit it great, how many did you think you didn't cash in on? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   I three‑putted the 2nd hole for par from 20 feet.   I had it 20 feet on 6 for eagle, two‑putted there.   Hit it in there close on 8 again today.   Close on 9.   Trying to think.   Hit it close on 15.
I had a couple funny‑looking putts out there and didn't get them to the hole.   But I mean, I made the ones I was supposed to have made today.   If I can just get a hot putter, I feel like I can shoot 6, 7, 8 under par around this place.

Q.   Michael's backing up just a slight bit.   Is he catchable with the way the course is playing and what's out there? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   I didn't even look at the board today, so I don't even know.   What's he doing?

Q.   Right now, he's 2 over.   2 over today, so he's 8. 
JOHN RIEGGER:   I don't know.   There are some birdie holes coming in.   I don't know what hole he's on.   Like I said, I didn't look at the board.

Q.   He's playing 13. 
JOHN RIEGGER:   13, 14, 15 are birdie‑able holes.   17 is a birdie‑able hole.   Even 18, even though the tee's back again today, I didn't hit a good drive there and still had a 7 iron in.   So I mean, if you hit good shots, the birdies are out there.
The greens are holding up pretty nicely.   There are a few spots that are a little bumpy, but for the most part, you know, if he can get it to the hole, he can make some putts.   I'm struggling getting putts to the hole.

Q.   Thank you.   Great playing. 
JOHN RIEGGER:   Thank you.   Hope to see you tomorrow.

Q.   We do too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT