THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 8, 2002
John Riegger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  The course record is 64, and you got that.  The tournament record is 62 and you almost got that.  Were you conscious of how an amazing around it was?
JOHN RIEGGER:   I knew I was playing well.  I was holing some putts, but I wasn't thinking any particular number.  I was just, you know, once I got it going, I was just trying to birdie every hole.

Q.  What do you think got you going? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   You know, I started working with a sports psychologist two weeks ago, and he gave me some things to say to myself during my routine.  I've been working on that, and basically, is all I tried to focus on today and just allowed me to go out and make free golf swings.  When you can get in that state, then you're going to play well. 

Q.  What are the things he said? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   I'd rather just keep those to myself. 

Q.  How wet is the course? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   It's pretty soft out there, but it's not  -- I had several occasions today where I had a lot of mud on the ball.  So it's kind of hard telling, you know, what it's going to do. 
And then the wind kicked up.  Hopefully it will dry out a little bit for our round here later this afternoon.

Q.  Who is the sports psychologist?
JOHN RIEGGER:   Dr.  Joseph Parent.   He's in Santa Barbara, California.

Q.  You just started with him? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   Yeah, two weeks ago. 

Q.  You would recommend them? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   Well, unlike a lot of the players, I have problems early in the tournament.  If I get myself in a position to do well, I usually do all right.  It's just early in the tournament, I have a hard time focusing.  So that's pretty much what I'm working on with him.

Q.  What's your career best, competitive?
JOHN RIEGGER:   Tournament round?  59, I think. 

Q.  Where was that? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   That was playing on a mini-Tour event down here in Florida.

Q.  Golden Bear?
JOHN RIEGGER:   This was 15 years ago.  That was like the Florida Tour, Space Coast Tour, something like that.  Too long ago to even remember.

Q.  What course were you at? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   I think it was at Timuquana, but I'm not 100% sure on that. 

Q.  Have you had time to enjoy this or are you glad to be carrying some momentum into the second round? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   You know, I kind of thought that when I was standing on the green there.  I guess when you get it going like I've got it going, the best thing to do is just keep going and try to keep doing the same things. 
On the other hand, it would be kind of nice to just go and relax and reflect on the things that I did positive today and try to carry it on. 
But just going to go out there and continue the thought process of what I did today, this morning, and try to carry it over this afternoon and try not to tire myself out.

Q.  Did you make any long putts? 
JOHN RIEGGER:   Yeah, I made a couple.  I made two 30-footers, probably, and all of rest of them were all inside of 10 feet.  I had a couple other 6-, 7-footers, on this side over here on my last nine that I hit good putts, and they caught the lip and just didn't go in.  But that's golf. 

Q.  Any swing adjustments since the West Coast?
JOHN RIEGGER:   No.  Only thing I've worked on is my mental preparation and my thought process before I hit the shot, and that's basically it. 
You can always shoot better, but I'm happy with how I played today.  I'm trying to go out there and try to do the things I've been working on mentally.  I think if I can continue to do that, then how I play is going to take care of itself.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT