U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Jennie Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jennie, you started on 10 and birdied your last four holes.   Can you talk a little bit about that?  
JENNIE LEE:   I hit some really good shots on to the greens.   Some were long putts.   I had a couple really good wedge shots into the par‑5 on 7 and then I just made a couple long putts coming in, so that really helped.  
   
 Q.   Now, the conditions, did they have any effect on you or would you just say that's just part of playing in the Women's Open?  
JENNIE LEE:   It was a little difficult in the beginning, the first few holes.   I just had a little trouble with my putting, with the speed.   But you know, five, six holes through it, I just stayed really patient.   You know, you just gotta wait for those smaller shots, wedge shots in.   You gotta wait for birdie opportunities to come, so that was really important for me today.  
   
 Q.   So the minus 2 number is kind of a surprise.   You'll take it because you're just kind of shooting for an even par score?  
JENNIE LEE:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I was very fortunate.   I had some good birdies coming in, and you know, even is very, very good out here.   The greens are really tough.   Some of the long putts, you really have to work on your speed.   So even is very good and a couple under.   I'll take it any day.  
   
 Q.   On the birdies that you made, was it a matter of making long putts or did you hit it close?  
JENNIE LEE:   A few I got them pretty close.   I had a few short shots in like 100 and under.   I had some wedge shots in.   So I hit those pretty close, within four, five feet.   So those were helpful.   
I hit a really good shot on 6, the par‑4 with the really big green.   I had a tap‑in birdie there almost, so yeah.   
   
 Q.   Seven birdies today.   But that also means you had a few bogeys, a double in there as well.   How do you limit the mistakes tomorrow?  
JENNIE LEE:   You know, I think I'm just going to have to try and hit more greens tomorrow.   The greens are pretty big, so you just kind of gotta try and place it somewhere where you can have a good putt at it.   And I think I'm hitting the ball pretty good, so I just gotta keep that up, make sure I don't ‑‑ a bogey out here is fine.   You just can't make triples and quadruples.   So keep those out of the way and I think I'll be okay.  
   
 Q.   On the hole you made your first birdie of four in a row did you find something in your swing or was it just a matter of you hitting good shots?  
JENNIE LEE:   I hit a good shot up there.   I had a really good, I think it was about a 25, 30‑footer.   My caddie read a really good break and I hit it right where he told me to hit it and it was right in the middle of the cup.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT