LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 7, 2009
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 65 today. Especially that back nine, or the front nine in this case. So let's talk about how you did after the turn.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Well, I mean, I played well. It was kind of a continuation, really, of what I was doing on the first nine. I mean, it's tricky around here. Mountain golf. But a lot of fairways and giving myself a lot of birdie opportunities. I made one or two that maybe I shouldn't have made.   
 But all the other putts that I was supposed to make I made. And I think I only missed two greens. So it was a pretty good day. I knew it was out there. The pins weren't as difficult, I don't think, as yesterday, but maybe that's because it was a lot windier yesterday.  
  
  Q. I was going to say, the conditions had to be more favorable for your game today.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL: It was difficult yesterday morning. I don't know how it was for the guys in the afternoon. But it was difficult yesterday morning for all of us. But even the slightest bit of wind, it plays tricks on you. But it was a good day.  
  
  Q. And you've got to be sitting pretty well for these last two days being right in second place, at least as of this moment.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Yeah, the goal out here is to win, right? So I'm trying to put myself in position. That's why we're all out here to play. Can't win it on Thursday or Friday; you can sure lose it. It was nice to have a good round and hit a lot of great shots, and just trying to get a lot of confidence going into the weekend. I feel pretty good about it.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of 3s on the scorecard. 10, I think. That's a lot of 3s.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL: No 4s. Once again, I didn't birdie the par-5s. I birdied, I think, one par-5. But the last hole is in a divot on the last shot. Maybe it's just as well, with that pin, the way it is, and the way the wind was blowing, probably better that I just laid it up there. But it's a tricky layup, too, for a third shot. But I haven't gone back. I'll be anxious to look, now that you've pointed that out.  
  
  Q. I was going to say, you didn't take it down to the par-5s, you just talked about that. But you were probably, what, five or six holes into your round when you saw John Rollins post his 12, probably out on the course when you say Riley 9-under through nine. What was your feeling about that?  
 SHAUN MICHEEL: I didn't see Riley at 9-under. But it's not surprising. He won here, what year was that, '02, '01, something like that. He obviously likes the golf course as well.   
 But it's out there. The greens are good enough that if you can hit good shots, keep them around the hole, you can make the putts. But I just kind of went out and just wanted to post a good round, hit some good shots. I made a few putts.  
  
  Q. That sort of thing, when you see it on the board when you come out, does that inspire you, think I've got to go low or --  
 SHAUN MICHEEL: No, I mean sometimes guys have a magical round that you just can't put your finger on. There's a lot of great players and there's always somebody that plays really well. And it's kind of hard to say.   
 On this golf course, I mean, that was I think an unbelievable round. You just don't see too many of those. I know Parker did one last year. But especially with the wind blowing, it's tricky. It was a great round.   
 No, I didn't expect that those scores were out there. I figured a good score, again, would be 3, 4-under and I got to 3, 4-under and, hey, let's see what we can do. But obviously these guys can play.   
  
  Q. Mistake-free golf today. That was good playing.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL: It was nice.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT