LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 6, 2009
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round, 3-under. Pretty windy out there?
 SHAUN MICHEEL: I think in the beginning it was really windy. I think we were looking for a very difficult day. It was. As you know, it's mountain golf. And most of the holes, you know, there's a lot of crosswinds out there. There weren't too many holes where it was dead into your face. The course really didn't play that long. 
 But holes like 16, you know, with the way the wind is, it's got to be one of the more difficult par-3s that we play, probably for scoring average. 
 I hit some nice shots. Made some good putts. Made a great putt for par on 17. But overall just want to hang in there. And I'm very happy with 3-under. I pretty much got what I deserved. I missed a couple of short birdie putts and made a couple long par putts. But those things obviously have a tendency to even out. 
 But I drove the ball well. So not that I'm not thinking about it this week, but I'm certainly thinking next week, the ball, which driver I want to use, which putter I want to use. So I'm kind of using this week as kind of a practice round for next week.

 Q. I was going to ask you, being a past champion, next week with the PGA, how would you sum up your form this year? Has it been kind of indifferent or distant, or how would you describe it? 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: I didn't start until March. And I had my injury in '07. I played the whole year with injury, which ultimately led to just poor swing habits. I wasn't able to support the club the way I wanted to. 
 Then I took nine months off. I'm looking at basically two years of unhealthy golf. I had some good rounds. [Indiscernible] Charlotte and 63 on Saturday at San Antonio. Then I fell apart. Just been trying different things. 
 My mom's very sick. I have a lot of things on my mind, really, that don't even pertain to golf. Sometimes I get out there, I don't want to be there, I just want to be home with her. It's kind of going around the TOUR, a lot of sickness and everything. 
 But she wants me to play, so I'm doing my best to do that. But it hasn't been that good. And I don't really like that. I was watching [indiscernible] last night. One of the things, he comes in, has all these gadgets all over and I said: My God, that's me. But it's okay. I know it's in there. It's just a matter of I think having a good attitude and putting some of the personal issues aside. Very difficult to do. There's no escape.

 Q. [Indiscernible] there would be a victory here this week. I know it's early days. 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: It is. I played well. It's very difficult to win out here. I don't care where you're playing. It's very difficult. 
 And I think results breed confidence. Some people might argue the other way. But I think if I'm playing well, if I'm thinking well and giving myself a chance, I'll be in there. But, ultimately, I think having good results, I mean, just carries over. 
 You may be striking the ball well but not scoring. I'm telling you what, it's difficult on you to get out there and play when you know you don't have it. So I'm just looking forward to another couple good days and just continue on driving the ball straight and hitting a few greens and really managing my distance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT