VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 16, 2009
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a round of a solid 63. That's always a lot of fun. 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: It is. Richard played well also. He just -- neither one of us were making too many putts. 
 You know, I look at 7-under. Probably could have been two or three shots better. I haven't gone back really through my round yet, but I think I only maybe missed one green, maybe one or two fairways. 
 That's the key. You gotta get the ball in the fairway. But I think one of the things I struggle with on this course, particularly when it's windy, is gauging my distance, and I really struggled with that yesterday. And to be honest with you, I feel very fortunate to have made the cut because I kind of got off to a bad start, didn't get very many good breaks. 
 Seemed like every time I was off line, I was behind the tree or something, but you know, it was there today, and the greens were a little bit slower, and I hit a lot of great shots and made a few putts, too. 

 Q. Very democratic round, no bogeys on the scorecard, three birdies on the front, four birdies on the back. You almost made one there at 18. 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Yeah. I thought the pins were pretty good. They were pretty accessible, but I think if you look back at the scoring average, I've been in the first two rounds in the morning, you're seeing 69 maybe Thursday and 68 was the average. So it's out there. 
 Again, you just have to -- you gotta be in the fairway to set yourself up for some good iron shots, and that's really what I did today so well.

 Q. Looks like we're going to have some moisture today. What will that do to these greens that are already baking out?
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Yeah. I was actually hoping it would clear off and get windy like it had been every other day. You know, I don't really deserve to be too high on the leaderboard after playing the way I did in the first two rounds. I suspect you'll see guys go out and fire low numbers, so I suppose by the end of the day I'll probably be in the middle of the pack again, but it does feel good to have a good number up there. 

 Q. Shaun, good playing. Thank you. 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT