WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You had control and then Adam came back and then it was really hard fought at the end there.   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  It was.  I mean, I think that's how it is with match play anyway.  I thought we both played pretty well.  The pins were extremely difficult I think to get close to to make putts.   
 I don't know who shot the low score out there, but it would have been a very difficult day for a stroke-play event, I think.  I think 2- or 3-under would have probably been a great score.  The par 5s, they lend themselves to making some birdies, so you've got 7 and you've got 12, as well.  But it was a tough match because obviously you're playing off the other person.   
 Sometimes the first guy to go in the fairway for the second shot, you can put a little bit more pressure on the guy that's hitting second.  That happened to Adam a couple times today where I got on the green and he tried to get it in close.   
 You know, we both played well.  I think that was what was really important, rather than both of us going out and shooting 74 or 75.  A win is a win, but you don't want to play like that.   
  
  Q.  Especially the first round, getting past it?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  Talk a little bit about beating Tiger.  Did that give you confidence coming into this?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Oh, of course it does.  I mean, the whole week really in London was pretty special.  Beating Tiger, certainly I carried a lot of momentum with me going into that round against Luke and then Robert Karlsson.   
 Then on Sunday I just was really worn out.  I think Paul probably was, as well, but he was really on top of his game, and it showed.  But I enjoy match play.  We don't get a chance to play it very often.  I feel very fortunate to have been able to qualify for this event, and I was kind of hanging on the fence post there not playing Pebble Beach with my baby coming.   
 But in the end it worked out, and I'm excited to be a part of this.  These events are very special for all of us to play in, so you can't help but feel good about yourself about even getting an opportunity to play.   
  
  Q.  Have you had the baby yet?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  February 9th.   
  
  Q.  Boy or girl?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  It's a little girl.  Her name is Marin.  Marin Belle Micheel, so she's feisty, I think.  Today was pretty calm, but she seems to be a feisty one.  We're happy about that, but I haven't spent much time with her.   
 We had her on Friday, and then just everything, getting back from the hospital until Sunday, and I had to leave Monday night to go to LA.  I listened to her.  I talked to her on the phone for a little bit and hear her coo and all that.  So it's exciting.  I'll be excited to see her.  I just hope I don't see them until Sunday night.   
  
  Q.  What's the mindset going into something at the 16th seed and everything?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, I think sometimes it's always, I think, easier to play as an underdog.  You know, I think that's what -- I don't mind it.  I mean, that's just the way it is.  I really admire the guys who are able to handle that pressure week in and week out.  I mean, look at Jim Furyk and Vijay, and of course Tiger, dealing with all the stuff that he deals with on a daily basis.   
 You know, it's a lot easier on me mentally, I think, to know that if I don't win it's okay, because I wasn't expected to anyway.  But at some point, I would like to get up there at the top and feel what it feels like to have that, and that's why we're out here working.   
 Certainly not everybody can be No. 1 player in the world, so somebody has obviously got to be ranked where I am.  I seem to do very well at that.   
 Again, at some point I'd like to get my game in a position where maybe I'm favored over somebody.   
  
  Q.  Was there any part of your game today that helped you out there?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Yeah, I drove the ball well but I putted extremely well today.  I made all the putts that you have to make.  You know, I made a 15-footer on one hole for par to tie the hole, and I made a great putt on the 21st hole to win the match:  A downhill slider, six-footer.   
 You know, I feel very fortunate because I started out the week with four putters in my bag, and fortunately I had to narrow it down to one for today.  I spent a lot of time today practicing on the putting green here.  I putted very well.   
  
  Q.  That's got to be kind of a weird feeling starting an event like this not knowing which putter you're going to use?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  It is.  I mean, I don't like that.  You're talking to somebody that used three putters all of last year, and I think that I had more putters in my bag on Monday than I used last year.  It's not a good feeling.  I don't enjoy that.   
 I don't even enjoy going to the trailers except to get my grips changed and have my loft and lies checked.  I can't stand that.  It takes a lot of energy to do that and wonder what you're doing.  I had a new set of clubs made the other day.  I got back to my hotel, and I thought, What are you doing?  What am I doing?  It's the second month of the year and I'm having new clubs made and all this, that, and the other.   
 It ultimately comes down to the Indian, not the arrow, and the sooner I figure that out, the better off I'll be.   
  
  Q.  When did you begin using the new clubs?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  I'm not playing with them, but I had a different set made for me to try.  I wasn't going to bring those out today anyway, but that putter is a brand new putter.  I've never used that putter before.  No, I took it out yesterday.   
 I think I had four putters in the bag yesterday walking around.  Poor Tony was carrying an extra three or four pounds in the bag.  As you know, this course is not the most conducive to walking with a lot of clubs in the bag.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel pretty secure now?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  I do, yeah.  And some of it is my stroke and making a few putts out there at the right times helps a lot, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT