HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2006
Robert Karlsson
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Looked from early on it was going to go all the way, nip and tuck, you've had a week of giant killing, a different giant today?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  We had a good match I thought.  I think we both probably could have made a few more putts.  I had some chances and he had some chances as well.  I don't know what happened, I started driving the ball a little wildly and I'll go out and try to correct that now.  Obviously to me, we were going to come down to the end.  We were just trading holes back and forth and I think if I had made a few more putts early on, it might have been a different story, and the same for him.  We just had a nice match and I feel very fortunate to have come out on top today.   
  
  Q.  I suppose in a way you might have had a slight advantage in terms of local knowledge, but the putts just didn't seem to go for you there?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, this is that kind of course and it's not easy to hole a lot of putts around here and that's the same for everyone.  I really enjoyed the match today and I think we had a really good day out there.  Someone was going to win, and I wish Shaun good luck tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You've had a terrific week yourself, you must be delighted with your form going into next week now?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Maybe the game could be a little bit better, but it's definitely great to have a couple of matches under the belt.  It's a form of play that we don't use that often, so it's good to get a bit of practise.   
  
  Q.  You're not playing next week, so you can focus on this, and if you, I think I'm right in saying if you win this, it would get you into the World Golf Championship in two weeks' time just up the road?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Yeah, that's certainly a goal of mine to get back to where I think I should be.  You know, I've been working hard on my game for the last three or four months, and it's starting to pay some dividends.  Hard work usually does.  But yeah, I'm a little bit disappointed to have to the made the team, the Ryder Cup Team, but I'll be rooting the boys on.   
  
  Q.  So you can just give a psychological boost tomorrow by beating Paul Casey, looking forward to that?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  Yeah, it's going to be a tough day for me, playing here in England against an Englishman, I'm going to understand that they are certainly going to want him to win and I'm going to have to deal with some things I don't normally have to deal with.   
 I just need to tidy up my game a little bit.  I think if you put the ball in play, it doesn't matter who you're playing.  You force the other guy to hit a good shot and it works the other way as well.  I'm looking forward to playing Paul.  He's obviously playing some great golf and I'm going to have to tidy up my putting.  Like Robert said, the greens are very tricky to read, there's a lot of break around the hole you just don't see.  So speed plays a big factor, and he is obviously putting well, so I'm going to have to tidy that up tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Are you tired?   
 SHAUN MICHEEL:  I am tired.  I don't even know how many days I've played.  I'm not used to this and obviously match play is a different format.  The play moves right along, but it's just long day after long day, but I think I'll be okay for one more.   
  
  Q.  Just wanted to ask you the same thing about physically, a few days of constant golf?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Right now I feel really good actually.  I felt a lot better today than I did yesterday.  Also, I had a good massage last night and rested up pretty well.  So it's good I don't have to play tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  So what's going to be the format that you're going to use tomorrow as a chance to just sort of recharge the batteries?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, just take it a bit easy tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Do the same thing tomorrow, massage?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT