HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2006
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played again, Shaun.  Another fine victory, and you've managed to keep the Stars and Stripes fluttering this weak against the Brits, haven't you?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, yeah, it really was I think maybe a lot better match than maybe the score really turned out to be.  I think Luke had really played well all day.  I think in the 34 holes we did play, I think he only made maybe one, maybe two bogeys.  He just didn't make the birdies.  And that's kind of what I have to do in match play.  You kind of expect if you're pretty aggressive that you have to be, you're going to make some bogeys, and I did that coming down the stretch.

I had a nice round of golf.  When you get a big lead like that, sometimes it's difficult to play.  It's hard to explain.  Most people say you have to go for the throat, and that's really what I was trying to do.  But I made a few mental errors, I think, particularly on No. 11 by going over the green there and having a tough chip.

You know, again, as I said yesterday, match play is a series of, you know, kind of ebbs and flows where you get a series of runs.  I mean, I made some pretty good runs this, morning, and he did, as well, towards the end and it was just a little bit too late.

I can't tell you how difficult it is, all you have to do is just tie one hole, because you forget about playing golf and you just start playing to figure out how you can tie the other person.

Finally on last hole, I hit a really nice shot in there which really made me feel good.  I was a bit surprised that he didn't make me put the first one, not that I would have 3 putted, but it was a very nice gesture on his behalf to have done that.  I think he's probably just as tired as I am and probably just ready it get off the course.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How do you feel about the thought of maybe playing another 72 holes, and here we are on Friday?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I said it was very mental, but it's also a test of stamina, as well, because here I've played a full, basically a full four day event in two days, not counting that I played the Pro Am and I played 18 holes on Tuesday in the practise round.

It's nice to keep going.  Even though you might be a little bit tired, you're also very excited and very enthused to make it this far, so that keeps it going, as well.
Q.  Did you get nervous at all coming down the stretch the last few holes?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I don't think nervous is the right term.  A little bit uneasy.  You can feel it switching.  You can feel the emotions out there and the crowd.  You know, the crowd really was cheering us both on, and until you get to the par 5 or that par 3 where my ball came up, spun off the green like a 5 iron with a pitching wedge and you get the crowd cheering that the ball is off the green I felt unnerved, or I think I was uneasy or unsettled about that because everyone has been so great over the past two days.

That being said, probably turned out the way that it should have on that hole, because that ball never should have come that far off the green, and Luke probably should have 2 putted, and I would have, as well.  You know, you just have it handle those situations and the match probably should have been closed out two or three holes prior it that one.  I missed a 3 footer on one hole, I think I just assumed I was going to make it instead of just walking around the hole taking my time.  I think it goes to show you how short the shot, you really have to be spot on with your concentration.
Q.  So even though you're not playing in the Ryder Cup next week, you got a little taste of it today.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Yeah, exactly, I know playing an Englishman that he's probably    people really wanted him to win.  And like I said, overall, everyone applauded great shots and I think they respected what we were trying to do out there.  And I think we put on a pretty good show.

I would think of all the challenges that the Ryder Cup players face, I would imagine that would be the most difficult.  And the thing is, you don't really want to take it personally because they just want their team or their person to win.  Golfers don't grow up with that.  As a football player, baseball player, basketball player, you grow up with the boos when you get introduced and stuff like that and it kind of spurs you on a little bit.  But I would say outside of the golf, that's probably the most difficult part of it.
Q.  Your play this morning, is that as well as you've played in some time, almost like you used Tiger to shake the rust off.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I don't know, I've been playing pretty well the last    since about May.  I just started making some putts.  I didn't really make that many putts yesterday.  Tiger didn't make any like he usually does, and I didn't really make that many this afternoon.

Obviously when you go out, and this morning I had a lot of putts that were just kind of up the hill and straight, you know, I had a couple putts I made that had some break to them, and then this afternoon I just wasn't able to capitalise.  Obviously when you beat the No. 1 player in the world, and I beat him, I played a great round of golf yesterday and I'm kind of just beaming with confidence.
Q.  What do you know about Robert Karlsson?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Nothing.  (Laughter).
GORDON SIMPSON:  He's very tall.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I know, we spoke a little bit the other night at the dinner.  I know he's won quite a few events on The European Tour and he's going to head up to Ireland on hopefully Saturday night.  (Laughter).

Don't really know too much.  I think that's the difference, some of the American players, you don't get a chance to really know some of the European players.  I do like to travel and play, so I did feel like I know most of the guys, getting invited it to play some of the European events, particularly the Johnnie Walker or events like that, but I've never played with him.  He'll probably be hitting first a hot lot.  I was watching him swing a little bit, we caught up to him today and that must have been a heck of a match, him and Cabrera, both bombing it out there.  But I'm looking forward to it.
Q.  Did you know when he was at the dinner?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Oh, yeah, yeah, I know Robert.
Q.  Did he know you?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Probably not.  (Laughter).
Q.  After such a memorable win yesterday, did you worry about being a bit of a letdown, and was it very pleasing for to you get of to such good starts?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, I took time to really enjoy my win.  You know, I enjoyed dinner last night.  I slept very well.  I was just excited.  I don't think I was expected by those people to move into today.  My wife I think was already making plans to go watch some horse racing at Ascot park or something.  But I did take a deep breath and enjoy last night.

And then this morning, I was fine, I woke up and I didn't really think about my match until I got to the first tee.  You know, Luke's a great player, and I know that he's always very consistent off the tee and into the greens, and I knew that I was going to have to play very well, and I did that this morning.  I think that's probably the most important thing that I did today was get off to a good start.  And I say that because when I won the PGA, I got off to a good start just about every day, and I think that's the most important.
Q.  How do you feel your chances are now of winning?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I started thinking about that a little bit last night I suppose.  I feel like I'm playing well enough to win.  I don't know what the other guys, how they were playing from a score standpoint, but again that doesn't really matter.  My whole focus was just trying to keep the ball in play and then make a lot of birdies when I get the opportunities.

You know, I think all the guys are great, they are great players, but again, you kind of take each match as it comes.  Somebody is going to win the tournament, so it might as well be me.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And on that note, that's a good one to finish.  Well done, Shaun, good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT