DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2006
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Six under par for 54 holes, Shaun Micheel.  Right now five shots behind leader Vijay Singh.  Certainly a big mountain to climb tomorrow.  But you've continued your strong play this week.  Maybe some opening comments.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Sure.  Well, I think first of all trying to deal with the elements out there is always a bit challenging.  But for someone to go out and shoot 10 under par in conditions like this, I mean you're kind of left shaking your head.  When we approach 16 green    and I don't usually look at the leader boards on Saturday.  But just to look over there and see Vijay shooting 61, I mean that's some pretty good play in very difficult conditions.  But I played well, just every single day I think I've gotten a little bit better.  I'm driving the ball well.  I think I only missed one or two fairways today.  I missed five or six fairways for the week and that's obviously the key to my good play.  I think it would be nicer to get a little closer to the hole.  And I left one out there on 18, but I've made my share over the last month, so I guess I can't expect to make them all.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What's the toughest thing about a day like today, your hands, the clubs?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Actually, yeah, I thought we were going to catch a little bit of a break there.  I was watching the weather this morning and it was pretty nasty.  And then we got out to the range and we thought we would get the good end of the draw.  And I think it was pretty equal of the although it might have been a little windier this morning.  But you always battle those things when it's raining.  Just trying to keep everything dry.  Keeping your yardage book, trying to hold your umbrella, do your yardage book, mark your ball.  It's just a lot of things going on out there.  And it's just, it makes it all the more difficult.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions?
Q.  Do you feel like you got as much as you could out of the round, given the weather and then you alluded to before to looking at the leaderboard at 16, how does something like that happen on a day like this that a guy could shoot 10 under?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, you know, I don't really know.  I'll be interested to go back and pull his round up on Shot Link.  But it's    I didn't get as much out of my round, I hit most of the fairways, and you do have some short clubs on in your hand out there.  The pins were fairly receptive and pretty forgiving, I thought.

Couple loose iron shots left me 30, 35 feet.  You can't expect to make those.  But for someone to shoot 10 under, I don't care if the conditions are perfect out there, you're doing some pretty good things.  Obviously he was well in control of his ball flight and keeping it around the hole.  And he putted extremely well.  You just don't shoot those types of scores without making some putts.  He might have had a couple of kick in putts, but to think that you could do that    it was just wet enough out there that it was hard to control your ball.  To keep it around the hole.  So maybe he made a lot of long putts.  And that's usually the key to shooting a really low score in conditions like this.  But that might be the round of the year.  There's been a lot of golf played this year by a lot of great players.  But that one might comeback just to be the round of the year.  May not get voted that way because it's a Saturday, but it's still pretty good playing nonetheless.
Q.  He actually had a lot of short putts.  But just, can you just talk about how you go into tomorrow.  He's up four shots, can you catch him?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Sure, he can be caught.  Any time Tiger around he's always a player that's always a factor.  I haven't shot too many really low rounds on Sunday.  I'm actually hoping for a little wind tomorrow, I don't know what the forecast is.  I'm kind of needing something like that.  I just think that    I just don't think he's going to go out and have a bad round.  He's a pretty good front runner, as is Tiger.

Tiger certainly has that ability to go out and shoot a 7 or 8 under and maybe I've got that in me too, but I think I need a little bit of wind out there, being five back, that's quite aways back.  Especially after a guy shooting 61, he's obviously feeling pretty good about his game.  That being said, sometimes it's difficult to back up a 61 with a good number.  So I just need a good solid round tomorrow and whatever happens, I guess happens to the other guys too.
Q.  I know you spoke about it on Wednesday before we began, but can you tell us the way you're confidence and your game is right now, with this streak, where is that at?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, it's been coming for a long time.  I think that sometimes it's difficult to gain a lot of confidence unless you have some pretty good results.  And I played some pretty good rounds of golf.  Pretty good tournaments there starting in Charlotte, Byron Nelson, and then of course I played really well at Milwaukee.

But I've just been working really hard and starting to see some things.  My attitude changed quite a bit.  I've gone from play playing golf swing to just playing golf.  And I'm having a lot more fun doing that than critiquing every missed swing or every missed putt.  Golf had become really work for me.  And it's not a lot of fun when you're working at your game while you're trying to compete at a high level of the it's very difficult.  Because I spend a lot of time at home in Memphis working on my game.  And the reason you do that is to try to get some good results and have, and play well.  I just, I don't know, I've just been playing really well.  I feel confident and if I make a mistake, I don't try to get greedy.  I'm putting well enough that if I make a couple of bogeys I can come back from that.  And when you're driving the ball well, like I am, and you're putting pretty well, that's a good combination.  It makes you feel really good.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Shaun, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT