PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2006
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Solid round, you have to feel good about where you sit right now.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I do.  I played really well.  I mentioned to my caddie, Tony, on Tuesday what I when we came out and played that I thought the golf course reminded me very much like Oak Hill.  Just a lot of trees, and certainly brought back a lot of good memories when I stepped up on the first tee and saw how the course was laid out.

I'm playing well.  I'm driving the ball extremely well.  I've missed a few shots off line like probably everybody will.  You know, it was just a good day.  I've controlled my distance well going into the greens.  I'm putting well.  I haven't made as many 20 footers for birdie as I would have liked.  I think that's kind of what you have to leave yourself a lot of times because you just can't fire at all of the flags.

I'm very pleased with the way I played golf today, and yesterday.
Q.  How much does that sense of comfort mean when you come to a tournament and the course kind of fits your eye?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, it's everything.  I've been playing some pretty good golf.  I actually was going to take last week off and I felt like that course last week was going to be a driver's course.  You need to hit a lot of drivers in order to make some points.  So that's really why I played.

Then, of course, you don't have to hit driver out there, I think that's kind of the misconception when you see the yardage.  Of course, you can hit driver, but I'm finding that I'm hitting some 2 irons off some tees.  The times that I am hitting the driver, I'm hitting very straight.

So it's a great feeling to know when you step on each and every hole that you feel really good about it.  And, you know, there are a couple holes that I struggle with visually, and you know, one of them being No. 4, I'll probably hit 3 wood off the tee for the rest of the week.  I hit it way right today and way left in the practice round, so I'll probably hit 3 wood off that tee.

But to answer your question, it's a nice feeling to feel good over every tee shot and feel good about just kind of the lay of the land.
Q.  What's your sense in terms of a number, if these kind of conditions, not much wind, overcast, soft greens, how low or what number do you put in your mind, if any?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, it's still a major championship.  So I noticed there were a couple of pins    yesterday we were looking for some of the dots they were putting on the greens and I noticed there were a couple holes where they changed the pin to where I thought it was going to be to a more challenging location.

I thought the golf course was set up a little bit tougher.  Yesterday there were a lot of front pins.  Today a lot of the pins were in the back.  So it brings the back into play.  Consequently, you're not wanting to go over, so you're leaving yourself short of the pin and you're leaving yourself longer putts.  But I know that they would like to get it firm and fast.  I think if they did that, this course could really be extremely difficult because the greens are so small.  I think fortunately for us the greens are pitched mostly from back to front so you're able to hold some shots there.

You've got two really challenging par 3s coming in.  You've got 13 and you've got 17.  I think it's great it's playing a little softer because those two holes might be darned near unplayable if it got firm.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT