PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Could you just talk a little bit about your round today?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, I guess starting off I was just really excited.  I didn't have any nerves whatsoever, which was, I think, kind of unusual for me lately.  I've been playing kind of really well, have a lot of confidence, and of course it's the PGA Championship, so there's a lot to be excited about.

But I played great, I really did.  I started off well, I was putting well.  I had a great round of golf, and I had one little hiccup there on 12, I guess.  I was trying to play the right shot, just trying to play safe, and it happened to go too far and I didn't leave myself a very easy shot.  It didn't matter.  I played a very good round of golf.  A few putts could have gone in, but that's the way it goes.  I'm really happy about the way I played.
Q.  Talk a little bit about the course.  People are talking about the length and everything like that.  After the first full day of competition, how do you see the course playing?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Well, there is the length, but I think it doesn't play quite as long as people might think because there's a lot of doglegs out there.  You know, when you measure the course, you measure it down the fairway.

Some of the par 3s, you have 13, 13 is 248 yards, so they had it stretched out.

But they've done a nice job with the golf course.  It's playing firm and pretty fast.  The ball is not plugging when it hits.  I suppose if we had any weather or any rain or something like that, that would really put some bite in the golf course.

You know, on some of the dogleg holes you have to be careful not to run through the doglegs, too, into the rough.  I don't think it's really an issue this week.  It's hot, you get some downwind holes.  I don't know, I just don't think that's much of a factor.
Q.  One last question.  After being past champion here, does this event still have a special meaning to you after winning it, even three years later?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Oh, yeah.  I mean, it's a great event.  I look back on so many memories, and even coming back here, this course reminds me so much of Oak Hill.  You know, I never would have dreamed that my first victory would be a major championship.  But I think after the way I've been treated and after the way I've been received by the PGA of America and all the professionals, I think if I never win another major again, this would be the one that I would have rather won.

They do a nice job.  I think they know how to set a golf course up.  They don't do anything goofy, not speaking of any one golf tournament in particular.  It's just that they give you an opportunity to score, and that's what the fans want to see.  It is challenging out there, and if you miss it in the wrong spot    you saw what Davis did.  Davis made a 6 on a par 3, and you can make a big number.  But you don't have to set the course up where it's just unplayable.  That's why I like the PGA of America, because you have professionals setting up the golf tournament for professionals.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT