84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 15, 2005
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Shaun, thanks for joining us.  Maybe just talk a little bit about your day.  You got to 10 under and then had little blips at the end.  Maybe just talk about how you played.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  You know, today was just a great day.  I mean, obviously scoring conditions were there.  You could see that from the morning scores.  You know, kind of the way that I've been playing the last six or seven months, I mean, I wasn't really sure what I was going to shoot out there.  But I started hitting the ball well the last couple of weeks, and I made a few putts and actually made a couple of eagles.  Those always seem to come at the right time.

Overall it was a great day.  I hit the ball well from tee to green, got a few putts to go in.

We had a little bit of a scary moment with DT on the 1st tee that kind of shook me up for a couple of holes after we made the turn.  Maybe it didn't show so much in my scores, I birdied 1, 2 and 3, but certainly my thoughts and Jerry's thoughts were with him.  We still don't know what happened to him, but it was kind of a scary situation out there.

You've got to keep going on, and other than the last three holes, it was a nice day.  I guess I'm a golfer so I've got to have something to complain about, and certainly I'm going to go to bed thinking about the last three bogeys the last three holes, but much like the PGA Championship in 03, I bogeyed the last three holes on Saturday and fared pretty well, so that won't stay with me for long.
DAVE SENKO:  Can we get your birdies and eagles starting with 11?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Okay.  No. 11 was kind of a    obviously the key out there is just hitting the fairway and kind of waiting for the group in front of us to get off.  Even though I knew I couldn't get to the green, I felt like I could manufacture a shot and get it up there.  I was probably 30, 35 yards.  I never expected something like that to happen, but it was nice to have a chip in there.

I bogeyed the next hole, but I kind of sucked it up.  I hit some nice tee shots.  This golf course you have to play from the fairway, and I had a nice birdie on 15.  I hit a nice drive down there, had sand wedge into the green and made a nice 20 footer.

Then the next hole they really tightened that driving area, but I found the fairway, hit a 6 iron in and didn't hit a very good first putt, but that's okay.  Tap in for birdie.

17 was a 9 iron just playing out to the right, perfect club, and I guess I had probably 15 feet, I suppose, and got that one in there.

Then we had the situation with DT on 1.  That took us a little while to kind of figure out what we were going to do, play on or let the group in front of us go ahead and play in front of us, but actually I hit driver off the tee there and left myself a nice little angle, about a 40  or 50 yard pitch shot to 10, 12 feet.

2 was a driver over the bunker with a sand wedge to about ten feet.

Next hole was 3, 223 yards today, just hit a little 5 iron, just trying to play short of the pin, don't want to go over that green, and made about a 40 footer.
DAVE SENKO:  It was 42 and a half.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  Yeah, it was one of those days.  Jerry looked over at me and shook his head.  I think at that point I had him by about 14 shots.  He said he was ready to go in.

Then I missed a nice opportunity the next hole but then came back on 5, the par 5, and had a shot where that pin is.  You basically just play for the front right of the green.  I got a nice bounce off the side of the fairway there and it kicked down to about three feet and I managed to knock that one in.

Now I'm feeling pretty good about it because I hadn't seen a 9 under in a while, at least on my scorecard.

I played a nice hole on 6, hit it about 25, 30 feet, made that, and then kind of had a little meltdown.  I was a little disappointed because I felt like we're back there playing a hole that's 193 yards, and they put the pin seven yards on the front and they've watered the fronts of the greens and you're not able to play a shot from short, so you're basically forced to play a shot into the green, and with the greens as firm as they are, I probably had about 60  or 70 foot putt with about six different breaks.  I was a little upset not so much with making bogey, but I think the way that that hole was set up.

But then 8, I just made a mistake on 8.  I just misread that first putt and just kind of got careless on the next one.  You do something like that and you've got a tough tee shot on 9.  I hit a nice recovery shot there, but the pin is 32 on and I wasn't even on the front of the green.  I probably had a 94 , 95 foot putt, 96 feet.  With what happened with the prior two holes, it was tough to get that one in there.  It was a disappointing way to finish, but overall there's a lot more positives to think of than just a couple of three putts.
Q.  On No. 1 with David, did you see what happened?  Had he felt okay?  We were told he collapsed.
SHAUN MICHEEL:  I mean, DT and I, we talked about duck hunting.  Duck hunting starts in two months, and we talked about that the whole front nine.  I think he was second to hit off the tee, and as usual he hit it right down the middle.  He kind of said something, and I turned around, and he was kind of clutching his chest and he said he couldn't breathe, and someone thought maybe he had gotten stung by a bee, but certainly if you're holding your chest and can't breathe, I don't think it's a bee sting unless you're allergic, and he probably would have known that prior to today.

It was a scary moment.  It shook me up.  I don't know how Jerry felt.  Again, it didn't really show, I think, in the scores.  Ultimately you've got to go on, but certainly my thoughts were with him for the next five or six holes.

I don't know how he's doing.  Anything like that happens    you see the medics come over, okay, but then you see the ambulance back up to the 1st tee, and that tells you just it's a little bit more serious than maybe a pulled chest muscle or something like that.
Q.  Did he stay conscious?
SHAUN MICHEEL:  He did.  I mean, he kind of went down to his knee and he got back up and walked a few feet and then kind of went back to his knee, and then Scott, his caddie, said something to him, and I asked him if he wanted a drink of water, and he just said his chest was hurting and his heart was racing.  I'm not a doctor, but that could be any number of things, but that's generally not a good sign, and he just turned real white, just didn't have the color in his face, and like I said, we had to go on, and not knowing whether or not we should stay there or walk up to our balls or let the group behind us play in front.  We just were all    for 15 minutes we were all just standing around obviously with our thoughts on him, and then the rules official came up and told us that we're just going to go ahead and play on, and we'll take it from there.
DAVE SENKO:  Thank you, Shaun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT