PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Shaun Micheel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You started with two pars and then went birdie, birdie, birdie; what was working for you during that stretch? 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: I suppose I took advantage of some of the downwind holes and soft greens. I'm hitting the fairways, and, you know, this course, I think if you hit the fairways, you can score. 
 It's out there. There are some good numbers out there, but there are some hidden dangers, as well.

 Q. What kind of a crazy weather day, with fog delays in the morning, now suspending play at night, is that something that you just have to get used to out here or is it just messing with your mind-set at all?
 SHAUN MICHEEL: It's hard. I suppose anybody in this position -- I prefer to play late/early anyway. Tomorrow is just a little earlier than I wanted. I'm not much of an early-morning person. Playing a sport outdoors, you get used to it. It's been a crazy year that way. 
 You know, you're just going to have to grin and bear it and bear down and try to stay patient and accept it and know that everybody has to go through the same thing that you are.

 Q. Any different mind- set having to go back out? 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: Not really. You know, I've left myself -- I think I had a 6- or 7-footer for par, but as long as conditions stay somewhat benign with the wind and everything, I think there's still some opportunities to shoot some good scores out there. 
 Any understanding is that there will be some more fog tomorrow so we'll have to wait and see how that affects everybody in the morning. But I wouldn't necessarily mind that, because it gives you a little extra time to warm up. 
 I want to get a good night's sleep and come back ready to play 26 holes. 

 Q. Did you say you had a putt left? 
 SHAUN MICHEEL: I have about a seven or eight footer for par. Now, the guys behind us, they looked like they were going to finish. I don't know, we have tees all over the green, so hopefully they will move mine a little closer. (Laughing).
 It's frustrating for everybody, not just the players, but the fans; they came out wanting to see some good golf and don't understand. A lot of these golfers need to be able to see. But the PGA does a great job, they really do. I'm proud to be a PGA Champion and represent all of the men and women that do such a great job, and again, I think that you have professionals, you want an event for professionals; that just sums it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT