MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2017
Wyking Jones
Marcus Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VCU - 83, Cal - 69
THE MODERATOR: We welcome Cal to the media room, Coach Jones and Marcus Lee.  We'll start with an opening statement from Coach.
WYKING JONES: Well, it starts with how we come out of the gate.  Today we came out of the gate very slow.  We had good looks in the post.  We traveled it, turned it over.  You know, we don't have the kind of experience or depth where we can start off slow and make a run late.  That kind of was our demise today in that we started off so slow.  And after that, once we dug ourselves a hole, then we started playing.  We weren't playing Cal basketball at that point.  We were trying to play catch-up at that point.
Q. Coach mentioned you guys came out a little slow.  What were some of the things that VCU was doing that you had that gave you guys some trouble coming out of the gate?
MARCUS LEE: As a team, we came out slow, lackadaisical, and we just wanted to play all our men, all our leaders.  We had to get our team ready to play and focus all the way through.
Q. Do you feel like this is a chance to learn what you can be and what you need to do down the road?
MARCUS LEE: We came here to Maui to be tested and see where we were at.  We've seen where we can be absolutely great at times, and we see where we let off the gas.  We know we need to be A-1 every step of the way, because we know if we do everything right, we have a chance at winning.  But if we don't do that we're going to lose.
Q. How much of a challenge tomorrow when you start 0-2 here?
WYKING JONES: Tomorrow's a must-win for us.  You don't come to a tournament like this and go home 0-3.  I'm expecting our guys to come out with a fight.  Expecting them to come out ready to play tomorrow, no matter who we have to play.  Hopefully that happens.  Can't go home 0-3.
Q. What was it like facing a player like De'Riante Jenkins out there?
WYKING JONES: Too many open looks.  He got into a comfort zone, and we knew his potential to shoot the ball like that.  We just gave him too many looks.  Like yesterday against Frankamp and Shamat, there was more a sense of urgency to get out to those guys, because we knew that they could really shoot it, and we didn't have the same urgency to get out with those guys as we did yesterday.  So our guys should have done a better job with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT