U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 18, 2019
Danielle Ammaccapane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you doing?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: I'm doing all right.  We played a lot faster today.  I don't feel as bad.  Yeah.
Q. Assess your game today.
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Well, I only had one three-putt today.  And I had some up-and-downs today, so I feel like I played a little better today.  I had a little better pace on the greens today with my putter, so I felt a little better about that, just that one three-putt over there on that par-5.  That really irked me.  But I really thought it was going to be slow, and I just ran that thing way by.
Other than that, it was a pretty good day.  I hit the ball fairly solidly.  My irons were good today, and the driver was just all right, but it was in play.
Q. Where you stand on the leaderboard, what are you looking for tomorrow?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Well, I mean, I'd really like to shoot under par here just for my own sake, just so I can say that I beat the golf course one day because it's beating me.  You know, I felt like every day I had a chance at doing that, but just haven't been able to do it.  Today I didn't make as many birdies as I had the other days.  I only had a couple today.  You know, if I can shoot under par tomorrow, fantastic.  I can keep doing what I'm doing, I'll be just happy with what I'm doing.
Q. How do you feel about the following on the golf course?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Yeah, I mean, it's great.  It's nice to have people out here.  It's so hot.  I didn't know we were going to be anybody out here, especially as hot as it is.  But yeah, it's always nice to play in front of people.  You don't want to play out there by yourself.
Q. Does having your family here with you help you?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: I don't know.  Folks are getting older.  We're getting to be a little more work.  I don't know, maybe I should be traveling by myself.  You know, family is -- it's always nice to have family, and I have my daughter with me.  She came, she drove here to see me.  I haven't seen her in a while because she's been at college, so that was nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT