U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 16, 2019
Danielle Ammaccapane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on a great round, low round of the day, +1.  Looks like you made six birdies; is that right?  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: One, two, three, four, five, six.  Yeah, six birdies today.   
 Q.  General description, assessment of your play today.  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Well, I had a lot of 3-putts today.  That was my general assessment.  Really didn't like that.  One of them was for double.  Just the green is just so difficult.  I mean, you can't even let up on a one-footer.  I think I missed a one-footer out there.   
Yeah, putting is tough, but then you make some birdies like you -- I hit a few putts where I was like, Oh, it's not going in and it went in.  So I hit it okay today.  Didn't hit it in any trouble.  I think for the most part I just kind of kept it below the hole sometimes a little further than I would've liked, and I think I that's where my 3-putts came in.   
All in all it's playing tough, so I'm happy.   
 Q.  Birdie putts were all fairly close I'm assuming.  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Birdie putts?  They were probably all within -- I think I only made one -- No. 8 was probably the furthest one, and that was probably 20 feet.  Rest of them were probably inside 15.   
 Q.  So the first thing you mentioned was the 3-putts which affected your scoring.  How about the rest of your game tee to green, in the fairway, et cetera?  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Yeah, I didn't hit the driver particularly well but I kept it in play.  I've been working on some things in my golf swing, and today I just didn't -- I didn't execute the driver the way I would've liked to so I didn't hit it as far as I would've liked.   
But my irons were better today, and so that was probably the difference.  If I had not -- if I had hit the driver that way and then not hit my irons very good I would not have played very well today.   
But I am pretty happy about the iron play, so that's -- I know that the swing is there because I'm executing there; just not quite with the driver yet.   
 Q.  The finish last year, which was good...  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Yeah.   
 Q.  ...puts a really good taste in your mouth about this event, and now you've got a good score.  Top of the leaderboard.  Tell us a little bit about how you're feeling about that.  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Well, I mean, I feel good about being in this situation, but there is a lot of golf left and the golf course is really hard.  I don't know what the weekend is going to bring.   
I need to hit it a little bit better and I probably need to putt a little bit better.  I just don't know.  It's a long three days, you know.  What I did last year was great, but because I don't play on a regular basis you can't go on that.   
I'm here now and ready to play, and whatever is going to happen this weekend is going to happen.   
 Q.  There anything you think you can do to help with the putting, or is it something just because the greens are so fast and undulating?  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Is there anything I can do?  You know, my caddie and I thought if we just could make a lot of pars and throw in some birdies in there; we knew we would make some bogeys and stay right around where we were at, and that's kind of what I did.   
So I'm happy with that.  I feel like I'm a pretty good putter so the 3-putting does irritate me.  On the other hand, I was 3-putting from pretty long distances, you know what I mean?  It wasn't like I was 3-putting from where I should be 2-putting.  They were all easy to 3-putt greens.   
That's just because you're fearful of hitting it any closer to the hole, going over the greens, doing this and that, trying to stay below it, doing all that stuff.  If you don't quite catch it -- you know short is better on this golf course than long.  Always short.   
That's where I was.  Most of time if I was going to miss it I took less club.  Didn't quite catch it, I was on the front of the green, and I had a long, long putt.  I would rather do that than do what I did right here on this hole, on 18.  You hit it over the green and then you have no shot and then you get it down there, and now I'm 40 feet from the hole and I 3-putt for double.   
That's the worst thing you can do.  That irritates me more than anything.  The rest of it just was pretty good basically, for as hard as I thought it played.   
 Q.  I would say compared to the rest of field it's better than pretty good.  
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE: Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  I thought it played pretty tough today.  Like I said, I didn't hit it as good as I would've liked.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT