CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2015
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be disappointed.  
DANNY CHIA: Yeah, rather disappointed in the final round.  I just am exhausted.  I was trying really hard out there, but the body just not listening.  I didn't do that bad.  I just didn't make any putts at all today.   
Something positive to take back after this week?  There's still a lot of things to work on my game.  After watching this guy play.  Even though I didn't play that well this week, I still felt good about myself.   
 Q.  You talk about this guy, do you mean Jason Dufner?  
DANNY CHIA: Yeah, Jason, even in the first two rounds with Ryan Moore and him, there's hardly any weakness in their game.  On the putting, I must be at least at the bottom on the putting stats this week.   
 Q.  I think, if I'm correct mathematically, this will take you past a million in earnings this year.  It's been a really splendid year.  
DANNY CHIA: Yeah, it's been great, but nevertheless, I have to try to push myself to go even further, because I still think there's a lot of things I can improve on my game.   
 Q.  This is the 10th week on TOUR back-to-back, is that correct?  
DANNY CHIA: I think it's 12.  I played two local events in between as well.  So I was a bit worried this week that, how am I going to last in this weather, this golf course, and -- but I ended up didn't do that bad anyway.   
 Q.  Playing in Shanghai next week?  
DANNY CHIA: Yeah.   
 Q.  First time?  
DANNY CHIA: Yes.  And I heard the course is really long and it's perfect right now for the condition as well.   
 Q.  But to be able to play in a World Golf Championship event must be a highlight.  
DANNY CHIA: Yeah, it is.  It felt great to be able to qualify to play in Shanghai next week, another elite field event.  So, very happy about it.   
 Q.  At this point your golf plans for the season?  No. 1 Malaysia, that's for sure.  
DANNY CHIA: I will be interested to see where I can finish in the Asian Tour Order of Merit this year.  Because I think this is, by far, the best I have done in so many seasons, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT