CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2015
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We've got Danny Chia with us here, playing his fourth CIMB Classic.  Thanks for joining us.  Just give us your overall impressions of the golf course this week, what you've seen so far.
DANNY CHIA: Just played it this morning, and I think this year the rough was a bit shorter, and the condition of the golf course is great.  You know, I think it's going to be a great scoring week this week.
THE MODERATOR: A couple months ago you sat down at the same place and were talking about how key (inaudible), but now you're back here again as an Asian pro and qualifying for this event by virtue of your top 10 rankings in the Order of Merit.  Did you see this coming?
DANNY CHIA: Not really surprised with the win.  I was playing well this year.  I thought the win will come sooner or later, and I'm very pleased with what I've achieved.
THE MODERATOR: When you look back at what you've achieved in the past one month, what is the main key that has driven you back to the top of your game?
DANNY CHIA: I think it all started after my recovery from my surgery, that I'm very pleased to come here and play this game again.  Every time I go out there now, I think my character is a bit different now.  You know, I kind of enjoy the game a bit more now, and I'm more relaxed about it.  You know, it's not so much of what I'm trying to achieve and what I'm trying to prove, it's more like I just go out there and play golf.  And I've been working with Steven the last couple years, and a lot of good things has paid off in my swing mechanics.  So yeah.
Q. You'll be playing I think it's your 10th tournament in a row.  How is your condition?
DANNY CHIA: I feel a bit wear out mentally and physically at the moment, and hopefully I get enough rest tonight and tomorrow, and then I can play well this week.
Q. How would you assess your form?
DANNY CHIA: I think ball-striking wise I was doing quite well, and I was hitting a lot of greens.  Just can't make any putts the whole week.  I mean, I hit to quite reasonable, but each time I give myself a birdie chance, I can't manage to convert them.
Q. For the first time three Malaysian players will be competing.  Can you talk about that?
DANNY CHIA: I think it's great.  I mean, I would love to see even more Malaysians to get in.  Hopefully next year more Malaysians will get in, not through the invite, through the Asian Tour ranking or the (inaudible) ranking.  That would be better, yeah.
Q. How important is your Order of Merit ranking?
DANNY CHIA: I think it's probably for my own self-achievement, that I would look at it as this is probably the most I've made in my career so far for a single season, and I would be interested to see how much more I can make by the end of the year.
Q. With your position now on the Order of Merit, are you looking at qualifying as one of the top four Asians from the rankings then?
DANNY CHIA: Definitely that would be one of the things that I'm looking at, but I'm trying to do one step at a time.  I think as long as I keep doing what I'm doing now and play well, I think things like that will come in automatically.
Q. How will you approach this week?
DANNY CHIA: Same as always.  I've just got to go out there and do my best, just try not to make too many mental mistakes.  I think I should be okay.
Q. This is a different golf course, but in terms of your game, can you talk about how much has changed since then and now?
DANNY CHIA: It didn't change much.  Personally I think it's always been -- to me this golf course has always been difficult because of the type of grass they use, and I never really get used to that, even on the fairway hitting my second shot to the green.  I always felt they are quite unpredictable for me, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT