CIMB CLASSIC
November 2, 2014
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sum up the week for us. 
DANNY CHIA:   I think it was okay.   Hitting‑wise it wasn't that bad.   I just think the first two rounds was my nerves, just pushing myself to try to do well.   And then the rough this week was a big factor for me.   But yeah, I actually shoot quite good.   I just made a few decisions off the tee to be too aggressive, but that's my plan today anyway, so it didn't turn out good, so can't do anything about it.   But I'm okay with it.

Q.   Do you need to get stronger the next few weeks, the next few months?
DANNY CHIA:   Hopefully.   That's my goal since I started playing golf again this year has always been my physical strength has not been what it used to.   Hopefully, I'm going for checkup next week, so hopefully I get a green light from my physio that I can go back to the gym and start to work out.   Yeah, that's about it.

Q.   Any disappointments for yourself?
DANNY CHIA:   Yes and no.   A bit disappointed that I didn't putt well this week, but I'm quite happy, because right now my condition, this golf course, it's not easy for me to play.   It's long.   The rough is thick, and half the time I go in the rough, I couldn't even come out.   Quite happy how I finished in a way.   Don't get me wrong, I'm not happy to finish near the bottom, but that's what it is right now for me.

Q.   Are you preparing for a longer road to getting back to 100 percent?
DANNY CHIA:   Definitely, because it's quite difficult at the moment.   I have to look at my Order of Merit, and I can't play too many weeks in a row.   A lot of tournaments I want to play but I can't.   It's not easy to manage my schedule at the moment, especially for these two months.   I try to go back to the gym and do some workout, but in between tournaments, I don't even know if it's a good idea.   I mean, honestly, I haven't had a clue what do I need to do now, which one comes first.   I need to figure that out.

Q.   Danny, you still finished ahead of some big names, PGA TOUR and Asian Tour, so just your assessment of how far or how near you are compared to other guys in the field this week?
DANNY CHIA:   Okay.   I mean, I played with some good players this week, and I look at their ball‑striking.   Honestly, me and Nicholas, I think we are not that far away from them.   Maybe distance‑wise we are 10, 15 meters shorter than them.   But ball‑striking‑wise I think we're pretty close.   It's just like for me, a good example this week, I think I made some mistakes off the tee, pretty simple mistakes that I made.   If I can correct those mistakes that I made, I'd probably finish under par, as well, this week.   That's how I look at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT