CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk a bit about your round today.   
DANNY CHIA:   Actually I was quite pleased on the back nine, even though the score doesn't tell.   But I was starting to feel more comfortable with my swing.   Just that the putts still not dropping, but at least I feel good for the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Did you do anything with your swing that made you feel comfortable?  
DANNY CHIA:   I think probably something was really the nerves.   I just too tight out there.   Since the first day I've been like that, and then when I go to the range, I still try to feel more relaxed.   
I think the rain stop probably helped me a little bit.   I feel a little more relaxed about how I feeling.   So yeah, it's not too bad.  
   
 Q.   What did you do during the rain delay that made you feel more relaxed?  
DANNY CHIA:   Nothing.   The first day pretty much the whole day I'm just try to adjust my swing and try all kind of stuff on the golf club and it still doesn't work, and today I told myself like just relax and go and play, but I feel a bit tight until after the rain delay, I kind of like I got nothing to lose.   All I can do is keep improving.   I can't go any more backward because I'm running pretty much at the bottom.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything you can do?   
DANNY CHIA:   Yeah.   I mean same thing.   Try to be more relaxed about my swing, try to keep it really simple out there and try not to think too much about it.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DANNY CHIA:   Go to the range.   
   
 Q.   Do you practice for a long time?  
DANNY CHIA:   I try not to.   Here I want to, but my body just‑‑ I don't think my body can take it.   I think I spend way too long on the range yesterday and kind of got itching and numb feeling on my right shoulder.   Then I do a lot of stretching and fortunately it was okay again.   I try to cut my practice to half an hour.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DANNY CHIA:   Not really.   I think it's more, as I say, it's more to do with the nerves, try too desperate to do well and thought about my position and try to do something I cannot achieve.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT