CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2012
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Danny, thank you for joining us, a flawless 66 today.   Thoughts on your round? 
DANNY CHIA:   I was pretty calm out there myself, didn't really try to surprise myself or make myself excited.   I holed a few good putts.   Hitting the putt half decent, so pretty happy with the start today.

Q.   66, are you happy with that or did you feel you could have gone lower? 
DANNY CHIA:   Not really.   I've done my best today, and that's the score. 

Q.   Did you feel it was easy scoring conditions today?
DANNY CHIA:   Not really.   There's a couple of tough pins and a couple of the pins you can actually go for it, so it's a mixture of everything.   So the setup was pretty good today. 

Q.   Last year you had two good rounds.   This year you've started off well.   How do you keep it going? 
DANNY CHIA:   I think it's always difficult, I think, for me, to put four good rounds together.   I always just try to make my worst round not as bad, like if I could make my worst round to 1‑ or 2‑under, that would be fantastic.   This is what I've been always trying.   Despite that, I just try to play every shot at a time, just try to put my full concentration to it.   As I say, if I try my best, then that's my best. 

Q.   Did you feel much pressure today?
DANNY CHIA:   Not really.   I mean, as I said today, I was pretty calm, so my confidence level was pretty level throughout the round.   I wasn't really trying anything‑‑ no, I didn't try any silly shots on the golf course, I just played what I have to do.   That's it. 

Q.   What did you learn from Jeff Overton today? 
DANNY CHIA:   Didn't really pay much attention to him today, actually.   I mean, I was concentrating quite hard.   We chatted along the way, but he obviously putted very well and hit the ball really good.   I still haven't found anything I can learn from him yet, so obviously‑‑ yeah.

Q.   You played really well, as well.   Do you kind of feed off each other when he's making birdies and you're making birdies, as well?
DANNY CHIA:   For sure, yeah.   I try to beat him on the golf course.   I mean, I try to chase him.   But he made a great putt on No.15 to make eagle, and then from there I just thought, okay, maybe I have a few more birdies and then maybe get closer to him. 

Q.   Danny, how many putts today?   And which department went very well today, iron play or driving very well?
DANNY CHIA:   Pretty much everything.   I hit some good drives, some bad drives.   I misread a couple of greens, and I made some long putts.   As I said, it's pretty level kind of day, you know. 

Q.   How many putts total? 
DANNY CHIA:   I have no idea.   Not many. 

Q.   Coming into the week what was the feeling, coming to this event again? 
DANNY CHIA:   You know, when I was driving into the entrance today, I already can feel like the pressure is building up.   The more I'm getting closer to the clubhouse, I already start to‑‑ my insides are already jumping all around.   But fortunately I managed to calm myself the minute I tee off, so yeah. 

Q.   You spoke a little bit earlier about trying to play well enough to play with Tiger.   Has that been a long‑time goal of yours?
DANNY CHIA:   Yeah, I always want to play with him.   I watch him hit the ball.   I played in a couple events that he played in.   Yeah, I would like to play with him and hopefully this week I play good enough to play with him. 

Q.   Just wondering, is there any difference in the pressure of playing in this tournament as opposed to maybe playing in the Malaysian Open?   Is it different? 
DANNY CHIA:   It's different.   I mean, Malaysian Open is Malaysian Open for me.   Obviously this tournament, I mean, the way I look at it is I try to make myself more competitive, more with the PGA players.   I want to see where I stand among them.   I mean, I don't want to just show up here and just play some golf and walk off without learning anything or without knowing where I stand.   So this is the difference.   In Malaysian Open I was very, very close before, and I always believed I still had a chance. 
So I think in the Malaysian Open that's why the expectation is much higher for me to play well.   I think that's the difference. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT