CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2012
Danny Chia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Danny Chia beside me.   Danny, as usual, thank you for joining me in the CIMB press conference.   Are you bringing some happy memories into this week?   
DANNY CHIA:   Yeah, I think since last year I've been practicing on this golf course quite often, really, because I'm going under Steven Giuliano under the Golf Academy here.   And I've been practicing quite often.   Yeah, I'm quite happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Talking about practicing here, can you just talk a bit about the golf course and what you need to do to have a good score?   
DANNY CHIA:   I think it's a golf course that you need to drive the ball really well here.   Once you hit good drives on the fairway here, you can shoot a score very low here.   You can get a lot of birdies on this golf course here.   Especially with the conditions, this year is even better than last year.   So probably expecting some low scoring.  
   
 Q.   Does last year's results have a bearing for this year?   Are you keeping your expectations high or do you prefer not to think about last year?   
DANNY CHIA:   Well, what is done is done, right?   But I can't help it.   It's one of my highlights of my career last year.   So I try not to let it bother me so much.   I try to play a brand‑new game again this year.   
After all, I'm going under Steven, and there's a few changes in my swing.   I think a lot of the shots I played last year, I probably wouldn't play this year.   So it could be a totally different game.  
   
 Q.   Correct me if I'm wrong, because the back nine has been changed to the front nine.   So you tee off from the par‑5, 10 hole this year.   
DANNY CHIA:   Yes, at hole 10.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   So with that kind of set‑up, do you think in terms of playing the course, does it cause any change of strategy compared to starting from this side?   
DANNY CHIA:   For where they changed the nine, is it?   No.   Okay.   If so, I mean, if they changed the 10 hole to the first hole now, if so, it's probably going to be better for me because I think that they moved the tee box to the front on the first hole‑‑ okay, next question, please.  
   
 Q.   Compared to last year, how many times did you take out the driver?   
DANNY CHIA:   I hit quite a bit of drivers last year.   This golf course is the kind of golf that you can take risks with the driver.   You can hit driver, but there is trouble around the driver landing area.   But if you're confident enough, you take driver.   If you hit a good drive, you are actually you get a very good chance for second shot to get a birdie.   
So as I say, I think you have to be a little bit aggressive on this golf course.   There is a lot of chance for birdie.   At the same time, if you're not doing so well, you have to think intelligent way how to play this golf course.  
   
 Q.   You proved last year that given that there are only two Malaysians in the field, that the Malaysian player can compete.   You do expect a lot of fans to come back.   What are your expectations for this week?   
DANNY CHIA:   It's probably going to be the same like last year.   I think the field this year is much stronger in terms of players.   I guess it's a bit hot.   But to guess what these guys are going shoot on this golf course, I felt this golf course is a little bit too short for them, not for me, but for them.   It could be really low.   
I think I tried not to figure what is the score going to be to finish Top 10 or what is the score going to be to win.   But all I know is I'm going to play my best this week, no matter what happens, because I think there is a lot of money involved.   It is a big bonus for me if I play really well this week.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DANNY CHIA:   Yeah, I still have a lot of faith in my putting.   I'm still working on a lot of stuff.   I also had a lot of rumors that very soon they're going to ban that one, so lately I can start to practice with the short putter to get ready.   In fact, I hope they just hurry up and do it, and I can make up my mind which putter to use.  
   
 Q.   So which putter will you be using this week?   
DANNY CHIA:   The long putter.  
   
 Q.   Have you given thought to playing with Tiger maybe this week?   
DANNY CHIA:   If I play well enough, it shouldn't be a problem to draw with him.   It would be fantastic to play with him.   I've played a lot of events that he's played in as well, but never played good enough to play with him.   So hopefully I get to play with him.  
   
 Q.   You finished Tied 13 last year.   I'm wondering how many percent that could finish relative to the people you played with from day one?   
DANNY CHIA:   I think that makes a lot of difference to play with them, because a lot of times‑‑ last year I remembered every day I played with a different player.   Of course they all played on the PGA TOUR.   Every day I think I learned something from them in terms of the rhythm of the swing, club strategy, and technical on the swing as well.   Every day I pick up something from them, so, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How confident are you feeling at the moment, and when you look at 2012 for the past 10 months, is it where it should be or have you been happy with the progress?   
DANNY CHIA:   I mean, by the look of the results, it wasn't that good.   But as I say, I think I've been working with Steven now, so a lot of things we are giving time for it to get used to.   I'm doing a bit, changing my back swing, working on a new way of how to read the greens.   All of these things, it takes time.   
Every week I go out there and try to play my best with what I learned.   So hopefully I don't have to wait that long for me to get all this work to pay off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT