NASCAR NATIONWIDE SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 300
November 15, 2014
Jim McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KERRY THARP:   We thought it would only be appropriate to bring in Jim McCoy, who is the director of sports marketing for Nationwide, and what a great partner and entitlement sponsor they have been to NASCAR.   Thankfully‑‑ and we're fortunate, they are going to continue in the sport‑‑ but what a terrific entitlement sponsor they have been for this series.   
Jim, just want to, on behalf of NASCAR, thank you for that, and maybe just get your thoughts now moments after your final race as the entitlement sponsor for the series that builds such great, great talent coming up through the ranks.   
JIM MCCOY:   Yeah, definitely bittersweet.   It's a great finish to the season.   We've got a great champion in Chase.   It's a great connection with JR Motorsports and obviously where we're headed with Dale.   But this series has a great future.   We've learned an incredible amount during our seven years, and made a lot of great partnerships, including a lot of the folks in this room who have covered our series with such class and always helped us get our message out there.   We love the sport as I mentioned earlier today, and are just really happy to continue the relationship with NASCAR as well as Hendrick Motorsports and celebrate these great seven years as an entitlement sponsor.   
   
 Q.   With Nationwide going over and sponsoring Dale Jr., what is the business model transition for you guys, and what have you gained over the past with the Nationwide Series sponsorship?   
JIM MCCOY:   Yeah, seven years ago, we wouldn't have been ready to jump on and be the majority primary with Dale.   We had done some track sponsorships and cut our teeth a little bit with hospitality.   As a series sponsor, it's a total different level of responsibility in how you activate, and as we transition now to Dale, we feel like we're in a great place to really elevate our program, do what we're doing with NASCAR and the Betty Jane France Humanitarian Award, but also be ready for Sundays and take our campaign work with Dale to a new level.   We've seen great growth in our awareness and our consideration with the NASCAR fan base and really ready to take it to that next level.   
   
 Q.   Talk about some of the young talent that's come through and how you guys have helped foster the future of the sport going forward.   
JIM MCCOY:   Yeah, I think that's been a great part of this relationship is we're really cultivating those stars for tomorrow, starting with Brad and what he did, and obviously becoming a champion at the Cup level, and Ricky going back‑to‑back, and our relationship that we've had with him.   He was fantastic for us this year at the Cup level, and he's got a bright future, and then obviously Chase and Austin.   The names in our series, it's just amazing the amount of talent, and again, why I think that series has a bright future.   
   
 Q.   Jim, when you look back, what stands out?   What do you remember about your adventure?   
JIM MCCOY:   It was a wild ride.   I mean, it just went so fast.   That's kind of the recurring theme.   It's amazing.   Eight years ago, I remember sitting listening to the Anheuser‑Busch folks as they were winding down at the Nationwide banquet in Orlando, and here we are fast‑forward, we're going to be doing the same thing on Monday night.   A lot of great people, a lot of great relationships, and from day one, everybody in the sport really opened their arms to us and helped us do whatever we needed to do.   There was never a no.   It was how can we help you?   And that just speaks volumes of the people and the quality of the individuals and companies and NASCAR as a whole.   It's a great sport, and we're proud to be a part of it.   
   
 Q.   Jim, could you maybe kind of like give your best advice to the next sponsor coming in to take your shoes?   
JIM MCCOY:   Yeah, we're excited for XFINITY, and we've obviously been spending some time with them to try to make the transition as smooth as we possibly can.   We've invested a lot as a company and personally, and we want to see them succeed.   It's important to build those relationships early and treat folks how they need to be treated, and I think do the right things and the little things.   Because a lot of that stuff really adds up over time and really showing that you care about what's going on and care for the sport and invest the resources they need to to make sure that the series gets the exposure that it deserves.   
We always strive to be the squeaky wheel to compete against Cup, and we did our best to find opportunities to do that and highlight all the great things that were taking place on the Nationwide Series on an annual basis.   
KERRY THARP:   Jim, again, I can't thank you enough.   I know there's still some more celebration to take place, and I know the folks in this room want to thank you for all the assistance, cooperation, and availability that you and your folks have had over these past several years.   Job well done, and again, thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT