BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2013
Wen-Li Huang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Please tell me a little about yourself, because you haven't been professional for long, and I know I were a caddie before a player?
WEN‑LI HUANG:   I started as a caddie in 2002, and I had been a caddie for two years and in 2004 I started to play golf seriously and in 2007, I made it to the national team.   And also around 2005, 2006, I got a sponsor. 

Q.   With respect, you're an older man, because we are always seeing good, young Chinese players, so it's a lot of hard work and a lot of ability to get you there?
WEN‑LI HUANG:   Yeah, I really hope that more and more young Chinese golfers could come here to play, especially those who are poor like me.   With their effort, they could play better and better, and maybe participate in games like BMW sponsor.

Q.   You say poor like you; this week, you've earned a lot of money.   Can you believe where you are at the moment? 
WEN‑LI HUANG:   I was born in Jiangxi, which is a province in China, and when I was nine years old, my dad was in an accident and he was in the hospital laying down for 20 hours, so we just went to the hospital to see him maybe the last chance. 
But fortunately he would survive, and from then, we started living there, and also, I felt to my brothers, but after that, we started living in Guangzhou until I got a job as a caddie.   But so this moment, I really miss my family, especially my parents, my brothers. 

Q.   Do you feel lucky to be a golfer and in Germany and traveling the world? 
WEN‑LI HUANG:   Yeah, I'm very lucky to be a golfer now, traveling around and playing here in Germany, but when I was young, I had to work extra time with my dad to different places just to earn extra money.   Compared to my friends, they would all play around at that time but finally I made it now, so I'm really lucky. 

Q.   
WEN‑LI HUANG:   My parents.

Q.   Tell me what you do with the prize money from this week?
WEN‑LI HUANG:   With the money I'm going to buy an apartment for my parents, because my parents, they don't have an apartment yet, but hope I can have more opportunities like this so I can bring my wife and kids like all the other players have been doing. 

Q.   Please tell me what happens next, what do you do next?
WEN‑LI HUANG:   Keep working hard until another day comes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT