WNBA PRE-DRAFT MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 10, 2015
Elizabeth Williams
Amanda Zahui B.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   We're going to excuse the coaches and bring on our players.   Welcome to the call Elizabeth Williams from Duke University and Amanda Zahui B. from the University of Minnesota. 

Q.   Amanda, can you just talk for a couple of minutes about what your thoughts process was why you decided you wanted to come to the WNBA at this point in your career?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   Well, I really thought that this was the right moment and this was what was going to be best for me individually in my own career, and it was something that took time to think through and weighing the pros and cons. 
I'm grateful for this opportunity and this chance and I feel great about it.

Q.   Amanda, what was your reaction when you learned this week that Jewell had declared as well early, and do you think that it's something we may see a bit more in the future in terms of college players who are able to leave school early to make that jump?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   When I saw that Jewell came out, I was really excited for her, something that she wanted to do, and she was confident in it.   Just like myself. 
And I'm not really sure we'll see a lot of this.   I think it will be as long as players are comfortable and sure that this is something they want to do and think it through, I think it is a great opportunity, especially we can finish our school and education online.
But with that I'm super happy for Jewell and she's confident and we've been talking, and I'm supporting her just as much as she's supporting me.

Q.   Amanda, I wanted to know, first of all, is the story behind wearing No. 32 and how tied to it‑‑ I wanted to know the story behind why do you wear the jersey No. 32 and are you tied to it?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   In high school I played with the No. 15, and when I came to America, my teammate was wearing it.   So I decided to start a (indiscernible) a new jersey.   It was a new step into my life.
And also somehow I connected to Trent Tucker who played at the university and he wore 32.   So he had a great career.   I thought maybe that number would give me a little bit of luck and help me have a great career as well.
THE MODERATOR:   I believe Reshanda Gray has joined us. 

Q.   Elizabeth, first of all, what do you think you'll be able to bring to whichever team takes you in year one, and then just if you could talk about your aspirations to be a doctor after your career ends?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   I think one thing that I'll bring is just being a really strong athletic post and really good passing post.   I think those are some big things for me.   And seeing a lot of double teams in college, I had to really pass the ball well. 
And as far as medical school, I mean, I obviously want to play basketball for as long as I can, and medical school is just something else that I really love.   So I think it's cool that I have a chance to play and then when I'm finished playing that I can go to school.

Q.   Elizabeth and Amanda, Amanda, you heard the coaches say that the post position is the most difficult to make the transition from college into the WNBA (indiscernible).   And I'm wondering if either of you has spoken to somebody who plays your position who is both in the pros and any ideas of where you would like to improve your game as you head into training camp?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   I haven't talked to too many people in my position about the pro game.   I talked to Tricia Liston a little bit.   She played for Minnesota this past year, and she's a guard.   But I definitely think there will be a lot of physical play and that's something that we'll have to adjust to. 

Q.   What areas you'd like the most to improve your game in as you head toward training camp?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   For me, just expanding my range is something I want to work on, just consistently hitting that mid range jump shot and moving out to the 3‑point line and being a more consistent free throw shooter.
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   I haven't really talked to anybody in my position on the pro level right now but what I want to ‑‑ what I know, it will be more physical contact and it's something that I'm ready for, but it's something also that I want to improve and get better at.   And like Elizabeth said, I want to extend my range and be able to shoot more consistently but also be a threat from the perimeter.

Q.   Reshanda, two questions for you.   When you look at almost any WNBA draft, there's a lot of players, post players who are about 6'3", right in the place you are.   So I'm wondering how does somebody heading into a draft like yourself figure out how to distinguish yourself, have some sort of distinction to sort of rise above that, being that kind of just another 6'3" player?   And the second question, do you have a strong preference about where you might go?   And how exciting is it to‑‑ a lot of people are projecting you're going to be in the top 10. 
RESHANDA GRAY:   As far as your first question, I noticed a lot of post players (indiscernible), but then again there's like I just have to continue to do the little things I do like talk and be more vocal, just always trying to be in the gym and get extra shots up and just try to do little things to make myself stand out from all the other position players. 
As far as team‑wise, no, I don't have an idea where I want to go, but I'm pretty excited that I even have this opportunity to get drafted.   And I'm pretty sure like I'll just make the best of whatever position I'm put in.

Q.   As the countdown comes to the draft, what things are going you to do to keep yourself as calm as possible as you are waiting for your name to be called?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   I think for me, stay calm, just being around my family will calm me down.   My brother and my sister and my mom will all be at the draft.   Just having them around me and being reminded about how humbling the experience is is something that I think I'll try to stay relaxed.   Obviously it's a really exciting time, but just try to stay humble is something I'll be thinking about.
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   Pretty much what Elizabeth said.   Just keep calm and be reminded how blessed I am to be in this position and situation and just wait and don't feel any kind of pressure or stress at all, just stay humble and keep reminding myself that I'm really blessed to even be here right now.
RESHANDA GRAY:   You know, like the same as these two ladies.   Just being around my family‑‑ just being around my family is definitely helping me keep my mind off of things as well as just my school academics. 
Now that basketball is all over, I'm just trying to finish the semester strong because I graduate in May, and that's just what my attentions are going towards more than worrying about the draft because I really can't control anything at this point.

Q.   I just wonder if you've done any research at all about the various towns in the league or if you knew about them before and what you think or what you've heard about the experience of playing in Tulsa might be like from other players around the league or anybody else?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   I haven't really researched the cities too much, just kind of what I've picked up by ear.   And I don't really know, honestly, about Tulsa.   I can research more wherever I end up once the draft comes and once I figure that out.   So something I think I'll focus on a little later.
RESHANDA GRAY:   I have been doing a little research and I heard it's a very, very basketball atmosphere, (indiscernible) full supportive and a base fan of women's sports (indiscernible).
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   This is Amanda.   I haven't done a lot of research either because I feel like I really can't control where I'm going.   So wherever I know where I'm going, that's when I'm going to do more research and put more time into that.   I'm just staying very calm right now.

Q.   Amanda, what has this week been like for you since you made the announcement?   What kind of feedback are you getting from people and what has the excitement been like for you?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   Well, since the announcement, it's been hectic.   A lot of people calling and texting.   It's really exciting as well and it's been a lot of different feedback, mostly positive, and supporting, which I really appreciate and I'm grateful for.

Q.   Amanda, I just wanted to know kind of what your thought process was about making this decision, how long have you been thinking about it and considering it before you decided?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   I've been thinking about playing professional since I started playing basketball about 12 years ago.   But then I started thinking about it a little bit later into the season, and when the season ended I took time and I sat down just talked to the people who really means a lot.   And it was a roller coaster of different thoughts.   And when I decided, it felt great and it felt right.

Q.   Could you all talk about what strengths and assets you're going to bring to whatever team that happens to draft you?
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS:   I think (indiscernible) in the post is one thing, and then running the floor is something that I try to do really well.   I'm someone who plays hard defensively, just trying to be really versatile and block shots and I'll be able to defend a lot of different positions, a little bit of that in passing on offense.
RESHANDA GRAY:   As well (indiscernible) definitely been like a post player the majority of my college career but we all know I'm not a true center.   I'm more of a 4 player, and one thing I can bring, I definitely am a (indiscernible).   And on thing that I've been working on is extending my game out to the 3‑point line and being able to handle the ball when needed.
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   I really think I can bring physical play.   And also for my team leadership even though I will be one of the young ones, I think I could bring leadership.   Also passing, rebounding and play a little bit defense, but definitely the physical part I'm ready to play that and be physical with whoever I'm playing against.

Q.   Amanda, I wanted to also ask, as far as the national reaction, did that surprise you at all, or did you think that when you were going to turn pro that this is maybe just something for yourself, or was the reaction by people who are associated or fans of the WNBA a surprise at all?
AMANDA ZAHUI B.:   Well, I knew it was going to become a big thing since I'm only a sophomore.   And I was expecting a lot of different reactions and thoughts around the whole situation. 
I didn't think it was going to be something that would stay super low and just to myself.   I was prepared for that.   And, I mean, it's an exciting moment, not only for me but for my family and everybody who helped me get to this part from the beginning until the ending of my college career.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT