SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 9, 2008
Cara Black
Liezel Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  C. BLACK-L. HUBER/K. Peschke, R. Stubbs  
6-1, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You guys seem to be in a different league of your own. How was it?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: Oh, thank you. It's nice to hear that. I don't think we think that. I think every time we go out there, you know, we expect the best from the other team. And I think this team played a great match today.   
 You know, even though the score seemed easy in the first set, you know, it's just one or two points difference, and it could have been a much tighter set.   
 But they definitely played stronger tennis in the second set. You know, they definitely played stronger tennis in the second set. And we're the more experienced team. And going in there at 5-All, we knew even if we lost the next game and it went to a tiebreak, that we had two tie breaks to play.   
 So for us, we only have to win one tiebreak, then we have to win two tie breaks. So we're kind of the experienced team looking at that and it gave us confidence to close out the match.   
  
  Q. This is the second time in a row after last year in Madrid. How does it feel to win the doubles the second year, two times in a row?   
 CARA BLACK: Oh, it feels unbelievable, you know. We were just saying earlier it's a really tough format here, just because there are four teams and the way the draw is. It's really hard to just come out and be ready to play like in the semifinals, pretty much.   
 So we were just really happy with our performance. To come out with a new scoring format as well, it makes it very cut throat. We really put it all on the line, so we were really happy with our outcome.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: I think it's even more special because it's not in Madrid again, it's in Doha. So here we are, winning the same event, but in different conditions.  
 CARA BLACK: Completely different conditions, you know.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: I love Doha. You know, I feel very comfortable here. We've had such a great week, and such a lovely time, that I will come back here for vacation and not just for tennis. We really appreciate the great conditions we've had, and, you know, we were made feel very special here this week.   
 So we're going with very sore hearts today.  
  
  Q. Back in time, the doubles games were very famous and popular, more than the singles. Now we are seeing that the doubles games are not being covered as good as singles games, and they are kind of in the shadow or something. What do you feel about that? Or do you have any kind of ideas or plans to promote the doubles or to boost them?   
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, I think we're, you know, the tour's really trying to do a lot to do this. I don't know if you see, we're more in the promotions and in the advertising a lot more, which is great.   
 That's also one reason why they've changed the scoring format, so we can hopefully, you know, they can plan more the timing of how long our doubles match is going to take, and they can put more doubles on center court and hopefully get some TV coverage as well. So we're trying very hard.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: I think by us being a team now, a standing team for a couple of years we can promote doubles also. And we like the Bryan brothers can kind of be spokes people for doubles, and that's what we'd like to do. Attract the fans back to playing more doubles and supporting the doubles. Then people will start recognizing us.   
 But you know, the shameful thing about the doubles is we only get 15% of the money versus the singles. So I think that's why it doesn't encourage the singles players to play more. And I think if they did play more, more people would come out and watch.   
  
  Q. What do you think about for next season?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: We're starting early. If you ask some of the singles players they might play a warm-up tournament before Melbourne, but we're actually going to play two tournaments. So I think we have about six weeks off right now.   
 We have an academy back home, so I'm going from work to work. But it's fun. And Cara's going from work to vacation (laughing).   
 CARA BLACK: I planned it better. No, yeah, I'm going to go home to Zimbabwe.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: And hopefully I'll ride my camel back home. I'm hoping I got a camel today for winning, hint-hint. Anybody have a spare camel (laughing)?   
  
  Q. Are you going back?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: We're actually flying back. We're on the same flight. She lives in London, and I live in the states, so we're flying via London. So we might have an overnight party on the plane.  
 CARA BLACK: We'll be celebrating on the plane.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: But we all just look forward to getting home, and then once you get home, it will kind of sink in and then we'll celebrate with our friends.  
  
  Q. Have you planned how many years you'll be playing together?   
 CARA BLACK: No, we're just taking it day by day at the moment. No, you know, there's no limit on it. We just, I think we have a mutual agreement that we're going to end up end our careers, hopefully, playing together. And we're just having a lot of fun right now and going with the flow. It seems to be going well.   
 We're just, yeah, taking it step by step, and we'll play next year and see.  
 LIEZEL HUBER: Maybe ask Cara that question next year when she's 30 years old.  
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, I'll be feeling it a lot more.  
  
  Q. On the court, you are really, both of you especially the season end, and you have played lots of tennis still both of you are really aggressive and really energetic. So how do you motivate yourself keeping your levels of energy so high still towards the end of the year?   
 LIEZEL HUBER: We love it, you know. We love it. We enjoy playing with each other. When you're good at something, I think you enjoy it even more. We just really enjoy playing with each other. It's just a challenge for us going out there.   
 You know, we want to do our best, and maybe that's why we fight so hard out there. We try and work as a team. So if I, maybe, am making all of the mistakes and she's making all the good shots, she'll encourage me and vice versa. So we really just try to be there for each other and for ourselves. We really enjoy it like you can see out there.   
  
  Q. Both of you have been dominant in the season this year, but you just won one Grand Slam, like US Open. Any plans for the next season, any plans for a particular Grand Slam?   
 CARA BLACK: All of them. Yeah, the Grand Slams are definitely our goal, you know. Those are the biggest tournaments and the ones you want to win. But we're just taking it one at a time, and we're looking forward to the Australian Open coming up. We've won there before, so we know what to expect, and yeah. The slams are our biggest motivation.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT