U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2008
Cara Black
Liezel Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BLACK-HUBER/Raymond-Stosur
6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What is the feeling after the great championship today? 
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, we feel unbelievable. I think we really went out there and played our hearts out today. Just very excited. 
 LIEZEL HUBER: When I woke up this morning I was thinking what a great year we've had. We haven't had the success at the slams like we did last year. Last year we won two slams. 
 I think we kind of put the expectation very high this year thinking maybe we could win all the slams. Here, leading into the last one, we hadn't won any. 
 So I don't think we put any pressure on ourselves going into the slam. I think it's really great because I think we've had a very successful year. 
 To end it -- well, to end the slams on this note, I think, you know, we're pretty pleased with ourselves.

 Q. You did a great play, great lob, great volley, net play. Is this something that you going to do next year, too?
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, definitely. We're going to keep playing our games. You know, we complement each other so well on the court. Think that's why we've had so much success. Yeah, definitely next year as well. 

 Q. Finals in the mixed doubles, both of you, and now in the women's doubles. Is it fair to say you're the best doubles players on the tour right now? 
 LIEZEL HUBER: I think there are so many good teams and some good players. Like the Williams sisters, they don't play every week. They're definitely unbelievable, and I think they're undefeated. 
 The team we played today, maybe on another day they beat us. But I would say that we're probably one of the best doubles teams there has been in a long while, and we feel confident that whoever we play against that we'll give them a good run for their money. 
 But to say are we the best, one can never say that you're the best. I mean, Roger Federer, I think he's the best, but obviously Nadal is ranked No. 1 right now. We strive to be the best.

 Q. Africa has a tradition for producing doubles players. What is it in your coming up, your development, that prepared you for this kind of performance?
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, I think we've always been encouraged to play both singles and doubles in Africa, and I think that doubles is definitely always good to play when you're playing singles as well to help you develop your whole game. 
 I've definitely always enjoyed doubles more, so that's just a bonus, you know. And for both of us coming from the same region, I think it's the same culture and background and all. I think that's what makes us click so well as well. 

 Q. At the beginning of the year, did you think you were going to be at this point? Can you assess your year for us?
 LIEZEL HUBER: Well, you know, come on Monday we're going to have over 5,000 points on our ranking. That's on an individual ranking. On the team ranking we're going to be almost double what the second team has. 
 So if you told us that in the beginning of the year we would be very happy. But both of us, you know, we strive for perfection, which sometimes is you a bad asset to have. 
 So we're just going to keep working hard the rest of the year. We're happy, but we're not going to sit back just with our trophies and polish them up. We're going to, in five days' time, hit the gym and hit the practice courts and look for the next title.
 CARA BLACK: Yeah. I mean, the year is not finished yet. We still have four tournaments left, including the Championships. We've got a good break now just to refresh, because we have been going a long time jsut with the Olympics this year.
 LIEZEL HUBER: I've been home four days in six months, so it's been a very long year. But as a team we're going to be fresh when we get to Moscow, which is our next tournament.

 Q. You're a team as far as clothing, shoes and everything. Are you thinking of gelling in every aspect, including racquets at some point?
 CARA BLACK: Yeah, I mean, that's not a major issue. I'm happy with my racquet. Liezel is happy with hers. I think it's just -- I mean, yeah, the product doesn't really -- I think it's great that we have the same matching outfits and things with K Swiss, but the racquets is not a big deal. It's just what one prefers. 

 Q. For Cara, when you are coming through as junior, or when you were being trained by your dad, you had a lot of practice on the wall, doing several volleys against a wall. How has that innately helped you to be such a great player?
 CARA BLACK: I think that's been, you know, one of my biggest strengths, you know, on the court. That was always a drill that we did every morning on the wall. You know, he would count how fast I could hit 100 volleys against the wall. I did that every day for probably, I don't know, 15 years. 
 So that's had a huge impact with doubles. I think it's great to have great hands up there. You know, Liezel, she hits the ball so well from the back, and I'm just up there. I think it's quite intimidating for the people on the other side. 

 Q. During the award ceremony, Liezel, you said it was a very happy day for you. It was the second thing. What's the first one?
 LIEZEL HUBER: When I became American it was the happiest day. This is definitely, I would say, the second happiest day because that was the happiest day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT