DISCOVER BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA v  NOTRE DAME
January 5, 2013
C.J. Mosley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   If you couldn't play for Alabama, where would you have played?
C.J. MOSLEY:   I probably would have stayed home and played at South Alabama near my family. 

Q.   How much do you think about the health impacts of playing football?   Do you think about that at all?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Not so much during the game.   But in the long run that's where you really start‑‑ that's one thing that starts popping out, but the system that they have for the players plays a big part. 

Q.   If you could change one thing about recruiting in high school, what would you change?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Well, for me I had a pretty good recruiting in high school, so I wouldn't change anything.

Q.   I want to ask you about the last play of the Georgia game.   Is there a name for the blitz?   You went where you were supposed to go?
C.J. MOSLEY:   It was a called blitz, but I had the backside.   At the end of the game I just wanted to pressure the back, and luckily I was able to get to him.

Q.   Did you think you had a chance to get the ball?
C.J. MOSLEY:   I didn't know.   I jumped as high as I could, and luckily I got something on it.

Q.   Left hand, right?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yes, sir.

Q.   One finger, how many fingers?
C.J. MOSLEY:   I couldn't even tell you.

Q.   Probably less than five?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yes, sir. 

Q.   Did you have any idea what had happened? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   I thought the ball had popped in the air, so when I turned around, I was just looking for a way to the ball, if I could catch it and fall down.   I didn't know if they had an extra play or more time or whatever.   But luckily we got the win.

Q.   That couldn't have worked out for you any better, you tipping the ball. 
C.J. MOSLEY:   Exactly. 

Q.   Did you believe it when the game was over?
C.J. MOSLEY:   I was just relieved for the game to be over because it was going back and forth.   You really didn't know who was going to win until the very end. 

Q.   When they were coming down the field like that and they didn't spike the ball, were you rattled at all?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yeah, we knew exactly what to do because we practiced a situation like that down in practice.   Thankfully we've got coaches that put us in game‑like situation, so we know what to do when it comes.

Q.   You're an All‑American, but do you think that play is the play people are going to remember you for?
C.J. MOSLEY:   It might be one of them, but I'd hope to have a lot more. 

Q.   Kirby said yesterday that Geno was supposed (inaudible)?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yeah, after the game because I didn't know he was going to blitz.   I just went and did what I had to do.   We just talked after the game. 

Q.   A lot of people are talking about the luck of the Irish a little bit.   Do you have any luck of your own, so to speak, before the game, any good luck charms? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   No, not really, just playing for me, getting dressed, listening to some music getting ready to go out. 

Q.   Quarterback AJ McCarron is dating an Auburn grad.   Is that kind of weird for you guys sleeping with the enemy a little bit?
C.J. MOSLEY:   I didn't even know that, so I mean, it's his love life.   I can't complain about it.   If he's happy, I'm happy.

Q.   Can you feel this game getting closer?   Can you feel the energy?   How different does it feel? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   The main thing is it's a different opponent, it's a new opponent, so you've got to be ready for things that they're going to do because pretty sure they're going to come out with something new.   The main thing is sunny weather.   Tuscaloosa has been cold and raining, so the main thing is just playing the right way, getting our mind right for this game.

Q.   You guys have done this before; this is still not any other game?
C.J. MOSLEY:   No, it's definitely not any other game.   It's the National Championship game.   There's a lot of tradition that goes into Alabama football, and our plan is to keep that tradition alive.

Q.   The next two days how do you get yourself pumped at the right time and not get too ready too early?
C.J. MOSLEY:   The main thing is just do what we've been doing, game plan, relax, get our body right, get our mind right for the game.

Q.   Are you ready to get out there now?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yes, ready to get this over with.

Q.   Coach Saban obviously has a long history of coaching some great linebackers.   When you were going through recruiting, what attracted you most to coming and playing for him at Alabama?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Main thing is the coaching and just the way I could bond with them.   First when I got there they treated me like I was already on the team.   The main thing is communication and the way you talk to the coaches and when you talk to the players and they show you around.   Basically I just became a family real quick with them, so that's the main thing.

Q.   What is it about the defense that Alabama runs that works so well for you?
C.J. MOSLEY:   The main thing is versatile.   They keep you on your feet and keep you thinking a lot.   Luckily I'm good at that, but we've got to know what to do and prepare for anything that happens. 

Q.   How did your role change this year with Donte leaving in terms of your role?   Seems like you're calling out the signals a lot. 
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yeah, that's the main thing.   I'm mainly the one calling out the signals and getting more play time.   Between constructing the defense and playing on the field more, those would be the main thing.

Q.   You're on the field more but they still won't let you stay out there for the whole game?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Hopefully that'll change next year.

Q.   What percentage of the games are you usually out there do you think? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   It really depends on what type of offense we're playing.   If the offense is a more run‑type team, I won't be on the field as much.   If they're more of a passing team, I'll probably be on the field more.   It all depends what the offense brings.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT