SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA v ALABAMA
November 26, 2012
C.J. Mosley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   C.J., could you talk about your team as you enter the game this weekend? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   We just come into this game treating it like it's the next week.   We've got to make sure we stay folk under the circumstanced and don't worry about the small stuff and all the media and things like that.   We've got to focus on our job and our game plan.

Q.   I apologize to go off the subject a little bit, but this is a guy you face this year.   Do you think Johnny Manziel deserves to win the Heisman Trophy? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   I can't really speak on that.   I can't focus on how he did throughout the whole season.   He had a great game against us.   He did what he had to do to come out with a win against us.   Overall he's a great player, but I'm not really focused on that right now.

Q.   When you look at the two Georgia freshmen running backs, real physical, good speed and everything, have you all faced anybody like that this year?   Is it going to really be a challenge to try to slow down those guys? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   We haven't really faced a team that has a one‑two punch like that.   That's one reason Georgia's offense is pretty explosive.   Then again, we're going against two great running backs each day in practice, so we have to use that to our advantage and make sure we do our best to try to contain those guys.

Q.   Kind of a follow‑up to that, like you said, you both have good tailback tandems, efficient quarterbacks, both had receivers that have overcome injuries, how similar are these?   When you start studying Georgia, do you see a lot of similarities between Georgia and Alabama this season? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yes, there are a lot of similarities.   The have the type of football they play, and we have ours.   When it comes Saturday, it's going to come down to who executes the best and eliminates the most mistakes in the game.

Q.   How confident are you in your defense?   The fact that both LSU and Texas A&M got over 400 yards, do you think y'all have learned from that and moved on?   Just kind of talk about that and the fact that y'all give over 400 to those guys?
C.J. MOSLEY:   Those two games, we knew and the coaches knew and they told us that the defense, as far as the defensive standpoint, we didn't play our best.   We know we didn't.   We made over 70 or 80 mental errors in that game, and that's really not us.   Those games happened for a reason.   They got those type of yards and plays for a reason. 
So after that loss, we kind of got back to the basics of doing what we have to do.   Just doing the little things we do every day in practice, wrapping up, tackles, foot work, once you lose sight of those things, that's when the big plays start to happen.

Q.   Georgia has a three‑four defense and has gotten better over the last few years doing that.   You guys have the three‑four, and number one defense in the country after losing so many guys.   Is there something about this system that kind of works? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   Yeah, it's a great system.   But you have to have great players and players that are willing to work and willing to do the right thing and execute their jobs for the system to work.   The D‑line have to hold blocks and get certain guys, the linebackers have to play their role and stopping the run and the pass.   You have to depend on and believe in the secondary to defend a pass when we're blitzing and rushing.   So overall, it's a great defense.   But we have to make sure we have guys that are very comfortable and committed to doing their job.

Q.   I know you haven't played Georgia as a program since 2008.   But when they were coming on as a defense and just getting ready to play this year, I know you only worry about the Georgia offense, but do you ever look at what a defense like Georgia is doing? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   I've done some comparisons between our defenses because we do some of the same style, some of the same things.   But overall we've got to focus on what the offense is going to do.   We've got to trust and believe our offense is going to do their job and be accountable to making their plays when they can against their defense.

Q.   How valuable have the seniors been on this team to sort of navigate you guys through some things that you had to go through?   Especially guys like Robert and Barrett and Damion who are fifth year seniors? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   It's great.   As I've been here, I've seen those guys step up more and more as a leader.   Every week we have a Thursday thing when the leadership gets up and really just they've been through this situation.   They've been in the championship.   They've been to the SEC Championship.   They've won; they've lost.   So this is going to bring more experience to the younger guys and me too because this is my first SEC Championship game.   But we've got to treat this game like it's another game.   We've got to prepare right, and have the same amount of I days in practice just like we had in the last ten games that we played.

Q.   You talked about treating it like it's another game.   How's that even possible when you consider the stakes on Saturday and what comes after that if you win?   How's it possible to treat it like another game? 
C.J. MOSLEY:   Just having been accountable and having the right mindset.   Why I try to do so much more for the last game if you didn't do it the first 10 games.   If that's the case, we weren't getting off from the git‑go.   We have to make sure everybody's doing the right things and staying focused and blocking out all the small things and focusing on what we have to do to execute our game plan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT