NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2016
Mike Bumgarner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining today's NASCAR teleconference. We'll be joined by our NASCAR XFINITY Series and NASCAR four crew chiefs to discuss the inaugural Chase in each series. First we are joined by Mike Bumgarner, interim crew chief for Elliott Sadler and the No.1 OneMain Chevrolet for JR Motorsports. 
Mike, thanks for joining. In your 22 years working in NASCAR, you're no stranger to the crew chief role. Talk about leading the No.1 Chevrolet in the Championship Four race with a veteran driver like Elliott Sadler. 
MIKE BUMGARNER: I think having someone like Elliott Sadler alone speaks for itself. I'll lean heavily on Elliott. He's the leader of this team as well as Kevin, and these guys have worked really hard the last few days to set forth a plan to move forward to Homestead and have a shot to win this championship. 

Q. Mike, I just wondered if you could maybe explain to us on some level what you think is going to be the most challenging part of the weekend and coming into this position. 
MIKE BUMGARNER: I don't see much of a challenge from my side. Kevin has a good group of guys, and these guys know what their role is played. It's more or less letting these guys do their jobs, and this will all play out. It's just more or less for me just to guide these guys along and answer any questions and try to do my best at calling a good race and getting Elliott in and off pit road. I think that's probably the biggest task.
We'll see where it all falls, but feel pretty confident and not really too worried about it. It's an awesome group of guys, and I think these guys will prevail. 

Q. Just as a follow‑up, does this in some sense even make the team extra motivated because you are having to kind of come through this? 
MIKE BUMGARNER: Yeah, definitely. You know, that's one thing we talked about Monday morning is this is definitely motivation. You know, anytime a team gets down, it just shows you how strong a group of guys we have here, not only with the No.1 main team but as JR Motorsports as a whole. We all stick behind each other and try to help each other out and make each other stronger. 

Q. Is it just with Elliott being a veteran and around for so long, does that just make it so much easier subbing in and communicating with him? 
MIKE BUMGARNER: Yeah, by all means, not just Elliott but he has a spotter in Brett Griffin, as well. Those guys have been together for a long time, and that's what I spoke about earlier, about the importance of getting in and off pit road during the race. He and Brett, they have a good combination as far as speaking and talking together, and I think that is going to make it easy, as well. 
Elliott knows what he needs to do with the race car. These guys, they've shown on paper or speed charts as the week goes on every week, they progressively get better as the week goes, and I think that's due to all the roles that Kevin has set aside as far as his guys and Elliott, as well. 

Q. And then on a lighter note, what did you think of him joking about Dale Jr. being his crew chief after the race last weekend? 
MIKE BUMGARNER: Well, it would have definitely made it easier on me. I would have much rather just went down there and sat back and watched. But no, the goal is right now for us to go out and win this championship, and we'll put forth all the effort we can. 

Q. I know JR Motorsports has two entries in this Championship Four race this weekend. Is there any talk back at the shop about bringing home a second title to JR Motorsports? 
MIKE BUMGARNER: Oh, definitely. I have mixed feelings. I know I'm working on the 1 car this weekend, but I know I worked on the 7 car just as much as I worked on the 1 this week. Definitely rooting for both no matter what the situation is, and I feel strongly these guys can do it. 
I've definitely watched these guys work very hard for many a nights, and especially the last few nights. They've put in a lot of hours, and their hard work hopefully will pay off in Homestead. 
THE MODERATOR: Mike, thank you for joining us today, and good luck this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT