DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Eun Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm here with Eun Hee Ji, off to an amazing start here.  The first round of 2019 now in the books, 65.  How are you feeling about your start to the year?
EUN HEE JI: It's great.  First event for this year.  I had a really fun with my group.  I hit great.  It's starting really great.
Q. What did you do in the off-season to kind of prepare and get ready to get back out here?
EUN HEE JI: Actually, I changed a lot of things in my putting style.  It's kind of like really harder to try out in my first event, but I hit it great.  So I'm excited, yeah.
Q. You still had a great season, won last year.  Why did you feel the need to go ahead and make those changes?
EUN HEE JI: It's still what I want to do, so I just want to be exactly what I need to do, yeah.
Q. This is a little different tournament with having the celebrities in the mix.  What was it like playing with them out there today?
EUN HEE JI: He played great.  I saw him hit it in the hedge, and he made a really great shot from out of there.  It was exciting.  I played with celebrity and amateur.  This is a really fun tournament.
Q. Did they ask you for any tips out there, or did you talk to them, ask them for any tips?
EUN HEE JI: No, I couldn't do it.  I really want to do it, but I couldn't.
Q. I'm going to ask you a little more.  First round 65 is awesome.  What were you expecting coming into today?  Did you feel you had that?
EUN HEE JI: Actually, so this year, first event, I changed a lot of things in my putting style.  It's kind of like testing my game.  So I didn't have too much pressure on me, and I'm just testing it.  I hit it great.
Q. You must be pretty happy with the testing then?
EUN HEE JI: Really happy, yes.
Q. Looked like you were just having fun.  What was the highlight of the round for you?
EUN HEE JI: I don't know.  Actually, my putting going really well.  I didn't feel great on my putting because I'm not comfortable with my switching my putting style, but I made a lot of putts with that.  I just keeping working on that.
Q. Can you explain what you were doing different with your putting?
EUN HEE JI: My spine angle is a little bit of change.  I was forcing on the left side, but I'm trying to make it flatter more, make it straighter.  That makes me feel a lot different.  That's the big thing, yeah.
Q. Hands changed at all?
EUN HEE JI: Hands -- actually, my stroke was a little bit out, but now I'm trying to move it in.  So a lot of change.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT