HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 20, 2018
Eun Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Awesome play out there.  Can you tell us about your round today?  
EUN HEE JI: I hit it really good today.  Actually I made a lot of putts.  There's a lot of tricky holes, and I played like safe -- some holes safe play and some holes really straight.  Yeah, that's why I played well.   
 Q.  During the practice round, did you feel like -- did your round today change at all, or was it pretty -- the course conditions pretty much the same?  
EUN HEE JI: Oh, when I practice round, green was a little slower than now.  The greens are really fast right now, so I have to get it -- for the downhill, I have to be really careful about it, yeah.  That's the hard part.   
 Q.  Your win at Kia Classic, did that give you motivation for the season?  
EUN HEE JI: Pretty much.  From last year end of the season, yeah, pretty much I get more confidence.  Yeah, that helped a lot.   
 Q.  Have you gotten your cars yet?  
EUN HEE JI: Not yet, not yet.  I will soon.   
 Q.  Any plans to go driving or --  
EUN HEE JI: Oh, yeah, I get a car, I will drive right after.   
 Q.  What's it like being in Korea town or so close to Korea town?  Is it pretty comfortable?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, pretty much.  It's not like usual in America, so I go a lot of Korean food.  I actually eat a lot of food this week.   
 Q.  It's probably helped you this week?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the food?  What meal has been your favorite so far?  
EUN HEE JI: Actually I like everything, but meat.  I'm a meat person, so I eat meat every day.  I'm trying to eat veggies more.   
 Q.  The Korean beef is very different?  
EUN HEE JI: Oh, yes.  Yeah, there is a lot of spicy food, but I'm not a fan with the spicy, but I can handle it.   
 Q.  When you travel, do you bring a lot of Korean food with you or Korean snacks or anything like that?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, a little bit.  I have always kong noodle and just little snacks.   
 Q.  Anything like -- do you like sweet or salty?  
EUN HEE JI: I used to like sweet things but not anymore.  I'm trying to get away from that.   
 Q.  A little more healthy stuff?  
EUN HEE JI: Yes.   
 Q.  I know a lot of people have been asking me why your nickname is Mickey.  
EUN HEE JI: Why?  One of my friends in Korea, she gave me that nickname.  She said when I'm smiling, I look like Mickey Mouse.  That's why.   
 Q.  So do you have a lot of Mickey items?  
EUN HEE JI: Yes, my fans give to me a lot of stuff for gift.  Yeah, in Korea, in my house, I have a lot of things.   
 Q.  What's it like knowing that you have so many fans in Korea that come and follow you here?  How has that supported you?  
EUN HEE JI: In Korea, they know me pretty much, everyone.  But out here, someone does know me, and if someone follows me for cheering me, it helps a lot.  Yeah, I get more happy about it, yeah.   
 Q.  I mean, it helps a lot when people know who you are?  
EUN HEE JI: It does, yeah.   
 Q.  It's so different because you're mostly in America.  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what do you want Americans to know about you or the golf world to know about you?  
EUN HEE JI: That's a hard question.  I don't know.  Everybody says I'm pretty small, my height is pretty small, but hit it farther than what they think.  That's my character maybe.  I don't know.   
 Q.  So you're known as like a pretty small player, but you have a lot of power, right?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's your training like?  
EUN HEE JI: Not much.   
 Q.  Just eat a lot of beef?  
EUN HEE JI: Eat a lot of beef, and actually when I was young, I played a lot of -- waterskied because my dad was the national team coach in Korea, so I play a lot with that.  Maybe that helped my strength.   
 Q.  Waterskiing?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.  I'm not playing anymore, but that helped a lot when I was young.   
 Q.  Kind of building your muscles and your athletic mind?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  When you go back after a round, do you do any stretches or exercises?  
EUN HEE JI: Yes, sometimes I do little exercise, and with my physio I get sometimes massage for my tightness.  Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  What's the advantage that you have, being kind of smaller height but just driving with a lot of strength and power?  What's the secret behind that?  
EUN HEE JI: Not much secret.  I don't know.   
 Q.  What's the key?  
EUN HEE JI: Key is like my arms and my upper body moving toward, not separated.   
 Q.  Is that something you've been working on with your coach?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, that makes more powerful impact.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT