KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2019
Eun Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As defending champion returning to Aviara Golf Club, what do you remember about your win, and how meaningful was it for you?  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  I think that the hole-in-one really helped towards my win last year.  I don't think I could have done that without hitting that hole-in-one.  There were a lot of hard holes out there.  Once I hit that it gave me some breathing room, felt more comfortable out there.  I was able to breathe a little more.   
 Q.  So you won the Diamond Resorts and you played pretty well coming here to defend your title.  What is your game looking like?  How do you feel about your game right now?  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  I won Diamond Resorts and of course that made me feel a lot more confident about my game.  Ever since then I'm still working on some things.  Of course being defending champion here at Kia Classic there is some pressure to do well, plus with the win earlier this year.  But there are still some things I need to work on, some things I'm lacking.  I'm working on those things.   
But as long as I just focus on my own game, that's all I really need to do to to do well this week.   
 Q.  So next week is a major.  Are you using this week to prepare for next week or are you just taking it day by day?  What's your strategy?  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  So next week is next week and this week is this week.  I'm going to focus on what I need to get done this week.   
I haven't really thought about next week's major really.  I'm just focusing on what I need to get done at Kia Classic.   
 Q.  As a winner, how do you think players need to be successes full on this course?  
EUN HEE JI: This course?   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  This course is a really tricky course.  Each shot is really important to get it right in the fairway and as close to the greens as possible, and that's how you're really going to keep your score low on this course.   
 Q.  So the LPGA just came out with the new brand, Driveon.  
EUN HEE JI: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  And so we want to know more about player stories and what keeps you motivated and how did you overcome challenges in your career.  I guess my question is:  What helps you push on, drive on when you have a hard time?  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  Typically when you go through a challenging or hard time you want to quit and not golf.  Even though there may be long stretches where you don't do well or you don't win, there are a couple of things that you do well and you can take away from each tournament.   
When I do have a hard time, lean on those who support me and they cheer me on, but also taking into account the little things that make it worthwhile and help me press on during the challenging times.   
 Q.  When was that for you?  Between 2009 U.S. Women's Open when you won and Swinging Skirts 2017.  
 EUN HEE JI.  2016.   
 Q.  '17.  
EUN HEE JI: Oh, '17, '17.   
 Q.  Wow.  That's a long time.  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, long time.   
 Q.  Almost eight years.  
EUN HEE JI: Eight years.  It wasn't like I was playing bad.  I was still making top 10s.  There were some good aspects, so wasn't that I wasn't winning that gave me a hard time.  Just try to chip away at my game little by little.   
 Q.  How are you enjoying your Kia cars?  
EUN HEE JI: Very good.  (Laughter.)  Stinger, those things really fast.   
(Through translation.)  I live in Miami now and I have both the Stinger and the Sorento down there.  The Stinger is really fast.  On the Sorento, the full options are awesome, too.   
 Q.  What is your goal this week?  
EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.)  The goal would be to play like last year and just go out there and shoot low numbers and have fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT