DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2019
Eun Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of describe the day.  Wind picked up in the afternoon.  How was it overall?  
EUN HEE JI: I was putting great on the front nine.  I hit it well, and my ball falls in, everything in the hole.  I just break up -- No. 6 I made a bogey.  After that, my shot was a little bit -- kind of a little bit right and left, and I was trying to keep focused on my swing again.  I made a birdie again on No. 10 and 11.  Then hit it great after that and just didn't putt it well on the back nine.   
 Q.  This format is different for everybody.  So when you find yourself at the top of the leaderboard, how do you zone in and be focused given you've got the celebrities and everything going on around you?  
EUN HEE JI: Actually, when I hit the shot, I get into focus, but after that, I pretty much relax, and I don't have to think about my golf.  I pretty enjoy it.   
 Q.  You're enjoying the celebrity aspect of this?  
EUN HEE JI: Yes.   
 Q.  When you won at Kia, you were in a three-way tie as well going into the last day.  What will you draw from that going into tomorrow?  
EUN HEE JI: I don't know.  That's -- actually, Kia makes me more confident.  That tournament makes me more confident, and if I just keep focusing on changing my swing -- this is my first event I hit it well.  I get more confidence in it.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what you have changed in your swing?  
EUN HEE JI: Actually, my take back was a little bit high, and then I used to turn a lot.  But I'm trying to keep it a little bit more shorter.  And then on my downswing, it was spinning more, and then my club was way behind.   
 Q.  Set behind?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, set behind.  Just keep it shorter and then come in front of my body.   
 Q.  So just rounding it out?  
EUN HEE JI: Yes.   
 Q.  I'm here with Eun Hee Ji with 66 on moving day here at the first event of the season.  How did you feel about the round out here today?  
EUN HEE JI: It was great.  Starting front nine, it went really well, and just a little bit of break on the 9th, but still I hit it really well.  I'm really happy.   
 Q.  You got off to a great start there, four birdies in a row.  Take us through that stretch.  What was going on?  
EUN HEE JI: First two holes I hit it great to the pin.  I just made the putt.  One of the holes I hit it way short.  It was like 15 yards to the pin, and I just made the putt.  It was exciting.   
 Q.  You talked a lot about the changes that you've been working on.  Do you feel like you're starting to adjust to those, or are you still kind of having to work through it during the round?  
EUN HEE JI: I just still work through it during the round.  I still have to think about my swing.  If I don't think, I just go back to my old swing.  So I just think about my swing.   
 Q.  Does that make it more complicated for you out there, trying to go back and forth between the two?  
EUN HEE JI: Not really, but I'm just trying all the time, try my best.   
 Q.  You've been in this position before with a share of the lead heading into the final round and you've gone on to win.  What did you learn from those experiences that you think can help you here on Sunday?  
EUN HEE JI: Actually, that's hard.  I don't know.  I just keep focused on my game.  This is a special event for me.  Just enjoying it with the celebrities and with amateurs.  Like all the fans out here is really exciting.  I just enjoy it.   
 Q.  It will be exciting to see how you do on Sunday.  Good luck.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT