ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 14, 2011
Seth Greenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH GREENBERG: I was really pleased with our guys. I would be lying if I didn't say we had some anxiety over that eight-day period of practicing with eight players and a couple of walk-ons and just wondering if we were ready for the speed of the game, and if our temperature was ready to compete at the level we need to compete at. 
 I thought our seniors did a good job of making sure we were ready to play. That was comforting to know that those guys were as prepared and as locked in as they were against Georgia Tech. 
 The game gets really easy when you make shots and we made a lot of shots. But a lot of those shots were a by product of guys being unselfish, making extra passes, and passing and calving and making good decisions. So that game's over with. With the magic of scheduling, after eight days off, we have two games in 48 hours. 
 Maryland is a really talented team that was playing about as well as any team in our league. Had a little hiccup at Boston College which can happen against another very good team. When two good teams play, one team wins, one team loses. 
 I say it all the time: They're as efficient an offensive team as there is. They have a dominating low post player in Williams. It looks like Pe'Shon is playing with a lot of confidence right now. Moseley's a tough match I couldn't for anyone. It seems they're extending their defense a little more and trying to create some easy scoring opportunities. So we're going to need to play well to have a chance to win at home. 

 Q. What did you do particularly well against Jordan Williams in the first meeting that you want to duplicate this time around? 
 COACH GREENBERG: I thought you have to be aware of him at all times. He comes low, he comes high. You've got to make sure you cut him off the glass because he's a great wedge rebounder. He's a very good passer on the double teams. 
 We tried to create cutoff passing angles so it was a little harder for them to put the ball into the post. We had good help from the team and support. 
 Again, we just tried to limit his real easy catches. But you're not going to stop Jordan Williams. You're really just trying to slow him down or take him off the offensive glass and make him work as hard as he can, because he's going to get his.

 Q. Anything else in that game that you thought you guys executed well that you hope to do as well this time around? 
 COACH GREENBERG: I thought we did a nice job against the pressure. And I felt we did a really good job of making the extra pass on penetration. 

 Q. Do you feel like you need more productivity in terms of just statistics out of your bench? 
 COACH GREENBERG: I just need them to play well. Productivity's not always points and assists and rebounds. Sometimes productivity is making the right pass or taking care of the basketball or closing out hard and keeping the guy in front of you, coming back and checking your man out so that your man doesn't get to the offensive glass. 
 I would like for those guys to step up and make shots. And Jarell Eddie can make shots, and Manny can make shots and Ty can make shots. But you guys and the average fan look at productivity just in terms of points and rebounds and assists. I look at it in terms of are they helping us maintain where we're at? Are they making good decisions? Are they in the right place defensively? 
 So I think the guys this past weekend, I thought Jarell Eddie played really well. He had a huge block in that transition play. He was in the right place defensively and he played hard, so I have no complaints. Even though he didn't score a bucket, I thought he played well. 
 So if they contribute some points that would be great, but there are so many more ways to contribute than just what shows up in the box score.

 Q. One more related to the first Maryland game. How important was that in terms of say a teaching tool and getting a road win against a quality opponent like that for kind of down the road for you guys? 
 COACH GREENBERG: I think any time you get a road win in our league, it's a quality road win. I don't care what the team's record is or what their rating is. It's hard to win on the road in any league, not just our league. 
 But, Maryland, if you think about the ACC and the tradition of the ACC in recent years and what Gary's been able to do, going to Final Fours and winning National Championships. Maryland is one of the marquis programs in the ACC. To go on the road and win there is an accomplishment. There is no doubt it gives you something you can build on. 
 I think that was the fifth game of the season, I'm not sure. But any time you can break serve and beat one of the tradition-rich programs in our league, that is an accomplishment and gives your kids confidence. 

 Q. You're certainly no stranger to injuries this season. But other clubs in the league have been affected with Tyree going down, Mike Scott this week and Chris Singleton. Can you recall a season in your time in the ACC or Big East where so many prominent players have gone down in one season? 
 COACH GREENBERG: No, it's really staggering, really. I felt the Singleton kid -- I love the kid. He's a winning player. He competes so hard on both ends. He affects the game in so many different ways. I just feel for those guys, and I feel for the kid. 
 But I can't remember. Again, I'd be interested to see the kids, their conditioning and working out and grinding 12 months a year now. You almost wonder if their bodies don't have a chance to recover. Because the season's over, you give them a couple of weeks off, and you're right back in the individual workouts. In the summer, the kids are lifting and training. They're going to these different league camps. 
 It would be interesting to see if the kids, some of them their bodies are just breaking down. They don't have a chance to recover. But I cannot remember a season where so many players have been affected that have impacted team's chances to be special. 

 Q. How much can a program monitor what a kid's doing in the off-season? 
 COACH GREENBERG: Well, if they're on campus or in summer school you can really monitor. But once they're off campus, there is not much you can do. We talk to our guys two and three times a week after the first summer session when they go home. 
 Most of them you want them working on their games. It's a shame the NCAA doesn't allow us to be the people working with them on their games. So you're kind of at the mercy of what I call the vultures out there that all want to be the guy that discover the guy who already his high school coach discovered. 
 But you really don't have much control over it. You just hope they're working on the right things and hoping that they're taking care of -- we always say take care of your body because that's the most important thing. But we have no control once they leave campus. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT