ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 27, 2012
Seth Greenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH GREENBERG:   I think our team is making progress.   If you're in position to win games, you're obviously doing a lot of good things.   Unfortunately, we haven't been able to finish as well as we'd like.   But I see growth in certain guys.   I see guys developing like Cadarian Raines who hasn't played in two years and is getting an opportunity to play extended minutes and do a lot of good things. 
I think Dorian is doing a lot of good things in terms of making more plays and being more active defensively.   And C.J. Barksdale and Marquis and the young guys. 
Again, it's just a process.   It's a painful process at times, but it's a process.   We're excited about this week and the conference tournament ahead.   If anything else, we're playing our best basketball.

Q.   Can you start off with any kind of an update on Victor? 
COACH GREENBERG:   There is no update.   It is what it is.   He hasn't made significant progress and right now we're moving ahead without him in terms of not expecting him to be with us for Clemson. 
Obviously, it really, really hurt me if he wasn't able to take the court senior night because he's given us so much and been such a good teammate.   He's been a very valuable member of our program.   But sometimes life's not fair.   Right now there's really no information.

Q.   Talk about senior night coming up, and the last two games of the regular season.   Talk about Dorenzo and what he's meant to you and this program, and what he's done for you this year? 
COACH GREENBERG:   He really has.   He's had a really good career.   I don't know exactly how many points he has now, but he's been part of a team that's won a lot of games.   He's played selfless, he's been off the ball.   He's been a good teammate and a good locker room guy.   He's also a guy that's had a good college career.

Q.   This year you said he lacked that dominant personality.   Are you disappointed that he's not become that this year? 
COACH GREENBERG:   I'm very pleased with everything Dorenzo has brought our basketball team.   I've enjoyed coaching him, and I'm excited.   Again, I appreciate the opportunity to coach him and I think he's had a terrific career.

Q.   When you look back on the first Clemson game that you won?   What do you need to do this time around and what do you want to do even better considering the run they made at the end of the game? 
COACH GREENBERG:   We shot the ball well at the end of that game, I thought we were running a crisp offense.   The guys were catching the ball with room and rhythm, making shots.   I'm sure Brad's going to try to stop that from happening this time. 
I thought we got a little tentative towards the end of the game and had a chance to finish it.   We've got to guard the ball better.   I think that's one of the things.   At the end of the game they really drove the ball hard on us.   The Daniels kid probably had a career game. 
I think that defensively in terms of keeping the ball in front, contesting shots, keeping it out of the lane will be really important for us.   They've got Jennings back now.   He's a guy that can do both things.   He can offensive rebound, he can shoot the basketball, he's quick, and he gives them some dimension.

Q.   When you look at film of late, is that the biggest difference they're playing well of late? 
COACH GREENBERG:   Again, he's playing at a high level right now.   You put Jennings along with Young and Smith and Narcisse who gives him a hard playing, tough kid, and it's improved their depth for sure.   Then they're not relying as much on their young players because I think Jennings has averaged 18 points a game since he's come back.   He's given them a good boost.

Q.   For those of us who didn't see Cadarian at Petersburg, was he this active offensively?   Up and under moves able to shoot it with both ends, because he seems to be developing a low postgame?
COACH GREENBERG:   I think that's the key.   He's developing a low postgame.   Cadarian was a big‑bodied guy that was a little raw, competed, he was a good student, good person.   A guy that we thought was a good prospect.   The thing that really, really kills you is that he went two years without one individual workout.   This is the first extended period of time we've ever had a chance to work with him. 
But he does have good foot work.   He's still not totally confident in that foot.   It affects him more on a defensive end, reacting and rotating off of ball screens and rotating on baseline drives.   But I think he's playing more and more on instinct, and he's worked really hard.   He gave up his whole summer to be here this past summer, and really did a nice job.   I think he's going to develop into a legitimate low‑post presence for us the next two years.

Q.   What are the kinds of problems a merciful player like Tanner Smith cause? 
COACH GREENBERG:   I think he's a really good player.   He can defend.   He put it's on the floor.   He shoots it.   He makes other people better.   He's an excellent passer.   He's a great teammate from watching on the outside in.   He's a winning player. 
The more winning players you have, the better your team is.   He does so many things that don't show up on a stat sheet.   The guy is a very complete player.   He's a better athlete than you think.   He's got a better first step.   When he shoots it, you think it's going in.   If it's a loose ball, odds are he's going to be on it.   Not afraid to go at the floor.   He's just a very complete, good player that any and every coach in our league would want on their team.

Q.   A lot of us wondered about the development of Austin Rivers and the problems that he's presented to you Saturday.   Have you seen improvements from the first time you played him to the second? 
COACH GREENBERG:   He was really good the first time we played him.   So I'm not sure he's going to be much better than that.   He banged three or four threes against us the first time.   So I think his greatest asset, he's not afraid.   He's not afraid to make a play.   He's not afraid to have a ball at the end of the game. 
I'm not sure he concerns himself with the consequence of not making the play, not making the shot.   I think he just plays.   He's fearless.   He does a great job of using his body coming off the ball screens.   He plays through contact as well as any freshman I've seen in a long time. 
So, in terms of between the first time and the second time, again, I think the biggest thing is making that shot against Carolina I think kind of confirms to him why should I be afraid of this?   Let's just play some ball.   And that's what he does.   He just plays ball. 
It's good coaching to give him the freedom to let him go make plays. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT