ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 30, 2012
Seth Greenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Virginia Tech head coach Seth Greenberg.   Coach, a few comments about your team, then we'll open it up for questions. 
COACH GREENBERG:   Again, we've got to put 40 minutes together.   There's no doubt about it.   We're in a situation where at times we're playing very good basketball, at times we're competing at a very high level.   Our offense for sure is much more efficient when it's in front of us.   That has a lot to do with I think we need to get a more verbal leader on the floor, getting our guys organized.   Our shot selection has improved when it's in front of us. 
Again, we're doing some good things.   We have to do more.   I'm pleased with Victor, as I am with Dorenzo Hudson.   We've just got to keep grinding.   That's just what it is.   Again, the league, last time I checked, we have a lot of games to be played.   We've got to continue to try to improve each day.   If we do that, we'll be fine. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll open it up for questions. 

Q.   Last year you beat Duke up there.   I know two totally different teams, but anything about your approach that matches up well with Duke?
COACH GREENBERG:   I mean, last year we had experienced guards, a physical front court, a guy that could guard any position.   I think the thing that made last year's team special, Terrell Bell could guard your two guard, almost your point guard to your power forward.   Came up huge guarding Singler in that game.   You had a physical presence up front in Jeff and Malcolm.   Victor Davila was a three‑year starter. 
We have a philosophy on how to play them.   Then it's tough to go out and execute it.   You've got to match their intensity.   When you play Duke, first and foremost, you've got to match their intensity.   They're going to draw a line in the sand and compete each and every play.   That doesn't mean getting in a fight.   You've got to be ready for the physicality of the game, the intensity of the game. 
You also have to play through mistakes because if you don't play through mistakes, if you can't get to the next play against them, that's where they get those runs that closes out a half, get those runs where it really makes it hard for you to come back. 

Q.   Last year Singler was a guy you had to stop, Nolan Smith was a guy you had to defend.   This year's Duke team, there's no one guy like that.   They have five guys in double figures.   Does it make it tougher or easier to defend?
COACH GREENBERG:   I think the biggest thing is you have to decide what you're going to take away.   Are you going to take away Plumlee or the 21 three‑point shots they make a game.   That's a decision as a coach you have to make.   Are you going to make them beat you by twos, make those hard catches, bluff at your half, stay home, or are you going to, again, take away the three.   That's a decision you have to make.   Are you going to double Plumlee.   Maryland decided not to, he had a career game.   Second defender in the post, all of a sudden it's bop, bop, they're shooting a three on a ball reversal. 
You have to take them out of transition, for sure.   You have to make sure that those second‑chance opportunities when they tap that thing back out, are usually knocking down the three, you find a way to pick up those 50/50 balls.   All those special situation type things really hurt you. 

Q.   I'd be wasting my time asking you which decision you've made. 
COACH GREENBERG:   That would be a valid point (laughter). 

Q.   Seth, I asked Tony this question, wanted to get your perspective as well.   On the Colonial Athletic conference call, Shaka Smart made a comment about how in recent history the best teams have been in the CAA, not the ACC.   I want you to assess those comments. 
COACH GREENBERG:   I really have no comment on it.   Everyone is entitled to an opinion.   I'm sure Shaka is doing what he needs to do to promote his league and his program. 
I'll talk about ACC basketball, our program.   I won't spend outside energy discussing anyone else's program. 

Q.   Have you found recruiting in the area has become more competitive in recent years?
COACH GREENBERG:   Like I said, the Virginia player that we recruited this year we signed, and we think he's an elite player.   Last year we think we signed the best players in the state.   Really, I don't think it's affected us.   We have to wait for these young players to grow up. 

Q.   About the young players, do you sense them progressing the way you want them to?   Wins and losses, you haven't been on the right end of that this month.   Do you see them progressing the way you wanted them to?   Are they where you want them to be at the start of February here?
COACH GREENBERG:   Again, you evaluate them progressing just in their play during games.   I evaluate their progression each day during practice.   I'm looking at a bigger picture. 
Obviously we have concerns about guys hitting the wall.   Again, this is the first time for these young guys, especially when you're counting on them to play substantial minutes, that each and every game is an event.   They may have one game in a month that's a big game.   They have two and a half months worth of big games. 
But I think our guys are making progress.   I was really pleased with Marquis' poise the other day at Maryland.   I think he did a nice job.   Even though Do hasn't shot the ball well, I thought he did some good things the last two games.   Again, he's continued to rebound the basketball.   Robert Brown has had his moments.   C.J. has had his moments. 
But I'm looking at what they do each and every day in practice, trying to figure out what we need to do with each individual.   I look at Raines and Eddie as freshmen.   Raines for sure is a freshman.   Eddie had limited exposure last year.   If you group them together, I would think they're making progress. 

Q.   I wondered what you think of Austin Rivers on Duke?   What have you seen of his play during his freshman year?   Do you think he's lived up to the recruiting help he's had?
COACH GREENBERG:   You guys create the hype.   That's all a product of the Internet.   I think he's a really good player.   I think he can get to the basket.   I think he's making other players better right now.   I think he's defending harder.   He's got the luxury of playing with a really, really, really good front court. 

Q.   Seth, having just come off a game against Maryland, what makes Terrell Stoglin difficult to guard?
COACH GREENBERG:   I think he's fearless, first and foremost.   He's not afraid to take shots, he's not afraid to make plays.   He's very strong.   He has an ability to change speed.   If you push him down on side ball screens, he cuts back and attacks the big guy. 
I made a comment after the game that he plays for both teams.   That was a compliment.   People have taken it as a shot.   I meant that he's fearless.   The guy made two ridiculously tough shots with people all over him.   He does that every game.   He has the ability to make tough shots. 
He attacks you in transition.   He's a real competitive what I call ball guard. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thanks for being with us today. 
COACH GREENBERG:   Appreciate it. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT