CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2018
Mike Small
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Go over some of the highlights with the start.  You eagle 6?
MIKE SMALL: I did.  Hit it in about 15 feet, 20 feet.  Hybrid in there to 20 feet, and that got me going.  Birdied No. 2, which was good, because I three-putted number -- well, I was on the front fringe on 1 and made par, so I gave one back and then got it back on 2, which was good.  And I eagled 6.
Q. (Regarding No. 8.)
MIKE SMALL: Yeah, like that on 8 and then birdie like that on 9, and that was a good front nine.  I kind of leveled off the back nine.
Q. So on those two birdies that would be like two feet and five feet?
MIKE SMALL: Yeah, two feet and six feet probably.  Uh-huh, yep.
Q. Okay.  The juices flowing any more than they should be?
MIKE SMALL: No, they were playing good.  Hit it a lull the back nine.  Didn't hit it as good the back nine.
Made a couple good saves and I bogeyed 17, which was a little damper on the day.  Easiest tee shot of the day and made it in the trees.  No, I'm happy.
Q. On a big stage, well, club professional I guess would be a big stage, but it's been a while.
MIKE SMALL: It has been a while.  When I played on TOUR I had a chance to win a few times at the end of my season before the lost my card.  Just could not finish them off.
Yeah, who knows?  I got nothing to lose.  Just going to go out and play hard and see what happens.
Q. Is a nothing-to-lose attitude helpful in this situation?
MIKE SMALL: Yeah.  I mean, you're a competitor.  You want to compete.  You feel like you don't have anything to lose because want to compete, but in reality I'm just going to play golf tomorrow and I'm going to work on what I got to work on.
My golf swing has got to get better and more consistent.  It leaves me sometimes, so I got to work on that.  If it I can pay attention to that, I'll be all right.
Q. Weather make much of a change in the course?
MIKE SMALL: Weather changed throughout the round.  Wind changed and the rains came and went, and then the course -- - the course didn't dry out much.  The greens got a little bit moist, but they didn't really dry out.  The fairways didn't dry out either.  The course is in great shape.
Q. When you play with Langer and Madison, right?
MIKE SMALL: Uh-huh.
Q. Same round, is it sort of that kind of a day?
MIKE SMALL: Well, we...
Q. Seemed like it was a good pairing twice.
MIKE SMALL: Yeah, no, he's a consummate pro.  He goes about his business and there is not a lot of shenanigans, not a lot of antics.  He just goes and plays.  That's fun to watch.  He takes a course apart.  It's great.
Q. Just how fun has this been in general this week?
MIKE SMALL: Yeah, the last month has been fun.  Played in two of these the last month and feel more comfortable out here.
Playing some golf in a few-week stretch is good for me.  I don't do that much.  Last few years I haven't done that much.  I'll play one week and then have two or three off, then I'll play another one and play [sic] a month.  This is -- I'm playing three, four weeks in a row.  That's why this tournament is nice to get into.  Kind of comes off the last three weeks in a row.  I don't usually do that ever.  Ever, really.
Q. Nicer to be here than where your former players are.
MIKE SMALL: Is it raining over there?
Q. There are rain delays and the course is...
MIKE SMALL: Well, they both made the cut.  I know Strick made the cut; I think D.A. missed, didn't he?  He didn't play for me, but Stick was my teammate.  Those other two that played for me, yeah, they're doing great.  That's awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT