PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Mike Small
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did you like being the first one off?
MIKE SMALL:  I did.  I had a very good nervousness on the first tee, but it was exciting.  It wasn't apprehension, any apprehension at all.  I was excited about it.
Q.  What was it like here at 7:00 a.m.?  Did you have many people around you?
MIKE SMALL:  I mean, there was a good amount of people.  I don't know the exact number, but the stands weren't packed, but they were lined up all around probably three or four deep, which was neat.  It was cooler and it was nice.  I had good support at 7:00.
Q.  As honors go, where does it rank for you?
MIKE SMALL:  I'm taking it as a pretty big honor.  I don't know how it was intended.  I haven't talked to anybody, but I know in the past they do things like that, and I'm going to take it as an honor.  I feel privileged to play first and I was happy for a good tee time, and the greens were good.
Q.  It's your best opening round at a PGA.  You've got to be pretty happy about that?
MIKE SMALL:  I am.  A person in my position, I should be happy with 72.  I didn't putt very well at all today.  I made one putt really of any consequence.  I had a three putt and missed another short one.  I actually hit the ball pretty good today, for me.  I think I played this course pretty solid from tee to green.  I didn't make some putts I would have liked to make, but if you told me I have a chance to shoot this score tomorrow, I'd take it.
Q.  You had a bad streak on 5 and 6.  How did you shake that off?
MIKE SMALL:  I hit it in the middle of the fairway on the par 5, No. 5, and I hit a bad second shot, hit it in the trees, made some stupid mistakes in strategy.  Next hole had an easy up and down and missed it.  But then I birdied No. 7, hit it on the back edge of the green in two, which was welcome.  I pitched it down there not very well, but then I made probably about a ten footer or eight footer.  That calmed me down.  If I wouldn't have done that who knows who would have happened.
Q.  Did the wait on 6 bother you a little bit?
MIKE SMALL:  Well, it didn't bother me because that's what you try to do.  Obviously that's the premier pairing of the year and you don't want to get    I didn't want to get distracted, but we were also being watched for slow play, which doesn't make any sense to me.  We didn't want to play slow but we didn't want to play.
Q.  How much blue and orange did you see out there?
MIKE SMALL:  I saw a lot of blue and orange, a lot of ILLs.  As the week goes on, I think that will grow, which will be fun for me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT