PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2005
Mike Small
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULIUS MASON:  Mike Small, ladies and gentlemen, joining us at the 87th PGA Championship.  Mike earned his first national title by finishing with a final round 3 under par 69 for a 1 over par 289 total at the Ocean Course at Kiawah Island at the Club Professional Championship.

Mike, welcome to Baltusrol.  If you've played the golf course, give us some thoughts on what you feel out there and we'll go to Q & A.
MIKE SMALL:  Well, thank you.  It's unbelievably fair, I think.  The rough can be trouble obviously, and it's long but fair, and the greens are soft today.  The course was softer than it's going to be, and I'm sure the greens will pick up the pace.

What I've heard is they're kind of keeping track of them right now and they're going to speed them up come Wednesday, and then the course will really get tougher.  But it's just unbelievably fair, I think.
Q.  Mike, how important is it to the PGA of America to have these 25 club pros in this field?
MIKE SMALL:  I think it's extremely important.  It's the PGA of America's championship.  It's their championship, and I think it keeps the connection between obviously the PGA club pros and the championship.  It's the basis for the tournament a long time ago.
Q.  How has your play lately influenced recruiting in Illinois?
MIKE SMALL:  Positively.  I just don't know how soon it will happen.  It seems like recruiting, it's a lag period because right now we're recruiting    actually I'm starting to recruit kids that are going to be juniors in high school because you always recruit a year in advance.

But I think it's going to very positively help it and give it some credibility.  It gives us a niche.  All programs have an niche when they recruit; sometimes it's the facilities, the school.  This kind of distinguishes or separates us from the average school, so I think it's got to help kick start our relationship.
Q.  Could you sort of go over a little bit about your relationship with Steve Stricker?  He's not here this week, but you're trying to represent Illinois well and go a little further with that if you could.
MIKE SMALL:  Well, Steve has been the best player ever to come out of Illinois.  He's finished 2nd in this event back when it was at Sahalee, I believe, and him not being here is a little different obviously.

Steve and I were friends, we were on the same team at Illinois and we stood up in each other's weddings, and we've had a relationship for 15, 20 years now.  Those of you that know Steve know that he's probably the nicest guy and one of the nicest players in the world, and if you can't get along with Steve, you can't get along with anybody.  I wish he was here, get a little more time to spend with each other.  I talked to him a couple days ago and wished me luck and sincerely meant it.  He'll be back in this tournament.  He's one of the best players there is, he's just got some things in his game he's got to work out, but what a quality individual.
Q.  How did it feel today to have a camera crew following you every step of the way?
MIKE SMALL:  Yeah, ESPN2 is here, very nice here.  It's kind of different, but having this thing on my belt, I'm kind of concerned about them, too.  My mind is on whether they're getting what they need and if they're in the right place.  It's kind of new to me but I enjoy it.  It gives good exposure for the program and obviously the club pros, and hopefully it will turn out fine with them.  It was different.

I was playing with Jim Furyk today, and I got to know Jim through the Western when I played the Western Open last year.  I've played it three or four years, but we played on Sunday together, and it was fun being out there with him.  I wasn't sure I wanted him to see the mike on me and let him free up to say what he wanted to say.
JULIUS MASON:  Those kind words about ESPN, you might have something on your sleeve next week (laughter).
Q.  The tournament last year you lost by a stroke, how did that help you get to the stage where you are, that experience?
MIKE SMALL:  You mean the Club Pro Championship when I lost last year by a stroke?  It motivated me.  That was my first Club Pro Championship that I had played in.  I played on Tour here before and I played in U.S. Opens and all that kind of stuff, and when I got to that event it was run like a big time event, and it really impressed me.  It's something that I wanted to come back and do well in.  When I lost by a shot, the money was good and everything else like that, but nobody remembers second place.  That's just the way it is.

I really wanted to do better this year, so finishing 2nd last year motivated me because of the stature of the event and all the rewards that you reap from that championship that I found out after one shot cost me all those rewards.

This year it actually motivated me, and when I got to Kiawah and started playing well there, it really all came together; and I was hungry for it because it is a very well run prestigious championship to us, and it's something that's looked upon favorably by a lot of people.  So finishing 2nd was a big motivating factor for me.
Q.  Too many people don't look at the transition a person has to make between the club professional ranks and playing on Tour.  You've seen both sides now.  Could you sort of speaking about walking into a major championship arena and the things that you have to think about, as opposed to the arena of other championships that are not at this level?
MIKE SMALL:  Well, I told people at home before I left, a major championship is its own animal.  It's the surroundings, the atmosphere is so much different than any other Tour event, even the events I play in.  I've seen it all.  I've played the mini Tours, I've played high school golf, college golf, I've played on Tour, I've played major championships, I've played overseas and I've coached at the big amateur events.

There's something about a major that's so different.  It gets me excited on Monday, and it tells me why I haven't made the cut in my three previous majors because I'm so wound up.  So I'm trying to control that a little bit more this week.  It's such an honor, something you always have, and I desperately want to make a cut in a major.  I missed the cuts in the first three majors I played.

It's a whole different deal.  The support you guys give the event is obviously the big thing, the media attention at these events, and obviously the great players in the world and the golf courses make the event, too.  It's just a whole different deal, but it's fun.  It's fun for myself, my family, everybody I know to be kind of involved in it.
JULIUS MASON:  Mike hits it on Thursday at two o'clock with Ben Crane and Dudley Hart going off the 10th tee.  Thanks for coming down, Mike.
MIKE SMALL:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT