PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Mike Small
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Could you speak about your round, and what happened over the final four holes?
 SMALL: I hit the ball well and got a few birdies at 9, 12 and 14, then had a couple bumps at 8, 15 and 16. I hit 3-iron at 15, which has been a tough hole for me all week, and I couldn't get it in the hole from the edge of the green. I three-putted at 16. To be able to put a 70 on the board was good, but I felt I could do a lot better. I had a good time playing with K.J. (Choi). He finished 1-under.

 Q. Having made your third cut in a PGA Championship, and this coming in your 10th overall major, how does this one rank in your career?
 MIKE SMALL: To be able to finish like I did yesterday, making par when I needed to, was pretty cool. I feel like I can play this course better than I have, and will have one more day to do it. It's great being a member of The PGA of America, and to be representing our members in this Championship. It is a great opportunity for a PGA Professional and a reward. My being able to do what I have done has been a tremendous boost in my coaching at Illinois. The exposure that you would get in appearing in a major is something that I don't know can be measured. I feel it has helped us in our recruiting and in becoming a top-10 golf program.

 Q. Have you had a chance to keep an eye on your good friend and former Illinois teammate, Steve Stricker, and his progress?
 MIKE SMALL: I have looked at the board a few times, and now will be watching pretty closely to see him. I think that he is like a lot of other here - they are in good position to make a run. It would be pretty cool to see him come through on Sunday. He has as good a chance as anyone.

 Q. Last night, you said that you did not head to the practice range, but just took the wife and kids to the Chicago Cubs game against the Atlanta Braves.
 MIKE SMALL: Yeah, I thought that I would have a nice relaxing time. I got there early for batting practice and stayed until the fourth inning. They were honoring Bobby Cox, the great former Braves manager, and it was a madhouse. I really picked the right night, didn't I?







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT