PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Mike Small
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The two days, I know it's not the two days you wanted, you came in pretty prepared. Wonder if you can give a summary of what you had?  
 MIKE SMALL: Well, I felt like I played all summer. I haven't broken par except in the Club Pro Championship in a TOUR event, so I wasn't playing the best coming in. I was trying to make myself believe it, but I didn't play very well.   
 I'm really, really confident around the greens. I gave away probably six shots around the greens today. Really, my ball-striking stats, they weren't so bad, but I didn't have the arsenal to play this place.   
  
  Q. Certain holes out there or just a combination of things?   
 MIKE SMALL: I think the delay this morning, when it was time to go this morning, I started off bad. I made three bogeys and a double my last seven holes, this morning. So that's kind of me missing the cut right there I think, the finish this morning; and the wind was really coming out of the south on those hard holes and I didn't have the game to play it.   
 I think I had probably three or four 3-putts, and I missed a three-foot, two-and-a-half-foot putt today on No. 8 which is something you just can't do. It's unfortunate, but again, kind of what I deserve.   
  
  Q. This pairing you had is quite a good pairing.   
 MIKE SMALL: That was cool, those guys are fun to play with. They made the weekend for me. They both played well and I saw some good golf. I think they appreciated playing with me, too, which is kind of neat.   
  
  Q. What's next for you?   
 MIKE SMALL: Going to work on Monday. Actually looking forward to it, really. I haven't played well -- since the Club Pro, I haven't broken par. I've made one cut on TOUR and haven't broken par in one round. It's been a disappointing summer.  
  
  Q. Is that just your game or obviously you have a lot going on?   
 MIKE SMALL: I'm tired. I mean, I'm beat. I played more this summer than I played in a long time. But after playing so well in México in March when I finished seventh and made some good money at a TOUR event and then played good in the Club Pro, I was looking forward to a good summer. But my ball-striking has been very, very poor. Really my whole game has. This week, my putting was atrocious, just terrible.   
  
  Q. You talked about the way your first round finished up but it looked like from your score you settled down.   
 MIKE SMALL: Yeah, I thought if I could shoot 68 this afternoon, I would make the cut, which it probably would have been. And then I birdied 3.   
 And I miss a makeable putt for par on 4, don't even hit the hole.   
 And 5, I have 200 yards to the green and made bogey.   
 Then on 6, I miss about a 5-footer for birdie, leave it short.   
 And then I miss a par putt on 8. So there's four shots that I just gave away on the front nine and still shot 2-over.   
 Then I 3-putted 15 coming in. I hit the green and I was within 15 feet yesterday on the back fringe, 3-putted it and today I hit the green into that wind and gale about 30 feet and 3-putted. So doing stupid stuff like that -- I did stuff that club pros normally do that I shouldn't do. That's the reason why I play well. The years I've made the cuts, I haven't done that stuff.  
  
  Q. Any signs at the Illinois Open that it would be this kind of week?   
 MIKE SMALL: I didn't play well there, either. I hit 30 greens out of 54 holes which isn't very good. I still finished third, but it was a struggle all summer, so looking forward to going back to work.   
 I have two more TOUR events at the end of the season, so maybe this will be a good break for me to get out of here. I have our section championship in two weeks which I want to be ready for that, but a week from Monday, we start our season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT