SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of an up-and-down round.   
DAN FORSMAN:   Yeah, the course exacted some revenge, I suppose, on me today.   I had it going pretty good, I got through 41-under and looking at the par-5 and didn't hit a very good tee shot, got out of the position and 3-putted.   I knew that was big.   
6 is a tricky hole and I wasn't able to -- I hit it in the bunker there, so I had to lay up.   I made a good 5, frankly.  
7 is my nemesis at the moment.   I had hit it in the bunker and had no shot.   I laid up and hit the ridge and 3-putted for 6.   
So right there you're going in the middle of things to holding on for dear life.   So my game wasn't exactly firing on all cylinders at that point, I didn't feel real confident.  
Was able to make a par at 8, but I made a stupid bogey at 9 to shoot 40 and make the turn.   
Good news is you have about a 20 minute ride on that buggy to put that all behind you and have a pep talk and go play.   
So I made a couple nice birdies on the par-3s on the back.   Hit some really good shots.   
And then a little 3-putt on 17.   
But I birdied the par-5, 15.   
Then missed a short one on 18 that I thought I could have made.   It looked like it was right in and caught the edge and burned by.   
But 2-over today, given my position, 3-under for the tournament, right in the middle of things, I got a few things a little bit dicey now at the moment.  
   
 Q.   Putter?  
DAN FORSMAN:   Putter for one.   I need to be a little more confident off the tee.   Place those drives in good shape at 7 and 6 and 5.   But in balance it's been a really good first two days for me.   I feel really good about what's happened.   Even though you would like to finish up a nice round today on the heels of yesterday, but all in all it was a gut check and I came out pretty well.   
   
 Q.   At the top of the leaderboard your mentality heading into the weekend now?  
DAN FORSMAN:   A lot of it will be dictated by the weather and wind and just where the pins are placed and how far back the tees are.   
For instance, today on 4, or -- is that the par-3?   Yeah.   They had the tee all the way back.   So that was 217 to the flag.   Yesterday, you hit 6-iron, today it was a right-to-left down at the time so I hit 4-iron.   Those are the things that kind of you got to navigate as far as what's it going to I can at that.   
But I would say this, good putters are always going to do well.   If I putt well tomorrow, I'll be right back in the middle of it come Sunday.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT