MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 4, 2010
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I guess all you could do was just go out and try and shoot the lights out, and then hope?
 DAN FORSMAN: That's true. You know, I started out with a nice saving-par putt on the first hole and I just kind of felt comfortable with the putter from there on and made a lot of birdies, shot 31 on the front and had a couple of opportunities the first few holes on the back and didn't convert them, and then made some good saving-par putts; 65. 

 Q. It's been a great event from what I can tell. 
 DAN FORSMAN: Fantastic first-year event, David and his staff and all of Montréal supported the event. The Pro-Am was magnificent, and the entertainment all week; the hospitality has been fantastic.

 Q. The whole tour now, the different events now, it's just been a real bonus and good for you guys?
 DAN FORSMAN: It is. And yet you'd better do well quickly, because as you can see, all of these stars are coming on the heels of us, and Mark Calcavecchia this week of course and Kenny Perry to come and Brad Faxon and a lot of really talented players on their heels. 
 So you have to play well and if you do and have a chance to win again, that's always fun. 

 Q. Yesterday when we talked, you said if you can have a good round tomorrow, it's pretty close even though Mize is having a great round today. You must be very happy?
 DAN FORSMAN: I'm very pleased. I putted the ball very well today, which I didn't do in the final round last week. So that's a very good turn of events for me and my psyche. 

 Q. Could be minus 15, because on 18, you missed it by very close?
 DAN FORSMAN: Well, that's true, but I made a lot of other ones. 

 Q. We talked yesterday about the Schwab Cup standings, and you are so close, and the way it looks, you could maybe gain ground today?
 DAN FORSMAN: That's a big competition, a year -- end competition. I was fortunate enough to play in it last year and there was a lot of excitement at the end of the year and a lot of points at stake and a lot of points in the majors to come. I'm playing well, and I hope to continue. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT