DICK'S SPORTING GOODS OPEN
June 27, 2010
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Final round 71, and you finish actually T3 this week at the Dick's Sporting Goods Open. Your second top 5 finish here. A few thoughts about the round overall? 
 DAN FORSMAN: First of all, I want to congratulate Loren. Obviously, a great win for him. He's a tremendous player. Continues to excel at the highest level and get it done, so I need to learn from him. 
 But very disappointed, obviously. Particularly in light of the fact that I was 16-under with the ball in the heart of the green at 14. I realize there are some tough holes coming in. But any time you're leading the tournament, it's never that easy. 
 I got hot. There was not a lot of water out there in spots. I think I might have gotten a little dehydrated, but that's not an excuse. I'm a professional. I should be able to be prepared and pull it off. 
 I just think that once I three-putted 14, now I was in a difficult drive at 15. I kind of pushed it into the right rough. I had a very difficult lie. Trying to go to the right front of the green, and hit the righting bunker, and that is a brutally difficult bunker shot because you can do anything there. Run up short and come down the front or go over the back, and who knows what you can score from there. So just sort of unravelled. 
 You compound that with the emotional fatigue, and then the psychological, and the physiological with the heat index. I'm from Utah, I don't play in this kind of humidity. It's tough. I've got to tell you, your shirts are wet, your hands are wet. It starts to take it out of you. 
 I don't know if that was the reason why I just wasn't able to make the putter work coming in. I'm sure there were some nerves involved, no denying that. But I've spent a little bit of a bugger with that putter for me. That seemed to be the real difference today.

 Q. Talk about 14 and the length of the putt? 
 DAN FORSMAN: Two feet.

 Q. A two-footer?
 DAN FORSMAN: Uh-huh, and I varied my routine. I didn't do what I've been doing all week. Once I got over there, the sun came out from behind the clouds and it got really bright. The ball was illuminated. This was a different set-up for some reason. It was just instantaneous, and it just caused me to miss the putt. 
 I don't have an explanation other than going why didn't I go through my routine and set up to it the way I normally do. That had me wondering if I was having some issues out there. But I guess pressure, too, no question about it.

 Q. Talk about the birdie putt on 12?
 DAN FORSMAN: 12 was about 10 feet, I think. Oh, the par-5. I beg your pardon. I was thinking about 11, you're right. That was about 3 feet.

 Q. You seemed to give that one a lot of respect. You looked it over pretty good?
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah, again, I'm 52 and the putter has been a little bit of an issue. I've been working hard on it. I feel like at times it's as good as anyone, at other times like Tom Watson, it gets a little bit dicey, and I think that's what's happened to me down the stretch a little bit. Those were pretty tricky greens and pretty tricky putts, tough to read them. Little subtle changes on the speed. I just wasn't popping the putter. When I needed to hold the line, I was tentative, I suppose.

 Q. It kind of snow balled on 16, a terrific shot. Probably looking at the worst birdie in your mind. Then you just started thinking about that, making 14? 
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah, 16 was big. It was a tough putt. Coming down that hill. It can get away from you, and it hit a little too hard and went by the hole. Didn't hit a very good putt on the second one. I don't know. I looked up. 
 I like to see film, so maybe I'll do some critical analysis, but that was hard. On 17, I had a pretty good putt. I was going to get it a little bit, and it just went off to the right, and then that was really disappointing. 
 But I tell you this: I'll remember that 18th hole today, even though I didn't make the birdie. I stood up there and rifled that drive right down the heart of the fairway, and had 90 yards to the flag. Hit an L-wedge hole high. I just have to realize to be patient enough to say next time I'll do better in that circumstance. And that's what I'm going to take away from this week.

 Q. How far was the missed putt on 17? 
 DAN FORSMAN: About 8 feet.

 Q. How about the second on 18? 
 DAN FORSMAN: Holing it? Well, you always wonder. Why can't you hole one, but it doesn't happen very often. But I had the right yardage. The L-wedge 58, and it landed about three feet. But I couldn't make that putt either, darn it. 
 But anyway, it was a great week for me. I've got to tell you, hats off to the NJoy golf course. It's a wonderful golf course. The Dick's Sporting Goods and all the sponsors through the years: From the clambake, to the concerts to the amenities they provide shall. It's been a marvelous week. 
 I was thinking I've never won in New York, it would be nice to win here. I was thinking maybe this is my downfall, but I was thinking to myself, if I were to win this, I'd stand at the Empire State Building. But then I quickly said get out of here. You have five of the toughest holes coming in that you've ever had. Anyway, I appreciate your time, and hope to be back next year.

 Q. Coming out of the bunker there and having the scoreboard right there, when did you become aware of Loren pushing? 
 DAN FORSMAN: My caddy, my son, actually told me, dad, you need to make a birdie here. I kind of new at that point it was slipping away. 
 But, again, I can't force it at that point. I just have to play golf the way I played all day. The way I played the last two days and that's what I was going to do. To hole one, it would have been wonderful. But, again, hats off to Loren. He played great. What did he shoot today? 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 DAN FORSMAN: See, I told you yesterday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT