U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: 7-under for the Championship, Dan Forsman.   
 DAN FORSMAN: Hi guys and gals!   
  
  Q. What a roller coaster?  
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah, amazing. I was nervous starting out, course seemed ton tougher today. Some tees were back and the greens dried out and got tricky at times, and compound that by I bogeyed two of the first four holes. I made a save out on 3, but without these two save par putts, I'm 4-over. I don't think I pulled out until 6.   
 That's the nature of the USGA Championships, if you're off, you're going to be off a little bit. And I saw the great score to Mr. Jackson, I got to tip my hat to him, that's mighty fine playing, and to Joey Sindelar today, great scoring out there.   
 I thought today would be more difficult, and I thought the golf course held up remarkably well. I think the next two days are going to be more interesting, right in the mix of it, with 36 holes left, I feel like I'm right in the middle of the tournament.   
  
  Q. You chipped in an eagle on 9.   
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah, I needed something big, and I hit over the green and that's that old belly wedge that we use a lot in USGA-type tournaments. And, ironically, my playing partner had a pitch before me and he stubbed it, and I needed to play the belly wedge which I did to perfection and it came out eagle. Getting the 3 was a boost to me.   
 Played solid back shots on 9, and missed on the 14, missed a makable par-putt on 17, but that's a tough hole. And the 18th was unbelievable; second shot I couldn't have imagined it being that good, and I got 6 feet away to finish 1-under and 7 total for the day. And, all in all, I need to go home and get rest and in nourishment and after that I'll be ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you take bigger satisfaction out of grinding it out today?   
 DAN FORSMAN: Great question. I feel as today's round was every bit as good as yesterday, having to really dig deep. And that's what USGA Championships do, they, and you as a player, and they, and you and your character and your determination, and my caddy Greg has been with me for 19, 20 years now, how long is it? 20?   
 THE CADDY: 24 years.   
 DAN FORSMAN: 24 years. He said to me, You hung in there; you gutted it out, and I'm proud of you, so that meant a great deal to me to have him say that.   
 THE MODERATOR: That's perfect, Dan, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT