U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2009
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Great scoring conditions out there today. What did you do with your game to take advantage of it?   
 DAN FORSMAN: I started out birdied on 10, 11. And the birdie on 10, you know, it is a pretty challenging hole. Ironically, the fella before me that teed off had a little trouble off the tee, and I tried not to pay attention because that's the way this golf course is. If you are off a little, it can make you look pretty bad.   
 I drove the ball most of the day well and kept it in play for the most part. As I mentioned, getting off to a good start with two birdies set the way, got my momentum going.  
  
  Q. A lot of people talk about Watson, Norman, other are people coming in this week. But do you like it when no one is mentioning you and you are up there?   
 DAN FORSMAN: No, I'd love to be mentioned in those guys' names, absolutely, that would be a dream come true. That's why we play the game, to rub shoulders with the greats and hopefully have a chance to battle with them down the stretch on Sunday for a title; that's what it's all about; that's why I'm here.   
 I'd like to --you know, obviously this is my first best start in a major championship. I'd like to keep that momentum going and keep that chances of having that opportunity on Sunday.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN FORSMAN: 18, on the last hole, 9. I had a pretty tricky lie. I just kind of flopped an L wedge. Normally I go in between. It was a tough lie. The pin was cut tight and I just kind of decelled a little bit because I didn't want to blast it and have it go long and have a tough two-putt. That was the only real other possibility for a birdie I'd say to shoot seven-under.   
 But got up and down after I left it short for par which was good.  
  
  Q. How much fun is it for you to see the Normans and the, you know, Roberts, Haas, recognized names at the top and you're up there too? I mean, is that fun to see those guys at the top?  
 DAN FORSMAN: No doubt about it. Joey Sindelar, Bruce Vaughan, British Open Champion, Loren Roberts, Tom Lehman, these are exciting stuff. These are great players with great records, you know.   
 And it's a tribute to Crooked Stick and the golf fans of Indiana and those that have brought this championship here. It's a marvelous venue. We've had unbelievable support all week. If that board stays like it is, I think we'll have a lot of golf enthusiasts coming out on the weekend. I hope they will.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT