U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2010
Dan Forsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Other than that first round, a pretty good week. How did you feel about it? 3-under today, lowest round of the day. 
 DAN FORSMAN: So far. There are some guys out there that have some good ones going. Me personally, a little victory, and one that I feel strongly that I needed to finish out the tournament well. You mentioned the first round being a 78; I birdied the last hole to do that, so it could have been worse. 
 Long flight over from New York, British Senior last week, I was clearly deflated, I think, and I needed to get my rest, and started feeling better about my game.

 Q. You got better each round. Was it your game or was the course a little better? 
 DAN FORSMAN: A little bit of both. Anytime you play a USGA, you better be ready and be familiar with it, the conditions, firmness, where they put the pins and such, and basically how far the ball is going. All that combined, the experience helped me a lot. 

 Q. A lot of the players said the last nine holes were pretty accessible today. Did you feel that way? 
 DAN FORSMAN: I don't know about that. 17 is a brutal pin, it's right up front; you've got to hit it on the slope of the fringe to get it in the hole, and once you get past the hole it's a tricky putt. 
 16 you could probably bird there, but, again, it has a lot of movement, and 18 always is going to be a stern test of your golf game, par 4 there is a great -- it's not a certainty even with a good drive. I hit a 4-iron in from 206 to the hole and it went up to the back of the slope, and it took a 2-putt, so a lot of drama to be played out. 

 Q. Last year you were at the top of the leaderboard, finished top-15, probably another top-15 finish. Is there anything about a U.S. Senior Open that is tailored to your game? 
 DAN FORSMAN: I like to think my game has improved a lot, that's number one. Number two, USGA is constantly going to challenge your game; you need to check your ego at the door and you need to play what they give you, and that is you better hit the fairways and the greens. You have to putt the ball as well, and I seemed to do that well all three days. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 DAN FORSMAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT