NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: REGIONAL FINAL: OREGON ST. VS HOUSTON
March 29, 2021
Ethan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Houston - 67, Oregon State - 61
 THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by Ethan Thompson.
 Q. Ethan, how would you sum up this ride over the last three, four weeks?
 ETHAN THOMPSON:   I don't know, I can't really put words to it.  It's been an amazing experience.  To do it with this group of guys, I don't know, the bond we've created as a team, as a staff, a program, it's been amazing.
 Q. Ethan, you're down 17 at the half, and that half obviously didn't go very well for you and your team.  What made you guys believe that you weren't done?  And what did you see change in that second half?
 ETHAN THOMPSON:   I think we got off to a pretty slow start, but in the back of our minds, we knew that a run was coming for sure.  I've been saying it this whole time.  This team is full of competitors and winners, and at the end of the day, we want to do everything we can to win, and tonight just wasn't our night.
 Q. Congratulations on the season, man.  Your thoughts on the fans, Beaver Nation, all the support and love and fun that it's been for them and the joy that you guys have provided for them.  Just what does that mean to you to see that type of love and to be able to represent Oregon State the way you guys did this year?
 ETHAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, Beaver Nation deserves an award.  Coming into the program, I knew that we were going to see bright days, and I'm just glad that we were able to get the success, win the Pac-12 championship, and make a deep run in this tournament.
 Obviously, it didn't end the way that we wanted it to, but it's been an amazing ride.  The love and support from Beaver Nation is everything, and it's incomparable.
 Q. Ethan, now as you guys begin to go your separate ways, but you're bonded for life with these guys who you spent more time with than your own family members, man.  What does this year of just craziness, but you guys had each other, which really helped get to you this point?
 ETHAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, definitely.  Just going off of having each other, something consistent in this year.  You know, spending time with each other, and my teammates are great guys.  I'm about to start crying.
 It's been -- we've had a great bond and great experience with each other.  I don't even know what to say right now.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT