AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 15, 2011
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/E. Baltacha
  6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It looked like you turned it around at the start of the second set, didn't it?
 ELENA BALTACHA: I went 5-3 up -- well, I went 3-Love up, and then she got straight back into it. And then 5-3 and she got straight back into it again.
 She was always on me, always. I had to produce something really good. She was very solid today mentally in how she was delivering, and she made it really difficult.
 But it was a great experience. I couldn't ask for better prep, you know, winning last week Nottingham and playing, you know, someone in top 5 going into Wimbledon, so it was great prep.

 Q. Looked like it was a good match to learn some stuff from. 
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, definitely, definitely. I think the serve can get better, no doubt about it. 
 And I think as well it's slightly different when someone is pretty much breathing down your neck and you know if you're going to miss the first serve that you need to do something a little bit bigger on the second serve. I think that's an area I can get better at, because a lot of the top girls, they have a big second serve, which is more flat or they spin it. It's not always a kick serve. That's definitely an area I can improve on and get better.
 I think, as well, that the strike can get hard, as well. But I felt like I stayed in there with her. Like even the first set I didn't feel like she was winning the games to love. I felt that it was just like the 30-Alls, or, you know, the kind of the key points, I just -- either I didn't make her play enough or she came up with something good. I always kind of felt like I was in it.
 For me, that's the exciting thing because she played a very good game today.

 Q. You have had a lot of encouraging results this year, and the second set must be very encouraging?
 ELENA BALTACHA: Absolutely, and I'm playing very well. There's still -- you know, like later on after this we're going to sit down with Nino and talk about what can get better, and there are still things I can get better on. 
 For me, that's the most important thing, that I know I'm still developing; you know, I can still develop. I haven't peaked out. That is very, very encouraging.

 Q. The draw is going to be quite big for you because the form you're in, you don't really want to draw a really huge name in the first round?
 ELENA BALTACHA: Of course. I'd like a kind draw, but I think everyone says that going into a Grand Slam.
 You know, unfortunately someone has to get the top seeds. I'm just hoping it's not going to be me. If it is me, then I've got to deal with it and I've got to go out there and give it everything I have, you know, because if you don't, then what's the point going on court? Hopefully it won't be me.

 Q. Would it be fair to say you're not really afraid of anybody?
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah. Yeah, I'm not afraid of anyone.
 I'm willing to give it a pop even, you know, against the big players. You know, I'm very happy. I'm very happy right now with everything. I think I'm in great form. It just -- it really excites me. You know, a match like this today, I've got absolutely nothing to lose. 
 I think it's just very important for me just to see where my tennis was at. Even though I lost, I'm very delighted.

 Q. Do you think some younger players will look at you and sort of see what can be achieved with real hard work and sticking at it?
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah. I mean, you look at the juniors that are coming up now in Britain, and I think that when they look at me they think, do you know what? If she can do that, well, why can't I do that? 
 I think that is what they need to be thinking about. Because if you do work hard and you really believe in yourself, you know, anything is possible. You don't know what's around the corner.
 Yeah, I think that's -- but it's very important that they do work very hard. That's the most important thing.

 Q. Because it's not always the case, is it? Youngsters in tennis... 
 ELENA BALTACHA: I think sometimes the youngsters don't quite understand, and I think because they don't have that experience, they don't quite understand what it would take.
 But that's why it's so important to have a good team around you, you know, that they guide you in the right direction. 

 Q. How would you say the state of women's tennis is now? Seems to be going on the... 
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, definitely getting better. Heather is on the scene, and that will encourage more players, you know, to work much harder and to really fight for it. 

 Q. What are your thoughts and maybe advice on Laura, who seems to have stalled a little bit at the moment?
 ELENA BALTACHA: I think Laura has been injured. I think the other thing that probably hasn't helped her is she's still limited by how many tournaments she plays because she's still quite young.
 But, you know, I think once Laura becomes fully fit and, you know, less injury, kind of injury-free, then I think she needs to just play tournament after tournament and go through the ITF and then, you know, kind of make her way through that. 
 But she needs to be playing more and more tournaments. But I think the problem was she was injured a lot.

 Q. There is a lot to be learned about how not to get injured, as well, is it not? 
 ELENA BALTACHA: Well, I think it's very individual, isn't it? Because obviously I went through a lot of kind of injuries myself. 
 Again, you need the right people around you, you know, to be doing the right stuff. I think that will come with experience. Obviously she's -- you know, she's a very tall girl and she's been -- I was reading that she was going through a growth, kind of, spurt.
 You know, but she'll have to see what works best for her, because everyone is very individual. 

 Q. Did you have any issues with the speed of your growth, which Laura, she's nearly 6 feet tall now, when you were 16, 17? 
 ELENA BALTACHA: No, I didn't. I didn't. But, I mean, I'm 5'9". Now when you look at a lot of the girls they're like 6 foot, so I'm -- I didn't have that problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT