AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 14, 2011
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BALTACHA/A. Rezai
  6-2, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was that easier than you expected?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: That was definitely not easy at all. Even though the scoreline was 2 and 1, it was definitely not that easy.   
 The first set we were both just hitting it really hard. And kind of key points, I played them very well. But it was very, very difficult, especially the first set.   
 Then the second set just carried on playing like really well. I think she dropped her level slightly, but I just kept playing really well. I played the whole match very solidly, but it was definitely not easy.   
  
  Q. Is it easier to get up for another tournament so soon after winning one?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Do you know, I haven't even had time to kind of even really think about last week in a way, because after the final it was like quickly straight in the car and then down here. It kind of has felt just like, Okay, we'll get to another tournament.   
 It just happened so quick, really. I haven't even really kind of thought about anything. It was, Okay, great. I'm playing first round. Yep, let's go.  
 But from last week I take so much confidence, and plus my prep has been perfect for matches on the grass. The grass plays quite similar to here, so the prep has been really good.  
  
  Q. Azarenka next. What do you think of that?   
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, very exciting. Very, very exciting. You know, she's playing very well.   
 But again, I'm going to go in with just all heart and give it everything I've got and we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Best form of your career, would you say?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, definitely. Definitely playing very well. I've still got things to improve, which I'm working very hard on.   
 I still feel that I haven't peaked yet. I do believe that I can get better.  
 But as we kind of sit here, I'm playing kind of the best tennis I have in my whole career.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT