WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BALTACHA/A. Bondarenko
  3-6, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was a long day, wasn't it?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Hmm, a very long day, but a great day.   
  
  Q. Were you aware of the fact that British players were losing all the way through or do you just keep yourself separated?   
 ELENA BALTACHA: No, of course I was aware. And I know they had tough draws, you know, including myself. And it was a shame that all of them were going out in three sets pretty much.   
 I know that a couple of them had opportunities. But, you know, it's tough. It's so difficult. We've all had such a great year. Our rankings are so close. Apart from mine and Anne's, we're in the 50s. We're all fighting to get up there. It was difficult. Everyone performed well and just lost out.   
 So, you know, I knew I was the last one going on, the last hope. I was really chuffed that I managed to pull it out of the bag.   
  
  Q. You've had a few close ones recently that didn't go your way. What was the key today?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: You know, I think the whole buildup to Wimbledon was fantastic for me. My first tournament I made semis. I'm over 50. Then I played Pavlyuchenkova. I lost 7-6 in the third. That was a really good match. I played well. That really kind of edged me forward a bit. Then obviously last week in Eastbourne I played Na Li. It was a tight second set.   
 So I think week by week I got better. My confidence grew. You know, I was confident today. I had nothing to lose. I had nothing to lose. That helps as well. And I felt really confident going into the match that I had a lot of matches, and I've been playing really well.   
 And I knew that even if maybe today wasn't gonna go my way, I knew that I was gonna push forwards anyway and get that top hundred.   
  
  Q. How well could you see at the end, because it was quite dark?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: It was getting very dark. It was getting very dark. And it was quite funny, because I think at the 4-3 change of ends, the umpire said, That's it, no more Hawk-Eye because it's too dark. We both kind of went, Oh, great.   
 But, no, it was getting dark. I knew that if it was probably going to go 5-All, I knew we'd probably have to stop. I think at that stage I would have said, I'm not gonna carry on, because it was getting dark.  
  
  Q. How important was the crowd?   
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, you know, it was so lovely. Like I really tried hard to kind of control my emotion, because everyone was getting up. Everyone was clapping, you know. I had goose pimples pretty much everywhere. You know, the hair on the back of my neck was standing up.   
 It was really difficult for me to kind of try and contain that, and I think I did a good job of that.   
  
  Q. Had you rehearsed that Bjorn Borg-style celebration at the end?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: No, I didn't. But you know what, I kept thinking, I'm gonna win this. I am gonna win this. There's no way I'm gonna lose this. No way. I kept thinking of match point, when I get to match point, how I'm gonna play match point. You know, I tried to keep visualizing how I was gonna win it, you know.   
 But I didn't think of celebrating, 'cause just before my celebration I think, Right, you've still got a bit to do now. But I did constantly keep saying to myself, You are going to win this. You are definitely within a shout. There's no doubt, you're going to come through this. When I did actually come through, I didn't believe it.   
  
  Q. You have won matches here before, but is this the best win of your Wimbledon career, would you say?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, I'd say I think Coetzer, I think she was ranked 32, or she was a 32 seed. But I think at that time Coetzer was probably on her kind of way out, you know, at her age. I think she pretty much retired that year or the next year.   
 But, yeah, definitely Alona is on good form. She made the finals of Warsaw. She played good tennis. What's her ranking?   
  
  Q. 33.   
 ELENA BALTACHA: 33. It's a very big win for me.   
  
  Q. The fact you had to defend your points from last year because you're trying to get to the top 100, you didn't want to take a step back. You might now be in US Open main draw.   
 ELENA BALTACHA: Now I'm top hundred, I know that. Obviously when the points come off, then I'll probably drop out. But I knew going into the match that obviously it was a very important match for me, 'cause I knew that if I'd win, probably main draw of U.S.   
 I'm not going to play anything after this week. But I knew at the same time, because where I am right now with my tennis, I knew that there was nothing for me to lose, everything for me to gain. Because the way I am now, everything I've improved in my game, I knew I was going to go forwards, win or lose today.   
 I knew that was going to build, keep my confidence and move forward to get into that top hundred finally.   
  
  Q. What are your plans for tomorrow?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: I've got a hit. I'm going to keep looking at my body, maintaining it. Lots of physio treatment. Get a one-hour hit. Just relax and get ready for Thursday. You know, I don't even know who I play. Can someone tell me?   
  
  Q. Flipkens.   
 ELENA BALTACHA: I play Flipkens okay.   
  
  Q. What do you think of your next opponent?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: I've beaten her twice.   
  
  Q. She surprisingly beat Szavay.   
 ELENA BALTACHA: Look, she's beaten Szavay. Szavay is a quality player. She's obviously playing really well. So, you know, it's another tough match. But I'm looking forward to it, of course. I think I've got an opportunity, without a doubt.   
 And I think if I play good tennis, like I played today and just keep believing, then I think I've got a very good chance of getting through to the third round.   
  
  Q. You said you were going to relax. How do you take your mind off tennis?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Just probably getting away from Wimbledon. That helps. And I've got quite a few people here with me. They help kind of distract me, as well. Yeah, just to really chill out, sleep in late, you know, and just to maybe go away and do something so I'm not too much in this kind of environment.   
  
  Q. Have you got any family or friends with you?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: Yeah, it was a shame. My mum -- my mum lives in Glasgow now. My mum booked the latest flight she could, but my dad came to watch. My dad lives at Wimbledon, so I might go chill out with my dad tomorrow if I get an opportunity. Obviously my coach, his son is here. And my fitness trainer.   
  
  Q. Do you still live in Glasgow?  
 ELENA BALTACHA: No, no, I kind of live in Enfield and Ipswich at the moment. Kind of two places. My mum moved up to Glasgow. My brother lives up there now.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT