WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2005
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Must be disappointed.
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, I'm disappointed with my performance today.  I felt that from the first, you know, point, she played very well.  She returned my serve unbelievable today.  And I made far too many unforced errors. But I knew the kind of style player that she was, and I knew that I had to keep being aggressive because, otherwise, you know, just putting the ball in court was not gonna win me the match today. So although I was making so many unforced errors, I just thought, you know, "You have to stick to it and somehow just," you know, "maybe it will change, maybe it will get better."  And it didn't, and I'm disappointed with my performance today. 
 

Q.  I think all the British women that played today have gone out.
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Uh-huh. 
 

Q.  Is that a sign of things maybe not progressing as they should be at the moment?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, but we've had -- I mean, every year we always get someone going out first round, so I don't see why that this year it's, you know, completely different than any other year. 
 

Q.  Just hard draws?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  I mean -- I mean, you guys, you know, for the four weeks of the year, this time of the year, you guys are building us up.  And, you know, every time we come to Wimbledon, okay, there's a lot of us that don't get past the first round, and everyone kind of makes a big deal out of it. But if you're looking at our rankings, if you're looking at the way we're performing, then, yeah, we've got tough draws and, yeah, we're not good enough at the moment. 
 

Q.  But there's progress being made outside of, you know, outside of the spotlight?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  To be honest with you, I'm going to be selfish about this because I'm only concerned about myself.  I hope there's progress being made.  I don't really know who's doing what, you know.  I'm not turning up at anyone else's practices.  I mean, I'm just selfish about myself.  I know that I'm making progress - although it didn't show in my match today.  But I know what road I'm on, I'm on the right road, I've got a lot of witnesses. But, you know, as long as I'm getting better, that's all that worries me. 
 

Q.  Would you have expected to have won today?  I know you never expect.
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  You know, when you're playing a qualifier, I mean, a lot of people go, "Oh, you'll be all right," you know, "it's a qualifier." But to be honest with you, I think the statistics was that more than 60% of the qualifiers always get past the first round.  I mean, a qualifier doesn't mean that it's going to be an easy match. You know, looking at myself, what happened in Australia, I mean, when you've played three matches and you're playing really well, you're full of confidence and you're coming into the draw going, "Well, actually, you know, I really deserve to be here." And she's tough.  I know her.  I've seen her play before.  I knew it was going to be a really tough match for me today. 
 

Q.  What was it like having to hang around all day as well?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Uhm, hey, it was tough.  I mean, I felt good going into the match.  I prepared well.  I hit twice.  It was a privilege playing on Centre Court again.  I mean, the five years that I've played here, I've played three times on Centre Court.  You know, it was amazing to play there again. 
 

Q.  Were there any nerves attached to playing on Centre, or not really?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, you know, every year I come here, whether it's Centre or any other court, I'm always nervous.  The nerves aren't different to any other match that I play. Yeah, I was very nervous.  And, hey, I really enjoyed playing on Centre Court.  Like I say, what a privilege it is.  I mean, the third time in five years.  And the thing, of course, is that it's not my last year there. 
 

Q.  Was today your biggest disappointment at Wimbledon in your career so far?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, in some ways I think it's probably the worst I've actually played here at Wimbledon.  But having said that, I think that she played very well today and I did struggle with what she was doing. But, no, I didn't particularly think I played well.  I think it's probably the best -- sorry, the worst performance that I've had at Wimbledon. 
 

Q.  You did have that chance in the second set, you were 2-Love up.
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, I was 2-Love, 40-15 up.  And, you know, it's tough.  I mean, yeah, I did have opportunities, but that's something that I have to work on. And, like I said, there's a lot of weaknesses that I have and, you know, it's back to the practice court now. 
 

Q.  When you lobbed the ball up in the second set, it landed in the Royal Box.  Were you aware it was going to land in the Royal Box?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  To be honest with you, I didn't care where it was going.  To be honest... I didn't kill anyone, did I (smiling)? 
 

Q.  No.
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Okay.  Then it's all right then. 
 

Q.  The disappointment, do you feel it more when you're at Wimbledon because I don't know if you have the same buildup that everybody else has because it's a special tournament?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Wimbledon is a special tournament for me because I've got a lot of good memories from Wimbledon.  To be honest with you, you know, it's not just about Wimbledon.  A lot of people say, "You're working hard just for Wimbledon."  It's not about Wimbledon.  It's, you know, I've still got the rest of the year.  So if I perform like that in any other tournament, I'd be just as disappointed. 
 

Q.  Were you disappointed with any of the umpire's calls today?  You looked obviously frustrated.  Do you see that as part and parcel of the game?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, it happens.  It didn't cost me the match today, so... It happens and, you know, they're human and they will make mistakes.  You just have to get on with it. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT