WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2004
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Elena Baltacha.  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Can you put into words the emotion?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  God, I sat crying afterwards.  
 
Q.  We noticed. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  My God, I was so overwhelmed to be back, to be playing again.  But, obviously, you know, it was such a big win, and it was such a tough match.  You know, I was just so nervous about the whole match.  I didn't feel comfortable with myself today.  You know, to beat someone that high ranked, such a good player, 1-3, that's a great day today.  
 
Q.  Have there been times when you doubted that you would get back here because of all the fitness problems?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  I think I did say at the start when I heard that I've got, you know, liver damage, I think, you know, you tend to think all these different things, all these different things run through your head.  Yeah, I'm just so happy to be back and to be playing again.  
 
Q.  What do you mean by you didn't feel comfortable with yourself today? 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  I was just -- I just didn't feel connected today.  I just felt really nervous.  You know, my arms were like not attached to my body and, you know, my legs weren't quite moving and they were heavy.  That's what I meant by that.  
 
Q.  Who has been a real help to you in the difficult times? 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  My coach has and my family.  I've been really lucky.  I've had great people around me.  Alun Jones, Joe Drury, my mom, you know, my family, my boyfriend, everyone has been a hundred percent behind me.  And I have to mention French Connection and LTA because I wouldn't have been able to take the six months off, because financially I would not have been able to afford that.  So they've been absolutely superb and they've been a hundred percent behind me in backing me up. 
 
Q.  Have you had to change your approach to how often you can play?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  They've basically said that I can play three weeks on, and then I have to, you know, take a few days off, see how I feel, kind of calm it down.  But that's all right, you know, because I'm not going to go absolutely mad traveling for 50 weeks a year, nothing like that.  So that's the only downside to it. 
 
Q.  How do you feel physically now?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  I feel better.  I'm really -- I'm really glad that I took the six months, and I think that really helped me because I had to basically, you know, start from the beginning.  I had to reprogram my body, get fitter, healthier, quicker, you know, sharper.  I think I've used that time well. 
 
Q.  Is it an argument given that you come from a lower position physically that this is a greater achievement than two years ago?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  I know my coach kind of says I'm a walking miracle.  It's not easy kind of what I've been through.  These two years have been a nightmare.  But I'm just so, so happy that I'm just back.  I think the only thing is in the six months I realized how much I actually love tennis.  I see things in a completely different way now.  
 
Q.  Four British girls in the second round. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yup. 
 
Q.  What's going on?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  There you go (laughter).  You know, we've all had, you know, difficult matches, but winnable matches.  And I think all four of us have taken that opportunity and actually won the matches.  
 
Q.  Is there a different mentality amongst the squad, within the group of players?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  I mean, we've always been working hard and we've always been, you know, not just -- it's not just about Wimbledon for us, it's about other weeks of the year.  And we've always been working hard.  We've always been wanting to achieve much more.  And I think coming into this week, I think, you know, we've had, like I say to you, we've had opportunities in our matches and we've just been able to take them and, you know, come out with a win.  Simple as that really.  We haven't done anything different.  
 
Q.  Have you ever felt as emotional as you felt today?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  I think last week, last week at Eastbourne I had a big win, as well.  I also had tears after my match.  You know, that's just because I'm so happy to be back and to have this second chance, I like to call it, so... 
 
Q.  You went over to your dad at the end. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, he said, "Well done."  You know, "Congratulations."  That was it really. 
 
Q.  For those of us who, is there going to come a point when you're completely over this problem?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  I have basically -- they found out I was born with this condition, and I've got it for the rest of my life.  But it's all under control and I'm getting it checked out twice a year.  They say I'm in safe hands.  The professor says he can't see why he can't go on and play tennis. 
 
Q.  Can you explain to us the condition, how it makes you feel,  what it does to you?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, basically it's been so public for the last two years, I don't want to really get into the, you know, condition and stuff.  That's all I'm basically saying. 
 
Q.  Who is looking after you?  Is it Kings College? 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  I know they don't want me saying that, as well.  No names.  So sorry.  
 
Q.  At the start there was some problem with your top. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, the umpire said that because it's something to do with commercial, and she wasn't sure whether you're actually allowed to have the letters FCUK on it.  She had to double-check it.  But I knew it was all right because I played with it, you know, quite a few weeks ago.  
 
Q.  Could be Jennifer Capriati. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Oh, I can't wait.  Oh, I mean, she's such a great player.  You know, I really admire her.  And I'm just really looking forward.  You know, there's no pressure whatsoever on me, everything's on her.  You know, I'm just going to go out there and give it a go, you know, just love it and enjoy it and battle.  That's all I can do.  
 
Q.  Is there a chance, we quite often see people do well on grass, a bit of an alien surface for most of the players here, the acid test surely is what happens in the intervening time. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Is there a chance that some of you girls are actually going to post results in far-off places?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  I hope so.  My coach and I really have always been saying that I've had my best wins at Wimbledon, just on the grass.  And, you know, I have had some good wins on the clay.  And hopefully, you know, I've been working really hard to get more results on the hard, you know, on the clay, rather than not just on the grass and on the indoor.  But I think, speaking for all four of us, I think from this week, I think it will give us a lot of confidence going into other tournaments.  
 
Q.  Back to the problems you had with the T-shirt at the beginning, was it definitely a commercial thing?  No chance the umpire misread what was on your top?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  Well, you never know, because I do get stopped, "How can you wear that?"  "No, it's French Connection."  But, no, you know, I've worn the stuff before, so I know it's all right to play in. 
 
Q.  You'll be all right to play in it again?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, of course, yeah.  I played in it today, so I don't see why on Thursday they will say, "Sorry, you're not allowed to play in it."  No.  
 
Q.  Capriati, a good chance of Centre Court. 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  I hope so. 
 
Q.  Was it Nathalie Dechy before?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yes.  I think it was my first ever Wimbledon I got Nathalie Dechy.  
 
Q.  It was switched at the last minute?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  I think I was scheduled for Court 4.  I think because the court was going to be slow, I got moved.  I cried again. 
 
Q.  What will it be like if you got one of the big courts?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Oh, it would be great. 
 
Q.  What did you learn from last time about it? 
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  It was scary, it was.  I was a 17-, 18-year-old.  You know, it's amazing.  But from the last experience, I think I'll treat it, you know, in a different way.  
 
Q.  Can we expect more tears?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Oh, I'm not sure, (inaudible).  
 
Q.  Is your mom Ukrainian, as well?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  My mom was born in Kiev, so was I and my father.  The whole family was born in the Ukraine.  
 
Q.  Ever talked to Greg about that, your shared heritage?
 
ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  I've never spoken to Greg.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT