WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2002
Elena Baltacha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Would you like to bottle that moment and just keep it somewhere? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Still hasn't hit me yet.  Before the match, I was just thinking, "Just go out there and just be positive, stay positive, just play my game, be aggressive."  Still hasn't sunk in yet.  But I had lots of fun out there.  Wow... (Laughing).

Q.  It started so well for you.  Did you realize from that point that, you know, it was a game you could win? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, as I said, I went out there just thinking to be positive, not trying to think about anything negative.  I played my game today and it was a fabulous result. 

Q.  You got quite angry at various stages when you lost points. 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Yep. 

Q.  What was that all about?

ELENA BALTACHA:  'Cause I want to do so well.  You know, I want to  -- I kept on fighting out there.  I had chances.  A few chances I didn't take, then got them again, managed to take them. 

Q.  When you missed those chances, you smashed your racquet a couple times.

ELENA BALTACHA:  I did.  Not smashed it.

Q.  Threw it to the ground. 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.

Q.  Were you worried or concerned even that those missed chances would enable Amanda to get back?

ELENA BALTACHA:  I know Amanda's  -- she's a very good player.  When I missed those chances, I thought, "Am I going to get another one?"  She's such a good player that you don't usually get other chances.

Q.  She has a tremendous motion, she's always keeping going.  Did you think she thought at some point you would blow out?

ELENA BALTACHA:  I think Amanda, she kept on going.  She's unbelievably quick.  She got all my best shots back.  I just had to keep on digging in, keep on staying aggressive, and did I that. 

Q.  Did you surprise yourself and the intensity you were able to keep up?  The desire was helped by the crowd.  Did you surprise yourself you were maintaining such a fantastic level?

ELENA BALTACHA:  To be honest, it was difficult to keep, every single point, to keep staying with her.  But, you know, I played well today, and I stayed positive throughout the whole match. 

Q.  You play Likhovtseva in the next match.  She's unseeded.  Do you think it's a winnable game?

ELENA BALTACHA:  It's going to be another unbelievably tough match.  I played her last week at Eastbourne and I lost in two sets.  She's a brilliant player as well.  You know, I'm just going to go out there, stay positive, give my 100 percent, just to fight and dig in.

Q.  When you smashed the racquet, is that temper a feature of your game? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Not at all.  I mean, I'm not an aggressive person or anything.  I mean, I don't go around beating people up or anything but... But it was just at that moment, I just, you know, just threw my racquet.  It happens. 

Q.  It's just that sometimes when players are told maybe you need that aggression in your game to sort of see you through it. 

ELENA BALTACHA:  No, I'm very feisty.  I mean, I give it the, "Come on."  That's the way I am, that's the way I play, that's my character. 

Q.  Everyone, I think, is aware of what your parents have achieved in their respective sports.  Are you hopeful, do you think that this win today, a big win in front of such a big audience, is going to put you into the sporting line in your own light? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  To be honest, I mean, I've had a great win today but I've still got lots and lots of things to work on.  I mean, probably grass is my favorite surface, but I still need to win matches on hard and on clay.  I'm working bloody hard on that. 

Q.  People are going to know who you are now, aren't they?  Are you aware of that?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, it's one big win.  It's not, "Oh, my God, I'm there," or anything.  As I said, I've still got lots and lots of things to work on.  It's really given me a boost and I'm looking forward to my future.

Q.  Were you aware of the support?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, people were going bananas.  It was brilliant.  That was like  -- my hair was standing up on the back of my neck.  But, yeah, I mean, I had so much fun out there today.  It's unbelievable. 

Q.  Are your parents here watching you all week?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah.  My mom and dad was here, my friends were here, Allen was watching.  Yeah, there's a lot of people there.  It's brilliant. 

Q.  I'm all right in saying you don't see that much of your father normally.  Does this bring you close together at all? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  To be honest, can I just talk about tennis, please?  Thanks. 

Q.  When you went a set down, I mean, you get used to watching British girls go a set down and that's it.  How did you keep in there?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, I'm a fighter.  I always fight.  I always give 100 percent in my matches.  You know, always trying to stay positive. 

Q.  Is your fighting spirit something you've always had even as a child, or is that something that developed?

ELENA BALTACHA:  I've always been competitive - always. 

Q.  What was going through your mind when you won? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  I know, I couldn't believe it.  I was going to faint, I thought.  Just couldn't believe it.  I mean, Amanda is such a good player.  I mean, when I was young, I used to watch her on TV and stuff.  So... Still hasn't sunk in yet. 

Q.  Will you be able to celebrate? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  No.  No, I'm just gonna, just, you know, chill out.  I've got a doubles match so I have to eat, I have to eat first so I don't faint.  And, yeah, just, you know, concentrate on my doubles match and go back to the hotel, chill out, listen to music, have a good hit tomorrow. 

Q.  Is this going to make a difference to your future in terms of sponsorship and endorsement?

ELENA BALTACHA:  To be honest, as I say, it's one big win.  It's not, "Oh, my God, I'm Top 10," or anything.  As I said, I've still got lots and lots of improving to do.

Q.  How were your nerves before the game?  Did you sleep okay?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Yeah, I slept all right actually.  I mean, there was no pressure on me at all today.  And,I mean, I went out there, I was really excited.  I was nervous, because I wanted to perform well.  But, yeah, still can't believe it. 

Q.  Didn't come to net a lot, but when you did, you did really well.  Do you prefer to rely on your serve? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, my serve got me out of jail a few times today on big points.  I didn't think I served unbelievably well but it did get me out of jail on a few occasions. 

Q.  Have you ever worn contact lenses?

ELENA BALTACHA:  I have, yeah.  I used to wear contacts and they got all funny.  Especially playing on clay it used to hurt my eyes.  I stopped wearing everything, then I got really bad headaches, felt dizzy.  I found out it was coming from the eyes.  So either I needed contacts or glasses, and I found glasses are much more comfortable. 

Q.  I was reading also you are determined never to wear make-up on court.  Is that true?

ELENA BALTACHA:  Where did that come from?

Q.  In a newspaper last year. When you were talking about Kournikova. 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Oh, God, that was completely  -- no.  That was rubbish.

Q.  Can you set the record straight?

ELENA BALTACHA:  I don't care if people wear make-up or they don't wear make-up when they're playing a match.  Doesn't make a difference. 

Q.  It's likely that you'll be put on a show court, or there's a possibility.  Would last year help you in that? 

ELENA BALTACHA:  Well, last year, you know, I had an unbelievable experience playing on Centre Court.  But this year, it doesn't matter what court.  It is a court, you know, so it doesn't matter what court I'm put on. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT