SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2010
Tsung-Hua Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. MELZER/T. Yang
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Do you have any comment on the two matches in the China Open and in the Shanghai Masters? It's a pity in the two matches you had chances, but unfortunately you failed. So what do you learn from the two matches? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) Well, I think these two matches, in my view, I think I have improved a lot in those matches. 
 During my practice, we worked really hard, together with my coach. I think this is what is different from the past. During both these matches, as you mentioned, I had a chance to win. I think what I need to learn is how to handle those important moments, those critical moments, what I shall think at these critical moments. I think these are the areas I need to improve. 

 Q. Recently we heard you have been on a diet. Is it true? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) No, I don't think that's true. Maybe it's because the training has been really intensive and I have the pressure on the matches, so I have slimmed down a bit from 80 kilos to 75. 
 I think after losing some weight, especially in this match, with the 13th seed, I think my running has been improved. My speed also improved a lot. That's my feeling. 

 Q. I want to ask you, you changed from the teenage to the adult game. For you, what's the difference? What is your feeling? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) I think the most important difference is on your mental conditions and also on your physical strengths. I think it's been totally different from playing adult matches and playing the teenage matches. 
 The drive is different. You have less faults. It's hard to win the points. The strength, the physical strength, really counts in the adult game. 

 Q. I want to ask, after the Shanghai tournament, what is your schedule? Will you go for the Asian Games? Will you have intensive training? What games will you play? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) I'll first go to South Korea for a challenger and then will go for the Asian Games. We'll go to adapt to the facilities of the Asian Games because the weather can be different from Taiwan. So we'll go ahead to get some training and practice there on the ground. 
 The coach hasn't informed me about my schedule, about the games. I think I will play the groups, maybe not for the individual. For that we haven't decided yet. 

 Q. Just now you said that Larry brings you a lot of changes. Can you be more specific, the physical strength in terms of mental conditions? Can you talk more about the changes that Larry brings to you?
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) I think the biggest change is on the footwork. There's been more training. He also looks at my diet very carefully. He shows me what is the right way. 
 In the past, I used to be fat. Now I think my buildup has been improved. I have muscle now. He also looks very closely at my weight and my physical strength. We do the weight exercises every day and also we practice in terms of the speed. 
 People called me the Little Fatty. I think that's a nickname. It feels close. That doesn't mean I'm really fat. 

 Q. You have a lot of fans, both in Beijing and Shanghai. Some came specifically to Shanghai to give you support. They really want to hear from you. Do you have any message for them? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) I'm really grateful for them. In Taiwan, we do not have these tournaments. There's no such environment that allows me to express myself, to show myself. 
 I'm really grateful to the organizers for giving me this wild card so that I can participate in this game and I can have the support from my fans. They are really important to me. 
 Sometimes during the game, when I felt bad about myself, they would encourage me. They really gave me support. That's makes a huge difference for me. 

 Q. Now you start playing the adult games and have done quite well. You look handsome. You're good-looking for the girls. Do you want to be an idol player? How do you feel about this? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) Well, I don't think I'm that good-looking. I don't think I'm that handsome (laughter). 
 I think I'll focus on my playing. I'll focus on my performance. I'm not like Roger. I'm not a star yet. I need to work hard and improve myself. So this is not the question for me at the moment. 

 Q. You gave a strong performance in terms of your serving. What do you think about that? Was it a normal performance for you or 70 or 80 percent of a performance? 
 TSUNG-HUA YANG: (Through translation.) I think I still have room for improvement in my serving. I didn't give a stable performance. Sometimes I was quite good; other times I was not. I think I need to work on that. 
 I need to work on the stability of my serving. It's not stable yet. I need to work on that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT