BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2004
Javier Castellano
John Velazquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN VELAZQUEZ:   They had (inaudible).

Q.  Javier, it's a great thing alone to be riding with Bobby, but to be aboard a Breeders' Cup Classic winner who wins so impressively, tell us about the decision to move into the 3 path coming right out of the gate. 

JAVIER CASTELLANO:  I appreciate he gave me a lot of confidence with the horse.  He told me before the race I listened to you, I did my job, and now the whole (inaudible) I listen to you.  Whatever position you take, I listen to you.  I say I appreciate it, having a lot of confidence.  That's what he told me before the race.  I was in the gate and I had a lot of (inaudible) with the horse.  He brushed out of the gate.  I don't want to say, because he looked like all day from watching all the races and most of the horses it was outside a little bit, you know, (inaudible) and I took my chance and that's what I needed.  Plus, I (inaudible) win the race.  When I ask (inaudible).

Q.  (Inaudible) for a good part of the way around the race track.  Did you feel you had the horse under you at all times, even though he was latched onto you? 

JAVIER CASTELLANO:  I was talking to the horse.  I (inaudible) and Johnny was right there next to me.  I wait to the quarter post, and I see Johnny ride the horse and I say everything work out, it goes very well.  When I ask (inaudible) my horse, when I asked of my horse, he responds. 

Q.  Racing is filled with great highs and a lot of disappointments, also.  You had a couple of winners, but you also came in second with Kitten's Joy, a lot of people were high on.  Can you tell us your version of what went on in the stretch? 

JOHN VELAZQUEZ:  It is trouble with the ground.  (Inaudible) I was trying just to keep my position out there down the stretch.  When I finally got him in his gear where he was comfortable, I decided to pull him out and the winner came in and bumped me, and it sent me all the way back inside.  It doesn't seem as much of a shot that he had in 3, but it was much worse than they showed.  He would have won the race if I had the momentum at that point. 

Q.  Back to Javier, you and Todd Pletcher have been really quite a team for the last few years.  Can you talk about any personal satisfaction you derived in playing such a key part in getting (inaudible) over the hump? 

JOHN VELAZQUEZ: He got me over the hump.  I appreciate what he does for me.  He gives me so much confidence, like Javier said.  He has so much confidence.  You are very confident in your horses and you do the best that is possible for the horse.  I am just a little piece of the pie, really.  He does all the job.  I am really, really proud that he was in the first Breeders' Cup.  After winning the races, for him it was a big one.  I was the very proud (inaudible).

Q.  Javier had a relatively smooth ride with Ghostzapper with a shot turning for home like you had to find some running room for her, and you squeezed your way through.  How dicey was it in there? 

JOHN VELAZQUEZ:  It was really tight.  The horses, I was following him, and I knew he was going to (inaudible) a long time.  I thought I was following the right horse at the time.  The horse which was laying inside, I had to really squeeze it before I got to (inaudible), had to push the horse out of there and bide my time and get between (inaudible).  Once I got through there and in that position, she really responded.  She really shows a lot of heart.  She knew right there -- she got bounced around pretty good, and (inaudible) just to get that position.  She really did show a lot of heart. 

Q.  We were just talking earlier, both of you seem to know the horses came back from the races today without incident.  The weather wasn't necessarily ideal.  It poured last night, was pretty wet early on in the day.  How did the course conditions, both main track and turf course, seem for you as professionals? 

JOHN VELAZQUEZ:  I think personally the main track was excellent.  It was a little bit wet the first two or three races, but it didn't really matter.  It didn't hurt anybody.  The grass was pretty wet.  The first two races that we ran on, it was okay, but the third race was a mile and a half, it was a little more difficult for our horses, especially for my horse.  He was having a hard time just to get a hold of it.  It was coming back up again and the holes were there already.  It made it difficult for that kind of race, going a mile and a half when you have to go twice around.  For the most part, we can't complain.  The jockeys say we all came back in one piece.  Horses are going back in one piece.  I think it was a very successful day. 

Q.  In the Classic you went the half in 47, three-quarters of 11, which a lot of people go, "That's pretty slow."  What were the two you thinking when you got to the half or three quarters? 

JAVIER CASTELLANO:  I thought (inaudible) backside was really comfortable.  (Inaudible) the horse in the end to win the race. 

JOHN VELAZQUEZ:  I try something different with my horse.  We tried to (inaudible) so he won the race in Kentucky and settled pretty good, and very similar pace today.  It was the same thing today.  At the same time I did not want to go head-to-head in a blistering pace in front and hurt both of us.  He was inside.  I said, "Let's try to slow it it down the best we can," and from then on, two horses.  I had a lot of horse.  (Inaudible) had a lot of horse.  (Inaudible) the horses, the bridles, and let's pick it up from then on.  We both did.  He had a little more horse than I did. 

Q.  Well, tomorrow for the second year he will be giving away the Bill Shoemaker award for the most outstanding performance by a jockey in this Breeders' Cup.  It could well be a tight race between the two of you.  Congratulations, the great race you both had, and thanks for taking the time out with us from your day's work. 

End of FastScripts .

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT