ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 21, 2019
Eoin Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sri Lanka - 232-9, England 212
Q. Did you have any indication at halfway that the total would be a bit problematic?
EOIN MORGAN: No, probably about 40 more, maybe 50 more and that might have been the case initially.  Obviously, not accounting for the way that we batted.
Q. And what do you out the batting struggle down to today?
EOIN MORGAN: You look at the basics of a run chase.  You know, partnerships are very important.  We struggled to get enough partnerships going, or one substantial one.  There were a couple of individual innings.  But that is not good enough to win a game.
Q. You are renowned in this run for chasing.  The last two out of three now you haven't managed to get over the line, does that impact confidence?
EOIN MORGAN: No, I don't think it does.  I think when we get beaten we tend come back quite strong.  We tend to resort to being aggressive, smart, positive cricket, so let's hope that is the case on Tuesday.
Q. Before the start of the tournament you publicly said that Sri Lanka is not, they have about 15 players.  Are you surprised by the fact that Sri Lankans have stood up and performed well today and got the match?
EOIN MORGAN: No, not at all.  I think the performance...  Mally has been around for a long time.  Him coming in and bowling like that isn't surprising at all.
Q. How will today's result effect the team? Will confidence be knocked?
EOIN MORGAN: We are going to lose games in the group stages.  We didn't deserve to win today's game.  The other four times, I can't account for all of them but certainly different circumstances.
Q. You said confidence won't be hit too much.  What was your message to the players after that result because it was a shock?
EOIN MORGAN: Yeah, I think the message is quite simple.  We need to do the basics along with the way that we play as well.
Q. The belief you guys have kind of gained, I guess over the last four years, and that rise to No. 1 in the world, that is still as strong as ever, despite the result?
EOIN MORGAN: Yes, there is no reason why it shouldn't be.  We are going to play competitive games.  Again, we are not going to win every game in this World Cup.  We still need to go back to the process that's taken us to being a strong side in the world.
Q. Michael Vaughan was saying on the radio you weren't smart enough with the bat, would you agree with that assessment?
EOIN MORGAN: I'd probably say there were a number of things.  There were a couple of challenges that presented themselves with the wicket and we didn't overcome them.
Q. If you had your chance again, how do you think England should bat on that wicket?  Was it a bit like Cardiff in the Champions' Trophy semi?
EOIN MORGAN: I can't really remember that game to be honest (smiling).
Q. Well, in that time, it was -- you do remember really?
EOIN MORGAN: In that game in particular, one side batted really well and the other didn't.  In this, both teams struggled.
Q. Do you think that your batsmen were a bit unlucky with the Joe Root dismissal for example?
EOIN MORGAN: (Smiling) You can't account for that, you can't.
Q. You can't.  Is it fair to say that that Moeen wicket is a bit of a turning point?
EOIN MORGAN: No.  No, no.  I would say there were quite a few wickets that were turning points, simply in the fact that you have got guys coming in at 6 who average 40, 7 averaging 30.  We bat all the way down.  So every single one is quite significant because every single one could establish a partnership that could win you the game.
Q. You said -- injuries are going to happen.  How much has the Jason Roy injury thrown you out of kilter?
EOIN MORGAN: I don't think it has at all.  If you look at the games that we have played, obviously we would love him in the side and he is a huge strength at the top of the order, but that's not why we lost the game today, or why we might have struggled on this wicket.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT