ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 13, 2015
Eoin Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Eoin, after Bangladesh you said it wasn't the right time to be reflecting straight after the game.  You've had a few days now to think about it.  Where do you think this really has gone wrong and where do you think the English cricket does need to improve to make them a force in one-day cricket?EOIN MORGAN: Again, I think I mentioned after the Bangladesh game things that let us down throughout this World Cup have been very basic stuff, and again, it's put a huge microscope on the fact that when we've performed well, we've done reasonably well, and when we've been poor, we've been really poor. When you have a bad day, you have to find some way of scrapping or fighting in order to stay in the game, but when we've had bad days, we've been out of the game more often than not. In order to build on that, we need to get our basics right, things like building innings, creating partnerships, and building pressure with the ball.  And when we've been poor, we haven't done both of those things.Q. Eoin, where do you feel you are in terms of carrying on as captain of the One Day team?  I think after Bangladesh you were saying you wanted to carry on playing One Day cricket and you wanted to play Test cricket.  But what about captaincy?  Will you have a conversation with the bosses about that?EOIN MORGAN: Well, I think there's going to be a review over the next couple of weeks, and again, I can't determine whether I'll still be captain.  The hunger is still there to do it.  Absolutely, I've learnt a lot throughout this tournament, particularly when things haven't gone so well.  You obviously learn a lot about yourself and about the team, and I think things like that moving forward are crucial.  And I think sort of looking ahead, the personnel we have are the right personnel.  It's important to realise that we haven't clicked.  We haven't had guys in form, so to speak.Q. Eoin, over the course of this World Cup do you think your team has been adventurous enough?  And when you leave, what will be your main regrets from the tournament?EOIN MORGAN: There are no regrets, absolutely not.  We've given it everything, and certainly myself, I have.  Have we been adventurous enough?  I think when we've earned the right to be adventurous enough, yes, we have, but when we've had bad days, you can't afford to be adventurous.  I think an example of that would be probably the comparison between the Wellington game against Sri Lanka where we couldn't build pressure with the ball and bang it a length; in a comparison to today, I know it's extreme, conditions are in our favour.  But again, having built pressure like that, it allows you to set different fields and create a bit of pressure outside of the ball being bowled.  I suppose the Bangladesh game early is an example of that, as well.Q. The World Cup sort of brings to an end a sort of natural cycle.  Thoughts go toward the next four years and perhaps the change of personnel.  Is it your understanding that one or maybe more than one player in this squad will not be playing One Day cricket again for England?EOIN MORGAN: I have no idea.  I have absolutely no idea.Q. Do you think that should be the case?  Do you think there's some players in the squad that perhaps now it's time to move on and build for 2019?EOIN MORGAN: No, absolutely not.  We haven't got guys who are coming towards the end of their careers.  I don't see a reason to sort of --Q. So you would like the entire squad here to be considered for the next batch of One Day matches in the English summer?EOIN MORGAN: I think we have the right calibre of squad, yeah, absolutely.  Guys on the outside, again, need to be banging down the door.  It's an easy thing to sit here while we're not doing well and say, well, somebody outside the squad is obviously better suited, has great success.  We considered everybody when selecting the squad, and I still believe we had the right group of players here.Q. Eoin, it seems that Peter Moores is getting a lot of criticism.  He seems to be the focal point for the anger back in England.  What's your reaction to that?  Is that fair?  Has he been let down?EOIN MORGAN: I certainly think it's not fair.  All the responsibility should fall on the players.  It's our responsibility to perform as a side, particularly when we've performed so badly.  Certainly if there were little things where we couldn't get over the line or games where we competed and little parts of our game or little finer things in our game weren't right, you could look elsewhere.  But it's important that we realise as a side where the responsibility lies and how and where we want to -- sorry, where we want to be and how we want to get there.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT