ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 20, 2015
Eoin Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it a bit of shock, disbelief, embarrassment?EOIN MORGAN: Disappointment more than anything.  The way New Zealand bowled, it was better than (Indiscernible) in 35 overs, they built some pressure so really critical today.  Probably the best bowling display we've come across since we've been here and started to work which says a lot considering we played against Australia.  But today we couldn't cope with it or put up any points.Q. I imagine you prepared for this World Cup and One Day cricket.  Can you explain why they're not yet ready for this?EOIN MORGAN: Yeah, again, these first two games as you said are going to be difficult games playing in these conditions.  But we shouldn't be beaten by this much.  Today we were outskilled in the first game we played against Australia.  We were way below par.Q. How do you explain it?EOIN MORGAN: Not doing their basics.  Not producing when we practice.  And, again, we envisioned the future of having lost your first event, but not by this much.  I mean, we can still make the quarterfinals, as soon as we start winning and getting into the next game.Q. You seemed to be intimidated by the tournament, by the atmosphere and where you're playing?EOIN MORGAN: I think when we're not doing our basics well, we're being exposed by good teams, and we've seen that today.Q. Can you talk about how attacking Brendon was of his captaincy?  And what did New Zealand's fielding add to the pressure?EOIN MORGAN: I thought they fielded and bowled really well.  This time in particular giving us another cricket ground, the ball leaves and the wicket actually stops and holds it so they can sort of go on normal ground, so it's easier to build pressure.  As it takes, it's quite attacking the ball.Q. You're still in the World Cup, of course.  Two days before the next game.  How do you turn it around?EOIN MORGAN: Well, (Indiscernible) as much as the guys have gotten to this point, and look at themselves individually on what they can improve before we play Scotland.  I think collectively we're going to have to get tighter as a group and produce collective performances.  So instead of producing individual performances, we need to produce a team performance.Q. Before this game Paul (Indiscernible) suggested speaking of your job, that unless England turns things around quickly, the job, not necessarily yours, but it would be a threat.  Is that something that you agree with?EOIN MORGAN: I certainly agree that we have to turn things around quickly.  As I said, we need to start winning, and we'll work to get momentum to get to the quarters, to the semis and so on.  So I agree with that.Q. Do you have any theories as to why your skill levels are as low as they have been in these past two games?EOIN MORGAN: I can certainly see us being a little bit tentative in the first game.  Today I think we were just outskilled.  I thought they bowled incredibly well.  The balls slowed late, and then again they exposed us.Q. Would you agree that the swinging ball had a decent swing bowler is something that English batsmen should be able to do?EOIN MORGAN: Yes, certainly.  But again, we're trying -- the cricket we're trying to play and I'm trying to concentrate on to win this World Cup doesn't always bring us a single win.  So again, you have to play more if you expect it to swing in your way.  Does that make sense?  Okay.Q. Can you tell us how difficult was it batting today?EOIN MORGAN: I actually didn't face him.  But it looked pretty difficult.  Again, when he can turn it over in the fashion that he did, you know, credit to him.Q. And where would you rate him as one of the best swing bowlers in the world?EOIN MORGAN: I don't want to put it that one on this day, but he's obviously five or six years and Jimmie's obviously played for a lot longer.  But certainly if he continues to produce performances like this, there is no reason why he can't be categorized the same.Q. Lastly, did you find it a little silly taking a dinner break, did that frustrate you?EOIN MORGAN: Oh, I was looking forward to it.Q. Obviously, you have to make changes to reinforce the performance.  Is it just not acceptable?EOIN MORGAN: Certainly you don't want to get into a state of panic where we make three or four changes in One Day.  That's certainly not what I'm about.  I've always believed in making good decisions and batting the right players at the right time.  I believe at the moment that any of our players can play.  The players that played today I believe were the best to win today, and on given conditions, we'll change plans accordingly.  But, again, just because we were there for them today doesn't necessarily mean anything.Q. Your instincts as a group, why did you not get set today?  The bowl seemed to be swinging in practice.EOIN MORGAN: Yeah, the only thing that occurred this morning, there wasn't a cloud in the sky.  If there's any -- if it looks like it's going to swing, obviously I have no worries in bowling first, because that's our biggest strength.  The first ten overs if we can take three or four wickets in the game.  But today everything today just hit and went wrong.Q. (Indiscernible) if you come back you're 0 for 3 or something like that, and there is no room getting there.  Do you kind of kick yourself the way you got out?  I know you took an attacking option which is what you do.  But looking at the situation?EOIN MORGAN: Yeah, as the partnership progresses, we keep trying to put the emphasis on putting pressure on their bowlers, and again they bowled well and they put pressure on us.  When things are going their way, that happens, and I said that and we move on.  But looking back, I still would have played that aggressive shot because at the time we needed to take the game continually to them because they were taking the game away from us.  Not away from us, but gaining control.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT