NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2014
Kostas Papanikolaou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What does it mean for Greece to have you and Giannis here representing the country? 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   I don't know.   Maybe we should ask the Greek guys.   Greek basketball, I think it's a great thing, to have two guys in the All‑Star Game.   To have Giannis last year and I have the chance.   I'm really excited to be here, too.   I think it's a big thing for Greek basketball to have two guys participate in this event. 
Very excited.   Very happy.   I can't wait to live this day, today, tomorrow, the whole event, and spend this time with all these guys. 

Q.   What are you looking forward to the most? 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   Step on the court with this guy, my Greek guy, and have a chance to play together.   I think that will be very tight thing.   Also, I told you, we're talking about the Rising Star game.   That means a lot.   We're talking about the elite players coming into the NBA.   I'm really happy and excited to be here and be a part of it. 

Q.   Do you guys have any trick plays lined up in Greek? 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   I don't know about that.   We'll have to wait until tomorrow. 

Q.   What is a message you can share for other Greek kids that want to be like you?   Maybe you can inspire them. 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   You know what, the most important thing is just do what you do.   Don't leave school, first of all, because school is everything.   Gives you to educate, to live your life.   After that just keep working hard.   You know?   Nobody tell you what your limits.   You just keep working hard and you can find out what your limits.   I never put my limits on.   Now I'm here, and I'm really glad to be here. 

Q.   Tell me about being in Brooklyn. 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   Oh, I just arrived.   So we arrived today at 10:00 A.M.     Straight flight from L.A. last night after the game.   So we were exhausted.   I went straight to sleep.   I didn't have the time to walk around.   Sorry, I have nothing to tell you.   I'm so sorry. 

Q.   But it's your first time in Brooklyn? 
KOSTAS PAPANIKOLAOU:   We played once with the Brooklyn Nets.   But still we didn't have the time to walk around.   Maybe you can point some places for us to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT