NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2011
Ryan Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RYAN MURPHY: Get to the puck to the net. I shoot the puck a lot, but at the same time I have good vision and I can find guys at the side of the net as well.  
  
  Q. Coming into this process, you've always had something to prove. You've proven it to a lot of people today that you're ready for that next step. What's going through your head now as far as you've gone this far to prove a point and now you have a lot more to prove, don't you?   
 RYAN MURPHY: Yeah, my next step is to obviously make it into the NHL. I'm going to work every day this summer.   
 I'm going to try to get bigger and stronger and hopefully I'll be in the lineup for next year.  
  
  Q. How do you do that and remain who you are though? Everybody will say you need to get bigger and stronger, but as you are that's gotten you to be the player that got drafted?   
 RYAN MURPHY: Yeah, I'm not going to go into the gym to try to get to 200 pounds, because I know that will affect my game. I'm going to go into the gym and try to put on a good 15 pounds of good weight and allow me to play the way I do.  
  
  Q. In North Carolina, you've seen the fan interest there. When that team is performing well, they're just as rowdy as anybody in the National Hockey League. You haven't had a lot of time to think about that, but now can you try to picture yourself in that uniform standing on that ice and having that kind of energy with the fans?  
 RYAN MURPHY: I honestly can't wait to get into that building and step on the ice for the first time. I know Jeff Skinner loved it there, so hopefully I can love it too.  
  
  Q. The fact that he was able to succeed so early in his career there must give you confidence that the door's open?   
 RYAN MURPHY: Yeah, I saw Jeff go through this whole process last year and him having such a successful year in the NHL gives me a lot of hope.  
  
  Q. You learned a lot from your squad and the folks at the Kitchener Rangers? What specifically has prepared you for today?   
 RYAN MURPHY: I don't know. I mean, my coaches up until now have been really fortunate that they haven't really tried to change the way I play my game. They've just been adding to it. So hopefully there in Carolina they'll just add to it and not try to change me as a player.  
  
  Q. Where do you see yourself in your development? Do you think you can start next year in the NHL?   
 RYAN MURPHY: Yeah, I'm a confident kid, and I would like to say I can play in the NHL next year. I've seen Jeff Skinner do it, and I think to myself why can't I as well?   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT