TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 30, 2013
Cyril Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about what classes you're taking. 
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   I'm taking English III, English IV, Geometry, Algebra, Algebra II, both parts.   That's probably my biggest challenge right there, math.   I'm not a very strong math person. 
I'm taking all these summer school classes, trying to get all these credits to the point where I can play.   Around the end of July, there was two camps.   There was a TCU camp and a Baylor camp.   I missed the TCU camp.   It was weird because I literally live two minutes away from TCU.   My mom works at a school near TCU.   I just didn't have time to go. 
The next day comes.   We're like, All right, move on.   I went to the Baylor camp.   I met Coach Briles.   I met Coach Clements.   Throughout my whole year in college, he guided me and taught me everything I know.   He just made this journey through college so smooth, gave me as much success as I could. 
Like I said, I went to that camp, met him.   I met a lot of guys. 

Q.   Coach Briles said they put you through a rope test.   He was impressed by your feet, agility. 
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   I thought I was going to fall on those ropes (laughter).   We did ropes similar to that, so I was kind of used to it.   They had the ropes up so high, it was just weird. 
I was just like, Okay.   We did a lot of drills there.   I just picked it up and did everything they told me to do.   Because Coach Clements really liked that, at the end of the day, he offered me.   On the drive back, I accepted.   Called him up, accepted. 

Q.   Your first offer and you took it?
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   Yeah.   I was set.   I played that whole year, no problems, none at all.   It wasn't the best season in the world, but still it was my first real year playing football, the most experience I've gotten out of everything for football. 

Q.   You hadn't even played a full year of football and they offered you. 
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   When you think about it, there was a lot of trust, a lot of belief in me, like I could do what they needed me to do.   I don't know if Coach saw any film of me.   He liked what he saw of me that year.   After that year was over, it was a good experience. 
After that year was over, that's when things started getting good.   I had to finish school.   I got past the first part of Algebra I, English, all those classes were in the bag.   It came out to the point where the math class wasn't working out and I was going to have to take a different route to get that credit. 
They put me inside of a credit recovery class.   They warned me that nobody has really gotten past this, but we can try this.   If this doesn't work, we can try another option. 

Q.   This is Algebra II?
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   Yes.   I had to move on to my next option.   Looked like I wasn't going to graduate and move on.   Moving on to the next step, it was a credit recovery thing, it was what they call a crash course.   It was just a week of doing Algebra every day for about two and a half hours.   This is summer, after graduation.   So I missed my graduation. 
I did the crash course.   I learned a lot more then.   It became a little easier to me.   I ended up getting a C‑plus out of it and got the credit.   Eventually we got the credit and I was able to get my diploma, so right then we were going. 

Q.   You were able to start that fall?
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   I didn't start that fall, because then I had to start dealing with the clearing‑out stuff.   I'd been to three high schools.   I had to get records from my first high school, records from my second high school.   The last one wasn't that tough, but the other two were tougher because they had to fax information. 
I was cleared like almost around the end of August.   End of August I was cleared and finally made it to Baylor, so... 

Q.   When Coach Briles says he thinks you're the best offensive lineman in America, what is your reaction to that? 
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   Well, that's funny you say that.   I don't know.   I believe him.   I believe him.   I feel that way.   But I always believe I have to work on something else to improve my game. 
If I don't see anybody else doing what I'm doing, that's the way it is. 

Q.   How much attention do you get in a game from the opposition?
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   Can't really tell when they're smacking you in the face all the time (laughter). 
It's hard to say. 

Q.   Do you feel like they're game planning just around you?
CYRIL RICHARDSON:   No, I wouldn't say that.   I wouldn't say that.   'Cause if they were, you could see it.   I don't know about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT