SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 4, 2007
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   AREE SONG:  Really hard to score today.  It went long.  I kind of managed my game pretty well for the most part.   
  
  Q.  How did it change having missed (indiscernible) --   
 AREE SONG:  There was a period where it actually got a little warm.  That was nice.  It was fun every once in a while.   
 But it's nice.  I think the course is in good shape for the weather that we've been having here.   
  
  Q.  Have you played here before?   
 AREE SONG:  Yeah, I have.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell if there's any considerable difference in the course from having played it in the fall as opposed to playing in the spring this year?   
 AREE SONG:  I think I hit about four rescues and four 7-woods, so that's almost nine holes of just woods.  So that make it a little harder to set up birdie chances.   
 I think if you play smart and wait it out and wait until you get on a hole where you can really attack and be patient that you can do damage.   
  
  Q.  Do you like where you're at considering?   
 AREE SONG:  Yeah, I think so.  It's not the finish I was looking for, but overall I'm pretty pleased with my game.   
  
  Q.  What happened on the last hole here?   
 AREE SONG:  Last hole I decided to give that tree a little visit.  I was trying to go a little bit more left obviously and just pitched it to the right.  It was a tough pin though.   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible).   
 AREE SONG:  On the front?   
  
  Q.  Didn't you get to 4 there?   
 AREE SONG:  Oh, okay.  Yeah, I did.  I just hit a bad drive and never really recovered from that.  I couldn't get home on the Par 5.  Two-putted for bogey.   
  
  Q.  You're still looking for your (indiscernible) --   
 AREE SONG:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What does it take to close the deal here?  What in your mind is it going to take to be that last person on Sunday?   
 AREE SONG:  Adjusting to what I have is good enough out here really.  I have a tendency to think that I need to keep improving and getting better.  And sometimes, you know, what I have is good enough and I just have to trust that.   
  
  Q.  Is it a little easier than playing in that final group seven years ago with Karrie Webb?  How far you've come since then?   
 AREE SONG:  I think I have more experience now then when I was playing at that time.  So I'm hoping to be able to use that experience this week and you never know.   
  
  Q.  What was that experience like?  At the time Karrie was one of the top players in the world for you and it was your teenage years?   
 AREE SONG:  It was pretty amazing.  Just learned so much from the round.  They're just great players.   
  
  Q.  Have you been able to refer back to that from time to time?   
 AREE SONG:  Yeah.  I have a very short memory, as you can tell.  But, you know, I'm just trying to do my best out here and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  What does it take to get birdies out here?   
 AREE SONG:  Well, I think patience.  I've been trying to make it so you can set up birdies with wedges and 3 and 4-footers.  So it's being patient and making good strokes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT