U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2003
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about waiting for Annika and that whole situation, what that was like on that last hole?
AREE SONG:  I don't think it was as tough for me, as it was for her.  It must have been tough, just waiting and waiting and waiting.  But for me, I was just talking and just relaxing with my caddy.  It was tough because I really wanted just to see it and go ahead and hit it, but it really wasn't that bad.

Q.  Did you have fun out there today?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean if you told me when I got here that I was going to be under par through three rounds, and playing with Annika going into Sunday, I would have laughed.  But I've been playing well, and I played well at Pinehurst last week, and I've been hitting the ball quite well.  I'm not too surprised.

Q.  What did you learn from playing with Annika?
AREE SONG:  Just -- I mean she's so controlled all the time, tee-to-green, every hole, she's so controlled and calm and confident.  And hopefully I'll learn a lot from her.

Q.  How do you think the teenage brigade did this week?
AREE SONG:  I think they did well.  It's very difficult to make the U.S. Open your first tournament on Tour, really, not only because of the atmosphere, but you don't get to play this type of golf course in amateur golf.  It's very different.  And you don't really hit a 9-iron from 150, land it 130 in the front and it rolls 20 yards, hopefully, you don't really get that kind of golf, anyway, except for the U.S. Open.  I think that's really a mental test as well as a physical test.

Q.  Were you impressed with not only yourself, but there were other teenagers, too, do you think you guys did a pretty good job?
AREE SONG:  I think so.  I can't really speak for anyone else, because I really don't know their game.  But I'm pleased with the way I played.

Q.  Were you aware that this gets you into next year and not have to deal with all the qualifying?
AREE SONG:  Oh, that's nice.  That's great.  36 holes of qualifying is --.

Q.  You didn't know that?
AREE SONG:  No.  I thought it applied to pros.  But I didn't know it applied to amateurs. 

Q.  This U.S. Open is symbolic, Michelle has gotten most of the publicity, and people see a great future for her, but you're among the other teenagers.  Will you look back on this as a very important U.S. Open as far as the new breed coming in or is that something the media is making too much of?
AREE SONG:  Well, I think there are certainly some players who are -- some good players coming up who haven't really gotten the exposure.  And this week they've gotten some.  But I think it's a preview of what's in the future, really. 

Q.  Will you watch the playoff tomorrow, will you be here, are you going to walk the course, are you going to watch it in a hotel?  What are you going to do?
AREE SONG:  I'm not sure.  My flight is at 11.  I'm not sure if they want me to be here or not. 

Q.  Did this remind you anything of playing in the last group of the Nabisco three years ago, or is it so different, so long ago, do they compare at all?  Which was more fun?
AREE SONG:  I think a little bit.  Karrie
 was No. 1 at the time, and Annika is No. 1 now.  And I think I definitely feel more comfortable this time around, just because I've done it before and I know what I'm going to feel.  I knew what I was going to feel like coming into today.  I was much more calm today than I was when I played when I was 13.  I think it helped.  I just didn't quite get off to a good start, really.  Never really got it on the green, never got any good looks at birdies.  But I'm proud of the way I finished coming in.

Q.  Let me ask you about your view on Michelle and her future.  You probably don't like to analyze other players, but you know her play pretty well.  She's a youngster like you were coming up.  What is her future, do you feel?
AREE SONG:  I think she's doing great right now.  I really can't comment on that, because like I said I don't really know her game that well.  I've seen her hit a few shots here and there, but I'm sure she'll be fine.

Q.  Any advice you would give someone at that age, having gone through the struggles or the difficulties of a 13, 14, 15 year old, what's the biggest thing someone that age needs to deal with?
AREE SONG:  Just expectations, really.  Your expectations of yourself shouldn't be from what other people expect of you.  And if you try to take in what everyone is saying, and read everything, I don't read any articles about myself or anything like that.  So I think that's the main thing, really, just --.

Q.  You don't read articles about yourself?
AREE SONG:  No, I don't. 

Q.  Basically it's maintain a level headed attitude?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, I think so. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT