U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2003
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Great playing out there.  What were your general thoughts from the round?
AREE SONG:   Thanks.  I think it was a pretty solid round all around.  My goal today was to stay patient.  And I think I did that.  I did not worry about what anyone else is doing, really was the main thing.  Just kind of played my own game. 

Q.  You played the last 10 at 5-under.  Anything really sparked you to get things turned around out there?
AREE SONG:   I don't start off too poorly, really.  This course is so difficult that if you hit one bad shot it's so easy to make bogeys and if you just try to focus on what you're doing you have a better chance of getting it back, really. 

Q.  Must be nice to end with a birdie on 18. 
AREE SONG:  Yeah, that was nice.  All the people cheering.

Q.  Give you a little momentum going into tomorrow too?
AREE SONG:  Hopefully.  But tomorrow's another day.  I take it day by day.  So today's done and tomorrow is just another round. 

Q.  You've been in this position before, what have you learned in the past that's going to help you tomorrow?
AREE SONG:   Just keep focused is the main thing, really, not worry about my score or what the lead is, not looking at the leaderboard.  I think that's the way I play my best.

Q.  You're 4-over on the front, 6-under on the back for the week.  Is the front playing that much more difficult?
AREE SONG:   I'm not sure.  I don't know, I just -- it might be a little bit more difficult on some holes.  If you just roll the ball, try and get it to the hole, you'll make birdies out here.

Q.  So when you go out tomorrow you're not looking at the leaderboard at all?
AREE SONG:  No.

Q.  Just playing and focusing on what you're doing?
AREE SONG:  Yeah. 

Q.  Are you surprised at all to be where you're at right now?  I think you're tied for third place, is that right?  At 2-under, along with Annika Sorenstam.  How does it feel to be there and are you surprised to be in that position?
AREE SONG:   I'm not too surprised, really, this golf course is so difficult.  I really like where I'm at.  It's just so tough.  I think that to be under par is just a great thing, really. 

Q.  Would you surprise yourself if you won?
AREE SONG:   Oh, I don't know.  I'm not really thinking about winning.  I just want to have fun, just keep having fun.  That's the main thing.

Q.  It's fun to win though, isn't it?  What happened to your twin sister?
AREE SONG:   I'm not sure.  She didn't play so well.  I think she missed the cut, but she was out there cheering for me today, so that was nice to see.

Q.  Did she have the same outfit on as you?
AREE SONG:  No, I was afraid she would get mobbed.  She would distract me.

Q.  You had a caddy who is local here.  What kind of -- talk about that and the influence that it may have positively for you to make a lot of birdies and read the greens. 
AREE SONG:  I think the main thing is trust, really.  I really trust him and he's played 15 hundred rounds of golf here, I think.  So he knows the course probably the best.  I think he keeps me patient.  That's the main thing.  He's really low key also like me.  So I think it helps.

Q.  He's just your caddy for the week?
AREE SONG:  Yes. 

Q.  Just so we get it right, what's his name?
AREE SONG:   Don Hall. 

Q.  H-A-L-L?
AREE SONG:  Yes.

Q.  He's from Portland or just the area or   --
AREE SONG:  I think he's from here.  He's a member here. 

Q.  How did you find him?  How did you get him to tag along with you?
AREE SONG:  A few of our friends live here and they're members here.  So I just asked them to find the best golfer around, really.  And he's the best one.

Q.  What do you think about Michelle Wie?
AREE SONG:   I think she's a great player, obviously. 

Q.  Have you met?
AREE SONG:   Yes.  I met her.  So she seems really nice. 

Q.  Have you ever run into a situation as like she had earlier in the week where maybe perhaps not knowing the rules out here and a veteran player getting upset with you.  Etiquette and stuff?
AREE SONG:   No, not really.  I think I've been pretty good with that.  A lot of the players have said that they really appreciate me being knowledgeable about that.  No, I never run into anything like that. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT