U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2003
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You seem like you're doing okay with this pressure for a 17 year old. 
AREE SONG:  I guess so.  If you say so. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Well, you are in the lead. 
AREE SONG:  That's nice. 

Q.   Obviously you're happy with your round.  And tell us how it went out there. 
AREE SONG:  Well, I was so nervous on the first tee I was just glad to make contact, really.  I hit a nice tee shot to start my day.  And I just -- the key to this golf course really is staying patient.  So I think that I did that pretty well today.  And hopefully it will continue throughout the week. 

Q.   What do you think, you've got 14 teenagers like yourself, obviously you think you can play with these ladies just fine, don't you?
AREE SONG:   If you say so. 
(Laughter.) I don't know. 

Q.   What do you say?
AREE SONG:   What do I say?  I just take it as it comes, really.  I see this tournament as a test of golf.  I've decided that that's all I'm going to see it as.  If you start to play it up, it's just too hard to play.

Q.   Are you surprised to be tied for the lead after the first day?
AREE SONG:  Am I tied for the lead? 

Q.   Yeah. 
AREE SONG:  That's nice. 

Q.   Are you surprised?
AREE SONG:   I'm sure there will be more low scores in.  But I'm a little bit surprised, I guess.  I don't know that 1-under would be leading.  But overall I'm quite happy with the way I'm playing, just I hit a few bad shots coming in, but I had a really good iron day as far as the whole thing goes.  I think it's crucial to hit your irons well here.

Q.   On 6 do you have any shot to try to go for the green?  Obviously you made a great par there, but chipping out there, was that even a choice to go for the green?
AREE SONG:   No. 

Q.   The downhill, left-hand turning dogleg par-4?
AREE SONG:  No, not there.  That was the only play I had, really.  I got in the rough a few times today and I didn't have any good lies.  All I could do was just punch out to the fairway. 

Q.   On 9 it worked okay?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, I close my eyes, hit it hard, roll it up there.

Q.   How far were you on that shot?
AREE SONG:   I was about 149 to the pin.

Q.   149?
AREE SONG:  Yeah. 

Q.   Everybody keeps talking about how hard the course is playing.  Do you feel that same way?  Were you surprised to come in at 1-under then?
AREE SONG:  I think the course is definitely difficult today.  There were a few pins that -- number 17 I think that was the toughest pin placement.  I hit a really nice drive in there and I don't think there was any way I could stop it.  So sometimes you have to play for pars and that's what I think I tried to do today. 

Q.   What happened on 18 and how difficult a finishing hole is it?
AREE SONG:   Well it's not difficult if you hit three straight shots.  But I just got a bad break, the ball kicked right out of the fairway into the rough and didn't have a shot again.  I was in a terrible lie.  And I just punched out.  I hit a 5-iron shot there.  But I hit it too far left.  Overall it was fun, really. 

Q.   I didn't see Naree today, but I assume she's dressed the same as you again.  Why do you guys do that?
AREE SONG:   I don't know. 

Q.   You don't know?  Whose idea is it?
AREE SONG:   We have been doing it for a long time now.  It's normal for us. 

Q.   You talked about being so nervous on the first tee, you've been to a handful of these type of events.  Don't you get more comfortable each time you get out here?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, but on the first tee it's different.  As the day went on though I wasn't as nervous as I was last year or even this year earlier at the Nabisco Championship.  I think I'm definitely feeling more comfortable out here. 

Q.   How much better a player are you than when you first played in the Nabisco when you were 13?
AREE SONG:  I think I'm smarter now.  A smarter player.

Q.   Are you hitting it longer now?
AREE SONG:  Yes, I'm hitting it a lot longer.  But you don't really need that here on this golf course.  I think my game suits a U.S. Open a little bit more than let's say four years ago or five years ago.  Just because I've learned to be more patient. 

Q.   With all the attention focused on Michelle Wie these days, do you like floating a little bit more under the radar than when you were the 13 year old everybody was talking about?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, I guess.  Hopefully I'll play well this week and that.  But I believe the attention she's getting is great.  Hopefully she will be able to tolerate the pressure and not let it get to her.  That's the main thing, really. 

Q.   When did you guys go from being known as Wongluekiet to now Song?
AREE SONG:  Song is our father's last name.  And we switched to Song from Wongluekiet?  When was it?  Do you know?  A couple of months now, I guess. 

Q.   Any particular reason?
AREE SONG:  Just because it's easier -- hopefully it's easier for you guys.  Although someone called me Song today, so. 

Q.   Have you talked to Michelle at all?  Have you guys had any interaction because you as a 13 year old have already gone through the same thing that she's going through?  Have you guys talked about that?
AREE SONG:  I seen her a couple of times here and there, but not really. 

Q.   No advice or anything like that you gave her?
AREE SONG:  I think she's doing pretty well.  No.  So, I don't think she needs any advice. 

Q.   With all the attention that the youth movement is getting, the 14 teenagers playing in this event, how fitting is it that a 17 year old such as yourself is tied for lead so far after the first day?
AREE SONG:   Well you guys can write about that.  I just play.  That's what I do.  But it's obviously great the young players are doing well.  Hopefully more kids will take up golf and start playing it.  It's such a great game. 

Q.   Do you come here with the mindset of being low amateur or coming here to win this championship?  What are your goals here for the week?
AREE SONG:   To test myself.  That's the main goal.  Physically and mentally.  I play in tournaments to test myself, my game, and that's my main reason. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT