CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  We'll get started with Aree.  Thanks for joining us.
AREE SONG:  Thanks for having me.

THE MODERATOR:  First off, happy birthday.  18 today.  I'm sure this is a pretty nice way to start the celebration.  Tell us about your day, we'll go for there.
AREE SONG:  Yeah, I don't know which birthday was better, my 13th or my 18th.  But I think I've never heard so many "happy birthdays" in my life.  I'll be lonely tomorrow (laughter).
Q.  (Inaudible)?
AREE SONG:  I don't know.  Maybe I'll jump in the lake or something.
Q.  Can you tell us what you're planning for tonight?
AREE SONG:  I'm not sure what it is.  (Inaudible) last night.  I hope it's not a bomb.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
AREE SONG:  Actually, we've had birthday dinners so far every day.  Maybe we'll just eat in tonight.
Q.  Couple more birthday questions.  Have you gotten any presents yet that you've opened?  What has been the best thing you've gotten so far?
AREE SONG:  I got a few CDs, gift certificates to Best Buy.  I don't know.  Do you want to give me something (laughter)?
Q.  Might be a big check in it tomorrow.
AREE SONG:  That would be nice, yeah.  I wouldn't mind that.
Q.  Born in Thailand, Korean citizen.  Do you have dual citizenship?
AREE SONG:  I did have dual citizenship up until I was 15.
Q.  Of what?
AREE SONG:  Thailand and Korea.
Q.  Now it's just Korea?
AREE SONG:  Yeah.
Q.  Today you played very solid.  Lots of big names on the leaderboard coming at you.  Se Ri, Annika.  No bogeys today, no bogeys yesterday.  You're playing very consistent.
AREE SONG:  Yeah.  My goal is to hit fairways and greens, hopefully make some putts.  Didn't quite make as many putts as I did yesterday.  But I kept the ball in play.  I felt like I hit good putts, but they weren't just read right.  Just didn't go in.

But, you know, hopefully they'll start falling tomorrow.
Q.  You are still a rookie by title, but you've played in almost 20 LPGA events.  Do you feel like a rookie?  How prepared are you to win out here?
AREE SONG:  I played in so many events, I'm getting more comfortable out here, more used to playing in tournaments, traveling.  Just getting more comfortable with the Tour.
Q.  How about handling the lead, being there for the first time?  I think you're going to play with Annika and Kim.  How do you think you'll handle that, the pressures that go along with that?
AREE SONG:  Hopefully well.  But, you know, I've been around the lead quite a few times.  Not only on the LPGA tournaments, but even in amateur golf.  I can certainly fall back on those experiences.
Q.  What did you learn from the final round of the Nabisco?
AREE SONG:  What did I learn?  If you make a 30-footer for eagle on the last hole, you still might not win (laughter).
Q.  Where did you get your shirt?  What was the decision to wear that today?
AREE SONG:  I actually got a call from my manager on Monday.  Said to expect my outfit for the weekend in the mail on Friday.  I got them yesterday.  Opened them up.  This is what I see.  It's been fun, though.

THE MODERATOR:  Can you talk about your birdies.
AREE SONG:  I made a good putt on 14.  I saw Lorie's putt coming in left center.  I pretty much learned right straight from her.

THE MODERATOR:  Can you tell us what you hit.
AREE SONG:  Hit a sand wedge in from 80, 90 yards.  The putt was probably a 20-footer up the hill.

THE MODERATOR:  Then the birdie on 5.
AREE SONG:  Birdie on 5.  Just hit it out of the fairway, hit I believe it was a 7-iron in there.  Made a good putt, straight up the hill.  Maybe like an 8-footer.
Q.  Looked like you were playing very consistently.  Was it an adventure out there today?
AREE SONG:  I think the weather was an adventure.  As far as my condition, I just felt like I hit the ball pretty solid all day.  Hit a few loose shots here and there.  I just recovered well.  The main thing for me today was just keeping it in play and not missing on the wrong side.
Q.  At this stage of the season, what do you think is most difficult about being a professional, being on tour?
AREE SONG:  The most difficult thing?  I guess being away from my sister, that's a little bit difficult.  Just being on the road for so long, four or five weeks at a time sometimes.  I think that's going to be the most difficult part to adjust to.
Q.  What family do you have here with you?  Is Chan here?
AREE SONG:  He's actually here this week.  They don't have any tournaments.  He plays for Georgia Tech.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT