CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  We'll get started.  Aree, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Two consecutive rounds under par, no bogeys today.  Right now you're all by yourself at the top of the leaderboard.  I imagine that's a nice place to be.
AREE SONG:  Yeah, it is.  I played pretty well all day.  It was my last round as a 17-year-old.

THE MODERATOR:  Tell us about that round, what was working for you out there.
AREE SONG:  Basically my putter.  My putter was really good all day.  You know, I was pretty comfortable on the greens all the way through.  My short game saved me a lot today.  I didn't hit it great coming in, but I chipped in on 17 or 16.  You know, just kind of hung in there.  Finished well on the last hole, too.

THE MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Would you say today was the kind of round where you scored better than you hit the ball?
AREE SONG:  Definitely.  I didn't hit it as well as I did coming in on the Front 9.  I kept it together pretty good.  Just hung in there really.
Q.  Your year has gone pretty well lately.  What has been clicking for you overall in your game?
AREE SONG:  Consistency.  Not doing anything crazy.  Just kind of play my own game.  You know, I'm getting more comfortable each week as we go, getting used to the travel, being away from home for a long period of time.  Just getting to know the courses, too, helps.
Q.  What do you think of this course?  Is this a straight-ahead course?  Is this the kind of course you have to be careful in places?
AREE SONG:  I think this course, you've got to trust your targets.  That isn't always the pin or the middle of the fairway sometimes.  You really just got to play for the kick or play for the ball to come back.  That's pretty much the thing.
Q.  Is the travel and the playing consecutive weeks the biggest adjustments for you so far?
AREE SONG:  Yeah, because I've never done that before.  I've never played in four events in a row.  Even as a junior, the most I played was three in a row.

You know, it will take me some time to get used to it.
Q.  Everybody comes in the year with some goals.  Are you about on pace with the way you envisioned this year going?  Are you doing ahead of your goals?
AREE SONG:  Definitely.  I can feed myself now.  That was one of my goals.

You know, Rookie-of-the-Year would mean a lot to me.  That has always been my goal.  I'm always working towards that.  There's so many solid rookie players out here this year.  You know, I just got to keep up.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT