KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Well, congratulations on a second place finish.  You thrilled the crowd there with an eagle on the 18th.  Start out with that putt on 18.  Tell us about what you were thinking over the ball and after you made it and things like that.
AREE SONG:  Just standing in the fairway I had 210 yards to the hole.  And I knew I had to make a 3 to have any chance.  Of catching grace.  And I hit a solid 7 wood up there and it caught the slope and went down near the pin.  And that putt was, I just read it perfectly.  And I just hit it where I wanted to and it just went right in.

THE MODERATOR:  How far was the putt would you say.
AREE SONG:  I think it was about 30 feet.

THE MODERATOR:  Talk about the week as a whole, how you feel about the way you played and what kind of confidence you have from that.
AREE SONG:  Well, I played well through overall, just today I just couldn't keep my driver in the fairway.  It was sort of like the second day.  But overall I felt like I hit the ball pretty well.  My putting was really good for most of the week.  I just left a couple short coming down the stretch.  My short game has really helped me this week.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions?
Q.  You made the putt, can you then take us through what your emotions were watching grace over that putt and then watching her make it and just what you were thinking the whole time?
AREE SONG:  I did expect her to make it.  I reasons really disappointed when it went in.  Just because I just don't think I could have done any more.  I felt like I squeezed out a lot of shots today with the game I had.  When you don't hit it in the fairway here it's a very difficult course to make birdie on.  And I grinded my way around and chipped and putted here and there.  And it was a scramble today.
Q.  We talked earlier with Grace about how she got very close last year to winning a Major at the LPGA and how that might help her today.  Obviously you feel this is going to help you in the next three Majors and for the next 10, 12 years and beyond?
AREE SONG:  Definitely.  I think the more times I put myself in the position to win on Sunday I'm going to get more and more confident and comfortable.  And that's    I think I'm getting there.  I'm close.
Q.  Obviously you made a pretty good punch shot on 16 to get around the tree to get on the green, can you talk about the putt, the length of the putt and then how hard or how difficult it was, that putt, to keep it near the hole.  And then you ended up obviously going off the green.  How difficult was all of that?
AREE SONG:  I think it would have been more difficult if I would have panicked.  But I didn't.  And I decided early on this morning that whatever happened out on the golf course, I would stay within myself.  And I just hit that putt too hard.  That's all.  I just hit it too hard.  And it went all the way down and I left the second putt just on the lip, a millimeter short.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
AREE SONG:  That putt was probably around I think it was 20 yards when I paced it.  20 yards to the hole.  50 feet.  Yeah.
Q.  How long was the second one?
AREE SONG:  The second one was about 15 yards, so
Q.  I'm just wondering at what point did you realize your swing was just not there?  Was it at the driving range or as you start playing the front nine?  Like you say, that you're just going to have to scramble today.
AREE SONG:  I think it was funny because yesterday my swing didn't feel that great on the driving range, and I hit it better than I did today.  My swing felt great this morning on the range, but it's just one of those things where the harder you try it's almost like the worse it is.  But I just hung in there and I'm proud of that.

THE MODERATOR:  Anybody else?  All right.
Q.  Were you guys on the clock there late in the round?
AREE SONG:  We were on the clock on 17 and 18 and that's it.
Q.  17, was that the first time?
AREE SONG:  Yeah.
Q.  Did you feel like    I mean you guys had fallen quite a bit behind because of Grace's problems.  Did you feel hurried at all once he said something?
AREE SONG:  Well the putt on 17 was, I got behind it and I read it and it looked like it was a right edge putt.  And I lined up my ball there and aimed there and right after I got over it, it looked like it was a left edge putt.  So I was indecisive right off the bat and I didn't feel like I had time to back off.  I would be putting for four then, and so I think it got me a little bit there.  But I was just indecisive.
Q.  There was kind of a point in the middle of the front nine where it looked like you were in control.  You had a 2 shot lead and then Grace went on her little run.  Did you feel like 11 was where it sort of turned?  You hit your shot into the tree I think from the fairway and she wound up making birdie.  Is that, when you look back on it, was that a momentum switch?
AREE SONG:  I think maybe a little bit.  I did well to make par at 11 and she made an easy birdie.  So I think that got me a little bit.
Q.  Is it harder for you to play before millions of TV viewers as opposed to like coming to us and talking in the press conference?  Do you like press conferences?
AREE SONG:  I think it's fun.  I enjoy playing in front of people just because I know it's a good sign that I'm doing well and people are noticing what I'm doing.  No, I think everything else is a bonus, really.

THE MODERATOR:  If you're in here then that's a good thing too, right.
AREE SONG:  Yeah.  Absolutely.

THE MODERATOR:  Any more questions?  Can we go over your card then real quick.
AREE SONG:  Sure.

THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 2.
AREE SONG:  Birdie on 2.  Just hit a great second shot in there with a 7 wood and I had probably like a 15 footer for eagle and just missed it.  So I just made a birdie.

9, I hit a driver and 5 iron to lay up and pitched it up just past the hole.  I made a 20 footer coming back.

Bogey on 10, just pulled the second shot a little bit and flubbed the chip.  Didn't make the putt.  The putt was I think a 50 footer.  Maybe longer.

THE MODERATOR:  12 was a 3 putt.  What did you hit in there?  On 12.
AREE SONG:  I hit it in the trees off the tee and I hit a 7 iron below the tree and I 3 putted from the top.

THE MODERATOR:  Everybody all set?  Okay.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT