KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Aree, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Right now you're tied for the lead one round to go and in the first Major of the year.  Tell us how you're feeling and we'll take questions from there.
AREE SONG:  My goal today was to shoot 3 under.  And I did that.  I think I set myself up for a pretty nice day tomorrow.  Exciting day.  I've always dreamt about this and that's why I worked so hard is to get to where I am.

THE MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  You've played in the final round last group here before, can you tell us what you learned from that and what you'll take into tomorrow from that round?
AREE SONG:  I think it's just patience.  I think that if I stay patient tomorrow and just keep hitting good shots and just hang in there it will work out.
Q.  This is the final round and in the last group of a Major as compared to maybe the first three rounds, did you talk about that?
AREE SONG:  I think the course is going to be a little bit dryer and firmer and faster in terms of what my game plan is, I think I might have to change the targets a little bit and play for the release.  But I've been here enough times, not only in professional tournaments but also in amateur and junior golf that I'm pretty comfortable with the final round.
Q.  You've contended at Majors before, Aree , but as an amateur.  You're going to get a paycheck at the end of this weekend, so how
AREE SONG:  Hey, how about that.
Q.  How good is your decision to turn pro looking right now?
AREE SONG:  You think it's been pretty good so far.  I've played really solidly.  In Tucson and Phoenix.  And my game really fits this course, I think, just because I like the way it looks and it fits my eye.
Q.  Playing for money as opposed to playing as an amateur?
AREE SONG:  I don't think so.  It's just nice to know that you can actually get paid.
Q.  Why do you think there's so many great female Korean players as opposed to male Korean players?  Is it because in Asian societies there's so much emphasis on the men to go to school and carve out a lucrative business career?
AREE SONG:  That could be.  That could be.  But I think it's the machine in general they're just so many more, so many more men playing.  You look at the TOUR, there is so many more mini tours, the Hooter's, there's all these mini tours, compared to the women.  There's only one TOUR.  Two tours.  The LPGA and the Futures Tour.  And then the Ladies European Tour and then the European side there, but I think it's just more competitive there.
Q.  Is it kind of a gamble career, something you get into when you're young and it's kind of a gamble whether you make it to the big time or not so it might be too, too much of a gamble for some of the men who, of course, have to support their families?
AREE SONG:  Not so sure, to be honest.  I wouldn't know how to answer that question.  I can't    I really can't speak for that.
Q.  To be 17 years old and in your position is phenomenal.  Is there any frustration that there's so much attention paid to Michelle and your accomplishment this week might be slightly overlooked?
AREE SONG:  Not at all.  I like just to keep things nice and quiet.  I like to let my game speak for itself, really.  I think it's nice that no one's really paid attention.  I'm just allowed to go and have fun and stay under the radar.

THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your scorecard.
AREE SONG:  Sure, I'll try.

THE MODERATOR:  We'll work through it.  The birdie on 2.
AREE SONG:  That was a good up and down from the front left side of the green.

3, I got off to a pretty good start.  I hit a really good second shot, an 8 iron up to the right side of the pin.  Just level with it.  Just had like a 10 footer.

6, I had a bogey.  Just misjudged the putt, really.  I thought it was going to be a little slower and it just took off and I 3 putted.

Bogey on 11.  I hit a poor tee shot and I hit a worse second shot than the first.  So I compounded the problem.  And couldn't get up and down.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit for your second shot.
AREE SONG:  I hit a punch shot from the trees.

THE MODERATOR:  You drove it in the trees and then you had to punch out.
AREE SONG:  Yeah.

THE MODERATOR:  What was the third shot.
AREE SONG:  The third shot was a 7 wood up to the front edge and I didn't get up and down.

THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 12.
AREE SONG:  Yeah, that was a    I hit a good drive down the middle and hit a 60 degree wedge up to the, just next to it.  And had like a 20 footer for birdie.

THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 14.
AREE SONG:  Yeah, I just hit a solid 9 iron up there and just below the hole and I had a good look at it.  And it was just a 10 footer.

THE MODERATOR:  Then 17.
AREE SONG:  17, oh, that was a fun putt.  That was the longest putt I've made all year.  But it was nice.  Up from the front of the green and just died right into the cup.

THE MODERATOR:  How far do you think the putt was.
AREE SONG:  It was probably 30 yards.  So 60 feet?

THE MODERATOR:  Do you know what you hit off the tee?
AREE SONG: 7 iron.

THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  You guy as all set?  Thank you, Aree.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT