KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: A lot tougher day today than yesterday with the wind.  Just talk about that, how tough it was out there.
AREE SONG:   What a difference a day makes, really.  It's a totally different golf course today.  It's probably one of the toughest rounds I've ever played here at Mission Hills.  You have to think so much before you actually hit a golf shot.  There was the wind, and the greens were firm enough, a lot of factors played into hitting a golf shot today, but it was a lot of fun really because it's so different from what I'm used to.
Q.  You must be proud of yourself, four bogeys to overcome, too.  You scrambled and made it better than it could have been, I guess.
AREE SONG:   I'm proud of the way I hung in there.  Nothing was going in for a while.  I made a string of pars and a couple of bogeys here and there.  I just came around and made a few birdies toward the end.  It could have been better, but it could have been worse.
Q.  You've played this course enough to know that the wind can reek havoc on your game.  Maybe when you went to bed last night, did you hear the wind kicking up and knew this was something you were going to have to deal with today?
AREE SONG:   Actually, I woke up this morning and the tree outside the house was blowing pretty hard.  I watched the weather forecast and they said it was going to be pretty gusty all day.  I got myself mentally prepared just to go out.  Par was a pretty good score today.  I played to the safer sides of the greens, a little less aggressive.
Q.  Because of the weather play was extremely slow.  Did that have anything to do with your game?  Did it slow you down a little or anything like that?
AREE SONG:   I think a little bit.  It was slow.  It's because it's mentally draining, this weather and the pace of play, but it's the same for everyone so it's fair.
Q.  I wanted to ask you about the nationality thing.  There was a story in the Bangkok Post that said when you're 18, that you would have to choose your nationality, which passport to go with.
AREE SONG: Yes.
Q.  You're not 18 yet, though, are you?
AREE SONG: No.
Q.  When you're 18, do you choose?  Is that how it works?
AREE SONG:   Well, I chose before I was 18.  I actually changed my nationality.  I had both when I was 15, both Thai and Korean, and after 15 at the U.S. Open two years ago, I decided to go with Korean.
Q.  So it's not a point where you get to an age limit and you have to decide which passport, you just decided to go to the Korean one sooner?
AREE SONG: Yes.
Q.  Thais are such patriotic people, what was their reaction in Thailand to that?
AREE SONG:   I'm not really sure because I don't really follow the news.  I don't really read golf magazines or things like that.  Outside the golf course, I like to keep things nice and fun.  I enjoy movies and all the fun things that teenagers enjoy.  I can't really control what other people think.  It's my choice.
Q.  You've been with your sister here the last four -- three years, right?
AREE SONG: Yes.
Q.  Did you call her yesterday and tell her that you were at the top of the leaderboard and give her what happened, because she was in Florida?
AREE SONG:   She's actually playing in a tournament right now.
Q.  So you didn't talk to her?
AREE SONG:   I talked to her last night.  She said she saw me on TV, so I must be doing pretty well.  That's what she said, basically.
Q.  How tough is that, though, because you're so close to your sister, to be out here so young now starting off on Tour and being here the first major of the year and the first time without her at that major?
AREE SONG:   It's a little bit different, for sure.  I've always had her when we go away from the golf course, we relax and watch movies and listen to music and talk about other things, but I'm getting more used to it now, being away, but that's the only adjustment.
Q.  Did you go to the movies or did you just kickback?
AREE SONG:   She actually sent me a DVD on Monday, so that was nice of her.  I might have to pay her back, though.
Q.  What DVD was it?
AREE SONG:   We watch a show on Sunday night, Alias, on ABC, and we always miss it since we're traveling now.
Q.  What are you expecting tomorrow?  Are you going to do anything different?  Have you heard if the wind is going to keep up tomorrow?  What's your game plan?
AREE SONG:   Well, I think if it stays gusty like this, any score, a couple under, 1-under, even, anywhere around there is going to be my goal again.  If it keeps blowing like this, it's going to be so firm out there, the greens were so fast towards the end, so you've got to really be more conservative.
Q.  Let's go over your birdies and bogeys real quick.  Birdie on 5, the par  3.
AREE SONG:   I hit a good 7-iron up there and made a 20-footer right to left down the hill.
Q.  Bogey on 6?
AREE SONG:   I hit a poor second shot really, didn't catch it solid and just hit it a little bit thin and way too far.
Q.  What was the club there?
AREE SONG:   I hit a 7-iron there.
Q.  Did you go over the green?
AREE SONG: Yes, I went over the green, fast chip coming down, went past the hole and didn't make the putt coming back.
Q.  How far was that putt for par?
AREE SONG:   Probably like a 12-footer up the hill.
Q.  Another bogey on 10?
AREE SONG:   I thought 10, the pin placement on 10 was the most difficult all day to get to, and I just hit a wedge in there.  It didn't really matter what I hit, because it was going to hit and take off.  I had a 30-footer coming down and just didn't get the speed right and I 3-putted from there.
Q.  How far was that par putt?
AREE SONG:   Probably like a 15-footer, just left it short.
Q.  You had a birdie on 12, though?
AREE SONG: Yes, a birdie on 12.  I hit a nice little wedge in there and made that putt.  I actually had that putt last year at that same place, so I knew the break.  I just hit it right where I wanted to.
Q.  How far was the putt?
AREE SONG:   Like a 20-footer left to right.
Q.  Bogey on 15.
AREE SONG:   I hit a poor tee shot out to the right and punched out and I just didn't get up-and-down from the front left side of the green.
Q.  You punched out with your second, and what did you hit with your third in there?
AREE SONG:   I chipped it up, just left it short.  I thought it was going to be faster, but left it short and didn't make the par putt.
Q.  How far was that putt for par?
AREE SONG:   I would say probably a 15-footer.
Q.  Birdie on 16.
AREE SONG: Yes, hit a really good drive down in there and set myself up for a 7-iron, just sort of punched it in there to keep it under the wind.
Q.  How far was that putt?
AREE SONG:   It went past the hole, like 24 feet above the hole.
Q.  Then a bogey on the par 3, 17.
AREE SONG:   Misjudged the wind a little bit, I guess.  I didn't realize it was that far coming so hard off the left side and just hit it out to the right and rolled past the green.  It was a tough chip from behind the green.  You don't want to go past the hole.
Q.  What club?
AREE SONG:   I hit a 5-iron.
Q.  How far was that par putt?
AREE SONG:   Like a 20-footer up the hill, chipped it past.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT