KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2004
Aree Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:   Aree, thanks for coming in and joining us.
AREE SONG:  Thanks for having me.

THE MODERATOR:  33, 33, 66, that's a great way to open up your first major as a professional.  You played here many times as an amateur, but that certainly has to feel good.  Tell us about your day and we'll take questions from there.
AREE SONG:  Well, I guess it's about time I out-do my performance of about four years ago now, so.  It was a (starlet?) day today, ball striking-wise, short game-wise.  I mean, I hit the ball really well for a majority of the day.  It was fun.  You know, when you have that much control over the day, it's really enjoyable.

THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Was this as good a round as the 66 you shot five years ago when you were here?
AREE SONG:  I think so.  I mean, obviously, this is a first round.  We've got quite a ways to go, but it's a good start.  You know, it would be great to keep playing well like this.
Q.  With all the attention being paid Michelle Wie now, you've been through all that, does it make you feel like you're a veteran out here now?
AREE SONG:  Well, I think I've been out here quite a few times.  I've played in I want to say around maybe 17 or 18 events.  So, you know, that almost accounts to one season.  So I'm pretty comfortable out here now, getting to know a lot of the players, the staff.  I mean, the comfort level has definitely grown.
Q.  Can you tell us about your background?  Are you a dual Thai, Korean citizen?
AREE SONG:  Yes.
Q.  Have you always had the Korean passport?  How did that work?
AREE SONG:  When we first moved over here, up until the US Open two years ago, I had both, Thai and Korean.  Just two years ago at the US Open in Kansas, I decided to just go with my Korean nationality, Korean last name, which is my dad.  That basically is just because I've always had the intention of switching to Song.  You know, it was good timing to sort of introduce the public to Song before I eventually turn pro.

It was good timing.
Q.  How long did you live in Thailand?
AREE SONG:  For 10 years.  I moved here when I was 11.   It was good timing.  I moved here when I was 11, yeah.
Q.  There's been a lot of talk, if you win in the first six or seven tournaments of the year, you'd be the youngest to ever win on the LPGA Tour.
AREE SONG:  Yes.
Q.  Is that something that's a specific goal?  Are you more interested in trying to establish yourself as a professional right now?
AREE SONG:  Well, I think it's important to play well week in, week out.  Consistency is one of my goals this year.  To be the Rookie-of-the-Year, I need to stay consistent throughout the whole year.

But this tournament is one of my favorite tournaments out on tour, one of my favorite courses.  I'm very comfortable here.  I played this event four times.  You know, I feel like I know the course pretty well.

You know, I like my chances here.
Q.  How many tournaments are you going to play this year?  Are you coming across the pond to Europe?
AREE SONG:  I look forward to coming there.  My coach is actually from England.  He's looking forward to showing me around.  I'm going to play around 24, 25 events.  It will be a long year.  It should be fun.
Q.  Lorena Ochoa was talking about at the end of the year she kind of felt like she dragged last year because it was the first full season she'd been there.  She was learning the courses and everything.  You've played a lot as an amateur on some of these.  Do you feel like maybe that's an advantage that will help you in your rookie year to have had that experience?
AREE SONG:  Well, I think so.  But, you know, Lorena played quite an extensive season on the Futures Tour and she still felt tired.  I don't think I'll be as fresh towards the end of the year, but hopefully I'll still be able to perform throughout the whole year.
Q.  It looked like you were really having a good time out there.  You smile a lot, acknowledge the crowd.  Is that part of your personality that you just enjoy being on the stage out there?
AREE SONG:  Well, I think there's nothing that could be better for me to do, really.  It surely beats school.

But, no, it's really fun, especially when you're out there playing with two nice people.  This has been my dream, to play out here on tour, and hopefully one day be the best.  I'm looking forward to playing.
Q.  What is your sister doing?
AREE SONG:  My sister?  She is in Tampa this week, playing in her second Futures event.  She'll have to do well to beat me tomorrow.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT