CITI OPEN
July 31, 2019
Hailey Baptiste
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/H. Baptiste   
6-4, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What have the last 24 hours been like for you after the Madison win, everything that must have come with that?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I think that my head was spinning a lot last night.  It was, like, a really big win for me.  It meant a lot.   
I think I came back and recovered well.  I wasn't thinking about it too much today.  I was able to come and compete and focus on my match today.   
 Q.  How was it playing in the stadium court tonight, not too many people, but they were yelling for you?  How cool was that?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: The crowd was really lively.  Most of them were on my side, so it felt really good.  Hometown crowd, so I knew I was going to have most of their support.  Felt really good.   
 Q.  Have you had time to reflect on how meaningful this must be for you?  Just to be on the biggest venue here had to be a special moment.  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: Yeah, no, it was really special.  Like, it felt really good playing on that court.  I've watched so many matches there, so many people I looked up to played on that court.  It was really cool to be able to play on the same court.   
 Q.  What did you think of the third set, calling Kathy out there?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I think I didn't really play the way I wanted to.  She didn't let up.  She took advantage of me not playing the best.  Just wasn't enough today.   
 Q.  I know this is still very fresh right now, but moving forward, what does this experience do for you as far as confidence or knowing you can play at this level?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I mean, like you said, just knowing I can compete at this level, that I'm right there with all the top players.  Just got to keep pushing myself to get better and, like, fix little things.   
 Q.  Learn something about yourself here the past two nights?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: A little bit.  I'd say that -- I don't know.  Maybe not.  I can't think right now, yeah.   
 Q.  You talk about playing on the same court where you watched matches before.  Did you have a moment to have that sink in while you were out there, what it was like to be the player that everyone was watching tonight?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I warmed up on that court right before the match.  I don't know, just hitting on that court, it kind of just brought back a lot of memories watching people play.  It was really cool.   
 Q.  Tell me, what was your experience training out in College Park?  What did that program mean to you?  I'm not sure how long you were out there or anything like that.  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I started there when I was, like, six.  I left a couple years ago to train at USTA.  It was really good when I was coming up.  All the coaches were really great.  I had a lot of great coaches I worked with there, a lot of friends made, family that I like to think of now, yeah.   
 Q.  What's next for you, the next few weeks schedule-wise?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: I'm going to play the National Hard Courts in San Diego for a wild card in the US Open.   
 Q.  Main draw?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Just curious, if the wild card to the main draw doesn't come, is that then junior US Open?  Are you qualifying for the main draw?  TBD?  
HAILEY BAPTISTE: TBD.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT