NASCAR HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
January 29, 2014
Aric Almirola
Richard Petty
Maurice Petty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ARIC ALMIROLA:   As the current driver of the No.43, I would love to replicate the car's successful past, but the team had a big advantage back then, and that advantage was a member of the Petty family.   His expertise in the engine room at Petty Enterprises powered his brother's cars to 198 wins and seven championships.   He's simply known as The Chief, but after tonight Maurice Petty can also answer to NASCAR Hall of Famer.   Congratulations, Bud. 
(Video shown.)
Please welcome 2014 NASCAR Hall of Fame inductee, Maurice Petty. 
(Applause.)
RICHARD PETTY:   I'm supposed to be able to read that but I can't see it (laughter).
Anyhow, I'm just going to give you the ring.   You've got to figure we've been doing this a long time, and there wouldn't be a Richard Petty, per se, accomplished the things that he accomplished without a lot of people, but this is one of the main characters of the whole deal. 
You've got to figure, Petty Enterprises was in existence for a long time, and we were very proud of everything we did.   It was a family deal, Chief done his stuff, Dale, my dad, but the big deal was it took all of us to do it.   Tonight is a night that's good, it's bad, it's whatever.   I'm so excited to be able to put my brother in the Hall of Fame with my father and with my cousin.   I mean, that's a full team.   Very few Hall of Famers can brag about that. 
But the big deal is that it's really the end of Petty Enterprises because we started in 1949, and now that my brother is in the Hall of Fame, then that pretty well closes the book on it.   Couldn't be happier to be able to give my brother the ring on this 29th day of January, 2014, presenting NASCAR Hall of Fame inductee ring and officially induct my brother, Maurice Petty, into the NASCAR Hall of Fame. 
(Applause.).
MAURICE PETTY:   Well, it's a little hard for me to see that Teleprompter back there because that light right there is right dead in my eyes, so if I mess up, it ain't my fault.   (Laughter.)
Okay, I'd like to thank my Lord and savior Jesus Christ for allowing me to be here tonight. 
(Applause).
It's an honor and a privilege for me to be inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame.   Who would have thought growing up that there would be guys, four of us, out of a small, rural country community that would be in a North Carolina Hall of Fame. 
I want to thank my wife Patricia for taking care of the children, looking after them, taking care of the home, paying all the bills, and supporting me, allowing me to work and accomplish the things that I did. 
I want to thank all the people who worked for Lee, Richard and me at Petty Enterprises, including Dale Inman.   We were one of the most successful teams in NASCAR history. 
I also wish to thank all the drivers who drove for Petty Enterprises, especially Pete Hamilton, who was supposed to schedule to be here tonight, but due to health illness, he is unable to be here. 
I want to thank Bill France Sr. for having the vision to start an organization he named NASCAR.   His family has carried the sport on today.   Without them, there would be no NASCAR Hall of Fame.   Thanks also to Winston Kelley, Amber Wells, Karen Davis and all the people at the Hall of Fame. 
God bless you, and good night. 
(Applause).





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT