CART MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 7, 1998
Dario Franchitti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T.E. McHALE: Good afternoon to  everyone.  Welcome to the CART Media  Teleconference.  Thank you all for joining us  today, and a special welcome to our guest this  afternoon, driver Dario Franchitti of Team KOOL  Green.  Good afternoon, Dario.  Welcome, and  thanks for joining us today.  Dario, driver of the number 27 KOOL  Reynard Honda is in its second season in the  FedEx Championship Series and its first as a  driver for Team KOOL Green.  He earned a career  best runner-up finish in Sunday's Toyota Grand  Prix at Long Beach, the latest in a string of  successful performances to start the 1998 FedEx  Championship Series season.  Following a ninth place finish in  the season opener at Homestead and an eighth  place effort in Japan, he stands a career high  fourth in the PPG Cup standings with 25 points.  The FedEx Championship Series has  next to Nazareth Speedway in Nazareth,  Pennsylvania for the April 26th Bosch Spark Plug  Grand Prix presented by Toyota.  Dario started  18th and finished 13th in his first start at  Nazareth in 1997.  The Bosch Spark Plug Grand Prix  presented by Toyota, round four of the 1998 FedEx  Championship Series will be televised live by  ESPN on Sunday, April 26th, beginning at 12:30  p.m. eastern time.  With that, we will open the floor  for questions.  


Q.  All I can say is congratulations,  Dario.  I am glad to see you are doing well with  your new team.  You didn't get much of a chance  to spend much time here in St. Louis, so I got to  meet you only over at the luncheon that day that  Carl through.  It looks like you are doing quite  well.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI:  Yes, thanks.  

Q.  I just wondered if you could talk about  your rise here this year and what prompted that?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I think really  it's a bit more experience with what's going on.  I better give full credit to my team, Team KOOL  Green.  Since I started there, I have been  testing since November.  I am a lot more  comfortable in the car.  Obviously, more seat  time makes you more comfortable.  During the race  weekends, everything is very, very structured,  and that is helping me in my position as well,  because it just means there is no unknown there.  The biggest unknown is always what's going to  happen in the race, but everything else is  structured, so it leads you to deal with that and  concentrate fully on what you are going to do  with the race.  So, that was pretty good.  The driving side of things, it has  been quite nice to score points in the first  three races and improve every time, really, so  it's been pretty good so far.  

Q.  Good afternoon.  Can I just ask, it's  almost as if the F-1 situation is reeling its  head again giving as association with British  American -- (inaudible).  What are your current explanations  for the F-1?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: This always makes  me laugh because we are talking about the same  thing in the press conference after races.  I am  delighted to have had the second place for the  weekend.  At the moment, my only focus and  concentration is on the FedEx Series this year,  to do as good a job as I can for Team KOOL  Green.  I am there for at least a couple of  years.  That is my focus.  I have got a lot of  things to do, but the championship is incredibly  competitive as I think we have seen so far with  the times not only on the ovals, but on the  street courses, and it takes up all your time.  The Formula One thing, it would be nice.  In the  future, I would love to do Formula One.  It's  something I have always wanted to do, and if I  get the chance to run with the top team in the  future, that would be great, but for this season  and at least next season, I think my whole focus  is going to be over here.  Just because you do  well in this series, it doesn't automatically  mean you are going to run off to Formula One.  If  a good chance came, then, fair enough.  

Q.  Can I just ask, how do you lead Indy  cars with the total speed of the processional  F-1s that we are seeing across here?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I think you have  seen the FedEx Champ car thing is -- the series  is the most competitive it has ever been.  

Q.  I think the last two laps on Sunday  highlighted that.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Yeah, that was  pretty interesting.  We had new tires, myself and  Brian.  We were just pushing the thing.  Everybody was just trying their hardest.  What we  are seeing is there is a lot of overtaking.  I  think, again, to describe Sunday's race in the  press conference, it's a driver's championship.  Formula One is more of a manufacturer's  championship.  Because of that, you got to have  the right car engine combination to be able to do  anything in the championship at all.  Here, there  is 15, 20 cars can go out there and win a race,  and there is 15 and 20 cars trying to win a race,  so it's making it pretty interesting.  

Q.  Congratulations, Dario.  I would like  to ask if the results so far are a reflection,  more than anything, of the knowledge you have  gained of each of the three circuits from last  year and little things that you may have picked  up that are already paying off?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I don't think it's  the knowledge of the circuits so much, I mean, I  think last year.  Especially on the street  courses anyway, it wasn't the knowledge of the  circuits.  On the ovals, it's probably the  experience factor as opposed to the knowledge of  the circuits, but on the circuit, you can  generally go quickly after five, ten laps,  comparatively quickly.  I can anyway.  I think  it's more the fact that I have been testing and I  have got more experience in how the race is run a  little bit more now, and the setup of the team as  such.  It's just a more relaxed atmosphere for me  to work in, and that's paying off at the moment  because we are doing everything.  As I said  before, everything is very, very structured, and  that's helping a lot.  

Q.  Is there one example you can give of  the difference?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: It's difficult to  sort of say.  You know, during the race  situation, I am very, very relaxed, and the  people in the pits are very relaxed, and they are  giving me the information I need during the race  to do the job, and I am concentrating on  finishing the races.  

Q.  Congratulations, Dario.  I am wondering  for those of us who were either watching on TV  or watching on the big screen at the racetrack,  we got to see like the overall view of those last  two laps.  What was it like sitting in your  seat?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: It was a rather  unusual position on Sunday and the fact that  after 30 laps, I had no mirrors.  Both of the  mirrors vibrated loose on the car.  It was a  brand new car.  I think the car had done four  miles before we turned up at Long Beach.  It was  a brand new car.  Both mirrors vibrated loose  just from the stresses of the street circuit,  really, so I could only see ahead of me.  It made  it pretty interesting.  I actually watched the  race yesterday when I got back to Indy here and  it looked more exciting, I think.  The TV did a  great job of showing the excitement.  In the car,  I wasn't really thinking too much about it.  I  was just trying to get ahead of Brian and then  trying to catch Zanardi, but there was no chance  to catch him because of the entire situation at  the time.  

Q.  Were you waiting on Zanardi to make his  move on Brian and then trying to go through the  door once it got opened?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: What happened  there, I was running pretty much as quickly as I  could because of the mileage you have on the rear  cars.  We did one and a half times what we would  normally do on those tires and they were still  going, so I was running as quickly as I could,  and Brian really started to slow down to defend  against Alex, and that was the point where I  managed to catch him just at the right point.  I  saw him make his move and I saw what happened to  Brian and I thought it was a perfect opportunity,  so I just went for it.  If I hadn't past Brian  there, I would have past him at another point in  the next couple of laps.  

Q.  You mentioned three or four times so  far the new structured environment with Team KOOL  Green.  I am wondering, is part of that  structured environment the fact that the  financing is there?  You don't have to worry  about the sponsorship that you were having to  deal with last year?  That, basically, all you  have to worry about and all the team worries  about is racing?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: We have a great  sponsor in KOOL and the rest of the sponsors that  we have and that's one of the things that the  team doesn't have to worry about at the moment is  the sponsorship thing.  We just go out there and  we try to win races.  Barry has got a very good  way of running the team.  He keeps it all very  calm.  His whole focus is on winning races.  Again, my engineer, he is very calm about the  whole situation.  He kind of makes me laugh  sometimes because I am in the car getting all  excited and getting all of my adrenaline flowing  and he is sitting in the pits having a cup of  tea, and he just calms me down the whole way  through.  So that works very, very well.  

Q.  Hi, Dario.  How are you doing?  That  was a great run.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Thank you.  

Q.  Coming  off Motegi, going into a street course and then  going back to an oval at Nazareth, how do you  prepare for that, and can you talk a little bit  about Nazareth?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I think we are  preparing in the best way possible.  We are doing  testing tomorrow and the next day, weather  permitting.  We are going to go out there and get  organized and get a little bit more experience.  Nazareth, it's a very interesting track I think  is the best way to describe it for me anyway.  It  really takes a bit of getting used to, going  around there and qualifying in 19 seconds.  In  the race, there is just so much going on there.  There is a three-corner layout; not a lot of room  for passing.  It's going to be very, very strong  in traffic there.  The car has got to be  absolutely set up to perfection.  Generally, what  you find there is one person hits the nail on the  head.  They are quicker, and the rest of the guys  are just playing catch-up all we can.  

Q.  There has been some testing on that new  rear wing for the super speedways.  What's your opinion on it?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: We haven't  actually run that yet.  Maybe in the next couple  weeks, we will.  It all depends on what is  happening with the rule situation.  That's a good  thing.  They are just trying to curb the speed at  the moment.  The fastest they do that, the  engineers, it will make us go quicker again.  They are just trying to look for a more permanent  solution.  The people at CART are really working  hard on the safety, and some of the accidents we  have seen in the past couple of weeks, especially  Bobby's accident, you see him walking away from  that.  Greg's accident as well.  It just proves  that the work these people are doing is  terrific.  

Q.  Good luck in testing and have a great  race in Nazareth.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Thanks very much.  

Q.  Dario, you said it takes you five to  ten laps to get up to speed.  Is this on a new  track, because that sounds like an awfully fast  acclimation which I have heard is one of your  strong suits?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: That's pretty  much, that's on a new track.  If I am in a new  place, which happened every place last year  really so I got quite used to it, I would walk  around the track, first of all, pretty slowly  making notes in my head what it was all about.  Then I would tend to ride my bike or something or  in the golf cart, and then on Saturday morning,  you would generally be reasonably competitive for  the five to ten laps.  It's just the way I have  always done it.  I guess that was one of the  strong points is that I have learned quite a lot  of new circuits in the past couple of years and I  am reasonably quicker at picking them up.  

Q.  Dario, how are you doing?  Last year,  Paul, your teammate, started a three-win streak  there at Nazareth last year.  What can you learn from him?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I said to him  after Long Beach for the weekend, he was a little  bit done after the race and the incident that he  had, and I turned to him and said in the next  couple of days, I am going to be asking you an  awful lot of questions.  His strong point or  stronger point -- he is strong at every kind of  track, but his strongest point is definitely the  one mile ovals in Nazareth and Milwaukee.  I am  just going to try to learn as much as I possibly  can from him; the way he sets up the car, the way  he drives in traffic.  I am going to use that and  work with him on that one.  

Q.  So, it's a big advantage for you this  year to have not only the year of experience  under your belt, but to have Paul in the same  garage?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Definitely.  That's a huge advantage for me and the rest of  the guys in the Team KOOL Green.  It's an  advantage to have a teammate, especially one as  fast as Paul because in Long Beach, he was  slightly quicker than me.  I thought he was  making a mistake in a couple of areas.  It turned  out that I was actually slower in points.  I  didn't think so, but it's very, very helpful to  have him there.  

Q.  Also, with Paul's car, how close is  Paul's car set up to yours and when can we expect  Paul to sort of do a little better?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: On the setup side  of things, to start with, we were very close on  setup when we went testing to Homestead, all of  these kind of places, and we really could have  gone a little bit different in the setup mode,  and he likes the car to handle different from me  both on the oval and on the road course.  As for  when you are going to see Paul at the front, I  think it will happen in the next race date.  It's  just that weekend, it was something out of Paul's  control that stopped him from scoring points.  

Q.  Dario, you say you watched the race  yesterday and, of course, you were in the race  and you had a ring side seat.  The construction  of the cars, that has to give you a great bit of  a security, all of the slamming and banging that  was going on out there in Long Beach.  Do you want to comment about that?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: There was a lot of  incidents at Long Beach, so there was a lot of  people touching.  I didn't actually have any  contact with any car in the race.  I was trying  to stay out of trouble the whole day, but there  was a few people doing some pretty strong moves  out there.  It's the nature of the circuit, and  everybody is trying their hardest, and these  things do happen when you have got two or three  people with different ideas.  That's what  happens, but, again, the construction and safety  of the car is fantastic.  It's by no means a safe  sport.  Every driver realizes that, but the  people on the safety teams are trying to make it  as safe as possible.  The other good thing, we  got all of the guys from the CART safety team out  there, and if anything goes wrong, they are there  within seconds.  

Q.  Your teammate Paul Tracy was up on two  wheels there for a little bit.  Somebody else was  up on two wheels.  I think it was Michael  Andretti.  No, it was Bobby Rahal was up on two  wheels, but as you say, that the nature of the  street course.  It also proves the worth of the  cars.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: That's right, and  the Reynard I drive is a very, very strong car.  It has to pass a lot of safety tests before you  are allowed to race in them.  It's very  reassuring to have that and the extra features.  

Q.  It gives you a great sense of security;  right?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: It's the biggest  sense of security that you can have in a car.  

Q.  Dario, talk a moment about some of the  things that you do away from the racetrack, and  the one thing I am interested in is the fact that  you are still trying to get your certification to  pilot a helicopter?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Yes, that's  something I would like to do.  Something I  haven't had the chance to do since I started in  the CART series just over a year ago.  Now that I  am based in Fort Lauderdale, there is an airport  pretty close by and I can do that, but I don't  have the time.  It's something I really wanted to  do.  Whenever I do get the chance, I will be down  there in Fort Lauderdale trying to do that.  

Q.  What is the type of feeling that you  get when you are piloting a helicopter?  I am  sure you have been through the training and what  have you.  Is it a relaxation mode that you go  through or, in another sense, does it keep you  competitive?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: There is a lot of  relaxation involved.  It's amazing how difficult  it is to fly a helicopter, well, I find it  anyway, because I am relatively new to it.  I am  just on the very basic points of it at the  moment.  It's incredibly difficult and I have got  a lot of admiration for the people that do it,  but there is some relaxation as well involved in  that.  It's just the freedom it gives you, you  know.  

Q.  Dario, you talked about F-1 with some  of the other people, some of the other European  drivers.  What is the lure of F-1 other than  the financial end of it?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I think the lure  of F-1, ever since I was like very, very small, I  have been watching Formula One races, and I  suppose it's the culture, the European culture.  The racing is certainly not as competitive at the  moment as we have, but, again, you have got to be   -- to win a CART race, to win a Formula One  race, you have to be a good driver.  There is no  better drivers in Formula One than there is in  CART.  I don't believe it.  But, Formula One has  always been my dream, and I think it will in the  future continue to be.  

Q.  I wondered what kind of family  representation you had at Long Beach that  weekend?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: My dad was out  there.  As you know, he was over in Japan with me  as well.  He was very, very happy.  I had my aunt  and uncle there.  They live over in LA.  My  cousin --  

Q.  Is that one of their first visits?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: This is the third  race they have been to now, but it was certainly  more successful than the last two they were at,  so that was nice for them.  

Q.  Did you not finish the last two or  something?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: I think I finished  both, but I think it was like two 12th places.  My cousin was also there, so that was nice.  

Q.  Was there a big party afterwards.  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: No, there wasn't.  I was on the flight back to Indianapolis.  Having  all my friends, and I didn't realize quite how  many people were watching the race back in  Scotland and the rest of Europe because the phone  has been non-stop.  All my friends were burning  the midnight oil watching it.  There was phone  calls.  Some of them in London, all over the  place.  It was good.  

Q.  Dario, in the past, there has been some  talk about you perhaps doing some other races for  Mercedes in other venues such as sports cars and  possibly open dates in October.  Does this look like it might be a  possibility?  

DARIO FRANCHITTI: Now that I am  driving for Honda, I won't be driving certainly  this year for Mercedes.  

T.E. McHALE: We want to thank Dario  Franchitti for taking the time to join us.  We  wish him luck in his test at Nazareth tomorrow  and Thursday, and thanks to all of you for  joining us, and we will talk to you soon.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT