UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2010
Dayne Crist
Michael Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We've got Dayne Crist and Michael Floyd, our wide receiver here today. Armando couldn't make it. Questions for the student-athletes.   
  
  Q. Dayne, how do you feel? Can you walk us through the first 24 or 36 hours after Saturday, and all the things you did, if any?   
 DAYNE CRIST: I'm a hundred percent now. When I was able to return to the game, I felt like I was fine and I could compete at a high level. I just wanted to be out there with the rest of my guys and finishing the game. But afterwards, just kind of slept on everything, just felt fine. It had gotten progressively better.  
  
  Q. You had a pretty good couple reads connecting with Kyle Rudolph. How much of that is the rapport that you guys have? How much is it just the reads taking in the offense?   
 DAYNE CRIST: I think it's a combination of both. I think we've got a pretty good chemistry. You know, that just comes with repetition and practice, and time spent away from here. But also just by game plan and just by read. He just ended up getting open pretty well.  
  
  Q. Wondered, if you had ever had any kind of injury like that in high school or pee wee or anything?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Never, never. There was nothing that I thought would ever be able to take me out like by my own will. I would never take myself out of competition. But it was just something that the trainers identified and wanted to take care of.   
 One thing I didn't want to go in is go in and hurt the team by not being able to perform. But, again, if it was up to me, I would have wanted to be out there the entire time. It was just something that they wanted to stop and make sure it was taken care of.  
  
  Q. Didn't you play maybe three or four plays once you got hit? What was that like? What, were you foggy during that period?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, definitely. During that drive, just after I initially took the hit tried to shake it off and just was getting hit and dazed a little bit. But then physically I could not see. After that, we just pushed through it and tried to finish the drive. Then when everything was done, it all kind of hit me. That's when the trainers identified it and wanted to pull me off for a second.  
  
  Q. I know ever since you've been on campus you've tried to be a leader. When Tommy and Nate were coming over to the sidelines between drives, were you even able to help them or were you still not quite there yet?   
 DAYNE CRIST: As time went on I was trying to help them, but initially they had me kind of removed from everything and just were running tests and continually trying to see where I was at. But when I could offer support and offer council to those guys, I did it.   
 Obviously, I wish I could have done more and helped them in any way that I could. It was just a crazy situation, and hopefully one that we never have to repeat.  
  
  Q. Michael, I wonder if you could talk about Theo and what you've seen in him from when he first stepped on the field trying to be a wide receiver after being a running back last year to what you're seeing now in practice?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: Just basically when he came in he was kind of coming from running back, wide receiver, it's a lot different. But him being so athletic, he came into the routine really easy. It kind of came to him naturally. It's just about picking up the little things, making sure you get depth and go full speed all the time, making sure you run a precise route.  
  
  Q. All this talk I was with somebody with the NCAA officiating recently. And the touchdown that was not a touchdown against Michigan State that you caught was one of 12 plays they looked at very closely during the off-season. Could you take us through -- obviously the play you were injured on -- but could you take us through the moment that you caught the ball? Did you think it was a touchdown? Even though it's the rule that you have to maintain possession, do you feel the rules need to be changed? Do you feel that should have been a touchdown?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: I thought I had full possession of the whole ball the whole time once I hit the floor. But I thought it was a touchdown. You know, I think -- I don't even know if it should change or not, but I think whatever they called was good, but I thought it was a touchdown.  
  
  Q. Dayne, did that injury because it was involving your head, did that plant any kind of seed in your mind of doubt about injury and the idea of getting hurt again?   
 DAYNE CRIST: No, I mean, that's part of the game. Obviously while it was going on we wanted to identify what it was and make sure that we handled it the right way, making sure that I was in a safe predicament.   
 But, again, you can't go out there and play thinking about the next time you take a hit or injuries, because any player can tell you that's part of the game. As soon as you start thinking about those things it seems like that's what ends up happening. So really you've just got to go out there and play and execute what you're asked to do.  
  
  Q. I know Coach Kelly said it was not a concussion, but with all the attention that concussions and head injuries have gotten recently, were your parents concerned in particularly about it or people you know, doctors, whatever, more concerned about your well being because of that incident?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Well, those are my parents so of course they are. That's going to be their first priority all the time. But I didn't get a chance to talk them till after the game. They weren't at the game, but of course they're going to be concerned.   
 Doctors took special care that I was safe to play, everything was okay. I passed multiple tests and then follow-ups after that. So, again, I'm not worried about it. I'm just worried about Michigan State right now and just moving on and wanting to get back out on the field and get a W.  
  
  Q. I think you had mentioned after the game that you were told in the second quarter that you'd be coming back in the second half. Were you available at all for the final play of the first half?   
 DAYNE CRIST: That was, again, their call. Again, they wanted to kind of give me some time to just collect myself and get everything together as opposed to being rethrown into everything after sitting for a quarter and a half, not being warm. That's kind of asking for a lot there.   
 But as soon as they told me I was ready to go, I started warming up and I was excited. I, again, wanted to be out there with the guys.  
  
  Q. But before that play you weren't campaigning to get in or anything like that?   
 DAYNE CRIST: They didn't say it was an option, no. They told me it was not an option, and that I would not return until the second half.  
  
  Q. The Lions-Bears game, did you see the play with Calvin Johnson?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: Yes.  
  
  Q. What were your thoughts on that one?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: That was a touchdown, that's what I thought. Just basically I think it was just him putting down the ball. It was just him picking himself off the floor, and I think it was a touchdown.  
  
  Q. You did suffer a pretty serious concussion in high school, correct?  
 DAYNE CRIST: Correct.  
  
  Q. Did you at any point think or make a connection to that situation?   
 DAYNE CRIST: They were pretty different. In high school the next thing I remember was waking up in bed the next morning, so I don't have a lot of recollection of that one. But, you know, I didn't know what was going on. So I guess anything was up for grabs.  
  
  Q. It was your right eye, correct?  
 DAYNE CRIST: Correct.  
  
  Q. It was blurry or you had no vision at all?   
 DAYNE CRIST: I mean, it was blurry to the point where I couldn't see anything out of my right eye.  
  
  Q. And that was the case while you were still on the field finishing the drive?  
 DAYNE CRIST: Correct.  
  
  Q. What do you remember thinking, I think it was your 19-yard run where Kovacs hit you from the side? What are your first recollections after that hit?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Just getting up and being a little dazed, but just getting up and trying to shake it off and move on to the next play.  
  
  Q. Coach Kelly mentioned something about you, indicating you didn't remember a play or two. You indicated that to him?   
 DAYNE CRIST: He was asking me more so about the conversations that I had with Coach Molnar on the phone after the drive. And you know whether it would be that I couldn't understand or it was going a little quickly. I think that's what he was referring to.  
  
  Q. I understand you and Kirk Cousins are friends?  
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, Kirk's a great guy. I had a chance to work out with him quite a bit this past summer. But real good guy, good quarterback, and a guy that I've kept in touch with. So we've exchanged some texts this week. Just wishing each other the best and looking forward to seeing each other.  
  
  Q. No talking smack, just wishing each other the best?   
 DAYNE CRIST: No, it's tough to talk smack to another offensive guy. So you're just hoping that they're doing well. But he's a good guy, so I'll always wish him well.  
  
  Q. Coach Kelly said that he could see you grow up in the second half. Did you actually feel that hanging in the pocket more often?   
 DAYNE CRIST: That's just again going to come with experience. It's another situation that I haven't been presented with. I've never been in the game when I've been down since I've been here. So, you know, that was a challenge.   
 But just being out there, I feel like I'm gaining more experience and I guess growing up. Just every second is equally as valuable.  
 So it's a situation that we obviously wish we came out on top, but you just have to learn what you can from it and just move on and make sure that we're getting better the next time we're in that situation.  
  
  Q. In T.J. Jones' case, in the touchdown where he flipped the ball, I know the coaches have spoken to him about it. As the veteran receiver, did you address that matter with him?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: I just said like it's his third or fourth touchdown, doing stuff like that. But it's always an excitement when you score your first touchdown for Notre Dame.   
 I mean, I was going crazy. I remember my first time. Nothing like that, but I was just really excited. So I didn't really say too much to him. Just make sure it doesn't happen again. Just act like you've been there before.  
  
  Q. Do you always make it a point that you know you're in the end zone before you drop the ball or do anything at all, or does it all happen so fast you can't really think much about it?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: Yeah, it just happens too fast. I don't really think about it.  
  
  Q. I saw you talking on the sidelines with Nate Montana during the first half. Were you talking with Tommy or Nate, what were you saying to them? What advice did you have as far as guiding those inexperienced guys offensively?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: I was just making sure he stayed calm. Telling him to stay calm out here. Just make the best decisions that you can and you'll see what's right. You'll know what's right. You can see it. Just coming in there for the first time you just want to make sure you keep your composure.  
  
  Q. I know last week Coach Molnar was talking about one of the next steps was just to push the ball deep, be more aggressive with it, which you definitely did against Michigan. Is that a byproduct of just having more experience? Was it just you had to?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, a combination of both of those things. I think those things were addressed all week last week in preparation leading up to the Michigan game. Just based on the looks that they had given us on film.   
 But, again, you go from having a game under your belt so you're a little more comfortable, you're willing to take a couple chance here and there. I think that I'll continue to grow. It wasn't like I was thinking oh, man, I didn't do it last week, I should probably do it this week. It was just kind of the opportunity, just familiarity, and overall comfort with the offense and what we're doing.  
  
  Q. Did you see the field in a different way than you did against Purdue?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, I did. But in the same light, it was also a completely different look defensively. They had a much more crowded box, and as a result you've got to take some chances down the field and stretch the field vertically.  
  
  Q. How much do you guys practice Hail Mary stuff?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: We mostly practice it every week before the game.  
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, we go every week. Just different situations. We have a whole session situationally and we do our walk throughs and our throws at practice. It's practice, but obviously there are things we work on.  
  
  Q. Do people think, oh, just throw the ball up? But I would imagine it's a little more technical than just Chuck it?  
 DAYNE CRIST: That and knowing your range as a quarterback of how far you can throw the ball, knowing down and distance obviously, where the ball's spotted. Hashes make a big difference, whether it's a far hash, close. There are a lot of things you have to take into account.   
 At the end of the day, play makers need to make plays and there are some things that go into that definitely.  
  
  Q. What are you trying to do on an end of game, Hail Mary type situation? Are you trying to get down there as fast as you can, or is it a little more complicated?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: It depends on what yard line you're on. Sometimes it's just trying on get down the field on some of the plays that they call. If it's a last second play, you're just trying to get down there and get a good position in the end zone and hopefully make a play.  
  
  Q. Coach Weis used to say a lot that he would be the same guy after a win or after a loss. Obviously Coach Kelly hasn't lost a game in about a year and a half. Is he the same guy this week as last week or did you notice a different vibe or energy from him?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: I think he hasn't lost a lot, but after you lose you always want the team to be up and up and energized the next week. So I think it's just a little bit more urgency this week just because we lost. I think he's doing a pretty good job at that and making sure we sustain our energy.  
 DAYNE CRIST: Mike basically covered it. That's kind of what I'm seeing too. But just as a competitor, Coach Kelly is a very competitive person, so obviously that loss hurt him as much as it hurt any of us. So we definitely share that. I think we grew together.   
 But he does a great job. He uses his 24-hour mantra. You have 24 hours to get it out of your system or be upset or be happy, whether it's a win or a loss. But after that it's about moving on. If you dwelled on one game during the season, win or loss, you're asking for trouble the rest of the way through the season.  
  
  Q. Did either of you watch the 2006 night game with Michigan State on television? Do you remember having any recollection of it?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, we were both in high school, but, yeah. I remember seeing that game and seeing some clips.  
  
  Q. Anything that comes to mind right away?   
 DAYNE CRIST: When they stuck the flag in the field. I remember that because they've shown us that clip multiple times. But it's a rivalry. No matter who wants to call it one or not. It's always a game. It's a marquis game in college football. Both teams always give each other a game that they take very seriously.  
 MICHAEL FLOYD: It being a night game that just makes the whole thing, the whole game happen. Just more energy, more excitement. Knowing that you're on national television at 8:00 o'clock at night. Everybody's watching you, so it's just excitement.  
  
  Q. Everyone in this room has seen you play, Michael, and everyone knows how spectacular you are. Could you talk about what you want in the coming weeks to get to what you know you can do productionwise?   
 MICHAEL FLOYD: I think the whole thing is just making this team win. We haven't had a very successful season so far since we've been here. So just getting on to wins. Getting as much wins as we can, can help this whole program.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT