NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 16, 2004
Jonathan Cheechoo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Walk us through your goal.  What did you see when you picked up the puck behind the goal? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO: I saw Scott Thornton kind of he dumped the puck in and I kind of got a step on my D man there that came up to pinch me off and just a little -- they weren't really communicating, the defenseman and the goalie, and he kind of left the puck and came back and I saw a lane through between him and the net and I think they kind of bumped or something and had to take a little longer route and gave me a little extra time. 
 Q.  Talk about the emotional swing there.  You just had given up the tying goal and then to come back and I mean how big a lift was it for you guys and how deflated do you think it was for them? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO: It's always huge.  You got to come out after a goal and it's always a big shift.  So we just kind of wanted to get the momentum going in our favor and we were lucked out and got a goal. 
 Q.  You didn't lose anything by having an extra day off.  You would have liked to have played a little quicker, I think, after winning the game three? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  Oh, definitely.  But at the same time you can't really focus on the time off and stuff like we got a game tomorrow, so you got to kind of just got to leave this one behind and focus on the next one. 
 Q.  Are you talking to the folks at home? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  A little bit, yeah.  I called my grand parents and stuff and they're pretty excited back home.  I think they sold over about 300 signs San Jose Sharks signs that are up in windows there in the community. 
 Q.  So if the Flames are Canada's team then are the Sharks Moose Factory's team? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  Definitely.  There's a lot of people up there are have bought the satellite dishes so they can watch some of my games and every one there is real excited how we're doing.  The season that we have had.  So they're cheering us on. 
 Q.  Mike Ricci said that you've been maturing throughout the course of the season and just getting better and better.  What's it been like for you here this year? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO: It's been a lot of fun.  I got two great teachers on my line Mike Ricci and Scott Thornton that are always willing to give me some advise and I take anything I can learn from them because I used to watch those guys playing when I was little younger and I really like how Scott Thornton and Mike Ricci battle along the boards.  So any tips I take is just a plus. 
 Q.  What do you think the kids back in your hometown, what kind of advice do you have for them as far as following your dreams and those kind of things? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  Oh, just, always try to keep them positive.  That they can -- as long as they believe and set goals that anything can happen, because I left when I was 14 and I had some goals set there what I wanted to achieve and I work toward them.  I think it gives you something to work towards anyways. 
 Q.  Cautious first period, what ignited the team in the second period? 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO: I think we knew they were going to come out hard and we kind of wanted to sort of match that.  But not give them any momentum in the first.  And we tried to counteract that.  Capitalize on any mistakes they may make.  In the second I think they were maybe they got a little frustrated, I don't know, but we were able to take advantage of a few mistakes. 
 Q.  What is it about the second period that seems to bring out the best in the Sharks?  Ron alluded to it but didn't go into detail.  You've been a good team though in the playoffs in the second period. 
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO: Yeah, we have done pretty well, but I guess it's just we have capitalized and got more bounces in the second period for some reason.  It's hard to explain.  We're trying to play the same way throughout the whole game.  But the second period's been real good for us.  Done real well for us. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT