NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 8, 2004
Jonathan Cheechoo
Patrick Marleau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You got the chance to play against Kiprusoff.  What's the book on him?   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think the main thing for us is to be able to get guys in front of him so he can't see the puck, have guys going to net, causing distractions, also having guys shoot the puck while they're going to the net.   
  Q.  You scored on him this year.   
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  I got to play with him down in the minors, as well.  He's a very athletic goaltender.  I think the main thing is to try to get your shots away quick on him, not let him get a chance to set in his stance, like Patty said, get a lot of traffic in front of him.   
  Q.  Can you talk about your line right now?  Obviously you're hitting a nice stride at an important time.   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I was just talking about them earlier, too.  If they can't really focus -- try and focus on one guy maybe.  Vinny and Niko, they play so well, great players.  Vinny has great vision.  Niko has a knack for finding the open spots on the ice.   
 Take one guy out of play, there's two other guys that can finish the play.   
  Q.  Maybe talk about Vincent Damphousse towards the back end of his career, a chance to take another run at a Stanley Cup here, what it means to him, what it's like for you to play with someone with that kind of experience.   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think it means a lot for all of us, not only Vinny.  I think we had a little bit of a meeting, going around the room to see how many times guys have been to the finals, how long it's been since their last time.   
 They're few and far apart.  It's a big thing for everybody to have this chance to move on to the Stanley Cup.   
  Q.  The defense has been beaten up fairly well during the first couple series, still good guys back there, but do you think that's an area you can exploit?   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  You know, when guys get banged up, definitely you want to wear them down throughout the series.  It's going to be a long one.   
 If we can get the puck, get some licks on their defense, wear them down, get them tired, that might help us out later in the series or later in games.   
  Q.  Your thoughts on Kiprusoff?   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think with Kipper, we have to get traffic in front of him, get some distractions, get a lot of shots towards the net.  Hopefully we'll create a lot of rebounds for us to be able to get the goals.   
 JONATHAN CHEECHOO:  I guess the main thing, he's a real athletic goaltender.  I got to see him for two or three years.  Just the main thing is to try to get a shot off quick, try to beat him before he gets a chance to get set.   
  Q.  Patrick, can you talk about Scott Hannan specifically, I know you have a lot of defensemen, but Scott is a guy that maybe didn't get a lot of credit, but seems to be coming to the forefront.  You have known all along that he is a guy that can dominate if he wants to.   
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  Yeah, definitely.  I think in past playoffs, he's always played hard against the top players.  He's proven it this year, that he can do it and be successful at it.   
 You know, that's what we look for from him, to play those guys hard, every game, to be in their face.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT