WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 8, 2009
Frederich Cepeda
Higinio Velez
Norge Vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon. We've got Norge Vera and Frederich Cepeda. We'll start with comments for the game. Each one of you, we want to hear your own take on the game.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Good afternoon. You saw this was quite a defensive game. We began very well. We stayed on top. We hit several home runs, and this gives us a further advantage. It shows that our team is in top condition, and we're ready to continue facing this championship.   
 NORGE VERA: Pitching, I appeared with good control. I was able to dominate and win the game as a result of the pitching.   
 FREDERICH CEPEDA: It was a great game independent of the fact of it being 8-0, many people thought it would be 8-0, and many people thought it was going to be a knock-out, which means that both teams were well prepared, and South Africa held up.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. For Mr. Vélez: You said yesterday that Cuba was having a bit of a problem with their bats, speaking of Mexico's altitude and the ballpark. Nevertheless you did have a record with the number of home runs.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: As I said, well, we did come to Mexico. We have been here before. We've had the possibility of playing against the Red Devils, the Diablos Rojo. You know what the field is like, but you can't just hit home runs, home runs. Home runs just happen. The team that we faced has good pitching and good defense, both short and long. And yeah, the balls are going out for everyone.   
  
  Q. Although Cuba was in control today, there were two or three moments that you did face a tough moment. Does this worry you? Is this normal? How do you interpret the way the ball players played?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: We don't want to interpret. Nevertheless, sometimes you take off from first base and run back, and we did speak about this with the players. We didn't have to take a base, and that's what happened. They'd run forward, try to run to second but then go right back, and it was part of trying to trick people.   
  
  Q. Mr. Veléz, the umpires, there was a bit of discussion. Speak about that.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: No, no, the umpires are extremely professional. They know what they're doing. They are Major League, and they are on top of things, and if an umpire feels there's an intentional misthrow, he's got to speak about it.   
 Once again, if there's something intentional, we have to speak about it. The umpires do say something. He brings everyone, and he explains what the rules are again, and these are very professional umpires.   
  
  Q. Cuba is part of the league, yet you've already changed your dates. You've changed the dates to participate.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: No, we have not changed any dates. We've always played this championship on this date, 2006 and 2009. We've had to stop the championship, but we haven't changed anything, the dates. We just adapt. We've done it before. We've stopped the championship, and once the Classic is over, we shall continue. The dates are the same. We play November through May. That's what we play in Cuba.   
 No, we have not stopped anything, we just adapted.   
  
  Q. The fact that you are starting with this triumph, although it was an expected one, what does this mean, that you can start relaxing yourself? And has Mexico City's altitude affected your players at all?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Can you please repeat the question?   
  
  Q. Well, the first question was for you and the second one was for Norge. If you began opening with a victory and the spotlights are on Cuba, you're one of the favorites.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: I said yesterday that we can't let our guard down. Having a victory means you can play a little bit more relaxed? Well, yes, because only after one more victory we've already eliminated the other team. The first victory is always important, not only for Cuba but for any team.   
 NORGE VERA: We have spent 15 days training in Puebla, and that's what gave us the possibility to adapt to this altitude. It did not affect us in our game today.   
  
  Q. You said you could not let your guard down against anyone, yet it seems to me that some players seemed a little bit tense.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: In any championship, the first game will always be played with a certain level of tension. Yes, all teams train, but the first game, which is a very significant one, because you're facing an audience, and that first game determines many things, and always, even if someone says the contrary, you will always have a certain level of pressure.   
  
  Q. For Cepeda, how important is it for you guys and the Cuban guys to have started with the type of muscle power you have?   
 FREDERICH CEPEDA: Psychologically it's very important, especially with the outcome we had. To be able to stay on top, start on top, because it shows that the Cuban team is doing excellent. A positive attitude will always help people win.   
  
  Q. I asked you about using different players and maybe being able to switch your players around. Was this a problem?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: We have always had Michel on third and Yuli on second. Nevertheless, Olivera's conditions and the field, well, he's really our best second baseman because although Michel is the national champion, he knows third base very well. But Michel can also play on second, and they're ready to play any position. Michel is also ready. These guys are ready. They know what it represents. They know what they're doing. They're not worried about it, we're not worried about it, either.   
  
  Q. We're from the Japanese television. Today's victory, have you already begun thinking about the second round?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Well, no, we first thought about the first round, which is against Mexico. Once more, in every game we play our lives, pretty much put these on the line.   
  
  Q. The teams seem to be very defensive, and a game between Mexico and Cuba will be very defensive. Will you take this into account when you announce your starting pitcher? Do you have him in mind, knowing maybe that you need to launch your best card against Mexico?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Yes, we have, but what we have not decided if we'll have a lefty or a righty. It's after we see Mexico play. So you have several possibilities, absolutely, and you'll know this 24 hours before.   
 Although everybody keeps on saying, "Are you sure you'll be playing against Mexico?" He said it. I'm answering. You cannot underestimate anyone. It could be Mexico, it could be Australia.   
  
  Q. How did you feel the mood was during this first game?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: What did you say?   
  
  Q. How did you feel the people were?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Well, we said it yesterday. Wherever we are, we have felt the brotherhood warmth coming from Mexico. We have felt at home. We feel wonderful. The same things happened; today is one more day that we've been in Mexico. There's always been a close tie with Mexico.  
  
  Q. How will you be preparing Cuba tomorrow? You have a free day. Can you tell us what will the team do before the game on Tuesday?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Oh, we do have training, whatever the time slot Major League gives us and tells us, that's what we'll do, and we shall continue preparing, whether the game is against Mexico or Australia.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT