NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: REGIONAL SEMIFINAL: MICHIGAN VS BAYLOR
March 27, 2021
NaLyssa Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Baylor 78, Michigan 75 OT
 .
 THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by NaLyssa Smith.  We'll begin with questions.
 Q. Talk about just the way this team gutted it out, had to come up with some plays there toward the end of regulation and in overtime.
 NALYSSA SMITH:   I mean, if it doesn't show today that we want to win the whole thing, then I don't know what to tell y'all.
 But this team just gave it their all today.  I mean, this is a team, I knew we were capable of doing.  We finally get to put it on display.
 Q. Your day, 11-of-11 from the field.  How big did that bucket look to you today?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   It's crazy.  Just to know I played 40 minutes and didn't miss one shot.  I mean, it hasn't sunk in yet, but that's a crazy number.
 Q. Given that you made everything you looked at, were you, Give me the ball, give me the ball, especially when they were making big baskets?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Yeah, to a certain extent.  When I knew I was open, that's when I knew I could have got the ball.  Also my teammates were scoring, too.  Moon was scoring a lot.  Dijonai was getting a lot.  Just feed the hot hand is really what I'm going with.
 Q. I know you guys were excited about getting a chance to play UConn during the regular season.  That came unfortunately got canceled.  How excited are you at that chance now, to be in this 1-2 matchup for the regional final?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Oh, we're very excited.  An opportunity to play a top team is what we thrive the most.  We're super excited to play that game.
 Q. We're going to start calling you The Bucket, if that's okay with you.  I spoke to your family earlier this week.  Your parents said they were so excited that fans were going to start being allowed in.  How awesome was it to have this performance in front of your family and friends?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   It's crazy.  I heard everything they was saying.  I love playing in front of my family, love playing in front of all my friends.  So, I mean, just for them to be there is super special to me.
 Q. What do you think it meant to you guys today to have a pretty balanced scoring effort with not only you by also Moon and Dijonai working?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   It just shows how deep the roster goes, knowing that everybody can score the ball.  If I'm not hot, then Moon is going to be hot.  If Moon is not hot, Dijonai is going to be hot.  Or all three of us are going to be hot at the same time.  It just shows you how deep our roster is.
 Q. I'm not sure what the play call was there at the end of regulation, but was surprised it didn't go to you.  Was there a play called there that went to Moon?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Oh, yeah.  We had ran -- yeah, the play was for Moon to get the shot at the end.
 Q. Did you want the shot?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   No.  I got all faith in Moon.  She can take the shot again.
 Q. Moon does so much for this team but she's a player who really sort of put in her time, now she's having this huge senior season.  What is it like for you to see her have this kind of a year?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   It's super special.  I mean, you know a lot of people that don't stay the course nowadays.  So just for her to stay the course and have to sit on the bench when she did, just seeing how she's performing now is super special, and it's a blessing that she's on my team.
 Q. What do you think are going to be the biggest keys in terms of the things you want to improve on from this round to the next?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Just staying focused, resting our bodies.  We going to watch scout, we going to just go out there.
 Q. After winning the first two games by 40 points, you mentioned this game shows you are ready to go all the way, is that because it was a battle today?
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Games like this just show what your team is capable of.  Playing this game, it just showed how confident I am in them, yeah.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, NaLyssa, for your time.  Best of luck in the next round.
 NALYSSA SMITH:   Thank you so much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT