AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 1, 2021
Allisen Corpuz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Allisen, can you give us an idea of how difficult this course is playing this afternoon, especially as the wind started to pick up?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yeah, just looking at the scores, the cut's already going to be higher than it was two years ago. So that already is a pretty good indicator that it's playing really tough. I mean, the course is already playing long, and with the wind, it's just so hard to really commit to your lines, know that you're playing the right yardage, and get good approach shots in there.
 Then, of course, it helps to dry out the greens, makes them a little faster and a little bit tougher.
 Q. Last year you were in the playoffs, is that right?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yes, I was.
 Q. How does that sort of shape how you thought about today? Are you focusing on the playoff or the cut, trying not to? What was your mindset today?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Honestly, trying not to. I think that I play better golf, like not thinking about it. Really just trying to put up my best golf and knowing that's going to be good enough if I do that. It is very hard not to think about -- I did glance at the scoreboard like through nine, but mostly was just trying to play the best that I could.
 Q. What do you remember from the playoff last year? What's the thing that sticks out in your head?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I was so nervous. I honestly don't remember much of it. I remember I was No. 10, and I got through with a par, but, yeah, just so much adrenaline, and it was just awesome to have all the support. I had two teammates then last year, Jennifer and Alyaa, come out and follow the playoff as well.  So that was really nice.
 Q. The other good memories you probably have was the opening tee shot. I think you were one of them --
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I was second off. Yeah, first group, but second off. That was awesome, just to hit right after the ceremonial tee shots was awesome.
 Q. The number of people on the 1st tee, what's it what you expected? More?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I've never seen that many people on a golf course. Yeah, I was definitely nervous. It was just awesome, that last round. Even though we were the first group off, I think we had a good 40 or 50 people follow us for all 18. So, yeah, it was just really, really great to see that much support for women's golf.
 Q. Have you ever had a gallery that big?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   No.
 Q. That's cool.
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yeah, very cool.
 Q. And this kind of fifth year, you've been such a huge leader and player for USC this year and padded your win total quite a bit. How much of a blessing has this fifth year been for you?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I think it's been great just to give me some extra time to figure things out and really identify where I need to keep working at, and, yeah, just the extra time to keep preparing and keep playing for such a great team and learning from them as well.
 Q. Getting to go back to Augusta the next two days, where does the advantage come in because you've played there before?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I think I'm just expecting more people. I know they capped it at, I think, a thousand people this year, but still preparing myself to have more people than I'm used to out there. There's definitely going to be nerves, but I think just knowing what it felt like two years ago, I'll be a little better prepared for it.
 Q. (Inaudible)?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I think, hopefully, I'll just get some better reads out there. I didn't quite read putts as well as I'd hoped to two years ago. So a little more familiarity with the greens hopefully will help.
 Q. Who's your caddie this week?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I have Colby on the bag. I have his last name down, but I don't have it.
 Q. He's local?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yes, he's from Augusta.
 Q. Did you do that two years ago?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yes, I do. I had a different caddie two years ago, but I had local as well.
 Q. How has your game kind of changed or matured since the last time you played Augusta?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Yeah, I think it really is a lot of mental work. I think I hit the ball just a little better, not so much technically but just feeling a little more comfortable over shots, knowing when to back off and when I don't feel as comfortable. And I think I've putted it a lot better than I did two years ago, just overall feeling a lot more confident with where my game is at.
 Q. What did the USC girls do during the rain yesterday?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   I think we just left. Well, I was the last group to finish, so we were kind of stuck in the food tent for a little bit. Yeah, we just kind of waited it out and headed back to the hotel.
 Q. What's the best thing you've eaten this week?
 ALLISEN CORPUZ:   Oh, everything has been great this week. I can't really choose one.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT