SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2019
Daniel Bellinger
Juwan Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wyoming - 22, SDSU - 26
Q. In the second half, what changed --
JUWAN WASHINGTON: Any time we have two teams with the same philosophy, you want to pound the rock and be physical. It's going to take some time to get going. We just have to keep doing what we're doing, stay focused, can't get down on bad plays in the first half. We kept fighting and got some things going towards the end.
DANIEL BELLINGER: They are a good team. They are good, physical, and we knew that coming in. We knew we had to fight till the end. As Coach Long said, we had to fight and fight and fight, and at the end I think we fought harder.
Q. Did Agnew say anything specifically to you on the game-winning touchdown drive? Did he look for you in the pre-snap?
DANIEL BELLINGER: Not personally but he looked at the whole offensive line, everybody on the offense and said, "Let's go and make plays." And that's what we did.
Q. On the game-winning touchdown, looked like Agnew was about to get sacked. Is that that something you work on for your route, to stay open for you quarterback?
DANIEL BELLINGER: Every day at practice, we go out and work as hard as we can and when it comes down to that, we try to get open and that's exactly what happened.
Q. What changed for you in the second half?
JUWAN WASHINGTON: Just got to keep fighting. Some things open up as we be physical and you know, holes are loosen up here and there and some things that might not be there at the beginning, so just run it hard. Just keep it on instinct, you know, what I feel and what I see.
Q. You're down 14-3 early. What did you say on the huddle and sidelines to keep you in the game?
JUWAN WASHINGTON: Keep fighting. We've been down before in the past, and we just always want to keep fighting. Our defense is going to fight hard and we're going to get more opportunities just because they are going to go out there and make some stops, so we've just got to stay focused.
Q. What did you see from Agnew the last two plays?
DANIEL BELLINGER: Well, at practice every day when we get into those situations, I always try to look at his eyes and see where he's looking. We've done it in the past where he rolls out and we try to find open space. The last two plays, he tried to find open space and that's what we did.
Q. Is it improvising at that point?
DANIEL BELLINGER: Yeah, it's just to find space for him to clean the ball.
Q. Do you feel like he excels in those situations?
DANIEL BELLINGER: I feel like he's a smart guy. He sees receivers and know where his people are going to move and stuff. In practice, we practiced it a bunch. When he sees us open, he makes the play.
Q. What did you see on the first drive, seemed like the O-line -- he seemed like he was going to run through it.
DANIEL BELLINGER: We had a miscommunication on the snap count, and Keith snapped the ball and we weren't ready essentially but we just made a play.
Q. Seemed to work out.
DANIEL BELLINGER: Yeah.
Q. How much did you guys work on the shuffle pass play?
JUWAN WASHINGTON: We worked on it a few times, not a lot but a few times.
Q. Would you say you're close to 100 percent?
JUWAN WASHINGTON: Close to it. When I'm out there, I feel good. I'm always 100 percent when I'm out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT