TICKETCITY CACTUS BOWL: WASHINGTON v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 31, 2014
James Castleman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   James, can you describe a little bit what it was like for you to go down to Norman and win that game, become bowl‑eligible?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   Personally I definitely teared up.   I came in my freshman year, we beat them.   Our sophomore year, ended up doing the same thing, going into overtime, losing.   That was the worst feeling.   Same thing my junior year at my own place.   
Senior year, we go into overtime.   I'm like, Oh, man, what's going on?   We can't do this again.   
It was awesome.   It was an awesome experience, especially with it being at their place.   
   
 Q.   Mike Gundy admitted to the press after the game he did a little dance.   Is he ready for Dancing With the Stars yet?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   With the right partner, he can go anywhere with that (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What has the preparation been like for you this week, this last month basically?   What have you been focused on?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   I've been focused on right now just attacking off the ball, getting into their offensive line, trying to get after the quarterback, just do my job.   Therefore, it will make the linebackers' job and safeties' and corners' job easier.   If we do that as a whole, we'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   Anything you'd like to say to the fans?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   Thank you so much, fans, everybody for coming out, all the families and friends.   Thank you for supporting us.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of the Washington offense?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   I think they're extremely explosive.   They're fast.   Their O‑line does a good job of making gaps for the runningbacks.   
The quarterback is fast.   He has a really good arm.   He's smart, too.   I feel like we're going to have to keep him in a compact little area.   
It's going to be a really good game, a tough game.   If we come out with our heads on right, we should be all right.   
   
 Q.   How did you get through the tough stretch of conference play?  
JAMES CASTLEMAN:   I think that whole conference play, how we came out, especially against OU, it shows we never give up.   We're going to fight till the end.   
I was telling everybody, there's only so much you can back somebody into the corner, eventually we're going to come out swinging and fighting.   I think that's what we showed, especially in the OU game.   Came out fighting.   Ended up clinching that bowl spot.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT