THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIANLANG GUAN:   Today I think I hit‑‑ my distance‑‑ it was harder with distance control.   I think I still did a pretty good job, though.  
   
 Q.   That was a pretty good save on 18 to make bogey from there.   What were you thinking when it went all the way down the hill and having to try to get back and make bogey?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   I knew it was a little bit too hard, probably just need to take all the way up to maybe first cut.   
   
 Q.   How much of playing this week is learning where to miss?   Because a couple of times you probably hit it in the wrong spot and that led to a bogey or par you should not have had.   Are you learning where to miss as you play?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I'm thinking where to miss when I play.   But I just miss a couple long, so just not very good for this course.   I feel like I hitting pretty good.  
   
 Q.   How are you not overwhelmed playing against the best players in the world in a foreign country at your age?   How do you handle that part of it?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   Because I think after the Masters and a couple PGA Tour events I guess I got more and more comfortable with it.   So I think it's helped a lot the first couple events I played.  
   
 Q.   You feel no pressure?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   No, not much now.  
   
 Q.   As you continue to have success, how long will you remain an amateur?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   I don't know.   I still enjoy my amateur right now, but I probably could be going I don't know how many years.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it will be years, though, before you turn pro?   As you look forward to tomorrow, what score do you think you could put up tomorrow.   Even par was good today, but now you have more knowledge about the course.   
    TIANLANG GUAN:   I don't know, but I will try to play my best.   Probably a couple under will be great.   I think it's planning to make the cut if I hit a couple under.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about taking that putt at 18 through the first cut?   Did you think about going through the first cut and decided against it?  
    TIANLANG GUAN:   I not decide to putt to the fringe.   But right now I'm thinking probably the first cut or even chip it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT