MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Tianlang Guan
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's begin with the amateur who dazzled us all this week, the youngest competitor in Masters history.   I have to ask you about your experience.   What was it like this week?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It's a great week for me, and I learned a lot from the top players, and it's an honor to play with the top players here, and I learned a lot and had fun.   
   
 Q.   How do you think this performance that the whole world watched, how do you think it will affect young golfers around the world and specifically in China?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think it will invite more young kids in China to start playing golf, and it's really helpful.   I look forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Adam, what a riveting, incredible day, and at long last, you are a major champion, and Australia is going to be wearing the green jacket here in just a moment.   How do you put into words how you finished this today with the birdie at the 72nd and then the birdie to win it at the second playoff hole?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't know how that happens.   It seems a long way away from a couple years ago here and even last July when I was trying to win another major.   I felt my way today.   There was some luck there somewhere.   I don't know how to digest it all at the moment, but it was incredible.   Bubba is an inspiration, and so is Tianlang.   It's incredible to be in this position.   
   
 Q.   As you know, the whole world is watching this right now.   I can only imagine what it's like in Australia.   You think of how long that country has been starved to have a Masters champ, and you think of all the great players who came before you who have their fingerprints on your career.   What do you have to say about that?   Do you feel their presence here?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, absolutely.   I tried not to think about anything today along those lines, and the thing I did well out there was just stay right where I was; wherever I was on the golf course, I stayed in that one shot.   
Australia, it's a proud sporting nation, and this was one notch in the belt that we had never got.   Amazing that it's come down to me, Mark and Jason Day.   It could have been any of us.   But there was one guy who inspired a nation of golfers, and that's Greg Norman.   He's been incredible to me and all the young golfers in Australia, and part of this definitely belongs to him.   
   
 Q.   And then to make the putt at the 72nd and think that you've won the Masters at that point and have to go out and earn it all over again, how hard was that to do?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it was a split second I thought I'd won.   You should never count your chickens, but that was the putt we've seen so many guys make it to win, and that's what I thought is it's time for me to step up and see how much I want this.   
To make a couple putts to win the Masters tournament is just an amazing feeling.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT