MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was your reaction when you found out that you did make the cut and you were going to be able to play this weekend?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I am pretty excited after the round is finished and I get to play with all the top players on the weekend.   I learned a lot from him.   But I think Jason played very good today.  
   
 Q.   You're probably the youngest guy ever to play on Saturday and Sunday here.   Talk about that.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It's great for me, and I think I had a pretty good run in the first two days, and today feels pretty good, not badly.   I did a couple unlucky, but that's golf.  
   
 Q.   How much focus were you putting on being faster?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   The weather is good today and we played in twosomes, so we played fast.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard from your classmates at all back home?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not these couple days.  
   
 Q.   Were you put on the clock at all today?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   No.  
   
 Q.   Any other people at home that have been reacting to how you played this week?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, many guys in China know that, and I appreciate people watching me here.  
   
 Q.   What have they been saying?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   They just congratulate me, and I'm really happy.  
   
 Q.   What did you think about the thing that happened with Tiger and Tiger got penalized two shots?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think rules are rules, and I respect the decisions they make.   I think Tiger played pretty good.  
   
 Q.   The putt on 18 was spectacular.   Can you go over that?   You spun it back‑‑  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I didn't‑‑ I cut my drive just a little bit, not much, but unfortunately it hit the tree, just in front, so I had to lay up.   I think I hit a pretty good third shot but too much spin on it.   It's a really long putt and good to make it.  
   
 Q.   How about the crowd reaction to that, though?   They went very loud, very‑‑  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How long do you think that putt was?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   How long?   Probably 20 yards.  
   
 Q.   Did you think you had a chance to be the low amateur?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Before what?   
   
 Q.   Before you came.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I didn't put too much attention about this, but I hope I can do it.   I think all the amateurs are great players, and I think they just didn't play as good.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking about qualifying for other majors after this?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Probably the U.S. Open, but it depends on the schedule.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever tried to qualify before?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   I tried last year but just kind of had fun.  
   
 Q.   How has the experience been for you these three days of the actual event?   Can you put that into words?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It's just a great week for me, and I really enjoy it.   People here are nice, and I learned a lot from the top players.   I think I played pretty good rounds these three days.   It's really great.  
   
 Q.   Is it harder than you thought it would be or easier?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Pretty much the same I thought.  
   
 Q.   Were you watching yesterday when it wasn't sure whether you were going to make the cut or not and you saw what Jason Day was doing?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Probably 6:30 I went back home and watched TV and relaxed.   I did watch the tournament finish.  
   
 Q.   Were you nervous?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   A little.   
   
 Q.   When the rules official talked to you today what were they telling you, like on 12, when you guys walked across the bridge on 12?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   They said we are a couple minutes behind but we are still good.   Thorbjorn, he had a bad drive on 10 and 11, so some things there.   
   
 Q.   You've got people that are running from hole to hole to follow you now like they usually do with Tiger and you've got people chanting your name.   Are you ready for that kind of attention?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I didn't think of it too much.   But I'm really happy and I really appreciate that they're watching me here.  
   
 Q.   At 5, 6 and 7 you made great up‑and‑downs.   Talk about that.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, like 5 and 7 I think I hit a pretty good approach shot.   The greens got firm today.   Yeah, I did a pretty good job.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been using a belly putter?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Close to a year, probably 10 months.  
   
 Q.   Why did you switch?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   I just think it's a little bit more stable to me.   But I do sometimes better with a short putter because I think the long putter is not that‑‑ not as fantastic.   Sometimes the short putter is pretty good.  
   
 Q.   You're going to be in Butler Cabin tomorrow with the winner.   Have you thought about that yet?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not yet.   It's my honor to be there and I'm really happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT