MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   I'd like welcome Tianlang Guan after his great round today, and just start by asking Guan, how did it feel like to play his first round at Augusta in the Masters and to birdie the 18th for 73.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I feel great to play the first round here.   And just a little bit nervous on the first tee, but I hit a great tee shot on it and after that I've just felt comfortable.   
   
 Q.   There's a phrase, I don't know if this translates into Chinese that well, sometimes when you're in a situation that's hard to believe, like we ask someone, are you pinching yourself; is it hard to believe that at this age you are in the Masters competing with the greatest golfers in the world?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Well, yeah, but I think I've just done a good job today.   I think the people here are very nice, rooting for me, and I feel comfortable on the course.   
   
 Q.   What was it like on the sixth green when Ben Crenshaw is applauding your chip, and he spoke about your short game being so wonderful, he said he was praising you all day.   What was that like hearing that from him?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It was great, and I'm going to thank him to play a practice round with me and giving me a lot of tips.   I think I still have to do some work, hard work.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about the caddie, is it a local caddie, and how much help was he?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, he's a local.   He's caddied here and working here for over ten years, I think.   He really helps me.   We communicate with each other great, and he's great.   
   
 Q.   I have a daughter who is in 8th grade; would you like to meet her?   (Laughter).   But seriously, are you meeting other kids here in the U.S. while you're here or just all golf?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Here, just golf.   Right now, it's golf (nodding).   
   
 Q.   Are you having the most amazing experience of your life so far?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think so.   Yeah, it's like a dream come true, and hopefully to play some good golf today, just feels great.  
   
 Q.   You're talking about Ben applauding when you had that chip on 6, and he was also clapping when you made the putt on 18.   Did you see him doing that, and what did you think of one of the greatest players ever applauding your putting?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I didn't see it, but Ben is a great person, and I enjoyed playing with him so far.   Hopefully we can have some fun tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You seem so calm.   Is there anything that gets you too excited, anything that really gets you out of control?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not today.   I think I got enough things ready for today, and I just feel comfortable, relaxed this morning.   So, it's good.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us anything you heard from fans on the course, anything that mattered to you that made you smile or anything, and what were the fans like in general?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   The people are nice and some of the times they are cheering for me and it feels great.  
   
 Q.   Anything that you remember hearing that made you smile or laugh?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, just a couple, but I didn't remember.   And these guys are pretty‑‑ I mean, they do a nice job (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Can I take you back to the 10th hole, you played a great second shot to the green there.   Was it a hybrid, and what was the yardage you had there?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, it's a hybrid.   It's like‑‑ it's over 190, like 191 I think.   Downhill lie there and just try to hit a little cut.   
   
 Q.   Tiger, when he was at a young age, I don't know if it was quite 14, was very focused, knew what he wanted to do, and by the time he was a pro, he knew he wanted to get those 18 majors of Jack Nicklaus's.   Are you a focused golfer?   Do you have goals in mind?   Do you want to be one day as great as Tiger Woods?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think I'm pretty focused on golf and I think that's made me do pretty good so far.   I just want to play some good golf tomorrow and just enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   As far as the long‑term goals, do you have long‑term goals?   Do you want to be a great champion one day?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I want to win a major and hopefully I can win the four majors in one year (laughter).  
   
 Q.   Same calendar?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah (laughter).  
   
 Q.   You had some phenomenal up‑and‑downs today, 11 and 17 come to mind, 13; your dad said your short game is self‑taught.   Can you talk about how you developed your short game and how much time you spent on it in China?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   In China I didn't spend much time.   I live in Guangzhou and after school, it's like 5:00 and just go to the driving range and hit some balls.   Pretty much only on weekends I spend more time on my short game.   I think you need to just get some feel.   
   
 Q.   What will you tell your friends about today?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I talked to a couple friends before, but today is pretty special for me, and I told them I did a pretty good job today.   Just have fun today, pretty much fun.   
   
 Q.   We noticed that your mom packed you a snack; does she do that before every tournament?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, pretty much (smiling).   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   What did you think was your best shot today?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think I had a couple good shots, like first tee shot; the chip on the 6th and the approach shot on the 10th, and last putt.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can win this tournament?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think probably not this year, but I think I can win it in the future.   
   
 Q.   Under normal circumstances, 150 yards, what club would you use?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Like pitching wedge.   
   
 Q.   Do you have other interests besides golf, and how are your grades in school?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Eighth, and I do pretty good in school.   
I do play some other sports like basketball, but I don't have much time on it.   Most of the time just play golf.   
   
 Q.   Would you describe your shot from behind 6, the little pitch and making 3 from there?   And also what did you learn from playing with Ben today?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   The chip from the back of the 6th, pretty tough.   I don't want to be there another time (laughter).  
I got a 60 and tried to chip it low, and tried to just get on the green and tried to leave it short of the hole.   But it's a good shot there.   
I played with Ben on Monday and today, and it's great fun to play with him.   He's still a good player and putting was really, really good.   So just really fun to play with him and playing a couple shots and his putting stroke is still good.   
   
 Q.   Were you aware that back in New Orleans some of the Junior golfers were having pimento cheese sandwiches today in honor are you, and have you kept in contact with any of them back in New Orleans?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not yet, but I think I'll go back after the Masters and hopefully see them, okay.   
   
 Q.   What did you do last night and how did you sleep?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I sleep pretty good.   Just go back, have lunch and watch a little bit of TVs and just relax and go back to sleep.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch yourself on TV?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   No, not yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy this?   I know you're a serious participant here; is it fun for you?   Are there times as a golfer that you get very wound up and uptight and may not be that fun?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I'm having fun so far this week.   It's amazing, playing the Masters and why don't you have fun.   
   
 Q.   Are there times, though, in your career where you do get uptight and feel the pressure and maybe it's not that much fun?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I don't remember.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow is going to be your second round, so will you play kind of more nervous or relaxed than today?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think I will do pretty much the same way.   I will be relaxed, try to relax and focus on my game.   Hopefully I can hit a couple good shots and I will see how things go.   
MODERATOR:   Thank you very, very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT