HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Some comments on your round?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I just think I learned a lot in these two rounds and just didn't play my best out there today, and I still learned a lot.   
Still have a lot more to learn.  
  
 Q.   What kind of things do you feel like you learned from this?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   All kinds of things.   Every tournament you can learn.   These two days I think I learned a lot from different angles.   This is a good TOUR event, it won't be that easy and I won't make the cut every time but I think I learned more and still a lot more to learn that help me play better and better.   
   
 Q.   Looked like on your first nine holes you were tossing the grass up a lot.   Were you having trouble gauging the wind?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   A little bit.   The wind sometimes was slowing but the same to everybody.   
   
 Q.   Right.   So what do you think was the key for you?   5‑over on your first nine, and you seemed to settle down.   What was the reason you were able to get your round back on track?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Third hole I had my first double and came back with a birdie but then a couple of bogeys on the back so I think I just hit it in the right spot on the back nine and kept myself in a safe place.   
   
 Q.   You weren't doing anything differently?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not much and back nine feels a little better.   
   
 Q.   What does it do for you to be able to recover and have a solid first eight holes once you made that turn.   I know you finished with a double but you kind of recovered.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   No secret to it really.   Last couple of holes on the first nine I think I didn't play bad, just got in the wind and I got some bad luck, but that's golf.   But I don't think I played really bad on the back, so I calmed myself down a little bit and just got better on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier that you think you'll stay in the States and play some more?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Probably.   
   
 Q.   Do you happen to know yet where you will go?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not yet but I got a couple of invites but still not sure on the schedule.   
   
 Q.   Monday will you try to qualify for the British Open here, Monday?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   No.  
   
 Q.   What about that U.S. Open qualifier in three weeks?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   We're not sure, but the qualifier is on schedule, but we are not sure.   
In the last couple of weeks it's on the schedule.   
   
 Q.   What about the Olympics?   Are you thinking about that at all?   Would you like to represent China in the Olympics?  
TIANLANG GUAN:   I mean, it's my honor if I have a chance of playing in the Olympics I would like to represent my country but still a long time to go.   
   
 Q.   It is, three years.   Have you heard from the coach?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   No.  
  
 Q. Thank you, Guan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT