HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Tianlang Guan to the HP Byron Nelson Championship, you're about to make your third start on the PGA TOUR.   Talk about how much you've played this course in the last couple of weeks and your thoughts coming into the weekend and we will have some questions.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I have been in Dallas couple days before the weekend, played the course a couple times and it's a great course, the course is in great shape and have to make some good scores out there.   
   
 Q.   Being the youngest player in this tournament, what is the fun part about it and what are the challenges for you?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Always a challenge, every tournament, because this is another big event and as he said, this is only my third start and everything is still new to me.   I have to play my best and make some good score.   
   
 Q.   How long do you travel each year?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   A little bit different this year, but last couple years I've been to the States in the summer and all the time I just live in China so this year probably a little more time in the States.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you did well at the master's and you made the cut in New Orleans, but what do you think makes you handle the pressure well at such a young age and not letting the tournaments get too big for you?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think I have played a lot of tournaments before the Masters and I prepared for the master's for a long time and being out there helps in New Orleans, and it helps here, I think, so just a long way to go.   
   
 Q.   This is your third start on this "big" stage.   Is there anything that is getting easier?   Is there one or two things you can point to that's getting easier?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, a little used to getting to know what to do on the TOUR.   Best player in the world, what are they doing, what are they playing, so I learned a lot from these couple starts.   
   
 Q.   Guan, many Europeans and Asians turn professional at a relatively early age, many Americans go to college and play college golf.   Do you see yourself on a path as other Europeans and Asians turning pro at an early age and not following the American path?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I'm not sure yet because still more years to go.   
   
 Q.   Since you got to America, what is different about here and China?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   A lot of differences here between the United States and China.   The culture is different and the people are different, but I feel really comfortable here and the people are really nice here so I don't feel like, too much different here.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday I believe you said you had some tournament invites but you have not set your schedule for the rest of the summer.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What about qualifying, I believe there is a British Open qualifier here on Monday, do you plan to play that?   And I believe there is a U.S. Open qualifier, too.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   The British Open I qualified earlier this year but I didn't make it.   It's in Thailand.   The U.S. Open we haven't decided yet.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything outside of golf when you're here in the United States, any city or anywhere you're going to try to go before you head back home to China?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I'm not sure, 'cuz this year and‑‑ couple years before I bent to a lot of places in America and I mean, I do a lot of things besides golfing in the States, too, and sometimes, before in California I go to the beach, surfing sometime and I go to an NBA game this year so I have lots of fun out of the golf course.   
   
 Q.   How do you balance school and golf and also why did you decide to play golf?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It's always not easy to balance school and golf but I think I did a pretty good job so far.   When I was on the road in the States sometimes I do home schooling and my parents help me a lot, and when I go back to China I go to school like a normal 8th grader.   
When I was, like, very little, I start to, like, play golf, have fun and I mean‑‑ I started to play better and better and got interested in it, so I think that's why I decide to play a little bit more.   
   
 Q.   You made the cut at the master's and great accomplishment and made the cut in Memphis.   Have your goals changed?   Is making the cut not maybe as you thought it once was or is that still your goal for this week?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   For this week I want to enjoy the experience, great experience here, and hope to, yeah, make the cut, and if I make the cut hope to play better and better.   
  
Q.Guan, you use the long putter.   Do you like that particular style of putter or why did you decide to go with the long putter?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I tried it about a year, yeah, and I just feel a little more comfortable fit.   It's not a real big difference.   
   
 Q.   Do you play any other sports?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Not much.   A little bit, but when I'm in school sometimes running and basketball a little bit with my friends, but not too much.   
   
 Q.   What are your parents' names?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I will tell you later.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for your time and good luck.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT