ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2013
Tianlang Guan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   I'd like to welcome Tianlang Guan.   You had an interesting week at The Masters.   You make another start on the PGA TOUR this week.   If you want to talk a little bit about your thoughts coming into this week, and   I know you have some friends here in New Orleans that you spent some time with this week, and then we'll take some questions.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I spent a month here last year, and it's a great place for me.   I feel great to come back here this year, especially after The Masters.   It feels pretty good right now, and I hope to play good scores.   
MARK STEVENS:   Have you had a time to digest everything that happened at The Masters two weeks ago?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   It's not much different.   Yeah, it's just like normally prepare for a tournament.   This is a really important tournament too.   We've got 160‑something players this time, and it's not easy too.  
   
 Q.   What is your goal for the week?   What are you hoping to accomplish?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I want to enjoy the week like in the Masters and, hopefully, make the cut.   If not, it's still a great experience.   I hope to play good scores out there.  
   
 Q.   For the U.S. Open to qualify, do you know where you're going to try to qualify?   What are your plans for that?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I haven't decided yet.   I'm not sure yet, because I might go back to China after this tournament.   Everything on the schedule, we have to consider it.  
   
 Q.   You could go overseas, or you could do it in this country?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I'm not sure.  
   
 Q.   Do you think because of the differences in the courses you'll need to make more birdies this week than at Augusta to make the cut?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Probably.   It's a challenging golf course, but it depends on the weather and where they put the tees and the pins.   So it's not an easy week too.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any concerns at all about slow play?   Have you been thinking about that after what happened and the ruling at The Masters?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I just think my routine is not too bad.   Probably have to make a decision quicker on windy days.   So, yeah, I'll pay attention a little bit to it and probably speed up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   If you would, tell me about the relationship you have with the folks at Lakewood that you sort of became friends and have a good relationship with the people here?   How did that all come about?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I came here last year and practiced here in some golf courses at TPC Lakewood, and we started to get some friends in Lakewood.   I take part in the golf clinic last year too and helped teach the little kids.   It's a lot of fun there.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised at all that you've sort of maintained a friendship with the folks at Lakewood?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I'm not surprised.   But we make a lot of friends, and the people there are very nice.  
   
 Q.   Talk about this week and the opportunity you have to play in a PGA TOUR event in front of a lot of people?   I'm sure some people from Lakewood will probably be out here.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Yeah, I really appreciate that they come here to watch me.   Yeah, I just want to play my best and play like a normal tournament.   Because after The Masters, The Masters has got a lot of people there, so I just want to play my best this week.  
   
 Q.   Did you play any course in Asia almost as tough as Augusta National as The Masters course?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   No.   The green is totally different.   But I believe I've done a pretty good job at Augusta so far.   So, it's a little different.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been using the long putter, and why did you decide to go with it?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Almost a year.   I changed it in here last year.   I think I just feel comfortable with it and feel more stable.   But it's not a really big difference to the short putter.   Just that I feel it's better.  
   
 Q.   Out there on your practice round today, what is your strength on this course?   What kind of things does your game work well with on this course?   
TIANLANG GUAN:   I think this is also a big course for me.   I need to putt it good I think.   And I should play really good woods to make the cut and go further, but I still need to play a really good couple of rounds.   
MARK STEVENS:   Thank you for your time, and good luck this week.   
TIANLANG GUAN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT