BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 2, 2018
Aleksandra Krunic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KRUNIC/G. Muguruza
5-7, 7-6, 1-2 [Ret]
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Before the end, how happy were you with how well you were able to play that match and how competitive it was against the No. 2 player?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Oh, well, definitely, yeah.  When I was down 7-5, too, I was thinking already if I'm going to have a doping test or not, I'll have to pee.
So, yeah, yeah.  I'm happy.  I'm happy I fought.  I'm happy I really gave everything I had, because I have a history for year ago where, you know, I just get so self-destructive and pissed at myself that I'm just not able to continue doing anything right on the court.
So I'm happy that I'm past that kindergarten thinking kind of that, you know, everything is terrible when I start losing.  Because still, you know, I played against Garbiñe.  So, yeah, it's alright to lose a point against her.
And I'm happy that I was thinking right way and that I just stay in the match.  And I literally tried to do everything I could and tried to outrun her and make her play longer points, because I couldn't outhit her definitely.
So, yeah, when she did her great shots, I just silently accepted it, said good job inside of me, and was like, okay, well, let's try to do something the next one.
Q. Did you sense that she was struggling physically at all?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Not in the first two sets, no.  I mean, you know, it's really hot, so we all kind of struggle.  But I didn't see in the first two sets that something is going on.
I saw in -- yeah, when it was 2-1, when she started serving, then I saw.  Because I know she called the physios for either blisters or ankle.  But I know her ankles are taped so I just thought she needed a retape.
Then I saw, when she started serving, I saw that she had troubles landing.  So I didn't know what was going on, if it's the blisters or ankle or she was cramping.
So I was kind of getting tired myself also.  I'm like, Oh, my God, no.  If she's playing with one leg now and I'm going to lose this game, then I'm just terrible.
So, you know, we all have this in our head when we see another player being injured.  You know, you kind of get stuck.  You don't know what to do, if you should just be a bitch and drop shot them, you know, or just play.
You know, because I had couple of backhands where I was so tired that I was like just, you know, just play.  I mean, it's all right.  Maybe she's in pain, but still she's going to try to pull everything out, and she has quite something to pull out.  So, yeah, it was fun.
Q. That mental side of your game that you mentioned about not getting upset when things don't go your way, is that something that you worked on recently?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Yeah, definitely, I worked on it last year.  But, you know, obviously I'm kind of a person where I need to get sick of myself to start doing something.
And I knew what my problem is and, you know, I tried to work here and there.  I had a psychologist.  I have a psychologist, but there was still this point where I was getting the right information but I kind of couldn't transfer it on the court.
And after my match at Roland Garros, I got so sick of my behavior that I said, All right, either I'm just finishing this season and, you know, taking a rest and I'm going to see if I want it, and what do I want, actually -- because I love the sport, but I felt so miserable on the court that I just didn't enjoy it -- or I'm just going to silently play and, you know, try to stop judging myself for every single thing I do, because we all make mistakes.
And I'm happy that now I'm able to focus more on the positive things I'm doing.  Of course, I still get pissed when I play a drop shot in the middle of the court, but, you know, it's much better than it was.
Q. Is your whole family as negative about themselves as you are mentally or is it just you?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: No.  I'm a perfectionist.  I'm a terrible perfectionist.  So when something is great, it's kind of normal.  It sounds arrogant, but I'm not arrogant but it looks like that.
You know, I don't give myself credit for good things, but for bad things I'm first one to just punch myself like, there you go.  You just screwed something up.
But not -- my parents are not like that.  But I guess, you know, when I was younger, you know, I was always kind of at the top at 14, 18.  So I guess just expectations.  But now I'm mature enough to, you know, to separate my expectations and everyone else's expectations.  So now I'm just enjoying it.  I'm really enjoying.
And I get excited when I have an idea what kind of point I want to play.  I get all excited.  And, you know, if it work, it works.  If it doesn't work, it doesn't work.  I just go on to play the next one.
So, yeah, now I'm there.  I like it now.
Q. That was my next question.  After you beat Konta in New York, you were saying that you were trying to just play instinctually.
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Yeah.
Q. So since then to now, do you feel like you've been able to keep that intention?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, sometimes, yeah.  You know, sometimes our head just doesn't let us do things that we feel we should do.
And I think we all have that problem, because you will always see girls getting tight and double faulting or doing something that's not really normal for us as players.
But I guess, you know, the difference between top players and players that are still not on that level is just the way you cope with yourself and your mistakes, because we all obviously make them.
But I think it's just the easier we accept them, the better for us, because we are still going to make them.  So, you know, so it's just up to me if I'm going to be fine with it or no.
But definitely I was able to switch my brain off up to the point where I could just let my body do what it knows the best.  And, I mean, right away I have much less retarded decisions on court, because I used to have them quite some.  Because, you know, I'm thinking more of a situation, should I play this or this in that situation when -- you know, I mean, yeah.  Just play.  Who cares.  Whatever comes first on your mind, just play them.
Q. So how much of a shot in the arm is it to play the way you played today and know that the way that you were playing was good enough against Garbiñe?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Well, yeah, for sure it gives me a lot of confidence when, you know, when I see that I'm actually making her struggle on court.
And, I mean, I'm watching her play her Grand Slam finals and she definitely is an impressive player also mentally.
So for me, of course, it's a great -- first of all, it's a great start of the season because I had a good end of it.  But it's always -- it feels like you're starting a whole new career in January, you know.
So I'm happy that I'm still here and that I'm, you know, still competing in the high level and makes me believe in things I do and in the decisions I made, and I'm happy they were the right ones.
So, you know, now it's just only about practicing, keeping my head fresh and just, you know, staying humble and not expecting too much from myself, because giving my all is all I can expect.  The rest doesn't depend on me.
Q. How did you pair up with Elise as your coach?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Oh, Elise is my friend for, like, 10 years.  So she knows me since I'm, whatever, 14.  She kicked my ass twice when she played.  I was always a better player, but she annoyed me to death.  So I just -- literally, I just couldn't play against her.
So, yeah, she was helping me when I was working with Biljana.  And at one point me and Biljana decided, both of us, that it's better for us to part.
And at that moment she was with me at the tournament and, you know, I just felt that her energy really calms me down and helps me and she's the complete opposite.  So I had a feeling she can really help me become a better person, first of all, on the court and that's what happened.
And she knows me so well.  She literally knows what food I'm going to order, which is a bit weird, but okay.  So, yeah, I think that, you know, it just happened spontaneously.  She never had a plan to work on tour.  She was working as a physio at home.
So it's more of like a friendship thing that we have and it works out pretty good.  But if I start playing better, friendship is over.
No, I'm kidding.  (Laughter.)
Q. The way you played today, how do you see the draw opening up for you?
ALEKSANDRA KRUNIC: Well, I found out the two girls I'm playing at the interview.  So I'm not looking at the draw.  That's one thing I actually never did.  I just -- I mean, I know both of them.  We know each other.
So they are two different players, Sevastova is a handy player that likes longer points.  Cirstea is a hitter.  So, you know, whoever wins, I will have different tactics.  But overall, it's more about my game and keeping myself fresh and being able to run.
Because if I can't run, I mean, I can't play.  So, yeah, that's my goal and let's see who wins.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT