SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 17, 2012
Patricia Meunier-Lebouc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Michelle Wie into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great 3‑under round today for you, and a place that I'm sure almost feels like another home with Nike being right here.   Can you take me through the round today and what was really working well for you out there?   
MICHELLE WIE:   I just took advantage of the par‑5s today which you have to do on this golf course.   You know, it's nice being back up on the west coast.   It definitely feels a lot more like home to me, especially with Nike being here.   It's definitely a comfortable atmosphere.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know it's been a year of some ups and downs for you out on the golf course.   We were in here talking to Yani earlier in the week, and she was saying how the two of you were talking last week when you guy played together and just how tough it can be when you've been at your peak and you go through struggles.   How have you managed to get yourself through those and get back to playing like we know you're capable of playing?   
MICHELLE WIE:   You know what, we talked a lot last week.   It's just one week it seems so easy and another week or another year for me everything seems so difficult.   
But I've got to stay positive.   Nothing good will come out of it if you keep beating yourself up.   The game is hard enough as it is without me doing that to myself.   I'm just trying to stay positive after every round, looking at the positives and feeling good about each week and really trying not to doubt my game, because I know I have it.   
THE MODERATOR:   What were the biggest positives for you out there today?   
MICHELLE WIE:   The par‑5s were really good today.   I feel like I'm hitting the golf ball and going at it and just having fun out there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Overall, how does this course suit your game?   Is it one where you feel like when you step on that first tee, it's going to be a great day?   That this is a golf course that really fits in your game?   
MICHELLE WIE:   It's hard to tell, but it's a really good golf course.   It's a challenging golf course.   I think they don't give up birdies very easily, especially with the greens rolling this well too.   It's definitely a great course, and I really enjoy playing it.  
   
 Q.   The difference between playing a 54‑hole event and a 72‑hole event, a lot of times you have to get off to a good start.   How much better do you feel when you go out there and shoot a low number and kind of put yourself in position from minute one?   
MICHELLE WIE:   After this year, it feels good to be in contention after day one.   That's my main goal today.   I went out there and just getting in a good position.   I am in a good position, so I'm going to go out there and take advantage of tomorrow and have fun.   Hopefully shoot a lot lower.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
MICHELLE WIE:   Not really.   I didn't see that until my sixth hole.   But there's always somebody to do that on the first day.   It's not uncommon for somebody to do that.   It's out there.   It gives you a little confidence knowing that someone did it, so you can do it too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT