FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2006
Patricia Meunier-Lebouc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GRASSRHODE:  Thank you for coming in.  You had a 67 yesterday, a 66 today, that ties your season low round for 2006.  Do you want to talk about what set up so well for you out there?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  Well, it was playing steady golf and good golf.  I've been up and down so far in the season, so I'm working on that, really.  So far I'm fine, so I'm going to work on keep going and being able to maintain a certain level of steadiness, you know, to the end.  That's what I'm looking forward to, making a good round, and I've had two in a row.  Now you have to play maybe four rounds of golf to look good at the end, you know.  That's what you want.

But, you know, also, it's good to take one day after another, and I really enjoyed my day.  It was even better playing with Sophie.  It was like easy, we make birdies everywhere.  That doesn't happen very often, though.  It was fun.  You have to enjoy every moment because it not happens every day.

DANA GRASSRHODE:  On 18 you both had long putts for birdie and one of the fans said you were feeding off of each other; is that true?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  In a way.  You get in kind of an atmosphere where the one playing good, one drops the putt; I think the other believes you can make another one.  When you make my putt on the last one, I saw Sophie's drop, that I can make mine, too.  It has to help you.  It does, in a way, you're not thinking about it.  It's better than seeing a ball go around or going by the hole.  Of course it helps.  She made putts, very aggressive, not like, oh, I just made a birdie.  I was about the same today.  So, you know, one after another, I think we helped each other in that way.

DANA GRASSRHODE:  Let's go over your score card.
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  On the par 4, into the wind, I carried a four Highland, these special irons they make called Highland.  I had a chip and I made the chip, about nine yards.

7, I was short right of the green.

9, I don't know how long, it was probably nine, ten meters, so probably 30 feet.  I had 161 to the pin.  The wind was a little bit into us so I choose a 5 iron and played more kind of a save shot.  That's why it was a little bit long, but prefer that, because you know here with these greens being wet, you kind of have to go for it.  I didn't want to hit a good shot and get it short of the green.  I wanted to have a chance for birdie, and I was right.

Next, I had a 7 iron and made it from 18 feet.

14, I hit a 9 iron and I just landed it like five yards short of the pin and it.

18, from the edge of the green I was probably eight yards left of the green, almost pin high and I chipped with a sand wedge.
Q.  When you got up this morning and you saw the wet conditions much like yesterday's, did you know the course was maybe for the taking, and were you more aggressive in your approaches and even driving than maybe you typically are?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  Well, I thought that the conditions would not be very much different when you think about the length or the greens because they were pretty soft from the rain we got anyway.  We have not had a lot of dry all week.  You knew it was not going to stop there.  I was more concerned about the rain, if I have to, once I get out there, I don't care because I'm focused and I do my job.

But I really think rain doesn't bring anything to the game.  I like wind because it's interesting.  You know, it brings a lot of thinking and feeling to the shots.  But rain is like just a pain for everybody.  But I was very happy, once we got in the rain on the range and it was raining, this rain wasn't too bad.  It didn't get very, very wet.

So I said, okay, once you're there, it's okay.  I had longer clubs to the green, but you knew the greens would react even better and just stop there.  So it was a good day to be very aggressive and go for the distance, you know.  I think that's the key to things like that, if you hit it well and you're able to be aggressive and go for it then you get a result.  You'll be pretty close to the pin so you'll get a good chance for birdie.

I have to say, the greens this morning were better than yesterday afternoon.  Well, it makes sense, always better.  In the afternoon they were jumping a little bit.  They were a little soft, so it makes a lot more moss and everything.  This morning it looks like it doesn't change much.  Yesterday my caddie noticed it jumps a lot at the beginning, a few times we noticed that from Sophie's putt, too.  And because of the morning, too, you have an advantage playing in the morning and we took advantage of it.
Q.  With the greens starting to bumpy up for the folks coming out this afternoon, do you think you'll be able to maybe stay there on top of the board, or do you think someone might get up close to you or do you just take this and try to carry it into the weekend?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  I will try to carry it through the weekend.  I'm trying to do my own thing here.  It's tough enough already to just take care of yourself and just try to have I good, aggressive line of play and everything.  I'm just going to worry about that.  Because I can't do anything about the others.  You know, at least what I care about is what I'm doing out there and the way that I am out there on the course.  That's all I can do about the result we have at the end.  You know, even that, I don't have any control.  I can just control the way I feel, the way I go for things or things like that.  But in golf you cannot do anything.  One day, you do not know why one day the putts drop and another day they don't.  I think for four days, you have to be very steady out of four days.  For sure, the one that wins at the end is not really worrying about what the others are doing.  This person is the one that just plays the golf and just focuses on what she's doing and just go for it and do your own thing.  Finally at the end, if you win, you win.  If you don't, you have nothing to really, how do you say, be ashamed of.  I think you just want to play as best you can, and at the end, there's nothing you can do about winning or not.  I think sometimes a lapse comes if you provoke it.  At the end you can play your best golf and somebody can shoot a better score that day.  At the end just play your game and do the best you can, so that's why.  There will be another day and just try to go in the same mind of play.  That's the only thing I can do.  I'm going to go and work on my game and spend some time on the driving range, and after that, I start on the first tee tomorrow.  On the 72nd hole, there's nothing else I can do.  I just have to stay focused and do my own stuff.
Q.  I understand you forged a relationship with Tom Miller, the mayor of Franklin, how did that start and how strong of a friendship is that in your family?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  Well, we stayed with Mr. Miller with my husband when we were out on the Tour in 2002.  That was the year before the end of the tournament.  I've not been back since because it didn't work with my schedule to have the baby.  So after that, there's things you can't really control it.  So it didn't fit my schedule to come back the next three years.  But we really enjoyed staying with them four years ago.  So this year, Tom sent us an e mail saying, well, I saw you were on the list of players.  And I was about to contact him to see if we could stay with them again, and he e mailed me saying well, are you coming and do you want to stay with us.

I was not supposed to play here because I wanted to play like Vegas and then take this week off because I have to take a week off somewhere.  When he e mailed me, I was kind of debating playing Vegas at that moment and that really helped me to decide, like I really want the to go and see these people again.  I really like these people.  It's very important to meet people out here, and I'm coming from France, we came over with my husband in 2001, we didn't know anything about this country and the people.  So going to stay with people was one of our    was my way to really get to know America and different kind of people so we can have an idea.  The Millers have we have known since our second year on the Tour, so it was exciting to come back and say, well, I'm not playing Las Vegas, the end of the question, and I'm going to Nashville.  I was very happy, actually to see them again.  Apart from golf, it's something to be done, you know.  It's my job, I work hard for it but I also enjoy not having to just    it can be very boring.  So that's how we met them.  Very good people.
Q.  You mention the trying to get consistency back in your game, is it from having your daughter or have you just been working on it way back since then?
PATRICIA MEUNIER LEBOUC:  I've played well the year I had my daughter, 2004.  But I have to say, it was a tough year.  I hated it afterwards, from being on the road being pregnant and I didn't stop really.  I played the last tournament in 2003 at 6 1/2 months pregnant, The Tour Championship.  Then I had the baby February 9 and I started when she was eight weeks old.  I missed five tournaments, went back on the road and played great, was; but I think the year after last year, I had my worst season ever.  So I was just so tired, I was exhausted, you know, having a baby and being on the Tour, trying to play competitive golf and trying to spend some quality time with the child.  It took me a while to really kind of figure it out.  And also, I've been working out again.  I'm starting to know where I stand, what I want.  I'm learning about being able to switch from the baby to golf and do my job and get out of there and be with her.  I just kind of try to stay patient and just go for it now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT