ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 28, 2016
Brandon Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're finally getting ready for USC.  What's this week been like for you guys?  
BRANDON BELL: It's been great.  I'm taking it one day at a time, trying to live in the moment no matter what we're doing, whether it's football or having free time.  It's been fun so far.   
 Q.  How have you been balancing that?  This is also a business trip.  You're going to Disneyland, doing a lot of fun things.  How's that balancing act going?  
BRANDON BELL: Coach Franklin and the staff kind of keep our minds right.  Focusing on the moment.  If we're at Disneyland, we're at Disneyland.  If we're at meetings, we're at meetings.  If we're at practice, we're at practice.  100% locked in.  So just living in the moment.   
 Q.  That's easy to say, is that hard to do?  
BRANDON BELL: A little bit.  This is the first time for a lot of us out here, new experiences, which is definitely cool.  We appreciate it.  But coaches do a good job, older guys, keeping everybody's head straight.   
 Q.  When you look at USC, they have a dynamic offense similar to your offense, what makes them so difficult to defend?  
BRANDON BELL: Ton of athletes that they get the ball to in space.  Those guys make plays, athletic, O-line.  The running back is one of the best running being backs we might see this year.  Just fast guys that they get the ball to him.   
 Q.  Darnold has been great, especially in the red zone.  What have you seen from him on tape?  
BRANDON BELL: He looks like a savvy guy.  Everybody talks about him being young, but to me he looks like he's been out there playing awhile, throwing the ball away and making the plays that he does.  He does a great job corralling that whole offense.   
 Q.  There are a lot of comparisons between him and Trace, the fact that they're both first-time starters and have a lot of poise.  Do you see that even though you're only watching him on film, comparing him to Trace?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, I could see that.  He moves really well.  He doesn't use as many quarterback runs strategically for him.  But he moves and scrambles better than you want him to.   
 Q.  It's defensive day.  We don't get to talk to Coach Pry too often.  What should we ask him and what would you say about your coach, what he's done this year?  
BRANDON BELL: We love Coach Pry.  We can throw anything at him, and he's going to be smooth and calm, cool and collected, which is what we love about him.  Glad he's out here.  He keeps our minds right, and keeps us humble and hungry.   
 Q.  He's been working with you guys as a linebackers coach.  For him to make that step up, you didn't have any doubt he'd be as successful as he has been?  
BRANDON BELL: No doubt, no doubt.  Coach Pry has remained the same.  A lot of coaches, they get the upgrade and they might switch up a little bit, be tougher, less lenient.  He's remained the same approach to everything since he's been here.   
 Q.  You'll be missing one guy from the linebacking corps during the game.  How's it going to work not having Manny around?  
BRANDON BELL: It will hurt.  Manny's a good kid.  Obviously he's been a starter.  But it's next man up.  Whoever steps up in that position, we'll be relying on them just as much as we did with Manny.   
 Q.  When you went through that attrition linebacker-wise early in the year, how much do you think that experience of some of those other guys will benefit for the USC game now?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely, definitely.  Me and Jason being out, two of the leaders and starters for a few years, guys definitely learn how to cope with that.  So it should be easy.   
 Q.  As one of the team leaders, did you have to say anything to Saeed or Manny?  Did you feel you had to, even if it was just encouraging them?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, of course.  The team let them know we had their back.  No love lost or anything like that.  They're going through a tough time or whatever.  But obviously it hurts for them.  Just letting them know they have a friend there if they ever need to talk about anything.  Obviously, whatever happens it will be dealt with above us, but just being a friend pretty much.   
 Q.  You guys have faced adversity this year.  Obviously you yourself have too.  Does that maybe help you get through situations like this knowing that you've been through some tougher things earlier this year?  
BRANDON BELL: For sure, for sure.  Like I said, guys have been in and out of the rotation all year long for several different reasons.  So it's just obviously the Rose Bowl is a little bit bigger, but we'll be ready for it no matter what.   
 Q.  Tell me a little bit about Cam Brown, Koa Farmer, how have those guys been improving throughout the season?  We've seen it on the field, but in meetings with them and practice, how much have those guys gotten better between August when camp started until now?  
BRANDON BELL: Obviously, you see it on the field.  But behind the scenes and what people want to see is the guys have matured, just their approach to practice and the meetings and everything like that.  Taking a little more notes, more intricate notes on pen and paper, on the iPad, something like that, watching more film, getting together and watching film individually by themselves and collectively as a linebacking group.  They've matured that way, which obviously contributed to their effect on the field.   
 Q.  Favorite part of the week so far?  
BRANDON BELL: I can't choose, man.  Everything we've done, whether it be the free time, planned events, practice, just taking it all in, I'm loving every second of it.   
 Q.  This your first time out here?  
BRANDON BELL: First time on the West Coast in general.   
 Q.  What is your initial impression of it?  
BRANDON BELL: It seems like it's good air (laughing), clean air, weather is nice, palm trees are obviously nice.  Not used to seeing that unless you go to Florida or something like that, but it seems nice.   
 Q.  What do you notice from USC?  What have you noticed about them so far on offense?  
BRANDON BELL: Athletes, explosive, definitely.  I said before, running back, No. 25, is probably one of the better running backs we'll see all year.  Very shifty.  Can make his O-line right even if they're wrong type of deal.  That would be a good challenge to get him tackled.   
 Q.  What do you have to do personally losing a guy on defense?  What does that mean for you?  
BRANDON BELL: I think for me just being a leader on the team is keeping everybody's head right.  Make sure nobody has to have a superman mentality or do anything extra.  Everybody focuses on doing their job.  Next man up in their position, however we handle it, we'll do just fine and make sure everybody's focused on doing their job.   
 Q.  Does USC remind you of anybody?  Talking to Coach Franklin yesterday, he talked about scheme a little like Indiana, athletes a little like Ohio State.  Is that kind of what you see?  
BRANDON BELL: I can see that.  Scheme-wise, it's definitely kind of different.  It's kind of more planned attack.  Like, hey, we're just going to get -- at least I say we're going to get 25 off the ball right here, throw it to No. 1 right here.  Kind of just getting their guys the ball and making it happen like that.  Kind of the up tempo might be like Indiana, and they definitely have some top-tier athletes outside and inside really to move the ball.   
 Q.  What do you guys have to do to counter that?  
BRANDON BELL: Pretty much stick to our game plan like we do every week.  Run to the ball, get 11 hats to the ball, that will solve a lot of problems.  Play harder and faster than they do.   
 Q.  Did you watch Minnesota last night?  Were you encouraged about the Big Ten watching Minnesota and Washington State?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, little bits and pieces of it.  We were out running around, but definitely saw the end of it.  Yeah, it's always -- when the Big Ten wins, it's always a good deal.   
 Q.  You've seen Koa take on a bigger role for you guys this year.  What can you tell us about him from the guy that we saw earlier on that was still transitioning from safety to the guy that we're going to see on Monday?  
BRANDON BELL: Koa's, like you said, obviously grown a lot since the beginning of the season.  It's something an average person wouldn't see besides us.  Just his maturity throughout the season, kind of in the meeting rooms and practice and his approach to practice, whether it be taking more notes, more detailed notes, watching more film, collectively, individually, and honing in on just being a great football player really.   
 Q.  Any idea where he got that from?  Did you guys set that example?  
BRANDON BELL: I mean, definitely, I mean, we all get together and watch film.  I sit next to him.  He sees me take notes, and I tell him I've always been a pen and paper kind of guy.  Lot of people use iPads and stuff like that.  He just sees me writing everything.  Everything Coach Pry says, a little key, a little tell, I write it down.  He sees me do it.  Just let him know.  Everybody thinks they've got it in their head, but you write it down, you type it in whatever, you definitely lock it in.   
 Q.  Read it five times?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, pretty much, elementary style.   
 Q.  Have you sort of processed the stage of this game?  Have you thought at all about what it means to play in the Rose Bowl?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely, everybody talks about it, but until I step out on the field in the full arena it won't fully hit me.  But definitely watching football, I know what the Rose Bowl is.  But until I step on that field, it won't really hit me.   
 Q.  And any of Koa's California recommendations so far you've taken him up on?  
BRANDON BELL: Kind of give him the dos and don'ts the first day, don't stray too far from the hotel, things like that.  Where to go.  He definitely lets us know how to have a good time and enjoy it.   
 Q.  Done anything fun yet and seen anything good?  
BRANDON BELL: I was at Disneyland yesterday.  That was fun.  This is my first time on the West Coast in general.  I went to Disney in Florida when I was like five or six, so I can't remember that.  But it was a good time yesterday.   
 Q.  What sort of challenge does Sam Darnold present for you guys?  
BRANDON BELL: Great player.  I mean, everybody talks about him being a young guy because the way he moves around, he's really savvy.  He definitely moves a lot better than you want him to.  He can scramble around and make some plays with his feet.  So it would definitely be a test.   
 Q.  What is the key to slowing him down and getting him off his game?  
BRANDON BELL: Like any team we play, stop the run first.  Kind of make a team one dimensional and get to the quarterback and hopefully shuffle him up a little bit and play good defense on the back end.   
 Q.  I'm sure you asked this already, but what is the dynamic now for the linebacker group with Manny out, and you guys bringing Koa along?  What will that whole process be like?  
BRANDON BELL: Not much different, to be honest.  We've had definitely in the linebacker position, we've had guys in and out of rotation from day one.  So kind of just taking it like that, pretty much.  Whoever's going to be in that position, no matter which way we handle it.   
 Q.  Koa's from here, right down the road, so how excited is he about this opportunity to start now?  
BRANDON BELL: I'm sure he's excited.  The way it kind of happened, that's how football is, unfortunately.  But I'm sure he's going to have a big family showing out here, so it will be good for him.   
 Q.  Why do you think you guys have been so dominant in the second half?  Some teams have moved the ball on you pretty good, Michigan State, Purdue, Wisconsin in the first half.  But it's been a much different story in the second half.  What do you think is going on?  
BRANDON BELL: I think it's our mindset really.  Never get too down.  Never get too high on ourselves.  Try to stay even keeled.  The maturity, no matter what happens in the first quarter, we know we're talented enough, good enough to counter that.  So I think it's really just a mindset.   
 Q.  Where does that come from?  Where does that maturity come from to stay confident?  Is it because you did it against Pitt, you did it a couple times so you knew that you could?  
BRANDON BELL: I think there are a lot of older guys on the team that just play a lot of football throughout the four, five years.  Coaches as well, obviously they harp on us about that.  It doesn't matter, first quarter, 0-0 coming out the second half.  So I think it's just maturity.  Younger guys picked up on it, and it should continue to grow from there.   
 Q.  You're talking about Sam Darnold's ability to move around and scramble.  What kind of pressure does that put on a defense knowing that he can hurt you with his legs and his arms?  
BRANDON BELL: That's definitely a greater task to get the quarterback down, things like that.  But it should be fun.  Obviously it's easier when a quarterback's just a statue back there.  But definitely got to corral them all from all different angles, coming pretty much from anywhere, pretty much.  It will be hard, but I have confidence in our wild dogs.   
 Q.  Is there a secret or maybe a tip or something that you could kind of rely on when a play kind of breaks down, and Sam Darnold is just kind of running around back there?  How do you stay in that play?  
BRANDON BELL: I think the tip is really just to remain in your job.  When things break down, a lot of people kind of scramble and want to do something extra or super.  Kind of just have trust in your teammates they're going to be where they need to be at the end of the play, so you've got to be where you're going to be.   
 Q.  Don't be a hero, stay in your lane?  
BRANDON BELL: Follow the keys that you're coached to do throughout the week, and that's usually the best way to handle it.   
 Q.  You were talking about being strong in the second half, but how can you guys kind of transfer that and start strong as well so you're not in those comeback modes?  
BRANDON BELL: Not let the emotion and hype get to us.  Obviously it's a big game.  First time any of us have ever played in a Rose Bowl.  So staying calm and playing our game in the first half.   
 Q.  The linebackers have seen a lot of adversity this year.  What is your confidence level with guys like Brandon Smith and Koa and Cam?  
BRANDON BELL: It doesn't change at all.  I've seen those guys grind through it in practice.  Obviously we've all season the games.  But I know what those guys go through during the week and how much work they put into it.  It's really no sweat to me, no matter who is out there, I'm confident no matter the number or the name.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to be able to get out there with some pads on and start practicing today?  
BRANDON BELL: That's always fun.  That's what we're here to do.  It's definitely cool to play laced up in California.   
 Q.  Having been here a few days, what's been some of the highlights and exciting things?  
BRANDON BELL: Somebody mentioned the air is fresh and clean, obviously, the palm trees and things are nice.  First time out here, so really just taking it all in.   
 Q.  Maybe some of your early preparations, USC not necessarily fully underway.  But what have you seen from them that stands out to you?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely athletes.  They get them the ball and they make plays.  Whoever's number they call, those guys go out there and make plays, so that will be a challenge for the whole 11 on defense, just to get to the ball and play harder than they do.   
 Q.  Could you tell me about what this guy next to you, Marcus Allen, brings to your defense?  
BRANDON BELL: Marcus brings extreme energy and definitely a guy who is never too down, sometimes too high, but that's good.  You need those guys on the team.  The ultimate competitor when it comes to football.  He's going to leave everything on the field every play.  He's going to hit you in the mouth.  He's a hard-nosed guy.  He definitely brings that physicality to the defense as well.   
 Q.  You have dynamic personalities on defense.  You, Jason, but that guy looks like he almost takes it to another level.  And I don't mean that as an insult.  How important is it to have that?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely important.  Like you said, there are different kind of guys.  Some guys even it out, that's what I say I am.  Jason gets just as high as he does sometimes.  It's definitely good, though.  Never a dull moment.   
 Q.  The whole thing with showing the grill where he grabs it, did you ever get into that?  Everybody seems to be following his lead on that.  Do you know how that came about?  
BRANDON BELL: That's like a rapper thing, Lil Kodak or whatever.  DaeSean used to do it too.   
 Q.  Did he do it first?  
BRANDON BELL: He actually did.  We'll keep that between us and whoever sees this.  But I love it.  Fans get into it.  I had somebody DM me, and they said what does that mean?  What's the fishhook to the mouth mean?   
 Q.  All the fans are asking about it?  
BRANDON BELL: It's good, it's fun.   
 Q.  I'm asking some of the older players, who are some of the young guys who were maybe red-shirting this year on offense or defense maybe placed on the scout team and maybe that people should be looking out for?  
BRANDON BELL: I think guys get a lot of credit on the defensive scout team that goes against the offense, I would say Shane Simmons and Shaka Toney.  I hear the offense talk about those guys a lot.  They give them a good look.   
 Q.  What do they say?  
BRANDON BELL: Just extreme, great athletes, smart players as well.  So we'll see what the future holding for them.   
 Q.  In terms of Koa coming in and having to start now, what sort of confidence level do you guys have in him given how much he's played this year and some of the big plays he's been in?  
BRANDON BELL: I would say the confidence hasn't changed at all.  Our dynamic in the linebacker room, our rotation has switched up so many times this year.  No matter who is out there, we have the same confidence no matter what the number or name is.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to most about this game?  
BRANDON BELL: Obviously playing on The Granddaddy of Them All, being on that stage, the bright lights.  Should be a big game, New Year's Eve game or New Year's Day, whatever you want to call it.  Really just going down in the history books.   
 Q.  We see some of you guys more than others, and a lot of these developmental people.  What can you tell us about some of the true freshmen guys, the Shane Simmons of the world that we don't know about?  
BRANDON BELL: I think the future of Penn State's in great hands.  I think it's our job from the older guys to kind of just push them in the right direction, lead them the right way, show them how to act and prepare for what we practice and how to go about things.  The football athleticism aspect, they've got that.  I think that's handled.  So I think those guys, Shane Simmons, Shaka, I said they get a lot of kudos from the offensive coaches from the scout team.  Always giving a good look and going hard pretty much.   
 Q.  You won't be around to kind of see it.  Do you think it's kind of an instrumental part or time for this team?  We saw a huge lead from last year to now.  Is this winter the time for that?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely.  I mean, all year round, it's easy to say you can't take a day off, but every day's important.  You've got to learn and grow from every day.  Yeah, everything's important.  We talked about it before.  We wanted to get to a Big Ten Championship, but nobody knew what it took.  Now we've seen it, we've tasted it, and hopefully everybody gets hungry.  If we do more, it can only get better.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about that guy over there?  We've talked to him enough.  He has us always laughing.  
BRANDON BELL: Exactly.  That's Marcus.  He brings great energy to the defense and to this team in general, really.  You need that.   
 Q.  How does he flip the switch?  
BRANDON BELL: He doesn't.  He's the same on the field.  Football-wise, he brings extreme physicality.  We've all seen him.  He'll hit you in the mouth.  That energizes the team just as much.  He's the ultimate competitor.   
 Q.  What has Brent Pry and you guys with the revolving door and some of the injuries and stuff, what stands out to you about Brent as far as maybe his patience or persistence with you guys?  I think it would have been easy for him to get mad or frustrated with everything that happened.  
BRANDON BELL: I think it comes with being a great coach, you're a great teacher.  You need that patience.  My sister is a teacher, and she's always telling me, You should become a teacher.  I'm like, I don't know.  I've seen my mom go through some pretty bad kids, some inner-city type.  You definitely need that patience and to keep pushing these kids along, players along, and continue to grow.  Every kid learns different.  Every player learns different, verbally and things like that.  I think Coach Pry understands that.   
 Q.  What grade does she teach?  
BRANDON BELL: My mom was a third grade teacher for like 20 years.  Now she's a -- no, she was a fifth grade teacher for 20 years, and she's been third grade for the last 20 years.  Martin Luther King Elementary School in Atlantic City.  She loves it.  You've got to love it.  I think that's the same with coaches, they love it.   
 Q.  That can wear on a person?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  How was your Christmas?  
BRANDON BELL: It was good.  Didn't do much.   
 Q.  Did you get anything good?  
BRANDON BELL: My mom got me a neck thing for a plane or bus ride, and I forgot it for the plane ride.  Oh, I was actually pissed.  A nice, little, firm neck cushion.  Disappointed in myself.   
 Q.  I heard it was a smooth ride, though.  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, it was good.   
 Q.  Obviously big news about Manny comes out today.  With Koa, what are some things people don't know about him?  He's fast?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, we've seen Koa grow on the field before the people outside the football team and the building, I say that his play has contributed to kind of maturing off the field and approaching practice and meetings a different way, kind of kicking it up a notch.  Everybody's taking notes, more detailed notes, watching more film and things like that.  That's what's contributed to him getting more playing time.  And pretty much the coaches and everybody trusting him.  When he's out there, we're not missing a beat.   
 Q.  I know last time we talked, too, it was very much USC's a little bit different and it was adjusting to what they're going to bring now.  Have you had time to refine whatever the game plan is and what you want to do, or is there still a decision about that out there?  
BRANDON BELL: Oh, definitely.  I think we're refining.  Obviously, football, who knows what they can come out with, come Tuesday or Monday, game day.  But pretty much refining what we've seen off film, and how we anticipate them coming at us.  Just, most of football is reaction, so they come out with a whole new offense, we'll just have to react to it.   
 Q.  This game here, are you trying to balance it at all versus we're here and we've got to win, versus we're here in L.A., and the Rose Bowl?  How do you balance that?  
BRANDON BELL: I think Coach Franklin has preached living in the moment.  When we're at Disneyland, we're at Disneyland, have fun.  When we're in meetings, boom, 100% football.  You have to flip the switch.  I think we've matured as a team, and it's easier to do that.  Obviously, the palm trees and good air, it's a little difficult.   
 Q.  Intoxicating?  
BRANDON BELL: Yeah.  But coaches keep harping on us, just live in the moment.  If you're here, you're here.   
 Q.  Do you feel the team has taken on that message since you've been here?  
BRANDON BELL: Definitely.  Throughout the week everyone is kind of cracking down, not as much free time, so that would be good.  Obviously we enjoyed the trip, but we're in full football mode now and kind of just locking in on USC.   
 Q.  How much family's out here?  
BRANDON BELL: None yet.  My family's coming out before the game, probably that day or New Year's.  Two days and probably watch the game and fly back.  It's expensive out here, man.   
 Q.  The grill celebration, the thing you guys do, would you give Marcus credit for starting that?  
BRANDON BELL: I mean, he blew it up, yes, I'll give him that.  Have I seen it done before that?  Yes, but we'll leave it at that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT