PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2016
Brandon Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Brandon Bell.
Q. We talked in this setting a couple weeks ago and you mentioned when you committed here you didn't think much of rankings or anything like that.  Now that you are in the situation you're in, do they mean a little bit more to you?  Have you rethought that at all?
BRANDON BELL: I mean, we're in the conversation, so you notice it.  I'm not really sure how it all works these days.  Everybody kind of has their own opinions of who should be where and all that.
But it is great to be in the conversation.  Obviously when you have success, that will be the case.  So I'm with it, I guess, now.
Q. What are you expecting in terms of Senior Day ceremonies and all that kind of stuff?
BRANDON BELL: It will be full of fixed emotions.  I'm sure I'm going to be pumped for the game, but at the same time kind of a surreal moment.  Last time walking out there.
It will be full of mixed emotions, like I said.  We'll see, I don't know.
Q. Is there any moment in your career that kind of stands out for you when you think back, maybe one game, one play?
BRANDON BELL: I mean, I was asked what was one of my biggest plays back at the Big Ten Media Day.  I said my first big play against Wisconsin my freshman year.
This year has been full of also a lot of exciting moments, too.  Obviously Ohio State.  I guess I'll stick with the Wisconsin play.
Q. This will be your last game in this stadium.
BRANDON BELL: It's been hitting me a little bit this week.  I'm sure once it finally comes, once we finally walk out, it will be a little different.  Not sure what I'm going to be feeling.  It has started to hit me.
Q. Who is going to be the most emotional person?
BRANDON BELL: I don't know.  That's a good question.  I feel like we're all kind of calm, cool, collected guys.  When that day comes, I'm sure everybody will be a little different.
If I had to pick one, I would say, I don't know, Von Walker.  I think he might shed a tear.
Q. Why did you want No. 11 and how did you end up getting No. 11?
BRANDON BELL: No. 11 had always been my favorite number growing up.  When I came here, I tried to get it my freshman year.  Coach Vandy was like, No.  I wasn't sure of the history behind it.  I didn't realize that for another year.  Okay, that's why he didn't let me have it as a freshman just walking in here.
When I made a decision I wanted to switch I think after the Pinstripe game, I talked to the coaches about it.  They kind of let me know the (indiscernible) over it.  They finally let me do it.
Q. LaVar ever talk to you about having that number?
BRANDON BELL: After the fact, yeah.  We have a good relationship now.  We share texts every now and then, so it's all good.
Q. When they decided to let you have it, when you maybe earned the right to wear No. 11, what was that like?  Do you remember that scenario?
BRANDON BELL: I was excited.  I kind of had to keep bothering them about it just to make sure.  A lot of logistics goes into switching numbers, too, just to make sure there's no confusion on the field, stuff like that.  I had to keep badgering at them about it a little bit.
I didn't want to make it a distraction.  It wasn't going to be the end of me if I couldn't switch.  Once they gave me the green light, it was cool.
Q. You were No. 26 when you came here as a freshman.  Have you talked with Saquon?
BRANDON BELL: I let him know I wore it first.  All these kids now, they don't remember that.
Q. What do you think makes you a good blitzer?
BRANDON BELL: I think what makes me a good blitzer is kind of my instincts, I guess I could say.  I guess when things break down and the blitz doesn't go how you practice all week, I think I have the ability to still make a positive play out of it.
Q. Trace said it's all about making sure you're comfortable in the moment.  Is there a particular instance where you saw him in practice or a game this year, Man, this guy looks comfortable out here, not too rattled by what's going on?
BRANDON BELL: I let Trace know all the time this is his team and he has to run it that way, with that mindset.
Everybody saw against Georgia last year in the bowl game, that was really the moment.  We all knew Trace had ability coming out of high school, stuff like that.  We seen him in practice.  First time on a big stage.  He walked in, like he said, like he was prepared for that moment.
Against a good opponent Georgia, I wasn't worried about Trace ever since.  I knew he was going to be able to handle the big moments.
Q. When you came in as a freshman, were there any linebackers, defensive side of the ball, that took you under their wing?  Now that you're in this position as a senior, who are some of the younger guys you've taken under your wing?
BRANDON BELL: Definitely.  When you're a young guy, being in college general, as a man I guess you could say, I've talked to the team, but it's hard to ask for help.  It's really hard to do.  I think I learned that lesson as a young guy.
I talked to Nyeem.  I asked Nyeem for help when I was a young guy.  Glenn Carson, Mike Hull, Deion, Adrian Amos Trevor Williams.  Those guys kind of helped me when I was a young guy.
I think now I'd say Cam Brown, Manny Bowen, obviously young linebacker guys in the room, Shareef Miller I try to talk to a little bit.  Try to spread my wisdom the best I can.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRANDON BELL: Yeah, definitely.  You ask any of the older guys now, I was struggling when I was a young guy my freshman here.  On the field, football, trying to get the college thing down.  Surreal when the role is reversed.
Q. Von, Nyeem, done for the year.  They're going to be obviously emotional but can't be out there with you.  Do you say anything to them?
BRANDON BELL: Definitely, those guys know how I feel about them.  Those are two of my best friends.  We talk a lot throughout the week, not just about football.  They know how I feel about them, what's at stake on Saturday, I guess you could say.
Q. How do you want this class to kind of be remembered, this senior class?
BRANDON BELL: Just a group of guys that it didn't matter the circumstances, you know.  Obviously coming here, staying here, the circumstances didn't matter.  We wanted to be successful.  We knew that wasn't going to be easy.  Pretty much like I said, the circumstances didn't matter to this group.
Q. Regarding Trace, when has he most impressed you?  What kind of leadership ability has he brought to the offensive side of the ball, to the team as a whole?
BRANDON BELL: He most impresses me with kind of the plays that I don't want to say he doesn't make.  But not every play is going to be an exciting touchdown, 50-yard throw.  Defensive side, he's running three extra yards out of a sack, something like that, that's huge for this game.  I think that is overshadowed by the big plays he makes.  Whether throwing the ball away, avoiding a sack, anything positive is great.  I think that's huge for this team.  Those hidden yards have gone a long way this season.  I think that's where he kind of impresses me the most.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about LJ Scott, the Michigan running game in general, what they've been able to do this year.
BRANDON BELL: It's a tough group.  That's the same Michigan State that we've seen the last four or five years in terms of the running game, that's for sure.  The O-line is a very solid group.  Backs are very good backs.
You seen what LJ Scott was able to do last week against the top team in the country.  Definitely talented.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT