U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVID EGER:  Well, seven -- I don't know, you caught me off guard here.  Seven, seven, seven.  Tony Parker got married today, didn't he?  Once in a lifetime deal for me.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about that seven.   
 DAVID EGER:  Well, let's see.  All right, not such a short hole, it's probably 225 yards, I was down there this winter, Pete Dye and Herb Kohler live just to the right of the hole.  It's one of my favorites, I can tell you that much.  I wouldn't mind going there for a week every winter.  It's in my top-20 and I wouldn't mind going there every winter for a week.   
  
  Q.  How were you able to handle it today?   
 DAVID EGER:  The greens were softer today.  The wind is freshening, once you make the turn on the back from 14 in it gets very difficult.   
 15, 17 and 18, anybody who plays -- there is a lot of stretch of five holes of even pars that are playing pretty well.   
  
  Q.  Did you have any birdies today?   
 DAVID EGER:  On the 14th hole I hit a 75-lob wedge and lipped it in with three bogeys after that.   
  
  Q.  What about that long stretch there on the backside?   
 DAVID EGER:  Unless you hit perfect shots you're going to be scrambling every time and that's something you can't do, there is no allowance for scrambling out here.   
  
  Q.  Any rules situations?   
 DAVID EGER:  Nothing has come up in our group.  Knock on wood so far.   
  
  Q.  Nothing in your group?   
 DAVID EGER:  Actually no controversy so far.   
  
  Q.  What would you expect someone to shoot for today and tomorrow to win?   
 DAVID EGER:  Well, I think if Tom Watson shoots even par on the weekend he wins.  I don't think anybody is going to get close to that.   
 Having said that now, there are guys like Jay Haas who is known to play really well on Saturday and Sundays.  But it's an unforgiving golf course and one hiccup out there it's at least a bogey.   
 And if you play a good tee shot there are some birdie opportunities out there, but if you get it off a little bit you're going to make a bogey or worse.  It's difficult.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to hold the line --   
 DAVID EGER:  Yeah, it's very difficult.  I was 6-under for seven holes, even though I was shooting 3-under.  I've had a problem making pars this week.  I think I shot 15 birdies and an eagle or something like that and normally that would be pretty good at one of our tournaments, but when you play Whistling Straits with the USGA setup, it's not going to cut it.   
  
  Q.  How was the reaction to the tournament here compared to other U.S. Senior Opens?   
 DAVID EGER:  I think that the spectators, the fan interest and whatnot is sensational.  I know the regular Tour plays down in Milwaukee in a few weeks, but the spectator interest from up here is great.  Above average, good crowd.  I played early and there were people sitting in the grandstands so I can just imagine what it would be like for the last group.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT