OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
February 17, 2007
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Just general thoughts about the day.   
 DAVID EGER:  It was a tough day for me.  I drove the ball well but my irons weren't very good.  I missed a lot of greens, lots of up-and-downs.  When you miss the greens here, it's pretty difficult.  Your work is cut out for you.  I know I've got to play much better tomorrow to have a chance.  What is leading, 4-under?   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  4, so you're right in the mix.  Any key shots in the round, any saves that kept it going?   
 DAVID EGER:  After turning 1-over, I birdied the first hole and hit a good iron into the second hole, tough par 3.   
 But then I hit -- the only fairway I missed was on No. 4.  I drove it left and made bogey there.   
 Then made a foolish bogey at the shortest par 3 on the course, No. 6.  Birdied 7, hit it on in two.   
 But we were very fortunate to get in.  I think that was as much on our minds as shooting a good score because there's about a three-hour difference of sleep between coming out here and finishing the round, starting at 7:30, versus playing at whatever time it will be, 11:00 or so.  That was very important.   
  
  Q.  How do you balance that when you're trying to obviously shoot a good score, but also knowing how important it is to finish up so that you can get that extra sleep?   
 DAVID EGER:  Well, you do -- I catch myself hurrying up both in my walking obviously, which isn't a bad thing, but in my swinging of the club, too.  So I've got to be careful to not swing the club too quickly, because then you won't hit good shots at all, at least I won't.   
 It's a delicate balance.  But we were real fortunate tonight.   
  
  Q.  You've had two days in this weather, it's going to be very similar tomorrow, have you gotten used to these conditions yet, or can you actually ever get used to them?   
 DAVID EGER:  Well, I guess you do get used to it.  You've got to dress appropriately.  You've got to have the proper clothes on so that you don't -- so that you are not cold.  That's kind of difficult.   
 But it not much fun playing in weather like this.  We would much rather be out in short sleeves and wiping the perspiration off our hands and face than we would bundling up with our hands in our pocket walking down the fairway.   
 But it is what it is.  Those poor people up in the East are really in trouble again.  So it's not that bad.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT