U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2004
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Could you start us off by going through the birdies and bogeys on your card?
 DAVID EGER:  Let me think back here.  What holes did I birdie?  5.
Q.  You had three in a row.
 DAVID EGER:  Birdie on 4, that's the par 5.  Thank you.  It's been so long.  It was 4 hours and 40 minutes of play, this golf course.  The 4th hole is a par 5.  I hit a pitching wedge about 10 or 12 feet.

No. 6, I hit a 7-iron about 15 feet.

7, I hit a 9-iron about 15 feet.

8, I played the hole aggressively but hit a poor pitch and made about a 25-footer.  The rest, I missed a couple or three birdie putts that were makable and I made a good save certainly at 17 and 18 just for bogey.
Q.  All right.  Other than that, general comments?
 DAVID EGER:  Where is the couch?
Q.  We're shipping it in for the final two rounds.
 DAVID EGER:  I played fairly well for 10 or 11 holes and hit a bad tee shot at 12 and was fortunate to make par.  It's tough.  You start looking at the rough or hit a ball in the rough and you're looking at bogey if you play well, and the rough is certainly the equivalent to what the old USGA would want the rough to be, that's a half stroke in difficulty.  There is no way I can hit the ball 160 yards and stop it.  It's suffocating rough out here.

If it's their philosophy, so be it.  It's their championship.  I'm glad to be in it.
Q.  And obviously pleased to play as well as you did?
 DAVID EGER:  Sure.  Any time you shoot under par in the US Open you feel pretty good.
Q.  The best round?
 DAVID EGER:  You're asking me to remember things here.  Probably, yeah.  It probably is.  I don't know what I played in before.  Kansas City I think I played two good rounds before we got watched out there.  I haven't played a whole lot, maybe two tournaments since then.  I have been struggling if that was your next question.
Q.  Was the pin placement at 18 one of the cuter locations for you?
 DAVID EGER:  It was one of several.  During the practice rounds, in looking at these greens, it's difficult to find four -- it's difficult to find three fairly moderate decent hole placements, and to find a fourth is sometimes extremely difficult.  In looking at 18, which slopes dramatically from right to left, we figured there would be one on the top right.  There is not a whole lot of pin -- as large as these greens are, there are not a whole lot of pin placements on each green.
Q.  How fast are they?
 DAVID EGER:  They're not fast at all.  I don't know.  That's my perception.  Yesterday they were probably rolling 11 to 12.  The moisture in the air and whatnot has held the speeds down.
Q.  You were expecting if this cloud cover leaves --
 DAVID EGER:  Things will get firmer and faster I would expect.
Q.  Is there more of this golf in you or was this just an aberration or a rebounding after you were injured in Kansas City?
 DAVID EGER:  I've worked just like everyone has at trying to improve my swing, and I've struggled with it a lot this year, and I thought in Kansas City I found something, but then after being injured, I lost it, and whether or not I can regain that, I know what I was doing or what I thought I was doing then, but for some reason, the timing is not there or something is not right now after the accident.  I'm not blaming it on the accident, but people tell me when your body gets jarred in a car accident, you kind of get off-center for a while, and maybe that's what's happened.

Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT