U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2000
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID EGER: Well, compared to how I felt after about nine holes when I was worried
about getting beat 7 and 6, I feel pretty good now only getting beat, what was it, 3 and
1. He played a very good round of golf today. He started a little bit slowly, but then on
the -- I guess he one-putted six out of the next seven holes. I think four of those --
five of those were for birdie -- or four of them were for birdies. But he played a
wonderful round of golf. He was 4-under par through 17. I was only 1-under. I had my
problems putting, I guess was the main problem today. I had an opportunity to birdie the
first hole, missed it from eight feet. And from there, it didn't seem to get any better
until I made a side-hiller on the -- I missed very makeable putts from inside of 10 feet
on 1, 3, three-putted 4, missed the short birdie putt at 5, missed a short birdie putt at
10. Finally made a real swing putt that you would never think would be makeable with the
way I've been putting today on 11. So it -- I just got too far behind too good a player.

Q. I've heard about a fantastic par 3 shot you made from some deep rough to save a par.
Actually, that was chip-in for birdie.

DAVID EGER: More exciting than that, Les. (Laughter.) Well, after Jeff hit it a foot
from the hole on 15 to go dormie, I've got nothing to lose. I hit a tee shot in the left
rough, a second shot over the green, and had some kind of flop shot out of long grass
behind. It was better than Doug Flutie's Hail Mary. Only thing is I didn't win like Boston
College did. I just hit this thing up there and it mattered, but I didn't -- I wasn't
expecting to make that shot any more than I was expecting to make something 120 yards out
in the fairway.

Q. Is that one of the best shots you ever had in your career?

DAVID EGER: I wouldn't say it was best. It was maybe the luckiest -- one of the
luckiest shots I've had. The skill was getting the ball up in the air, I guess, or picking
the right club. There was no -- it was all luck. I mean it was a good shot, but looking
where the hole was set, my ball could have run off the green, too, had it missed the hole,
missed the flagstick.

Q. You had at least one or two years than everybody else in the field. Was your stamina
okay today?

DAVID EGER: My stamina was great. I feel great. As I've said in here before, the format
of going only 18 holes in the quarter and semifinal matches per day is very easy, and I
guess television dictates that, but I could see going back to the way it used to be and
make it more of a stamina contest, too.

Q. After the chip on 16, obviously you've got this big grin on your face. Are you
thinking at that point that, "Gosh, maybe somehow it just might happen?"

DAVID EGER: Yeah. And I hit a good tee shot at 17. Unfortunately it kicked in the rough
and I was 207 -- I hit my ball 207 yards to get to the front edge of the green, I didn't
even go for 17. I hit a 5-wood to lay up. I had a pretty good yardage there. But still I
had -- knowing where he played his second shot on 17, he -- the way he was playing today,
he was better than 50-50 shot, I figured he was gonna make a four. So it was, you know --
there was some light, but there wasn't much light at the end of the tunnel for me by then.
I would have thought he might have given me my putt and then just seen if he could make
his there on 17, like Phil Mickelson would have. Get out of the way, old man, let's go.

Q. Speaking of Phil, are you learning to avoid Arizona State golfers?

DAVID EGER: Yeah, that's getting redundant. I didn't think about that until after the
match. They've obviously had some very good players and it looks like Jeff is of the same
mold that Phil is.

Q. You get their momentum back on the 15 tee, looks like your tee shot was all over the
flag, carries over that green. What did you hit there and did that surprise you?

DAVID EGER: I hit a 9-iron, it was a 145-yard shot. While it was downhill, I still
didn't think that I could hit a 9-iron over the green. I wasn't worried about that. But I
knew that I had to hit it reasonably close to make a two to prolong the match. It's kind
of like when you play your round, you say, "Well, I'm the guinea pig on a par
3." I was the guinea pig. He hit the same club but obviously with a little more
finesse after that. He hit a heck of a shot after seeing my ball go over the green -- I
may be fooled that he could hit a 9-iron back that far when he may not have been trying to
do so. He knew I was dead when he saw my ball go over the green.

Q. When you were watching, you had to think it was pretty good.

DAVID EGER: I really thought that was going to be pretty good.

Q. What are your impressions of his game?

DAVID EGER: He's very solid. What I saw today, he only played two poor tee shots, hit a
lot of very good iron shots, and good short game, very good putter. I would think that he
should feel very good about going into tomorrow. If he plays the same type of game, anyone
would have a difficult time beating him.

Q. How do you feel just about your summer? I know you still have the World Team Am and
Mid-Am to go. You've had a pretty good year.

DAVID EGER: It's been a good year. I had a goal of making the World Amateur Team. When
I was selected to play on it a few weeks ago, that, you know, let me know that I had done
well and so I'm proud of it. I would have obviously liked to have done better this week,
but I did better than, what, 308, tied for 310. I had a good year. I'm pleased. And it's
not over yet.

Q. Right.

DAVID EGER: It really would be nice next week to win the Eisenhower Trophy back for the
United States, though. We haven't had it since 1994.

Q. What would you think if your playing partner today was joining you over there?

DAVID EGER: That would be great, or if it's James, that would be great, too. They're
both very good players, and they're obviously playing very well this week. So either one,
that's not my call. But --

Q. But you equivocated very nicely.

DAVID EGER: I'll play with either one. I hope they'd be proud to play with me also.
It's too bad that we can't take five over there.

Q. David, thank you for joining us. Congratulations.
End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT