MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 1, 2010
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: David, a second straight 68. Bogey-free today in tough conditions. Just talk about the overall round and go through the four birdies.  
 DAVID EGER: Well, I guess the wind is blowing from a south/southeasterly direction off the gulf, and it's very difficult. The first three holes are dead into the wind and fortunately the rules guys moved the tees up on those holes that are into the wind so much.  
 It's very difficult. The course is difficult to begin with the bunkering, and the green complexes are very tough.   
 But to get through without a bogey, I'm very happy. I know it could have been better, but at the same time, you know, things kind of even out.  
 I made a long putt on 4 for birdie, about 25 feet or so, which you don't expect to make them. You like to make 'em, but it's also something you've got to do to shoot 68 in conditions like today.   
 The 1st hole, the par-5, I hit about a 38-yard pitch four feet.   
 Then I had a pitching wedge 25 feet at 4.   
 Then on the back nine, I didn't make a birdie until the par-5 where I overshot the green in two and then chipped down to about five feet.   
 Then the par-3, I hit 156 yard 7-iron about, oh, I would say 13, 14 feet and made that.   
 So it was a clean round. There weren't too many mistakes or offline shots. But it's extremely difficult out there in 25 mile an hour winds.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Questions.   
  
  Q. I don't want to spend all day here, but talk about your career. It took off over the last five or six years or decade in the Champions Tour.   
 DAVID EGER: I had to wait until I was 50 to decide what I wanted to do. No, I think that having worked in golf and actually for the PGA Tour and the USGA, watching many of those guys hit hundreds and shots and whatnot, it helped.   
 It helped me understand what I needed to improve upon in order to play better. I get a lot of good help from both David Leadbetter and Jim Hardy.   
 When I turned 50, I just played amateur golf the previous just few years. So I only played in maybe six or eight events a year and came out more fresh, I guess, than these guys that had played competitively on the tour through those years through their 40s.   
 So hopefully I still have a little fire in the candle. I don't know. I'm getting older. I never contemplated being 58.  
  
  Q. The tours obviously do good things every week everywhere they go. This week though, this tournament is really a bit of a boost in an area that's had some tough times. Do you think about that at all?  
 DAVID EGER: Yeah, I do. When you drive out of here up Route 15 -- or if you drive around here and see the pine trees slashed down and whatnot, I do think, Was that Katrina that tore those trees down, or a tornado or whatever.   
 This is a wonderful venue. The volunteers and the fans, you don't walk to a tee or off a green without someone saying, Thanks for being here, We really appreciate you coming to play, and things like that. I've got to believe they treated the other 77 like that as well.  
 It's a very refreshing place. I'm from the South, Southeast, but I don't get over to Mississippi much. I went to Hattiesburg several times to run a tournament, usually in bad weather.   
 But it's nice to see that Southern Mississippi is supporting golf. This is a wonderful, wonderful venue to play.   
  
  Q. I don't know the pairing for tomorrow, but I imagine you'll be playing with Brad again. I guess David Frost. What are you anticipating weather-wise?   
 DAVID EGER: I have not heard too many good things about the forecast. I would imagine it would be similar to today, but maybe wet.   
 I don't know if thunderstorms and lightning are predicted. I haven't studied that. It doesn't matter. You still got to come out and prepare yourself tonight to play well tomorrow and play well and see what happens.   
 You know, there are a lot of good players. Jay is up there. He shot 68 today I see. And Joey Sindelar, who was beaten in a playoff last week. Tommy Armour who has played well this year obviously. Mark James, Fred Funk I see up there.   
 Anybody can win. 8-under, they just start off in the lead. By the time we tee off, we could be behind the leader. You have to go out and happy that you have a chance to maybe it off tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT