CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2008
David Eger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: David, 6-under start. After that bogey on No. 1, seven birdies. Talk a little about your round and we'll get some questions.   
 DAVID EGER: Well, the course itself is playing -- it's pretty receptive. We only had some wind on just two or three holes. Seemed like there was a little squall line that moved through when we were on the 12th, 13th and 14th holes. But I guess, given the forecast, this was the round to get your good score in. I guess the forecast is pretty lousy the remainder of the weekend.   
 I 3-putted the 1st hole. Hit a good second shot just over the green and somehow 3-putted. Only than that I only think I missed three greens. Kept the ball on the fairway, which you need to do, because the rough is in spots very severe. Generally just managed my game pretty well.   
 It's been a struggle for me this year. I've played well in spurts, and haven't played too poorly, but I never have played extremely well until today.  
 THE MODERATOR: Let's go through your birdies.  
 DAVID EGER: 3 was about 18 feet. Hit an 8-iron to 18 feet. The next was on 8. I hit a little sand wedge from about 85 yards to a foot. 9, I hit a sand wedge to about 10 feet. Then 2-putted 13 from about 30 feet. Hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet at 15. Greenside bunker blast out to a foot at 16. 8-iron to about six feet at 17.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You say you struggled this year, but you're here. A lot of guys aren't.   
 DAVID EGER: There are a lot of good players who aren't hire. Hale Irwin for the first time, Morgan, Jim Thorpe, Quigley. I guess that's something that happens every year here. You don't want it to be your year that you don't play.   
 I've had a year where I haven't played, and it was pretty dismal that winter. This is a very, very nice way to end the year.   
  
  Q. Anything surprise you out on the course? Anything in particular as far as the lay?   
 DAVID EGER: No. It's very nice to play just with one other player. We played in 3 hours and 25 minutes. The ProAm yesterday took 5 hours and 25 minutes with five players, plus you're dodging balls when you weren't looking for them (laughter).   
 No, you know, it's just a wonderful place to be and to play. Know you're going to play quickly, without delay. Just get it and go.   
  
  Q. Northern California at this time of year is not like Pebble in January. We'll get bad weather. Does that sort of put a damper on things?   
 DAVID EGER: Two or three years ago, I know we had at least two rounds where we had rain gear on. It's something that you'd like not to do. But we've had a relatively dry year this year. Unfortunately if it happens, it happens. I've got good rain gear. So I guess I'll be trying it out, as will the other 28 fellas, too.   
  
  Q. You were contending at Boston this year, was it?   
 DAVID EGER: New York. Long Island. Commerce Bank. Not Boston.   
  
  Q. I thought there was one other tournament.   
 DAVID EGER: Tampa. I've been up there a few times. I haven't finished.   
  
  Q. Any final rounds in those?   
 DAVID EGER: Yeah, final holes. I bogeyed the last two holes last weekend, the previous week, in Houston. It leaves a bad taste in your mouth. You'd like to overcome that and rectify it.   
  
  Q. It's age. You run out of gas.   
 DAVID EGER: Maybe so. Maybe so.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT