INDY PRO SERIES: SUNBELT RENTALS 100
July 14, 2007
Jaime Camara
Logan Gomez
Robbie Pecorari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We're now joined by the second- and third-place finishers in today's race.  Second place, Logan Gomez.  Career best finish.  His previous best was sixth.  For Jaime, his third third-place finish this year.    
 Logan, talk about your run out there today.    
 LOGAN GOMEZ:  Well, I'm very happy with the finish.  Like you said, it's our best finish.  You know, started ninth in this race, so it's always nice to move up.  The car got really strong when I believe other teams' cars went away at the end.    
 It was hard on that last restart.  We were running through pit lane on the apron, we picked up quite a bit of rubber.  I think the last restart was just whoever got the tires the cleanest before the green flag really had the jump on everybody.  Was working real hard to do that.  That's what got us two more positions at the end.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Jaime, talk about your run out there today.    
 JAIME CAMARA:  To be honest, I didn't expect to be third place.  We unloaded here on Friday thinking that we were going to be really strong here.  But first and second practice showed that we had a long way to go.  We changed our setup completely for qualifying and warmup.  We went kind of progressive gaining a little bit to see which way we needed to go for the race.  It worked.    
 When I started the race, I had no clue what the car was going to do, to be honest.  I was really happy when the first three laps the car was there and I could gain positions.  Car was pretty consistent during the whole race.  I was not quick enough to be on the top two, to be honest.  But the last accident, when we had to come to the pit lane, I picked up a lot of rubber.  The last restart, I couldn't start good because I got loose on three and four.  That kind of ditched my race.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for either driver.    
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LOGAN GOMEZ:  They cleaned the track pretty well for the start.  Once we were pretty much halfway, there were quite a few marbles on the bottom and you had to (indiscernible) on the top.  Going two-wide was pretty difficult.  But running a car length back, half a car length high, it was feasible.  You could get a good run off the corner.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Guys, thank you very much.    
 We're now joined by Robbie Pecorari.  Rookie driver, rookie team.  First career win in the Indy Pro Series.  His previous best finish was fifth earlier this year in Iowa.  Robbie, talk about your run out there today.    
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  First off, I have to thank the team and crew.  We rode off the trailer quick, not coming here testing as a bunch of other teams have.  So it's definitely a great weekend from the beginning.    
 As the race went on, we knew we had a great car.  We just held our position, got caught out at the yellow.  But then again, that's racing.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Robbie.    
  
  Q.  Tell us about the restart.    
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  The first restart, I think I believe I held my position.  The second one, Wade ended up getting underneath me.  It isn't a track you can race comfortably two-wide.  I just figured let him go and catch back up.  You know, pulled a little gap.  We started a rear (indiscernible) slightly towards the end.  That's when we got the yellow.  It really came down to the wire.    
  
  Q.  The other guys talked about the last restart, the track being difficult.  Did you have any trouble with marbles?    
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  I noticed there was some debris as the crash went on in turn three and four.  So I wasn't sure if it was the marbles or something happened to the car.  But, you know, towards the end, I started scrubbing the tires really well and got most of it off.  I realized that the car's good, so just go for it.    
  
  Q.  Did you find any difficulty having run the majority of your career on asphalt, now running on concrete?  Is there a big difference?    
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  Yeah, you know, my first oval was down in Homestead.  I'm still learning and getting experience.  To me, it wasn't too much of a difference.  You definitely feel the bumpiness.  As the track heated up, it seemed to lose grip.    
 But besides that, it's just another racetrack.    
  
  Q.  Had you noticed what happened to Alex with his blistered tires?    
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  No.  I couldn't notice the tires.  I knew he hit debris.  I saw a big chunk of carbon fiber come flying out.  Wasn't sure exactly what it was or if his car was damaged.  Coming down pit lane, my team told me it was damaged.  If we ran clean, we would have a good shot at it.    
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 ROBBIE PECORARI:  If you look at the finishes from Iowa, then Watkins Glen, we started picking it up.  We got a new engineer.  Ever since then, it's been going a lot better.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Robbie, thank you very much.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT