FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 15, 2007
Meilen Tu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  How was your first experience in Fed Cup? 
 MEILEN TU:  I did the best I could.  I tried to keep Nadia out there as long as I could.  I tried to win the match.  It didn't happen. 
 But, I mean, it was a great experience.  Played with my heart.  Saved a couple match points because you never know what can happen. 

 Q.  When did you find out you were going to play? 
 MEILEN TU:  Yesterday evening. 

 Q.  What did Zina say to you after the match today?  Did she think you played hard? 
 MEILEN TU:  Yeah, I mean, she was definitely very positive, very encouraging.  She told me, you know, that I should know I can hang with these girls. 
 You know, it was just tough.  It was just a little bit here and there.  I mean, yeah, the score is 6-1, 6-2, but the games are very close in the first set.  I mean, I felt Nadia on edge.  Maybe it was because she knew she had to win to keep her country in the match.  I mean, I was only missing by an inch or two.  It was a couple points here and there. 
 But, yeah, ended up I lost 6-1, 6-2. 

 Q.  Did you use any of the energy from Venus' match? 
 MEILEN TU:  Absolutely.  I mean, I really tried from the first point -- the first point, I think I won the first point of the first game, you always try to get the crowd into it.  In general, I love it when I have the crowd with me anyways. 
 I mean, it's my responsibility also.  I've got to give them something to cheer for, as well.  I mean, I definitely felt them behind me. 

 Q.  You did open up a good lead in one of the games in the second set.  Talk about that, how you were able to score on Nadia a little bit. 
 MEILEN TU:  Well, you know, honestly I think I kind of maybe settled down a little bit.  The problem here is that it's a little bit high here, a little bit of altitude.  I feel a little bit tight.  You're not really going after the ball.  It just goes out by an inch, inch and a half, or you miss on top of the net. 
 I think I settled down a little bit, tried to focus on the ball a little bit more, not really think about, you know, the result.  I think that just helped in that game. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit more about what your expectations were coming into Fed Cup compared to the reality. 
 MEILEN TU:  You know, for me coming in, first of all, just being here, it's amazing.  It was an honor to be selected for the team.  I was very excited to come here.  Then once I got here, I focused on what is in the best interest of my team.  Basically when you get here, you're just ready for anything:  if it's to play, if it's not to play.  You do everything for your team because the most important thing is on Sunday at the end of the day you want to walk away with the W, you want to win. 

 Q.  What was the team's reaction when Zina decided Venus was going to play in this deciding fifth rubber? 
 MEILEN TU:  I mean, look, we have complete confidence in our captain.  We know that Zina has our team's best interest in mind.  I think we're all fine with them.  We have complete confidence with Venus.  She is playing amazing.  What she did yesterday just shows heart.  She's a true champion. 
 To have someone like this going into a deciding match of doubles, I mean, you can't ask for much more.  For her to even agree to it, it's just unbelievable because she's been through so much, winning that Wimbledon crown.  She must be so tired. 
 She's a true champion and a true team player. 

 Q.  Watching you on the bench, you seem to have forged a nice relationship with Vania.  Talk about that. 
 MEILEN TU:  I think the relationship between all team members is really good.  I know Vania.  I met her two years ago when she first came on the tour.  I've known Lisa for a long time because she's been on the tour longer than me.  And Venus, we're all really good friends.  We try to help each other out.  We support each other. 
 It's really a nice feeling. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT