UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 13, 2006
Jane Brown Grimes
Zina Garrison
Arlen Kantarian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT











 JANE BROWN GRIMES: Thank you, Chris. 
 I am very pleased to announce that  Zina Garrison will continue as U.S. Fed Cup captain for the 2007 season. Over the past three years, Zina has  maintained a close relationship with our top players as well as fostering our young, up-and-coming  players. Last year we took a group of  talented players to the semifinal and we're looking forward to an exciting and  competitive campaign this year. Believe  me, no one wants to win the Fed Cup for the U.S. more than Zina. 
 And now I'd like to ask Zina to say  a few words about the upcoming year. 
 ZINA GARRISON: Thank you, Jane. 
 I'd also like to first of all thank  the USTA and also thank Jane Brown Grimes and also Arlen Kantarian for once  again believing in me for the opportunity to lead Fed Cup for 2007. I'm really very, very excited about this,  first and foremost that I have the opportunity to once again play in my home  country, which I'm very excited about. 
 We also have a lot of young and  exciting players, also some players that would be coming back from  injuries. Hopefully we're looking  forward to having a great year. So thank  you, guys. 
 I'm ready for the questions. 


 Q.  Zina, is it too early or have you had any conversations with players to  have a sense of who might be playing for the team in April? 
 ZINA GARRISON: No, it's not too early. Actually I've kind of been feeling people out  right before Thanksgiving. Now they're  basically in their process of doing their schedule anyway. 
 Everyone is very interested in  possibly playing in Fed Cup because I think a big part of it is that we'll have  the opportunity to actually play in our home country. 

 Q.  Can you go into any specifics? 
 ZINA GARRISON: Well, actually first of all, I think we have  11 players with the U.S. that are in the top hundred. I've talked to basically the top 50. They're in the process of making their  schedule. They're very interested and  looking forward to it. 
 I cannot make a team. I can't say actually who it would possibly  be, but everyone I've talked to is interested in the possibility of playing for  their home country. 

 Q.  Is it important to you to have the same players from tie to tie, or if  someone were to say, 'I only want to play at home,' you would accept that? If it were a top player, would you take them  for April, not necessarily having them later in the year? 
 ZINA GARRISON: I think it's very important for me to  basically get a commitment to want to win Fed Cup. I also look at the possibility of ranking,  where they are, the surface, where we're going to play, all of that. 
 Yes, I'm no different than any other  coach. I would like to get a commitment  saying, Hey, I would play all possible three ties. Sometimes it doesn't always work out like  that. I also like to think about from  situation to situation, the possibilities of how I look at players. 

 Q.  You lost to Belgium last year 4-1. You've got them again. Is the home cooking going to make the  difference this time around? 
 ZINA GARRISON: I think, first and foremost, you don't really  know if their top players will actually come over, as well. I think they'll run against the same problem  as actually we did. I know they possibly  will play the U.S. clay courts, but then would they  want to go back over and have to get ready for the red clay. All those things are going to come under  play. 
 For me, being a competitor, hey, a  win is a win. When I saw we had the  opportunity to play them, and considering a lot of us got sick over there, I  would like to basically be on my home surface and actually play them. 

 Q.  Talking a little bit about last year, which players on your young team  did you see the most improvement in?
 ZINA GARRISON: Right now, Vania King and also Jamea Jackson. They both since Germany have made strides into the world of  professional tennis. I'm very excited  about Vania, singles and doubles. She's  been playing extremely well. She's very  hungry. We have two young players that I  think are doing a good job into the leap of possibly being some of our good  players. 

 Q.  Talking about this season, do you expect the makeup of your club to be  similar to last year with such a youthful squad or are you hoping for more of a  blend with some veteran leadership? 
 ZINA GARRISON: I would like a blend. I mean, I also would like players that are  playing well, that are confident. We  have until April. I think the beginning  of the year tournaments basically have a tendency to tell you how people are  feeling for the beginning part of the year, leading into the middle part of the  year. 
 I think if they can get a good  startoff, leading into April, you know, I would definitely like a blend. 

 Q.  What is your reaction to Lindsay, who looks like is going to retire now  that she's pregnant? She was a long-time  Fed Cup competitor. Talk about what she  brought to the team in her career, all of that. 
 ZINA GARRISON: For me, Lindsay, I've known her since she was  probably like 14 or 15. I actually was  very excited for her. I know she's a  very family-oriented person. Her husband  is great. They both come from a great  family. She's done such wonderful things  for women's tennis and also for women, period, in sports. 
 I always use her as an example to  the younger players. I mean, I think  Lindsay is the epitome of a true professional on the court and off the court as  well. I'm very excited for her. 

 Q.  Can you talk about what it's going to take to get Serena to play Fed Cup  again. I don't believe she's played  since 2003. 
 ZINA GARRISON: Getting Serena on the court, that's the first  thing (laughter). 

 Q.  She's playing exhibitions now. There's  got to be some capability of playing. 
 ZINA GARRISON: Yeah, you know, I've actually had  conversations with her sister before. It's  just a matter of getting her on the court and getting her to be consistent  about playing. I think she's made some  great strides actually this year. I  thought she played pretty well at the Open.  Just a little bit unexperienced from not having as much. Hopefully she can go into 2007 and finish off  where she left off. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little more about Vania King. She hit the top 50 there for a little  while. She finished 60. She wins Bangkok.  I was speaking to her the other day, and she didn't even imagine she  would get that far at the beginning of the year. Talk about some of the positives in her game. 
 ZINA GARRISON: First of all, I'll just talk about the  positives basically of her as a person. It's  been a long time. I actually tell Vania  all the time, I compare her to someone like Lindsay. The confidence that she has within herself I  think will take her a long, long way. She's  a very strong baseliner. Her serve is  improving each and every day. 
 I think she did an exceptional move  by actually working with the USTA High Performance now, getting on a good  training program. She's doing some  things that is going to take her to the next level. 
 I haven't seen someone that has the  heart that she had in a very long time. That's  what it takes to be a champion, is to be able to totally believe in what you  believe in as far as your game is concerned when no one else believes, because  you're the only one out there playing. 
 She is a very, very confident young  player. She's very hungry. She wants to be a top player. 

 Q.  It's been since 2000 that the U.S. hasn't won the Fed Cup title. Is it fair to say that the biggest impediment  is getting the best players to play? 
 ZINA GARRISON: It's hard for me to say that it's fair  because I think we've also had a lot of other circumstances that were out of  our control. Basically the fact that we  had the opportunity we had, Venus, Serena played in Delray in April, Lindsay  and Venus were set to play in Russia, and then Lindsay's back gets hurt. It's just like we've had -- we've been a lot  more unlucky with injuries and things like that. I think it's going to help the fact that  we're going to have the possibility of two ties in the States. I think that will help. 
 It kind of hurts me that we haven't  won it since 2000. I know the players  want it just as much as me to be back in the United States.  It's just the circumstances. 

 Q.  Zina, you know Venus about as well as anybody on tour. Are you concerned for her long-term health? She's had a tough time the last few years  with injuries. 
 ZINA GARRISON: Yeah, I've actually been concerned about her  health for some time now. Venus is long,  lanky. She looks very strong,  athletic. Sometimes it can kind of wear  on your body the way her body moves kind of all over the place sometimes. 
 I think it's a situation where I'm a  firm believer I think you have to play more to kind of keep your body  going. Sometimes when you have long  breaks, you come back, you're playing as hard as you did when you left off, I  think it brings on more possibilities to be injured. 

 Q.  Have you spoken to Jennifer at all in the last six months? 
 ZINA GARRISON: Not in the last six months. I actually emailed her like nine months  ago. It was just kind of like, Hi, how  are you doing? She said, Fine, just  enjoying life. That was it. 

 Q.  Not hitting? 
 ZINA GARRISON: That's all she said, just enjoying. I said, okay. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT