WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 17, 2005
Yolanda Griffith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  So it's time to move on? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  You got to move on.  You can't dwell on it and hang our head and if we want to do it over, we might as well give it to them now.  Yeah, we're at home.  Yes, we're 14-2 at home.  So what.  We're 1-1 in the series.   
 

Q.  So the championship is still in reach.  
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  Yeah, it's still in reach.  They can want it more than us and they can get it.  If we want it more than them and do everything that we're capable of doing, executing offensively, crash the boards, rebounding, playing the defense that we know how to play, we're going to be okay.   
 

Q.  All we need here is just everyone to play 40 minutes? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  It can't be the starters carrying this team.  Our bench has always been our X factor, everybody has to play.  Everybody gets a paycheck, everybody got to show up to play, that's the bottom line.  
 

Q.  How was the plane trip coming back from the East Coast?  Were you guy still talking about the game or were you talking about what we're going to do to win the next two games? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  When you have a bad day on the job, what do you do?  Okay.  When you have a bad day on the job, you got to move on.  We was cracking jokes, sleeping, eating, it was a normal day.  Normal day.  If you know how you play in the last two games, then you as an individual going to be the one that's feeling that.  It's a game.  You got to have fun, but you got to be smart about the game.  You got to take care of the ball, you got to run the offense, you got to play your defense, and whether we have mental lapse or whatever, we still should have, we could have won the game, but we didn't.  We have two here, but we're only going to do one game at a time.  And that's it.  
 

Q.  What do you expect the crowd to be like? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  I don't know, I ain't thinking about the crowd.  I'm thinking about the Monarchs.  I'm not thinking about the fans, I'm not thinking about anything else, I'm thinking about the Sacramento Monarchs.  If we have a sellout, that's wonderful.  If we don't, it's wonderful, because we still have the same fans that's been supporting us since I been here.  So if we have a sellout, it's awesome, but I'm only worrying about us, the Monarchs, nobody else.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT