WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 15, 2005
Yolanda Griffith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did you detect a difference in the flow of this game?  I mean, it's two very close games, two three-pointers at the end, one goes in, one doesn't, or was there something throughout the game that you saw that was different? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  From beginning to the end, they had a lot of energy.  They were more hungry than we were.  I think we kind of put it in the back of our heads that we were going back home, but like I've been telling them from day one, nothing is guaranteed.  We had this game.  You know, we struggled in the first half but we ended up having a one-point lead at halftime, and, you know, we talked about the mistakes that we made in the first half, we just had to cut down our turnovers and crash the boards.  We got one shot and we were done.  You know, things happen.  Last night, Whalen missed a shot.  Tonight, the shot went in.  But we're not going to hold our heads down.  We're going to regroup, we get home tomorrow, look at video and practice on Saturday and get ready for the next game.  
 
Q.  Are you content walking out of here with a split of the series?
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  No.  We're not happy at all.  We think the first game that we played, we didn't play to our best.  A lot of us watched video, talked about the mistakes we made as individuals, but playing a back-to-back is kind of tough.  Tonight we needed everybody from the starters to our bench players to give us a lift, and like I said, I struggled on down to, you know, the last person coming off the bench.  But we've always kept our heads up no matter good or bad, we're going to keep fighting.  We're in The Finals and we want to win it.  We are not going to settle.  Even though we're going home, sometimes we still struggle at home.  We've just got to be more hungry than the other team.  
 
Q.  Going into overtime the way that you did on their last-second shot, what was the mood of the team as you broke the huddle? 
 
YOLANDA GRIFFITH:  How would you feel?  (Laughing).  No, but things happen.  You've just got to keep your composure and regroup.  We tried to regroup.  Like I said, we had to get on the offensive boards.  The shots just didn't fall tonight.  We go home and we've just got to have more confidence than the other team and the shots will fall, I guarantee you.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT