INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 12, 2006
Nicolas Almagro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think you lost because of a lack of experience?   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I think I lost because he's a much better player than me.  He's the first player in the world.   
 So I'm happy with the way I played, but of course I'm disappointed because I would have liked to win.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  In the past you lacked somehow continuity.  You were a discontinuous player.  Do you think you found this regularity now?  Also, I've never seen a player who bothered Federer that much on his forehand, but you did today.   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I simply tried to do my game and to disturb him and to make him run, which is something he doesn't like, like everybody.   
 Effectively, I think I'm playing better.  I'm being more regular, and I'm happy that the results can prove it.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Can you tell us how you started to play tennis and with whom.   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I started because my two brothers offered me a racquet, and then I began to play and I found the trainer, which I have today.  And then I began to do many little championships up to now.  I always had the same staff, so I'm very thankful to them for their support.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You play better and better as long as the tournament go further.  Do you think you can play better in Roland Garros than last year?   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I have expectations, but I'm very humble as well.  I hope that I'll be able to continue and play like I do in this moments because if I do, I think I can have good results.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Is there a player which inspired you in the past?  To whom can you compare your forehand and backhand?   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I think I am myself.  I have my backhand and my forehand, so just to me.   
 I like very much Sampras.  I like the way he played.  And of course Rafael as well is someone I admire.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  What did you learn from this match?   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  It was a very tough match, and obviously this can teach me many lessons because I knew I had to take my chances and that's what I did.  I wasn't able to concretize all of them, but I think I can be happy with what I've done.  I served very well, and my backhand worked very well as well.  My forehand, little bit less, but I'm satisfied.   
 I think I learn a lot.  I learn to suffer.  I played with the No. 1 player in the world, and I'm sure that tomorrow when I speak with my trainer about this match we'll have many things to learn about.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  In Barcelona you won Nadal but couldn't get a set [sic].  Now Nadal obviously plays very well on clay.  Do you think he can beat Federer, or can it go some other way?   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I think you're going too fast because Rafael still has to play a very tough match - both of them - tomorrow.  If they do meet in final, is gonna be a beautiful match.  Roger will certainly want to win.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Why do you think that you lost?  I have my personal opinion that you were too much in a hurry in the end.   
  
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  I don't think I was in a hurry.  I been running for two hours and a half.  I was tired.  I did what I could.   
 But you can have your opinion.   
  Q.  You seem to have a lot of confidence, not like the other players when they play Federer.  You didn't show a lot of respect, too much respect.   
 NICOLAS ALMAGRO:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I'm sure of myself because when I'm playing well, I go in the court and I feel all right.  I feel comfortable with my shots.   
 I don't see why I should be intimidated by him.  He's not a monster, he's just a player like me.  So there is no reason.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT