MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2013
Nicolas Almagro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. YOUZHNY/N. Almagro
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you the way the court is.   Does it feel very different compared to last year?
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Well, I think they've done a really good job on the courts.   They are in an optimum state.   Really they are one of the best clay courts we can play during the year, yeah.
They're probably one of the best.

Q.   Why does it take you so much effort to win Youzhny?
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   What do you want me to tell you?   I don't know.   What can I tell you? 

Q.   Did you have any problem in your hip? 
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Yeah, well, we were having dinner, and to try to avoid‑‑ the most stupid way I trying to avoid that the drink to be spilled on me, I moved in an abrupt way and something went wrong in the hip.   I felt a pinch.
I don't know.   I thought it was something that wasn't important, but yesterday I felt it again.   I decided to retire from the doubles. 
After being all the afternoon with a physio and with my team, well, I think that today it was quite well until there was a point where I felt it again.
I haven't been able to continue fighting as I was doing until that moment. 

Q.   Do you think that Youzhny brining in his physio affected you?   Do you think it stopped your rhythm?
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   I don't know what he had.   I guess he was in pain.   It's true, the match was stopped for a long time, and we have to be active.   I tried not to stop a lot. 
And then if I'm not wrong, I missed three break balls in the third set.   He played in a really good way.   I didn't manage to make a break. 
The first time he has a break in the second game, I missed a loop.   I couldn't return that ball.   I ate it. 
Well, after that everything was getting really complicated.   I think that afterwards he played at a really high level. 
Yeah, played really well. 

Q.   There was a moment in the third set where there was something from the crowd that you didn't like.   Were they supporting Youzhny?
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Nothing went wrong over there.   It's clear people come here to support their player. 
But what can influence over there is when you commit some errors that in theory you shouldn't commit them, that shouldn't be applauded.
There was a low‑pitched voice over there.   I could feel it in my ear.   A little voice.   These things happen.   This is the way things go, and you don't have to give it any more importance. 

Q.   Apart from the fact that Youzhny's physiotherapist came in, in the first set you had a moment where you were comfortable on the court.   Suddenly Youzhny started dominating.   What happened over there?   I thought you were pretty comfortable at first. 
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Well, you know, it's always difficult to end a match, to finish them.   They are complicated.   I think he played very aggressively; he played really well.
I couldn't win the first set.   I don't know if I'm wrong, but I had 5‑4, 5‑3, and I was serving to close the match‑‑ sorry, to close the first set. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT