MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2013
Nicolas Almagro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. ALMAGRO/T. Kamke
  6‑4 (ret.) 
  
(Through translation.)   
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Hi, Nico.   Good afternoon.   You've just went in and out.   What you've got now, it's a pretty difficult draw.   Can you analyze it?  
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Well, I haven't looked further than the match of today.   I don't know who's coming or not coming.   This is a matter of going day after day, every day going over the obstacles.  
Today I've been lucky enough to go over the first one; we will see what happens the next day.   
   
 Q.   Hi, Nico.   I would like to know how you feel the ball here in Madrid?   How did you find yourself playing in this court?  
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Playing here in Madrid is always lovely.   Madrid always makes you have more motivation and you always want to do really well.   Maybe that gives you a little bit more pressure.   
But it's clear that the courts are in really good condition.   Now I have the luck to be able to train during the year in Vienna, which has an altitude similar to here in Madrid.   Well, the days that I have been training here in Madrid I find myself quite comfortable.  
I hope that as soon as the days keep on going I keep playing better and better.   
   
 Q.   After the final of Godo, how do you face this tournament?  
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Well, after such a long tour over in the United States and South America where I wasn't playing really good tennis, I started clay in Houston and things went quite well.   After the long journey to play in Monte‑Carlo, I knew it was going to be difficult to have a good result over there.  
But I knew if I kept on working and doing things I was doing until then, I could have the results soon.   I was lucky enough to have a good result in Barcelona, a tournament that has always been a big illusion for me.  
I'm quite happy for how things are going in the tournaments to which I'm attending, tournaments I'm participating in.   
   
 Q.   Hi, Nico.   I wanted to ask if you feel the difference between the speed of the ball here from that in Godo.   Is there a lot of difference?  
NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Yeah, you can feel it.   It's quite a bit of difference to play at sea level than at altitude.   I'm saying the same:   I've been lucky enough to be training for a week in a place where there is similar altitude to here, which is the Juan Carlos Ferrero Academy in Vienna.   
But it's clear that, yeah, it's a big change.   Maybe not that important, but, yeah, it makes the ball go much faster than in Barcelona.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT