DUBAI OPEN
December 18, 2014
Chris Cannon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS CANNON:   I had a plugged lie, so that was good, off to a good start, but otherwise, yeah, I just played really solid golf.   Really simple as that.   I made a good putt on 4, the par‑3, but other than that I had some good chances throughout the front nine, continued to play solid, and then, yeah, just‑‑ yeah, I just played a solid round of golf, really. 

Q.   It was the up‑and‑down on the second that got you going. 
    CHRIS CANNON:   Yeah, obviously when you start off, it's always nice not to drop a shot early and things like that.   It was a really tough up‑and‑down.   I played it quite nicely using the slope and stuff.   It was just a great way to start, and yeah, just finished from there.   I just played really solidly and made a couple of putts, but it was just a good round of golf, really.   Simple as that.

Q.   Does it feel like the best opening round in any professional tournament?
    CHRIS CANNON:   Yeah, it probably is actually, yeah. 

Q.   Have you played on the Asian Tour before?
    CHRIS CANNON:   I have not, no.

Q.   So your confidence for the weekend? 
    CHRIS CANNON:   It's very good.   I mean, golf is sort of golf.   You do the same thing, you pick a target, you hit it out there and get your job done and move on.   I think that's always what I've thought about it and the way I've continued to play, just compete 100 percent and see where I come out.   Yeah, I feel my game is good.   If I play well, I definitely feel it can happen, a really good result.

Q.   How would you assess conditions out there?
    CHRIS CANNON:   It was interesting because when I started there was barely a breath of wind the first three holes, but suddenly, I think it was on the fifth tee shot, it really picked up.   I've played it a fair amount recently around here, and it's been very calm, which is kind of unusual the first time it does pick up, but it started a decent wind there, from 5 onwards, and certainly on the back nine it was blowing tough, which obviously makes it a little bit tougher and things like that.   But if anything I enjoy that.   I've always played well in the wind, drive on that stuff.   It's always a good challenge.   I enjoy that.   But yeah, it was definitely getting trickier out there.   In the practice round it's been near pretty benign really. 

Q.   How do you assess things for the four rounds because I guess the greens will firm up, conditions are imponderable, but any thoughts in terms of what may be a winning four‑round total? 
    CHRIS CANNON:   I'd be interested in the greens‑‑ I don't know how much they'll quicken them up because they're very slopey, and I've heard they don't want to get them too fast, especially if the wind picks up.   With all the falloffs around the edges I'm sure they'll control it to a certain extent.   If it continues to blow like this, it's always hard to know a winning number because at the end of the day, it's completely up to the players.   If someone plays really well, you could finish 20‑under, but it's just‑‑ you never really know. 
    Obviously if the tee is being moved forward, I don't know, maybe 15 plus.   You just don't know.   No tournament has been played here before, has it really, so no precedent has really been set.   I think Sunday I will go out and play as well as I can and see what I finish or see what I can get to.   I think everyone has to do the same, and we'll find out, I guess, at the end of the week. 

Q.   Your forecast looks like rain tonight, and obviously windier towards the weekend.   How does your game change in different conditions?   You've spoken a bit about it. 
    CHRIS CANNON:   Yeah, I mean, it's interesting to be raining here in Dubai, but it's already very soft out there.   There's not run‑out in the fairway.   I hit a driver down the last.   It was downwind.   It pitched and stopped within three yards literally.   I don't think it's going to make much difference course condition wise.   Obviously the wind always changes how holes play, and especially with the pins and the full lofts and everything, you may have to change‑‑ it may make a little bit of a difference how you attack flags or where you want to leave your ball.   You don't want to be chipping downwind or downhill, that kind of thing.   But my game, I've always felt like I've played very well in the wind, and often on tougher golf courses, tough conditions has always suited my game. 
    But again, it's the same thing.   Golf is golf; whether there's wind or not, you pick a target, you hit it at it, and it's sort of the same goal, really, so keep doing that.

Q.   Obviously a great field, a lot of good players out there, so there's a lot of competition for the weekend. 
    CHRIS CANNON:   Yeah, sure.   Again, that's what makes it even better, even more fun.   The more good players, that gives us a great opportunity to play in this big event here with such a good field, which again, it just makes it even more enjoyable out there knowing you're competing against some of the best players in the world. 
    You know, and that's the thing, if you want to get better as a golfer, you compete against better, and you just continue to raise your game.   You watch the best players out on Tour and stuff, they keep playing better because they keep getting more and more competition around them, and it just keeps pushing you along, and I think that's what you're seeing.   There's such a good group of players out here, the scoring will probably get pretty good.   You've got to play well to win, simple as that. 

Q.   So ultimately do you see your future on the Asian Tour, the European Tour?   Where do you see yourself long‑term? 
    CHRIS CANNON:   Well, next year my plan is to go to Asian Q‑school and play on the Asian Tour next year.   After that we'll see.   There's a lot of co‑sanctioned events.   The thing about golf is that you play well and win golf tournaments, it's amazing how your career path could change very quickly.   It's such a global game now.   The Asian Tour has got a lot of co‑sanctioned events, even linked to America now, as well.   Obviously the goal for any golfer is obviously to be playing on the PGA TOUR.   That's where the best players play, the biggest tournaments, the most money.   The European Tour, again, it's just‑‑ I don't really know where‑‑ I want to be playing at the top level, PGA TOUR, playing in the majors.   If I go out and play well next year on the Asian Tour, we'll see where that takes me really.   The European Tour is‑‑ it's such a global game now.   Really you just play well and see where it takes you, you know. 

Q.   You had a bit of an experience at the Asian final school earlier this year. 
    CHRIS CANNON:   Yeah, I played in February I think it was this year.   I didn't play well enough to get through to be quite honest.   I mean, but the good thing is I learnt from it a lot going into this year, and I think this year will be better because it's in early January, so from this tournament to then, it's only about two and a half week stretch really, whereas before I finished playing the MENA Tour in probably November, didn't play until February, and I think I was just a little bit rusty frankly to be honest.   Although I'm playing on a different golf course this year, still, I think I feel I've learned from the experience and traveling out there and stuff, the conditions out there.   I'm feeling very well placed for next year, definitely. 

Q.   This is only the first round, but do you think MENA Tour players are out there making statements because a lot of players have‑‑
    CHRIS CANNON:   Sure.   I mean, it doesn't surprise me whatsoever.   At the end of the day, the guys who are doing well now are very good players, and that's why they're continually up there each week, and as they go, it's you and the golf course.   It doesn't matter who you're playing against.   Good players will shoot good scores and compete well, and there's a lot of good players on the MENA Tour now, and it wouldn't surprise me at all if one of us wins it this week or somebody gets some good results.   Definitely. 

Q.   Being a MENA Tour man, how proud is it for you to see an event here in Dubai and a big event, too? 
    CHRIS CANNON:   I am proud.   I mean, it's a testament really to what the MENA Golf Tour and Dubai have done over the last four or five years.   I remember hearing about it back in 2011 when they were first talking about it.   I think it was the first year I actually started.   It's amazing how‑‑ you think in four years now, you get in Dubai Open, combine that with such good players on the MENA Golf Tour and competing around the world, and everyone wants to come and play it.   Yeah, I think we're all really a part of it because we all come over here and support the Tour.   We love playing it, play good golf courses, and to have a tournament here, especially a great venue like the Els Club, is great.   It's a testament to the great golf in Dubai and the MENA Golf Tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT