LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 13, 2020
Marcus Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How important was the 2 seed to you, and also, how do you feel the team has meshed since you've joined in February?
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   I think the 2 seed is a great spot for us.  These guys work hard.  They had a long season before I got here.  Since I've been here in February, I think it's been going really well.  I don't actually know the numbers on our record, but I know our net rating is very high.  It's been very easy for me to fit in.  The biggest thing is everybody is talking about scoring and how much I averaged in New York and a lot of that type of stuff.  For me it doesn't really matter.  I'm not in New York anymore.  I know my role on this team.  I know what the team needs me to do; whether I have 0 or 20 points and we win, that's the biggest goal.
Q. Expound on that role that you talk about.  It seems like you've kind of seamlessly -- well, after the first initial games in this bubble, you kind of seamlessly fit in down there.  Would you expound on that role and how comfortable it is with the guys?  What more have you learned from the guys since being in the bubble?
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   What initial games are you referring to?  About the 0-and-4 against the Lakers?  I was a plus 10 that game, so like I said, it doesn't matter too much about scoring for me.  My role is to do everything, defend any position they put me on, defend guys like Kawhi and PG which are great scorers in the league space, and be the guy that can score, too, when it's time for me to get my touches.
Like I said, man, the focus is not on scoring, it's about winning.  I know what I can do.  I've been doing it for nine years in this league.  I'm in a great place with a great organization.  I'm taking on whatever role on a nightly basis that's needed, if it's defending, if it's scoring, if it's just being a vocal leader and doing the dirty work, I'm all in.
Q. Yesterday obviously the rules came out about families being able to visit.  When you arrived here, I know you talked at length about how important that was for you to be around your family and how you would eventually leave.  How do you handle that, because obviously with the pregnancy in September, are you asking your family just to wait and you'll see them in September when you leave?  How does that work?
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   Initially I did.  I told my wife to wait.  But I don't have no say-so in my household, so she told me that she was coming early.  Even though the baby is due end of September, that she will come on the early side and leave -- just come for a couple days, and I'm excited about that.  I haven't seen my son in almost two and a half months because I was in LA and they were home.  I haven't seen her in a long time.  So I'm excited to just see my family and just be around them for a little bit.
Q. Given all the playoff positioning is set for you guys, what's got to be the mindset for this team as you guys go into tomorrow's game?
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   Just focusing on us.  Just continuing to get better.  I'm not sure how much guys will play, but just getting into that mindset that the Playoffs are here.  We know what we're taking on.  For me it's just to start focusing in on that team and the individuals that I will be defending or taking on.  It's a different process of getting that mindset ready for the Playoffs because it's an entirely different level, and the focus has to be at a hundred.
Q. When you first arrived, you were still kind of getting to know this team, and then the pandemic hit.  I was wondering how have you gotten closer or gotten to know this team, and what is this team's chemistry like even after being in the bubble?  What does it compare to say all the other teams you've been on?
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   Oh, it's pretty cool.  We have a lot of veteran guys, guys that have been around the league, guys that I've competed against my entire career.  You know, it was kind of easy because after a while you start to build relationships with guys, just through the NBA and through the competitive nature, and like I said, my brother played on a few teams with these guys, I've played on a team with Patrick Beverley in his first year in the NBA.  It was easy, man.  We're all mature, we're all grown men, we all know our purpose here, and it's for it to be one goal.
It's a little different seeing everybody every day, but the purpose here is to win a championship.
Q. I know Doc talks a lot about the importance of voting and he talks about talking to you guys about it, but wondering what he's like in that regard and just comparing him to other coaches you've had as far as those conversations.
MARCUS MORRIS SR.:   Obviously it's different because Doc is an African-American male, so the relationship is a little different stemming back from a while back, and him being actually being in these situations before.  He's been in different riots and he sat down and he told us about different stories and the rioting thing and different situations he's been in.  So it's definitely relatable.  It's definitely very relatable.  Doc is a unique coach.  He's been around a while, seen both sides, and the knowledge that he's given us and the way that he stands in front of everyone and speaks his peace is definitely great for us as African-American males.  Being around him, he's really very genuine and I'm enjoying my time here with the Clippers, and I'm excited to see how long I stay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT