LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 24, 2020
Marcus Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started with questions for Marcus.
 Q. In regards to the social injustices, that is the conversation right now, what would be your message to your peers about the urgency of you guys to show tangible evidence to the youth that greatness is attainable?  Do you talk about that?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Definitely, man.  We've been sitting down amongst players just trying to come up with solutions that our voice is heard while we're here in Orlando, not allowing this to just go past.
 There's been a lot of senseless violence.  We're not going to just play basketball, sit here and act like this hasn't happened.  We're going to continue to use this platform.
 It's been efficient for us because we're all together, all able to talk about it, come up with different ideas.  I definitely think it's going to be impactful.
 Q. Can you elaborate on some of the ideas you've come up with?  Anything in plan for yourself specifically?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Yeah, to continue amongst each other to know what exactly we're going to say.  We've been talking about weekly, maybe two weeks at a time, specifically talk about one person or one topic so everybody is on the same page, we're getting our message across.
 Like I said, being here together, being able to sit down and talk, has been very beneficial for us all.
 Q. How is Markieff doing in his run-up to getting back to action on the other side?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   He's doing well.
 Q. How did you feel the other day?  Doc was saying you were running a lot on the treadmill getting ready for your debut.
 MARCUS MORRIS:   I've had to be a professional, stay in shape.  You know, just getting ready any way I can, continue to help my team.  I thought if I came in the best shape possible, it would be easier for me to get accustomed with the guys, being able to jump right in.
 I only practiced once.  I went and played a full game.  I'm happy with myself.  Proud of myself.
 Q. What kind of a test for your team's depth is this right now to be down so many guys at the moment?  Is there anything you want to share about you arriving when you did, what kept you from arriving with the team earlier?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Some things are bigger than basketball.  Some guys will return.  We're praying for those guys and their families.  Things are bigger than basketball.  We're not worried about our depth right now, these pre-season scrimmages, whatever this is.  We know what we're getting back, what kind of team we've had.  We're not real worried.
 Had some things going on with my family.  I have a two-year-old son, a son on the way.  I had to make a decision based on how I felt for my family, just take my time.
 Q. You are down there focused on the goal in the bubble.  You've mentioned that your son kind of gives you some purpose.  How is he motivating you while he's not there with you?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   I'm coming here for a purpose, for my family.  I never had a father growing up.  Really changed my outlook on life.  Fatherhood has been, if I can put my finger on it, the best thing that ever happened to me.
 It's big for me to spend time with them.  In our society today, we need fathers growing up.  That's something big that we're missing in the black community.
 Growing up without a father, you know, puts so much stuff in perspective.  I'm just happy to be one.  I've got another son on the way sometime in September.  Excited about fatherhood, excited about teaching my boys.  I can't wait.
 Q. Now that you're here at the bubble, what are your thoughts about everything you've seen?  Do you think the team is going to grow closer in such a unique situation?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Definitely, man.  This is a close-knit team before I got here.  I only played 12 or so games.  Guys are mature.  Veterans mixed in with a sprinkle of young guys that really gets it.
 Definitely being here, seeing each other more, spending more time definitely bring us closer.  I'm excited about playing.
 My biggest thing is still about the social justice man, that we're able to talk and have those conversations, not be over the phone.  You can really understand how guys feel, get different perspectives, different stories and stuff like that.  I think that itself, too, it's bigger than this game.
 I think we're really going to utilize the platform.  I'm excited to see the outcome.
 Q. Are you going to be able to be there when your son is born?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   I will, yes.  I wouldn't miss it for the world.
 Q. You mentioned having conversations.  As you have started talking more and more about social justice, racism, all these things, have you had any conversations with anyone that have surprised you, that you've been able to open a discourse about these things?
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Definitely, man.  Guys are very educated about what's going on.  Just to hear their perspectives, what they about it.  Me myself personally, I can't speak for everybody else, but I have experienced that because I'm really from the inner city of Philadelphia.  The school system, how the cops treated us and stuff, I was firsthand there, I seen it, I experienced it.
 Maybe give back that, knowing the day-to-day how it is growing up as a black man, a black kid, a black teenager in America is tough.  You know what I'm saying?  It could be a few decisions that change the course of your life.  I've been in those points where I had to make different decisions where I did make my own decisions.
 This has definitely enabled me to talk to guys that had it okay growing up, a different perspective.  You have white teammates, white people all around.  For them to actually be in the meetings, listen, you know what I'm saying, understand where we're coming from.
 It's easy to talk about social injustice, but you're not looking in a guy's eye, see that pain, where he's coming from.  I think that's big for everybody.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Marcus.
 MARCUS MORRIS:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT