FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2012
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome defending champion Bryce Molder into the interview room here at the Frys.com Open.   Just Talk about being back here this year.  
BRYCE MOLDER:   Yeah, that's the big thing when you come back and you get to relive some of the cool memories.   So that's certainly been the one thing I noticed for the week.  
But also more than just trying to defend your title, you become an ambassador for the Frys.com Open.   It's been a lot of fun, and I look forward to that carrying on in the future.   It's a great event.   It's so fun being back here.  
THE MODERATOR:   Just some comments on your year this year.   With the win you got into Hawaii and you had a recent top 10 I believe in Boston.  
BRYCE MOLDER:   I did.   Yeah, it's been a strange season.   Every year is strange.   Every year has its own personality and surprises, good and bad.  
I had the best start of the season that I've had.   I'm usually a slow starter, and I had a great three, four months.   Since then I've struggled with my game some and just been fighting a little bit.   Had a couple positive things happen in the last six weeks, playing well, being in a couple final groups there in Boston.  
Yeah, so funny year.   But you never know when things are going to really turn around.   This is about the time of year it turned around last year, so you never know.  
THE MODERATOR:   With that, we'll take a few questions.  
   
 Q.   I think last year right after you came in here and talked about your six‑hole playoff you said it was all just a blur.   Are those details more vivid at all?  
BRYCE MOLDER:   I mean, I see it pretty clearly now.   It's funny, I step up on that same tee box on 17 that we were on 15 times that day, and I'm like, Wow, that looks like a long way.   I'm like, Wow, those are two of the best tee shots I've hit in a long time one after another.  
And same thing on 18.   You get up there, and when you've got some momentum and you've got some confidence and you step up on some of those tees it looks harder.   I get up there this time I'm like, Oh, this is a pretty small target.  
Yeah, I can certainly remember still quite a bit about that final day and really the whole week.   I hope that never goes away.  
   
 Q.   Having won here, now that you look at the golf course, do you look at it any differently?   Are there parts about it that fit your eye, your game, that you just like?  
BRYCE MOLDER:   It certainly fits my eye.   I got a chance to talk to Mr. Jones yesterday.   I grew up on a golf course that he designed, and so I think you get used to seeing things from a designer's perspective and see how he sees things.  
So no question there will be certain golf courses that fits your eye and fits your game.   This one certainly does that.   I think plays into my hands pretty well.  
Also, I played it today and I felt like I hit a lot of the good shots and I think I made four birdies.   I had 7‑under I think both days on the weekend, and I'm thinking, Wow, that's hard to do.  
Sometimes that happens, the golf courses seem easier or harder after playing well or poorly.  
Yeah, I certainly went around today going, Wow, the golf course seems harder than I remember it a year ago.  
   
 Q.   And just being a PGA TOUR winner now for a year, does it feel any different now that you have finally done it?  
BRYCE MOLDER:   You know, I've tried to not let it make me feel any different.   As far as the process, I feel like to be able to win was to separate myself from the result and get heavily into the process.   It's a hard thing to do, but I worked on that for a long time.  
So I've tried to really make it about the process has been correct for a long time, we just got some really fun, cool results, let's celebrate and enjoy, and then move on and try to get even deeper and deeper in the process.  
That's kind of a long‑long journey of the career, because otherwise I think if you ride the results you're going to have the rollercoaster ride.  
I felt like I was able to see things in the correct perspective.   It was a really cool week, really fun.   It didn't change who I am at a person.   Just one of those really cool moments that takes some time to enjoy it, let it sink in, and then move on.  
I would be lying if I said it didn't feel like kind of a validation for some pretty good play along the way.   To be able to get a tournament win, it was nice just knowing in the back of my mind knowing, All right, well, I had done it before, so it's right there.  
Then it always helps to know that early in that last year I was struggling, I didn't make it very far in the FedExCup playoff, and then I came here and won.  
So it's always nice knowing you're never that far off.   Sometimes we feel like we can do exactly what we want on the golf course and we think we're better than what we are; sometimes we think we're terrible at times and that's not the case either.  
So it's never that far off.   But, yeah.  
   
 Q.   There are people who think if they win an event it will change their lives and everything will be perfect.   How did you know to avoid that trap?  
BRYCE MOLDER:   Yeah, I mean, that's a great question, because I think to be able to deal with it after, you have to deal with it before, you know.  
If you're not prepared for it before, sometimes success is harder to deal with than failure.   That sounds ridiculous, but just look around the world.   There are a lot people that have success in a lot of different arenas and didn't quite know how to deal with it, didn't prepare for it, or were not prepared for it.  
So I think that I was able to come away with a win and come away playing so well because I think the process was right, the preparation was right, and so I don't think it was an accident.  
I really think I had things in the right perspective after.   I think a lot of that was just due to the preparation beforehand.  
   
 Q.   Now that you say you can remember the details of the playoff last year a little better, one shot that really impressed me was second time through on 18 when your tee ball ended up on the bank.  
BRYCE MOLDER:   I don't know what you're talking about.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   No, what happened afterwards was a thing of beauty.   How were you feeling when you saw that tee shot land down there in a pretty weedy spot in the hazard?  
BRYCE MOLDER:   You know, it's funny.   The next morning I was in my room up here with my wife and trying to text everybody back or email everyone back or call everyone back.  
So I'm starting that process, and we have the tournament on just as a replay.   I'm sitting there watching that shot, because this is the second playoff time through on 18, and I hit it in the creek that runs right through the middle in the high grass.  
I do remember getting down and thinking, Well, it's not that bad of a lie.   At least I'm right‑handed.   It was about waist high, but again, I'm not left‑handed trying to play this shot.  
I do remember contact, because as soon as you make contact you know it's either going to be okay or pretty much the tournament is over.   You're never assured of great contact with that strange of a lie.  
To be honest with you, I hit it with some crazy; lies in my career, and that's always what I've been pretty good at, is scrambling out of those places.  
When I got in there I thought, This is what I do well.   As soon as it came off, I actually thought it came off with a little bit more on it.   I thought it was going to get back to the flag.  
I actually thought it was going to get back there pretty good and it was just on the front.   That shows you how greedy we get.   As soon as it came off I'm thinking, That could be pretty good.   It landed on the front, and that shows how greedy you can get.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT