DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   An adventurous day, six birdies, two bogeys and a double.   That's making things exciting anyway, right?  
BRYCE MOLDER: Yeah, you know, it's funny, I played really the first 27 holes of the tournament with very little stress, not even very many putts for par over three feet, and then you're going to have stretches like that.   You get out of rhythm, the group gets out of rhythm, you hit a funky shot, miss a short putt, all of a sudden you just kind of have to ride it and know that it's a 72‑hole event.   I did a good job of that and overall made it exciting.  
   
 Q.   You're sitting at a good spot.   Coming in the last five, six, seven weeks you haven't played extremely well.   Are you a little surprised by your play or did you find something the last few weeks?  
BRYCE MOLDER: Really the last 15 weeks I haven't played very well.   It's been a long time.   So I wouldn't say surprised because it's been closer‑‑ it's been getting closer and closer, and you just never know when the scores are going to show up, and all of a sudden I play a round like yesterday where I drove it well, my irons were good, I putted well, and I even got a bounce here or a putt when I wanted to, when I needed to.   And it's been a while since I've had a round like that.   
It's nice to see some things come together, and hopefully not too late.  
   
 Q.   Do you keep up with the points, because you came in 93 knowing you needed to have a good week, and you're putting together a good week to play next week.   
BRYCE MOLDER: Yeah, and who knows whether your mind changes, but last week I knew that about 30th or 40th makes it through, and I finished 40 something.   And then I know this week it's going to take a top 10 or 15 to get through, I don't know what it is, but maybe it's a mindset that you pay attention to it, but at the end of the day, it's still just a golf shot.   It's just one more thing to kind of pay attention to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT