ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 13, 2009
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Bryce Molder, thanks for joining us after your third consecutive round in the 60s, final 65 here at the St. Jude Classic. Got off to a little bit of a slow start but certainly rallied. Brian Gay was in here just a few minutes ago. Said he had a hard time getting the tee box from you over the last 12 holes. Great position for you heading into the final round.   
 BRYCE MOLDER: It was a slow start. It wasn't an accident. I for some reason got out there and got on the range and my swing felt different than I did yesterday. Maybe it was nerves, maybe it was whatever, but I was able to get it in the middle of the fairway on 1 and kind of said a little prayer to myself, just to kind of have some peace out there and have some fun and, you know, within two, three, four holes, I kind of worked my way back into feeling the way I was yesterday, and it may have been kind of some early nerves.   
 Timing is a little different, whatever. From then on I picked up, you know, from about 3, 4 on I picked up from where I left off yesterday having a lost birdie chance. Hitting it pretty much where I was looking, and I think the turning point was I had missed a birdie putt on 3 and a birdie putt on 4 that really could have made, should have made at least one of them.   
 I get out there on the fairway on 5, and I've got a big old thing of mud on the ball and 200-something yards left and just kind of have to play for it and guess and aim over here. And I hit it and it ended up 15 feet and you make it. It's a little bit of a break there, but it kind of got me eased into just kind of back to where I was yesterday.  
 So, the rest just played well. Made some putts and, you know, Brian played solid that you kind of just had to keep playing, keep looking to make birdies.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Okay. We'll take some questions. Raise your hand and pass the microphone, please.  
  
  Q. Bryce, again, five shots back early against someone who is playing so consistent, so solid. How satisfying where you are right now?  
 BRYCE MOLDER: You know, not necessarily satisfying because I picked up, you know, from whatever early in the round, picked up four shots. More just satisfying that, you know, it's the first time I've been in the final group in a long time in a PGA event.   
 It was -- I didn't feel great going out there, and I made a bogey to show it and just to kind of be -- I don't know, kind of be at peace with myself when I was out there and not even necessarily trusting that I was going to turn around, just trust that if I found my swing, then I was going to turn it around.   
 If not, then it was going to be a little bit of a battle. But it's more just satisfying to play a really good round after just a little hiccup to start.  
  
  Q. How important is it to get off to a good start tomorrow and put some pressure on Brian?  
 BRYCE MOLDER: If today wouldn't have happened, I would have said it would be pretty important, but that's the second round this week that I got over-par early and was able just to kind of play. So much can happen. And I'm a very streaky putter, and so I know when they start falling that a lot of them fall.   
 And so, you know, I'm not going to say I'm never out if it, because once again that's kind of getting in a chess match and, you know, playing to a score and whatever, but I know that I can make a lot of birdies if I'm seeing my line well and hitting some decent iron shots.  
 So, getting off to a good start would be great. If not, I still got some birdies in me.  
  
  Q. Bryce, how rare is it to be part of a threesome that plays as consistently on the third day from I guess start to finish?  
 BRYCE MOLDER: You know, you don't really realize it when you're there playing. You just kind of -- they're both very good players and they both won around the world, and Brian has won by ten this year, and here I am just trying to get in some tournaments but you don't really think about it until afterwards.   
 Actually, when you asked me the question, I didn't really realize that yeah, as a group we shot probably close to 10-under and just kind of -- it didn't seem spectacular. I don't know how the rest of the players were playing or how the golf course was playing. You just kind of know when you're playing well, the golf course seems fairly easy, and when you're not playing well, you wonder how other guys shot some of the low scores that they did.  
 But, you know, they're very accomplished players, and I guess I added a little bit to that.  
  
  Q. One more thing. Brian, like you said, has won early this year and that he has kind a reputation as being someone who can handle the lead. What does that mean tomorrow for you?  
 BRYCE MOLDER: You know, it really shouldn't mean anything for me. If I was trying to guard Kobe Bryant who can close off games pretty well, then that's something I would have an effect on him or wouldn't have an effecdt on him. He can't really do anything about my game, I can't really do anything about his game. You just play it.  
 You never know. Some guys, you know, guy can't close, whatever, and he'll make -- birdie the last four holes. You just never know. And, you know, obviously I'm not going to go out there expecting him to play poorly at all, because like he's had a very good year. And like I say, he already won by ten this year, which is great, but tomorrow is a completely different day, and the golf ball doesn't know about the history of either one of us. So we'll just go play.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Anymore questions? Okay. Bryce Molder, thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow.  
 BRYCE MOLDER: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT