ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 12, 2009
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Bryce, 7-under par 63. You match your career low in the PGA Tour. You haven't had many starts this year, but did you tie for 13th in Puerto Rico, I noted. Couple thoughts about your round today.   
 BRYCE MOLDER: It was about as clean of a round as I could have had. I think I missed a couple fairways and maybe one or two greens and just happened to be 10 to 20 feet all day long, and I was just rolling long really -- I had one birdie until the 9th hole, and so I was 1-under and just I had kind of a ho-hum, almost getting a little impatient.   
 All of a sudden birdied 9, 10, and 12, and that kind of helps your patience out a little bit. I kept hitting it well and then was able to, after missing a couple putts, midway on the back-9 I was able to make some coming in.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Anything long or any --  
 BRYCE MOLDER: I think the longest putt was maybe there on 18, it was maybe 20 feet downhill. It was about 18 feet on 16, 12 feet on the hole before that. Like I said, it was almost all day it was right there between about 8 feet and 20 feet, and I missed more than I made early in the round, and I made more than I missed late.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Ideal day for scoring with very little wind out there.   
 BRYCE MOLDER: It really was. It was ideal out there. The golf course is becoming one of my favorites that we play out here and not just because I played well. I mean, I shot a very large number last year or two years ago playing here. The wind was just howling, and it got me pretty good.   
 I wasn't playing very well at the time and coming to appreciate how good it is. Because even today when the conditions were benign as they could be, you still had to pick your shots to be aggressive. Anytime you had the grain going away from you, the ball would bounce a little bit coming in, and if you didn't have an 8 or a 7-iron, it was going to bounce a little bit.  
 So you still had to pick your spots. I was lucky to get a lot of really good numbers where I could be aggressive.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: We'll just go to questions. Wait for the mike, if you could.  
  
  Q. Bryce, it looked like you're swinging the ball with confidence more. How is your swing evolved over the last couple of months?   
 BRYCE MOLDER: You know, it's like -- I mean, you have your good days and weeks and your bad ones. It's cyclical, not quite as bad as our economy right now, but it is kind of up-and-down. And for the last month, I've -- it's felt really good. I feel like it's in a good position so I can be really aggressive.   
 I've got a couple of shots that I can -- that are pretty predictable. On top of that, today I was able to work the ball a little bit both direction if I needed to and, you know, but the smaller 7-irons were good. The hard 7-irons were good, and that's when days like this happen is when they all feel good.  
 I haven't really been working on anything as far as my swing, just I found some swing thoughts that feel good when I'm playing and just stuck with them for a little while.  
  
  Q. It also sounds like you had your putter working pretty well today as well. Anything you've been working on or something that fell into line?   
 BRYCE MOLDER: I don't get very technical with my putting. Three weeks ago my last start in Byron Nelson, I played really, really well and I didn't finish very well. I doubled the last hole to finish about 25th, which was costly. But more than that, I felt like I played well enough to have a chance to win because I putted really average.  
 So I'd say in the last two, three days, I've tried just about a little bit of everything and just kind of found a little something that felt good and looked good. For me, I'm very visual oriented. If I look down and see the line, then I'm going to make it more times, you know, than if I don't.   
 So that's -- I've tried a little bit of everything. I can't tell you it's nothing mechanical, it's just a little different feel but it did -- I tended to get the ball on a better line today. That's the only difference.  
  
  Q. Has not getting into a lot of tournaments this year, has that impacted your routine and kind of how have you adjusted to that?   
 BRYCE MOLDER: I'm a really slow starter, or I've gotten that way the last three, four, five years. My best part of the year is September, October, November, and my -- the first part I really struggle. So then not getting starts on top of that, it's been tough, but I also know that I'll get to play a lot coming up. And so I guess as far as preparation, I know this year going into it, it was that way. If I didn't play well early, which I don't a lot of times, that I was going to have to sit out and wait a little bit until the summer. I've just been telling myself that when the summer hits, be ready to play, don't be tinkering around with stuff, be ready to go out and score.  
 I've been the last two weeks, I had off at home and I tried not to touch my clubs, because in Dallas three weeks ago, I played so well and hit it so well that all I could do was mess it up. So I tried to play as little as possible, and I feel like I pretty well picked up where I left off.  
  
  Q. Talk about playing so close to home and having family and friends here this week.  
 BRYCE MOLDER: You know, I grew up in Conway, Arkansas, which is, you know, two and a half hours from here and parents still live in Little Rock. I've got a lot of friends and family in Conway and Little Rock. Even my dad in the banking business and the coaching business before that, he knows so many people around, it's nice.   
 Got some family and friends over here. It's just -- it doesn't affect you how you play or while you're out there, but it is nice, some familiar faces, and it's always nice playing better, you know, near home. It's more fun than when there's nobody there who cares nothing about you. I don't necessarily think it helps you play well. It's more fun when you do.   
 I'll tell you what's nice is actually get out there and sweat a little bit. I live in Scottsdale, Arizona now. You don't ever sweat. It's dry. It's kind of nice to get back to what feels like the South.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Any other questions? Bryce, good luck this weekend.  
 BRYCE MOLDER: Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT