U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 1997
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  All right.  I started out with a good birdie on 1.  Made a pretty long putt. 
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  It was about 30 feet.  Got off to a good start.  I hit it in the rough on 3 and kind of chopped around for a little while and made a bogey there.  But turned around and made birdie on 4, about 10 feet or so.  Then the next hole, let's see, par 5, the next one, I made a birdie on the next one.  Made about a 10-footer.  Made some pars coming around.  Knocked it about 4 feet on 9 to make birdie.  I made par on 10.  And went to 11, par 5, and I knocked it to about 2 or 3 feet, I guess about 2 1/2 feet, and made that one.  Made some pars for a little while and ended  up 3-putting 16, so I made bogey.  And then I knocked it about 2 1/2 feet on 17.  And then on 18, I hit it in the bunker, in the fairway bunker, and had a chip out and ended up making bogey, so ended up at 3-under. 
 

Q.  Do you have a target score?  That's a pretty good start.
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  It was tough to tell because I played the practice round, and I hit the ball pretty well, and I don't know what I, you know, what I shot in the practice round, but it was fairly high.  So I didn't -- I didn't want to have a target score.  I wanted to just kind of get out there and hopefully get off to a good start and try to be patient with this course.  If you're not patient, you're in trouble.  But I was fortunate to get off to a good start. 
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  Yes, sir.  It's kind of funny. In the past, I've played pretty well in the qualifiers.  I don't know if I just try to go out there and don't shoot a low number or I don't go out there and relax and play.  But in the past, I've played  pretty well in qualifying. 
 

Q.  Is there a different mind set when you play for qualifying than when you get to the match play which is Wednesday?
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  I think it is, because you're trying to shoot a number just to get you in, and you don't know what that number is.  So a lot of people go out there and try to shoot as low as they can, try to win it.  Some people try to go out and make pars. Everybody, I think, takes it a little bit different.  In this kind of situation, par's a great score.  Just get in.  If you play well and you make some putts, then that's great, too.  I just go out there and hit as many decent shots, good shots as I can. 
 

Q.  What did you think of the course?
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  Love the course.  I played it the other day, and I was hitting it well.  I thought this isn't too tough.  Then I thought back, and I was hitting a lot of 3-, 4- and 5-irons in there.  From the fairway, the greens look really, really small.  They end up being bigger than they look, but they look small.  It's a great test of golf. 
 

Q.  Your back 9, there was one hole I missed earlier.  You must have hit two iron shots that were  very close.  I missed the first one.  Then tell me what you hit in.
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  On 11, I had just a little 8-iron.  I had the wind into me, had about 140 yards. I landed it real close to the hole, ended up 2 feet past it. 
 

Q.  17 was the other one?
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  17, yes. 
 

Q.  What did you hit in there?
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  That was 8-iron also.  It was a little downwind also.  Just a little punch again. 
 

Q.  Those shots kind of set up your round, really?
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  You know, it really did.  Those are the easy ones, I guess.  You knock it in that close, and it makes it a little easy on yourself. 
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  Yeah. 
 
BRYCE MOLDER:  They didn't play quite so well last year.  They were really young, and we're still going to be young, but hopefully I can come in and help some.  We have a guy that redshirted this past year.  He'll have four years.  He's a great player.  We should have a great chance of coming out on top if we all play like we should.  It's all kind of a matter of playing well at the right time, I guess, in college. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT