SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 2015
Bryce Molder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Quotes from:
BRYCE MOLDER
Q. Well, another pretty good round, obviously.  Obviously very wet out there.  How did it change from the first round to the second round, just the course conditions?
BRYCE MOLDER: Yeah.  We thought it was wet yesterday, and it really was -- I mean it was -- there was a lot of water still in the grass.  It actually changed the way you would hit some shots today, just knowing that there's going to be some water get between the ball and the club and know that the ball is going to spin even more on the greens.  So I mean I was kind of laughing, other than a couple of long irons, I didn't hit even remotely close to a full iron shot.  But I mean it wasn't unfair.  It was all the same for everybody, but it was definitely -- it was really wet.
Q. Good way to end it on that last hole.
BRYCE MOLDER: Yeah.  You know, I played really solidly.  I didn't make many putts after -- especially after the restart and three-putted the second to the last hole from not very far.  And so I was a little chapped, to say the least coming down to 18.  So to knock it close and then actually have another awkward little six-footer.  I wasn't quite sure -- looks like it's breaking one way and the grain is going the other way, but then to knock it in the middle felt good to at least finish that way.
Q. Where were you on the course when play got suspended?
BRYCE MOLDER: I was on 16 tee.  Easily the hardest hole out there, and it was raining pretty good, and we were all looking at each other like, do you want to hit, do you want to hit.  And they blew the horn for us and we were all like, all right.  Let's get out of here.  But it was actually a tough place to start back.  Much rather start on No. 1 than on 16.  It's a pretty good hole out there, but yeah, we were as far out there as we could get.
Q. I guess Castro is like at 16-under now.  How are you going to approach the weekend?  Try to chase him or hope he comes to you a little bit and he come to him?
BRYCE MOLDER: Yeah.  I mean if you try to like put a scheme together to come back as far as I pick up this many shots -- you know, you just never know what's going to happen.  So much can happen, you can have a great day, you could have a poor day or you could have a little bit of both, and that's how you catch up, just like in any other game.
But it's really just -- I mean I hate the cliche, but you play your own ball, one shot at a time, blah, blah, blah, but that's how it happens and all of a sudden you wake up and you just made five out of seven birdies, and boom, there you are.  But it's hard for plan for it.
Q. I think I heard Castro talking just joking about it earlier.  Do you and him know each other pretty well?
BRYCE MOLDER: Really well.  We went to the same school.  We both went to Georgia Tech.  We weren't there at the same time, but we've played a lot of practice rounds together.  We even saw each other on the course and kind of give each other the nod.  And we know a lot of guys out here, but yeah, I heard he said something about yesterday all he was trying to do was beat me.  And well, he did.
Q. How do you spend a five-hour delay?  What do you do in that period?
BRYCE MOLDER: You know, we're pretty good at wasting time, between airlines and flying across the country or across the world, we're pretty good at wasting time.  So honestly just sitting around telling stories.  Once we knew that we had a gap there, I went back to the room and just kind of started over and then headed back over here, and you just kind of learn to eat about three or four times.  That's kind of what it ended up being.
Q. You could have a big delay now looking at tomorrow's weather.  Are you going to watch a bunch of movies?
BRYCE MOLDER: It would be awful if we just watched a lot of college football tomorrow.  That would just be terrible.  Yeah, it could be a pretty long day, because we've got at least five hours of golf, maybe six hours of golf before we're going to play for sure, and then the repair.  So if the weather is perfect and it's fine overnight, then probably noon is the first time we would possibly start to play the third round.
But I mean I wouldn't mind a delay or two, watch a little football.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT