NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS VS METS
October 14, 2015
Jacob deGrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jacob, great numbers all season, but when you're coming off of a loss, it's been pretty exceptional, and you hear about the classic stopper all the time.  Do you feel that you've raised your level in those spots?  Is that something you think about?  
JACOB deGROM: Um, yeah, I think you definitely try to.  You try to get the team back on a winning streak.  I think going into tomorrow, it's probably the biggest game I've ever pitched.  I think that will kind of be in my mind and I'll go out there and just try to put up zeros.   
 Q.  You said so many times in big spots that you try to keep it simple.  But saying that is different from actually doing it, and you've been able to do it.  Why do you think that's been the case?  What have you learned from being in these spots?  
JACOB deGROM: I think I just try to block everything out once I get on the field.  Kind of the nerves go away, and it's the same game we've been playing all year.  I'm able to think about that and just try to take it one pitch at a time and make the best pitch I can at that time.  If I do give up a hit or something, so what.  I've still got to go out there and compete.   
 Q.  Just curious, because the fans are always like oh, you've got to hate the other guys.  When you pass Zack there on the field, what do you guys talk about?  
JACOB deGROM: We were kind of just talking about when they flew in and our flight.  Nothing too serious.  I had a chance of meeting him at the All-Star Game.  Good guy.  When you see base runners on, normally they'll talk to the first baseman or something.  So all the guys pretty much get along.   
 Q.  Back to what you were just talking about after Mark asked about how you seem so calm and cool.  Was there a moment in the big leagues in your first two years where that did click in though?  Obviously coming up it was a little different in terms of the confidence that you could pitch at this level than it is right now?  
JACOB deGROM: I can't think of any exact moment.  I think my debut being in the Subway Series against the Yankees, that was a pretty big stage for me, and that was definitely one of the biggest games I've ever pitched.  So I think that helped me with breaking in right away.   
The All-Star Game this year has helped me, and having the home opener at Citi Field helped me also.  But I don't know exactly when that happened.   
 Q.  Was there a moment when you pitched Friday that you just kind of -- obviously you were a little nervous going out there or anxious that you settled it, and you felt like you were really yourself again?  
JACOB deGROM: Yeah, I'd probably say the fourth or fifth inning, that's when I really started feeling good.  Early on my pitch count was getting up, and once I noticed that, I was just trying to get quick outs and kind of trying to go away from the strikeouts.  So I think that will be my game plan going into this game.  Trying to keep my pitch count low and go as deep as I can.   
 Q.  Just facing a team twice in a week, is that an advantage for the pitcher do you think?  Or do you have to change things up because it was so close proximity?  
JACOB deGROM: I think I can go either way.  They're going to be looking at what I did to them, and I'm going to be looking at what they did against me, and kind of how I went after them.  So I don't really know who the advantage goes to there.   
 Q.  The team has been so resilient all year.  You've faced tough things and gotten through.  Why do you think that is?  Where does that resilience come from?  
JACOB deGROM: I think it comes from the desire to win.  This was our goal.  We want to make it to the World Series, and this is one step towards that.  So I just think we never give up and we battle till the end.   
 Q.  What did you sense the team's temperature was coming out this time on the trip and the plane versus coming out here for Game 1?  
JACOB deGROM: I would say it's pretty much the same.  Guys were having fun on the plane, joking around, had some music going.  I think we have a good attitude going into this game.   
 Q.  You threw 121 the other night I think once.  Does the extra day of rest help you in that regard?  
JACOB deGROM: I felt good yesterday.  I think I feel good today.  But an extra day never hurts you, especially with how many pitches I threw before, so, yeah, I think that does help.   
 Q.  I know Terry said after the game yesterday that he maybe earlier in the day thought about using you if you had a late lead.  By the time you warmed up though, you knew you weren't getting in that game, or could you explain if there was a point in the day where you thought you might pitch?  
JACOB deGROM: Yeah, I think I threw my bullpen in around the sixth inning, and at that point I knew I wasn't coming in the game.  I asked if I was going to throw it earlier that day like I normally would, and they said, no, just in case we need to use you.  I think even towards game time I think it was kind of still iffy if I was going to get used.  Nothing was really guaranteed.  But I think it was leaning more towards no.   
 Q.  You say you take it one pitch at a time.  When was the last time in the major leagues you didn't do that, that it maybe got away from you some?  
JACOB deGROM: I don't know.  Maybe the start against Philly.  I don't know which one.  But still even that start I think I took it one pitch at a time.  I just didn't have my best stuff, and that's all you can do.  That's what happened.  You have to put it behind you, and you can't see what's going to happen ahead of you, so I guess that's just kind of my way of thinking about when I go out there pitching.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT