ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Brandon Hanna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Where are you from? 
BRANDON HANNA:   Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.   So this LA stuff is not really for me. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
BRANDON HANNA:   He's a great coach.   He's a really demanding coach.   But I think that's‑‑ he expects the most out of his guys.   He recruits certain people, and I think when‑‑ you know, he expects them to perform to a certain level.
And I think that's a good thing.   I think he pushes everybody to reach their potential.   And I think by the time they reach, you know, being a senior, they've definitely reached their potential, if not surpassed it.

Q.   And a lot of times‑‑ a lot of times sort of outside question his effectiveness (inaudible) what do you think about that?
BRANDON HANNA:   I wouldn't question him at all.   I mean, you look where we finished defensively the last couple of years, statistics‑wise, and I think he's done a great job.   And I think we've been able to execute the packages that he's given us really well.

Q.   The question I had for you is‑‑ you look at‑‑ when you look at this concept, what is sort of the keys to stopping that? 
BRANDON HANNA:   I think it's going to be stopping the run first.   We want to get them in long third downs, and I think if we can keep them out of the manageable third downs and make them really try and stretch the field on us in order to get to first down again, I think we'll be all right, because I think we can get to them on our pass rush.   I think that's going to be key for us. 

Q.   What do you need to do to prepare for the team (inaudible)?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think you get to look at a lot more, especially personnel‑wise, because you see their schemes.   You see what they do and then you get more time to look at certain guys.   You know, how is this left tackle going to pass set me.   Just things like that.   You can focus on some strengths and weaknesses. 

Q.   Do you feel like you need a little insight of guys you're going against? 
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think so.   Definitely there's a few things we've gained from watching some extra film.   But we still got this extra week, and we need to get in there and find everything that we can. 

Q.   (Inaudible) the players that you face?   (Inaudible) to what extent if any were you able to take satisfaction (inaudible) the fact overall (inaudible) defensively and were you guys able to take much satisfaction out of this?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yes and no.   Because, I mean, you're always going to feel when you lost that you could have performed better, or the reason that you lost is because, you know, you didn't execute your packages and you let some things slip. 
But I think we were able to contain Cam Newton last year fairly well.   And that was something that we really focused on.   So in that aspect, we felt pretty good about it. 
But when you come out with a loss you're not really satisfied, I don't think.

Q.   Going to Bowl games, (inaudible) becomes old hat after you've been to a few, going through the rigmarole?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, you know, especially coming to the same one.   And it's not that it's‑‑ it's definitely not boring or anything.   It's still fun and exciting, but you kind of know your way around.   We know where we're going at the practice facility. 
They don't have to explain that to us now, the majority of us.   Same events.   But it's a good time.   And this is probably one of my favorite Bowls.   So I'm glad I'm getting to come back and do it again.

Q.   What do you think about the uniforms? 
BRANDON HANNA:   Tight.   They're really tight. 

Q.   Tight as in restricting‑‑
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I didn't think they could make them any tighter, but they did.   Other than that, I like'em.   See how they look with some pads on.

Q.   Is it triple digits now or four digits that you've worn?
BRANDON HANNA:   I've worn three I think, yeah, three, if you don't count the couple extras we've had because we've had the throwbacks and all that. 

Q.   Got to know Nick Aliotto when he was at UCLA, (inaudible) really enjoyed dealing with him.   Very energetic, the fact he's a young guy.   Crazy.   Couple of your guys called him crazy.   Dion and Josh called him crazy.   Has he changed much?
BRANDON HANNA:   You know, I think he's definitely got that energy.   He's really passionate about what he does.   He might be a little crazy.   But I think it's in a good way, because it allows him to keep us going and push us and drive us in ways that other coaches can't.   So I think it's effective.

Q.   He's an impressive guy, when I talked to him over the years.   His personality is something in the way you guys play defense, strike me as an attack defense. 
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think it does.   I think his personality definitely has influence on the schemes we run and the way he calls them in the games.   I think it definitely has a correlation there.

Q.   Who do you think is more important for you guys to contain in this game? 
BRANDON HANNA:   I think the tailback.   I think if we contain ball we can stop them on first and second downs, and that puts Wilson in long third downs, and I think they're going to relate to one another.
If we can get him in third and longs, I think we have a decent shot at stopping them.

Q.   Speaking of coach, his program has long been known for offense, do you think you guys are slowly changing that perception a bit; you're pretty aggressive attacking defenses and you come up with, despite losses (inaudible) do you feel like you're at least kind of pulling even?   Defense finally maybe getting some‑‑
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I don't know if we're even yet, because there's a lot of respect for them across the country.   But I think we're definitely pulling ahead from where we were.   You look when I got here the last four years, we've really improved on defense.   That could be due to some of the new schemes we're playing.   It could be more new personnel or, you know, just new things that Coach Al's doing, but we're definitely much improved, I think if you look at statistics from the last few years they definitely show that.

Q.   So is it tough, the top four guys from offense and top defense walked down the street in LA who would be more recognizable by people? 
BRANDON HANNA:   Them for sure.   You could see it yesterday at Disneyland, there were hordes of people chasing Michael and Darren.   We're just walking around like normal people.

Q.   Do you like that? 
BRANDON HANNA:   I personally prefer it.   I don't know about some other guys.

Q.   I mean, was it kind of a media thing, (inaudible) really drastic change in stuff you guys do, is that right away for you guys, is that something you can be successful with?
BRANDON HANNA:   It took some time.   We liked what he was putting in.   It was just something really different from what we were doing before.   But once we put in the time after a couple of years of having that in there, we've become really good at running it, I think.   And we know a lot more the intricacies that are related to it.

Q.   For the casual observer what are some of the differences that you made that took you guys some time to (inaudible)?
BRANDON HANNA:   Well, initially when I was there, we ran a 4‑3, and what we've instituted is more of a 3‑4.   And with my position, which is basically an outside linebacker, defensive end, stand up end, whatever you want to call it, so we're able to shift from a 4‑3 to a 3‑4 without really swapping guys in and out which is beneficial to us and allows us a lot of flexibility.

Q.   Do you think the way you guys change those (inaudible) the quarterbacks, kind of keep guessing where it's coming from?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think so.   I think that's a big part of it.   And I think that's how we've been able to get so many sacks.

Q.   Do you notice when right before a snap if they're not recognized, the offensive lineman, where they come across?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, there's times you can definitely tell because you can tell where they're calling out their protections and everything.   And if somebody's manned on you, their eyes are going to be on you.   If they're looking somewhere else and you know where the protection's going already, you know you've got a free shot on them.

Q.   (Inaudible) I think he was talking about Wilson and his escapability.   If you have a free shot, do you have to be more disciplined against a guy who maybe can spin out of the pocket?
BRANDON HANNA:   You know, I don't think as much.   I think it's more take a shot, and you know that somebody else is going to be right there behind you, because I think with our defense it's not normally just one guy running in there.   We've seen a lot of guys in on sacks.   And a lot of them at the same time.   So I think it's just take a shot.   You don't want to be hesitant and give them a chance to get away that way. 
I think you'd rather just go for it.

Q.   Blitz packages every week, kind of tweaking things or what is that?   Is that a big part of your preparation?
BRANDON HANNA:   We haven't put anything new in a long time, I don't believe.   There may be adjustments.   There could be some new things still that were thrown in. 
But I think our adjustments are more attuned to who we are playing.

Q.   Exciting season.   (Inaudible) obviously big for now.   Successful offensive line.   Gotta give them credit.   Defensively.   Notice, see different things you can take advantage of?
BRANDON HANNA:   But I think it all starts with first and second down.   If we keep them out of manageable third downs then we'll have a chance to get some sacks.   That was one of the issues we saw with USC, is that they were able to get some more yards on first and second down, keep them out of third and long, and that's where we really thrive is in third and long.

Q.   Talk about (inaudible) but so is Stanford and you guys handled them.   Do you guys see similarities when you watch (inaudible)?
BRANDON HANNA:   I think there's some similarities.   I feel like at least watching them on film it looks like they have a similar mindset as Stanford, and they run a similar offense.   They got huge offensive linemen just like Stanford.   But we're not too worried about that.   Size doesn't bother us.

Q.   Are you kind of sick of hearing about how big they are?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, to be honest with you.

Q.   More from the media or from (inaudible)?
BRANDON HANNA:   No, I think it's more from the media.   Because we heard a lot of that before earlier in the season, too.   And that wasn't really a factor for us.

Q.   What should people be talking about? 
BRANDON HANNA:   That's a good question.   I don't know. 

Q.   How about (inaudible) the picture‑‑ did you see that?
BRANDON HANNA:   I saw that.

Q.   Give them a hard time?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, that gave us a good laugh last night at the hotel. 

Q.   How is Coach Aliotto?   He's always entertaining when he gets on the podium with us. 
BRANDON HANNA:   I'm sure he's fired up.

Q.   Is he as entertaining in practices as he is with us?   He does stuff off the wall?
BRANDON HANNA:   He's definitely just like that.   I think what you see, what the media sees is what we see with Coach Al.   He's very transparent in that respect.   You're going to know how he's feeling and he's really emotional passionate guy.   I think that's great.   I think it works well for him being our coordinator.   It gets us fired up.

Q.   Are there times where he's said something off the wall, I have no idea what he's talking about?
BRANDON HANNA:   I can't think of any real examples.   But, yeah, that's happened a few times.   But he pushes you and he makes you play better and I think our guys respond to that.   You see his energy and you want to play hard for him.

Q.   Defensive tackles came in here, faceless, nameless kind of guy, nobody knew much about him.   Big question marks.   Been impressed with what they've been able to do this year?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, definitely as a whole they've done a really good job.   We had to replace a few guys that were proven leaders and performers.   But I don't think that was a problem.   I think we had guys that stepped in both aspects.   And I think we're going to be solid there for the next few years.

Q.   Pretty special for you, coming back the last few years, but kind of a starting role, being on the stage?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah.   Yeah, I think it's probably, you know, more than I could have even asked for, great way to end my career.   You look at what we've done for the past three years especially.   And my roles the last three years and how they've increased and what we've been able to do.   So I'm thrilled with it.

Q.   Russell Wilson, present any kind of unique challenges for you guys?
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think he's kind of a dual threat.   When you look at it, he's a really good passer.   But when he needs to run, he can run.   And so I think that's going to be really important for us to maintain our rush lanes and keep him from escaping the pocket.

Q.   Is he similar to someone you faced in the last couple of years?
BRANDON HANNA:   You know, I wouldn't put him, compare him specifically to another person, but the fact that he's able to run and pass makes him pretty dangerous.   I wouldn't say that he runs quite like Cam Newton or, you know, a couple of those guys that we faced.   But he's really....







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT