ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Michael Clay
Brandon Hanna
Taylor Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  MICHAEL CLAY:   And also our scout team quarterbacks, pretty athletic, Dustin Haines and Brennan Doty, they can give us the look where they can use their feet and scramble.   Might not be as good as Russell Wilson but gives us a feel of what we are going to be going against on January 2. 
BRANDON HANNA:   I think it's helped that we have faced some of those guys in the past.   You look at whether we were successful or not, and what we did in those games, and you try to learn from it, you know, and we were able to contain Cam Newton when he took off out of the pocket. 
I think that's something that we have got to do this game is try to put some pressure on him but know that he's going to try and run on us, too.   So you want to maintain your rush lanes and make sure we can contain in the pocket. 
TAYLOR HART:   It was a big part for us, obviously this past season, to play some quarterbacks that could run the ball obviously, and they have got a great arm.   And it's huge for our defensive line, especially, when we have got scout teams when we can have a quarterback that can run similar. 
And especially in our past seasons when we have faced Cam Newton and Terrelle Pryor, and obviously shown that they can run the ball.   It's huge for us to practice these things. 

Q.   Talk more about Coach Aliotti.   He gets a lot of flak from people but puts you guys in position to make plays; talk had his enthusiasm and energy and him as a coach. 
MICHAEL CLAY:   Fiery, Italian due, and I got recruited by him, and you got what you see now, just his personality and his energy level kind of reflects our defense.   When he's out there hooting and hollering at practice, he kind of gets us going. 
We just reflect off him.   He gets us in a situation where we have to put our ears back, kind of get after the quarterback when need be, and just not him but the whole coaching staff gets us in the right game plan, the right technique to give us the best shot at winning. 
BRANDON HANNA:   Yeah, I think what you guys see is what we see, as well.   He's really transparent you and see his passion and his energy and that shines through in everything he does.   You know, it's really nice to be able to play for someone like that.   A lot of our coaching staff is that way and I think if you can't get fired up when you're playing for Coach Azzinaro and Coach Aliotti, then you have got something wrong with you. 
TAYLOR HART:   Coach Aliotti, he's a great guy and he's obviously recruited me here and he's got some great energy on and off the field any time you meet the guy.   He's just a fun coach to be around and he's always got to make sure that we are doing things the right way and practicing the right way and he's a great guy and a great mentor. 

Q.   Michael, one year removed from the National Championship game, how is the team's focus maybe changed from last year to this year, about the same, maybe more, any less? 
MICHAEL CLAY:   I would say we are definitely a lot more focussed.   The past two years in the BCS, we were just in awe that we are playing such a high stage two years ago and the National Championship, just coming off just feeling for it, I think this year we are a lot more focused.   We are a lot more tuned into what is at stake and we really want to get a win on January 2. 

Q.   On a lighter note you had some fun down here this week and yesterday at Disneyland, I'm sure you've seen the picture of LaMichael on Space Mountain.   Somebody want to weigh in on that? 
MICHAEL CLAY:   Got at the right time, the camera was put in perfectly for him not being kind of in a scared mood.   I mean, I don't blame him I'm afraid of heights, but it was just a great picture.   You know, just sheds light, we are also here to have some fun.   The Rose Bowl comes in, but we know when get down time, we can be a fun group and just have a ball.

Q.   Most people know the Oregon offense, most outsiders, but does that bother you that maybe the offense overshadows you guys, and beyond that, how would you describe ‑‑ for people that don't know, how would you describe the Oregon defense, as far as like your character? 
BRANDON HANNA:   It doesn't bother us at all, it's that way across the country when you look at teams, offense gets the majority of the credit and the hype.   That doesn't bother us. 
I think we are much improved from the past couple of years; if you look statistically, as well as you just watch us play.   I describe us as being a fast, hard‑hitting defense. 
We bring a lot of pressure, and I think it's TO our advantage the couple of things that we have integrated into our defensive schemes the past couple of seasons. 
MICHAEL CLAY:   And also when you say characters, you know, we do have some characters on the team, especially the defensive side of the ball.   Terrell Turner is a character in and of himself.   I think that helps us stay loose, but we still know when to tighten things up.   We definitely have fun day‑in and day‑out at practice, with the whole defense, having those type of characters on our team just makes us feel a lot better, a lot more calmer when we are playing out there. 
TAYLOR HART:   As a defense, it's great to know that you have got a great offense behind you, that can score at any moment, and you know, they can take the pressure off us and they can take all the media, that's fine.   We'll take‑‑ we'll do what we do, and we are going to go out there and play the best that we can, but it's definitely a great advantage to have an offense out there that can score at any second. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT