BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 22, 2017
Harold Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel as a whole with the outside line?  
HAROLD LANDRY: I think we're all pretty confident.  We all put in a lot of work, speaking specifically about the D-line.  It was definitely a hard-working spring for us, knowing Coach Pasqualoni, every day is a grind.  But we're really confident.  We definitely still have depth.  We lost Kev and Truman, but we've got a lot of depth on the edge.  A big year for Noa.  He spent a lot of work this spring, I'm really proud of him, but I think yeah, overall, we're in pretty good shape for the season.   
 Q.  What are some of the major adjustments you guys had to make defensively?  
HAROLD LANDRY: This spring?   
 Q.  Spring, correct.  
HAROLD LANDRY: I mean, I don't think we made a lot of adjustments.  I think it's more so the coaches really zoned in on our fundamentals and our technique and getting back to that.  After the long season, you can get pretty sloppy with it, and just this whole spring, we've just been focused on developing everybody individually, making them a better player.  I think that's what the spring is about, just becoming a better player, not so much focused on the scheme of things but more so about just making everybody better, and I think that's what we did.   
 Q.  Obviously you mentioned a couple young guys stepping up and maturing, but how has (indiscernible)?  
HAROLD LANDRY: I mean, it's been tough.  You can see that throughout the spring.  We don't really have everybody on the one defense like in there.  I mean, so it's tough.  But I think everybody on the defense is confident in all the players that aren't in and they're going to be ready for the season.  We're confident in them that they're going to have their stuff right, and we're all just confident in each other.  I think defensively we just have like this chemistry I feel like.  I think we all feed off of each other, and I think once camp rolls around and we get the few that are out right now, we get that chemistry with them back, I think we'll be pretty set for the season.   
 Q.  There are some guys who (indiscernible) in the spring, a couple different guys who might have had the option of (indiscernible) feels like you're out there kind of trying to make sure that you get as many reps as possible.  How do you approach it?  
HAROLD LANDRY: I mean, the coaches here have done a great job with me this spring.  Obviously I'm not taking every single rep, but the thing is like if you just stop playing, you're going to lose.  Like you're going to lose it.  You can't be worried about getting hurt.  You've got to -- obviously you're not going to do nothing crazy at practice, but you still get work done, and I think I've gotten a lot of work done this spring.  Yeah, that's all I've got to say about that.   
 Q.  Where is your mindset now as you're entering your senior year?  How are you feeling individually going towards the fall?  
HAROLD LANDRY: I feel good.  Healthy, thank God.  I think heading into the season, I'm proving that I'm a first-round draft pick.  I plan on proving that this season.  We've got about three months after this to train, develop my body as much as possible, just keep working, and I think everything will fall into place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT