BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2016
Patrick Towles
Harold Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about going to the tight end in this game.  We know he's been coming along, but is this the kind of game that you think you can build on with him?  
PATRICK TOWLES: I think so.  Tommy is a really good player.  He'll continue to be that way.  We got some good looks getting him the ball.  We need to get him the ball more.  I've got to do a better job at that, and we will.  We'll go look at the tape.   
Got Syracuse rolling in in two weeks.  We're going to become a lot better football team, and we're going to give Syracuse all we've got.   
 Q.  Through those couple plays down on the goal line, what were you trying to look for getting in there and what didn't work out?  
PATRICK TOWLES: Yeah, I'd like to think that I could have got in there.  I think the third one -- the first one I thought I did, and then the next one -- we had a new center, and I have to do a better job at getting the snaps.  That's my fault.  We got it fixed as the drives went on, but that's my fault, and I will fix that.   
 Q.  And on the play that you got clotheslined by Ben Boulware, what did you take away from that play?  
PATRICK TOWLES: Well, he made a really good play.  I've got to do a better job with ball security, try to make him miss.  I probably should have just ran through him, but he's a heck of a football player, and great football players make great plays like that, but that's my fault; I have to be better with the football.   
 Q.  Harold, what did you see from Deshaun Watson tonight?  
HAROLD LANDRY: They did exactly what I thought they were going to do.  I think he's the same player I saw on film.  He's a great player, great quarterback.  Obviously before this game they'd only given up three sacks I think all year, and I think it's mainly due to Deshaun Watson, his ability to avoid pressure.  It was a challenge for us, but I think we've just got to play better on defense and got a bye week coming up, gives us a great opportunity to work on our craft and get better for Syracuse.   
 Q.  You're going to see quarterbacks of this quality again down the road.  Did you kind of learn something tonight that you can prevent guys like Jackson in Louisville and the other quarterbacks you're going to see?  
HAROLD LANDRY: I mean, I sort of knew playing in the ACC we was going to be playing with dual-threat quarterbacks, quarterbacks that can run, and honestly I think we prepared really hard for this game, and I think they did everything that we expected them to do.  We just didn't execute.   
For later down the road, I'm really only worried about Syracuse, but I mean, there's no like magical formula on how to defend these guys.  You've just got to do your job, do what you're taught, and everything will fall into place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT