BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Harold Landry
Davon Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 35, Buffalo - 3
Q. In terms of more workload, you saw it coming this week, but once you did get it, how did everything play out for you?
DAVON JONES: I thought it played out pretty well.  I think the O-line stepped up today, and I just took what the defense gave me.
Q. Obviously you guys have the goal of 200 yards every week, but for you and Hilliman to go back and forth sort of with the carries, is that kind of how you see it playing out?  Obviously that's at the coach's discretion.
DAVON JONES: Here at BC I think the coaches are just going to play the best people, and whoever those best people are, they're going to play them.  Anyone that's in there, from the running back crew, like we're all going to give everything we've got every down and try to help the team get a win.
Q. Harrell, was this about as clean a defensive game you guys have played in a while?  Held them to 26 rushing yards, 41 passing yards, 1 of 11 on 3rd downs.  Talk about how you guys did today.
HAROLD LANDRY: Yeah, I think it was a pretty clean performance, but it was expected.  We were supposed to do that.  We don't expect nothing less.  Now we're just ready to get back into ACC play and get ready for Clemson on Friday night.
Q. Harold, as we mentioned before with John taking on one of the best quarterbacks, is this a game that you like, because as you said, it's a measuring stick for you, how do you measure up with the best players, measure up with good teams?  Is this the one game you've been circling as your breakout party, the Clemson game coming up?
HAROLD LANDRY: I'm not too focused on myself right now, but I do know that big-time players make big-time plays in big-time moments, and of course I'm always looking forward to Friday night on ESPN.  That night is going to be a big game.  We're all pumped up for it.  It's just a very exciting time, and like John said, we always want to play good, but we've just got to focus on our defense as a whole playing good so we can give our offense as many chances as they can to score so we can come out with the "dub."
Q. Have the last two weeks been different sort of preparing and working through kinks and playing teams that aren't Clemson, knowing that you're going to play Clemson?  Know what I mean?  Is it different?
HAROLD LANDRY: I think the last two weeks our whole team, we've just been focused on getting back to the basics of the game, getting back to fundamentals and technique, and just getting back to the groundwork that we developed during camp and during spring ball.  We can't let that get away from us, and I think we've worked really hard the past two weeks in getting all the kinks worked out on both sides of the ball, and I just think that it showed in two games.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT