NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1997
Jonathan Stark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q. Did you play especially well or did Goran not play well?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Well, I think it was -- I played really well. I played Goran a couple times before, so I was confident going into the match. We've always had close matches. I served at a very high level the whole match, both sets. He never really put much pressure on my serve, so that allowed me to take some chances on his serve. Things worked out. 
 

Q. What were your thoughts on Davis Cup? You guys were finally told.
 
JONATHAN STARK: Ricky and I are both very excited. It's right there at Ricky's home club that he plays at all the time. Playing Davis Cup is always really special. So we're both real pleased, happy to be part of it. 
 

Q. Are you at all upset that Tom took this long to let you know, so much speculation?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Not really. Gully, we're all good friends with Gully. We were in contact with him for the prior weeks, so we had an idea. He just waited till now. No, not at all. That's the way he wanted to do it, so we're pleased. 
 

Q. How was the heat out there?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Fine, no problem, not at all. 
 

Q. Seeing Sampras go down a few minutes before you went out, did that give you an extra boost of confidence? "All right, seeds are going down, today could be my day"?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Maybe a little bit. Like I said, you know, I felt confident going into the match playing Goran. I played really well in singles and doubles the two days before. I was pumped up. I think his other tournaments this year have shown, and the past year, a lot of the top guys are starting to lose a few more, except Pete, that's the first match he's lost in a couple months. I think it shows that everyone can play. That gives you some confidence, just to know that these guys are beatable. I was pumped up and confident.  
 

Q. You play a similar style game to Pete and Goran's, serve and volley. They said outside of the help it gives the serve, they have a hard time with the balls flying here. No problem with you?
 
JONATHAN STARK: The balls are light. I'm stringing my racquets tighter than I ever have, and my elbow is killing me. For some reason this year, I don't know, I really -- it's always a little bit light here. I don't know what it is this year. I remember like three or four years ago, the conditions were really heavy, like you had Chesnokov and Chang in the final, courts were really slow, balls were really heavy. I don't know what it is this year, but I know a lot of the guys, speaking through their stringers, are stringing their racquets tighter than they ever have. The conditions are light, which I don't mind because it helps my serve and my style of play. It is difficult to control the ball from the baseline, yeah. 
 

Q. Your ranking is up to 53 this week. When was the last time you were this high?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Maybe like two years ago. My highest ranking was 34 about two and a half, three years ago. 
 

Q. Guys always sit around and powwow, talking about the balls flying here, in Philly the players thought the court was sticky? Is that something they say or they sit and talk about amongst each other?
 
JONATHAN STARK: The Tour is so close-knit, it's what we do. You do sit and talk about it, ask the guys how are they playing, if you come in late, how the court is playing, if the balls are heavy. It is something the guys do talk about. 
 

Q. Do they ever talk about, some people felt the court in Philly was dangerous, let's say, because it was so sticky? Do they get to the point of talking about, "I wonder if this is safe for us"?
 
JONATHAN STARK: Not really. There might be comments, but not anything -- I've never heard of anything where guys refused to play or something, so. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT