NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Bryan Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on taking Cowen?  
 BRYAN MURRAY: Again, we have got now a couple of real nice defensemen that we think that we drafted last year, actually three that we drafted last year we are really happy with.   
 It gives us a little different dimension. He's a tall guy, defensive type of guy, he can skate and move the puck, but he plays a lot of minutes, he will play a lot of minutes. I believe this year. He certainly has a good stick and has a good awareness of the defensive part of the game. We are pleased that we have another strong blue liner that should play in the league for a long time.  
  
  Q. You don't expect him this year?  
 BRYAN MURRAY: You know, because he missed a fair amount of the year last year it might be difficult for him, but young guys recover, young guys develop.   
 We'll have a development camp next week and we'll have a better read on him at that point in time. But it appears to me that we will try to be smart or careful with him and that is probably go back and play junior for a year and hopefully make the junior team for the world championships and things of that nature and be more prepared in the future, but I would never close the door on him.  
  
  Q. Probably isn't a fair question but were you hoping that he would be the guy or hoping to get somebody else at that spot?  
 BRYAN MURRAY: Well, this is the good thing about the draft, and the bad thing, is that you don't know.   
 I mean, finishing or picking where we were, you just have to hope that there's a good player there at the time. We thought that there were ten, 11, really good players, a couple of smaller players below where we picked even that are going to be real special in the league.   
 So we didn't have our mind-set on one particular guy, because obviously if there was a forward there that we liked and all of the forwards seemed to go quick, and we thought they would, then you know, it is what it is, and Cowen is a really good player.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT