NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 14, 2007
Bryan Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Thanks, guys.  Coach, up 3-0 in the series after a hard fought 1-0 win tonight.  Just your thoughts on the game.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  Well, it was a battle.  I thought Ryan Miller played great early in the game in particular:  Early in the game in particular we had three, four I thought point blank had some chances to make something happen.  He kept them in the game, but defensively I thought we were outstanding.   
 I really felt the effort, the work, positioning was much better than the other night in Buffalo, and you don't want to win 1-0, but it's nice to win 1-0.  I was hoping we would have had another goal or two, but I feel a little better going into the 3rd period, but our guys were real tough.   
  
  Q.  In your wildest dreams could you have imagined limiting a high powered team like Buffalo to 15 shots and just one shot on their six power plays?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  No, I can't say I would ever imagine that.  As I watched this group of players work and play and be disciplined, I'm not totally shocked.  Little surprised but not totally shocked because they've done a heck of a job here.  The pressuring of the puck, the attitude on the bench, the three sets of PK guys that I have so far have done a real good job.   
  
  Q.  Looking ahead to Game No. 4, one more win away, but as they all say, the fourth one is always the toughest.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  Can I just have tomorrow off?  No.  It's tough.  Again, they're going to all play like they did tonight.  We know that they are going to be close games.  We just have to continue to battle and be disciplined and hope that we can get a couple more pucks past the goaltender, but we'll be ready.   
 This group is a focused group, and we'd like to win at home, there's no question about that.  So we're going the try in every way we can to make that happen.   
  
  Q.  Coach, congratulations on the win.  I appreciate your time.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  Coach, when you see the way your PK was handling their power play, is it tough almost not to take a step back and say, "Wow, this is killing a penalty at its best"?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  I can't say that we've done much better ever.  The pressure on the puck, the work ethic, just everything that goes into shot blocking, and, of course, Ray has to make a few stops for us, but it's been superior.  No question in this series.   
  
  Q.  Alfie got a goal in the fifth straight game now.  Has to be something in playoffs.  Doesn't happen so often?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  He's just been phenomenal.  I'm using him a lot.  He kills penalties.  He plays on the power plays, plays on the regular line.  I'm not sure why Dany didn't score in that shot, but maybe it was good that he didn't.  It was Alfie had a real chance to jump in and tap it in, but great play by Spezza to start with.  Dany hits the one timer, and that's been the approach of Alfie.  Go to the net, skate hard, be available, and he's been able to finish.   
  
  Q.  Bryan, being up 3-0, you enter a different kind of different psychological area because people, a lot of people will say 3-0, it's over now.  Is that something that you have to talk about before you get to Game 4?   
  COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  You've reminded me every game, Allen.  I do.  I will.  I've been in the opposite pair of shoes.  I know that, you know, it's still -- we never quit.  Lindy won't let the guys quit, we know that.  Our guys are the same.  We didn't go through this process to come out not ready to play.  We'll be ready to play on Wednesday night.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT