NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 12, 2007
Bryan Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Bryan, the resiliency that your team has shown all year, the back breaker that Briere gets in and you still come back hard in overtime.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  I said that going into the fifth period that we've shown that character, just keep playing hard, something will happen.  It's really tough.  It was tough on me giving up a goal with 5.8 seconds to go and trying to stay real positive to start the overtime and then we come out and played real well in the first part of the first overtime, and Vermette, a couple guys had pretty good chances.  Ryan made pretty big stops.  Big character effort there tonight.   
  
  Q.  Did anybody say anything when you were down 2-0 after ten minutes?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  No.  We were lucky to get the goal from Alfie in one respect because they really stormed early.  We got caught flat.  Our best players at the early part of the game just almost caught out of position two, three times and they ended up being on the ice for a couple goals against.  But the thing that I liked about it was we hung in and then Alfie scores a goal to get us back on track.  And I felt after we got that one goal, went into the intermission 2-1, we were in good shape.  I really felt that our team would rebound and i didn't think they would play any harder or better than they did in the first period.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the change of defensemen after the icing call.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  That was a good move.  It wasn't made by me, John Paddock, we talk all the time about getting the puck.  The one point I made at the intermission was we had to get the puck back to the blue line.  They were collapsing down low and kept cycling the puck behind the net.  Wasn't working on a face-off.  John went out, put the pair out there, and Joe blasted the shot after a good face-off win, of course.   
  
  Q.  Bryan, what does it mean, you were asked a lot yesterday, but being 0-8 after winning the first game of the series and to be up 2-0 on the road?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  Well, we learned from history, I've said that many times, and our guys were ready, I guess, after the first period to play and rebound.  But, you know, it's a real achievement to this point in time because we know we're halfway there only.  There's a lot of hard work left.  We know this hockey club is going to really bust when they come to Ottawa.  They're going to be a hard team to win in Ottawa against.  We know that. We'll be ready, but it means a lot, obviously.  You come on the road, you want to get one.  To get two is a nice reward for hard work.   
  
  Q.  Again, maybe Phillips and Volchenkov.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  He did.  Unfortunately on the tying goal with 5.8 seconds, there was a scrum.  Kelly got cross-checked down into the scrum and the puck hit Antoine and kind of wiggled out to their player, but he played - the two of them are playing so well right now that defensively - Lindy didn't care who they played against, it looked like.  He want to roll his lines.  He got a lot of momentum.  When they got on the ice, I felt pretty safe.   
  
  Q.  Bryan, I don't mean to make too much drama of it, but this is a team that's done this, they just did it to the Rangers and come back, and they score that goal, are you thinking "I've seen this before on video" or what's going through your mind in terms of the fact that these guys have been magical in this regard?   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  I just know we're not the New York Rangers.  We're better on the blue line and enough said there.  I know we're not that.  I know our character in our room.  We were going to be tough coming out again.   
 There's a hell of a play on their part.  It's what's supposed to happen in hockey.  You pull your goaltender, once in a while you get rewarded for it.  I listened to our guys in the room.  They were positive and ready to go.  I thought we came out in the first overtime and played real well.  As I said early, we had a chance to do some good things, but I saw the goal.  I said, "Did Drury score again?"  It was the other guy this time.   
  
  Q.  Coach, even when they're up 2-0, get a sense that style was very steely-eyed.  Once again, the composure prevailed that you've showed.   
 COACH BRYAN MURRAY:  We have a belief in ourselves and certainly we didn't play well early, and it didn't look very promising after they got the second goal, and were really storming us.  But we hung and hung and finally got a good play and scored a goal.   
 And as I said early, I know after we scored the goal, the bench was real different and we were ready to play, and I thought we'd have a hell of a chance to win the game.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT