CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Pep Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
PEP HAMILTON: Depending on where they are physically.  This point in the season, everybody's hurting.  All the players have little dings they have to manage to get themselves ready for game day.   
And it really just depends on the player.  I think it's something that you can discuss with the players and their families and the people that are helping them to make the decisions, but ultimately these guys are going to do what's best for them.   
 Q.  Have you guys made strides with the receivers this year, quarterback position?  What's the next step for the passing game?  
PEP HAMILTON: Just to continue to build on what we've established.  I think time on task is something that allows you to evolve and truly gain more confidence, timing and continuity in the passing game.   
It's our goal to always allow our quarterback to, as I tell them, throw the ball off of reset and not have to hitch, hitch, hitch and wait and see guys open before he pulls the trigger.   
So the more time that they play together and the more trust and the better timing that we have in our passing game, you'll see that we'll get the ball to Donovan Peoples-Jones as soon as he makes his break and give him more time and space to create yards after the catch.   
Those are the things that the novice may not see.  But when you really study the film, that's an area where we can improve.   
 Q.  I don't think Jim's had this number of guys coming back in terms of receivers and quarterback and a lot of other weapons.  Can you anticipate what that does for you in the spring practice?  
PEP HAMILTON: You know, I don't know.  I don't know that I can necessarily anticipate anything other than there will be familiarity with the system and there will be some stability in the passing game.  And that's between the quarterbacks, tight ends, and receivers.   
And you're right, the previous two spring balls has been reset, hit the reset button and you're starting from scratch.   
I think back two springs ago when there was Wilton and John and Brandon competing for the starting job.  When you have quarterback competitions, it takes from the guy that wins the job.  Those reps, you can't get those reps back, you know.  And time on task is really important in the passing game.   
 Q.  You mentioned him having a connection with several.  Obviously, Tarik hasn't been there.  That's something over the next six months, I assume, you can really develop that relationship.  
PEP HAMILTON: Absolutely.  Think about the game that Tarik had against these guys last year.  You know, he made some big plays and it was his first college football game.  I want to say he had a 50-yard touchdown reception.  He caught a big fade ball, go ball down the sideline early in that game, and we know what type of playmaker he is.   
When he's healthy and ready to go, he's a guy that can win one-on-one match-ups as well as the guys that we already have that have been playing throughout the season, DPJ and Nico.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT