AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 2, 2008
Jacoby Ellsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jacoby. 

 Q. Jacoby, you touched on this last night after the game but what is it about this clubhouse that allows young guys to feel comfortable and perform under great expectations in your opinion? It's not like they're going to have patience for a year with a young guy here. What is it about this clubhouse and this team that brings out the best in young players for the most part? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: I think the biggest thing was when I came up last year, it was the veterans showing the young guys, bringing them up, showing them the ropes, and showing them things, that goes a long way. Young guys are just trying to help the team out and they'll go beyond what they have to do to help the team win. They've done a tremendous job with that. The ultimate goal is winning, and Coco, Mike Lowell, David Ortiz, they all helped me feel comfortable to a new situation. 

 Q. When you were going into a game, how much preparation goes into being able to utilize your speed in a game, for instance, catcher's time to second, slide steps, how much effort do you put into knowing where you can use your speed and help the team? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: I think the outfielders arms, how they get to the ball, catcher times, pitcher times, takeovers, and there is a lot that goes into it. 
 But at the same time you don't want to overanalyze some things. You can think too much out there, and a lot of times I just want to go out there and react but at the same time you need to -- the biggest thing is feeling comfortable out there, and feeling confident. When you're confident I think you let your talent, your abilities show on the field. 

 Q. Jacoby, can you talk about your maturity process this year? How do you feel you've matured as a ballplayer? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: You know, last year having success gave me confidence coming into this year. There is a point in the season when things weren't going as well as I would have liked them to go, but, you know, I stayed confident and I knew I was going to push through and knew it was a matter of time before I broke out and I think from a maturity standpoint in that regard, just trust in your abilities and knowing, you know, it's going to work out. 

 Q. Can you talk about being up one-zip and how important will it be to win tomorrow? Would that be gravy for the Red Sox? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: You know, it would be nice coming here and leaving with two wins. Obviously they're a great ball club and like I said yesterday, whoever wins the series it's going to be a dog fight. 
 Even though we won 4-1 yesterday it was closer than the score at the end but they're a great ball club, if we can come out of here 2-0, that would be great, if not, we're going to Fenway which we feel very comfortable playing there. 

 Q. There were a lot of very good players who have failed in the postseason. It's early for you but so far in your young career you've excelled in the postseason. Can you explain what your methods are and how you explain that success? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: You know, I just feel very fortunate, especially coming up last year to be in the situation, being put on the playoff roster and I told myself, just have fun, go out there, play hard, leave it all on the field. 
 Seems pretty simple but that's been my approach. Just to enjoy it. You never know what's going to happen again and being a young player, Mike Lowell said it best last year that I was spoiled. To win a World Series, you know, but this year I kinda know what to expect in a playoff atmosphere, but just have fun with it, go out there and have fun. 

 Q. How much do you guys as a team monitoring the Josh Beckett situation and whether he's going to be able to pitch in Game 3 on Sunday? 
 JACOBY ELLSBURY: You know, I'm not sure. I haven't talked to Josh but, you know, he's coming in, getting his treatment, doing everything to be prepared and be ready to start Game 3. We would like him -- you know, depending on how he feels, you know, if he's ready to go, that's great. He will be huge for us, for him to go game 3, depends on how he feels. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Jacoby. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT