ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2011
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH CUTCLIFFE:   It's obviously been a frustrating season for our squad, particularly for our seniors because we've played so many close games that we haven't been able to win.   They are remarkable and they are resilient to the point each week we expect to have great practices and great focus.   It's been no different this week. 
I think it obviously helps when you're playing a rival team, but certainly our preparation is going to be critical playing a team as talented as NorthCarolina, and hopefully we get a few people back that have been injured.   Still not sure at this point, but looking forward to a big challenge.

Q.   You alluded to so many close games that you've been in this year that haven't gone your way.   Could winning a game like this to end the season be a springboard towards better things for next season? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, there's no doubt.   I think your last game of the year, whether it's a bowl game, which is what I'm more used to, but our last regular season game, the last game of the year, that taste is going to stay in your mouth. 
Certainly it would be a great gift to our returning players, but certainly in my mind right now more importantly it would be a great way to senda small, but great group of seniors off.   They have worked very hard, and it would be nice to see that occur.   We've got a lot of work in the front office, but yes would be the answer.

Q.   Are there common threads that you see in the close losses that haven't broken your way or things that point you haven't executed quite right?   Or just things that are common to these kinds of games? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   I think the biggest thing is just spurts of not executing as well as you have to execute.   It's a 60‑minute game.   I see very few teams play well for 60 minutes.   There are certain teams, I've been around certain programs that you got to that point.   We're working hard to get there. 
But our margin for error is not very big.   I see a lot of really good football teams that haven't do that.   We're not quite there yet.   The biggest issue is just spurts of bad plays.   Giving up explosives on defense, and basically stopping ourselves and not producing in the red zone on offense would be the constant theme.

Q.   What about Carolina's defense concerns you the most? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   I'd say their defensive front.   They're the closest to the ball.   Their front seven are incredibly big, strong, and fast.   Having any chance to control that is always very difficult.   As an offensive coach that's where it all begins for you, and they're very, very, very talented.

Q.   In pass defense, do you feel like you can control that front seven?   Are there other things you can take advantage of in the back? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Oh, we always think you can throw the football.   We go into every game believing as long as I've been coaching and throwing the football well that we can protect the quarterback.   But they present a ton of challenges in that regard. 
So you have to give it a lot of thought.   Guys got to step up and get it done even though they are physically mismatched.   I'd say their entire front seven are future NFL football players, and you don't see that every week.

Q.   Thanksgiving coming up Thursday.   I was wondering do you do anything special with the kids as a team?   Do you send them home those kids that can get there?   What is your philosophy on that? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   We practice Thursday morning, and then we'll have Thanksgiving dinner together.   A really nice gathering where our families, coaches' family and football family all eat together.   It's great.   Our kids love it. 
We'll be back practicing Friday morning.   We're not a walk through team, so we'll be practicing Friday morning.   So our guys will be here in Durham.

Q.   What does David Cutcliffe have to be thankful for this year? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Oh, my goodness.   So many things to count.   But I'm going to give you one right up front, would be the birth of my grandson, healthy and happy, my first grandson.

Q.   Congratulations. 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Thank you.

Q.   Coach Withers mentioned that he thought one of the areas you improved was up front on offense.   I know you've had some injuries on the offensive line, and the big tackle.   Hill won't be with you this weekend, but can you talk about how that unit has improved over the course of the year, and who has been a standout there for you? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   We're much better.   Two of our starters are not playing.   Brian Moore, center has been out most of the season.   Now we lost Kyle Hill.   So we have two young men start their first games last week, Conor Irwin at center, and Takoby Cofield at left tackle. 
But I tell you, Laken Tomlinson who is a freshman, Dave Harding and Perry Simmons the three that have been mainstays and they have played extremely well.   That is two sophomores and a freshman.   They're big, they're strong, they're fast.   They don't look like what we've had in the past.   I'm very proud of what that group's done. 
Matt Luke, our offensive line coach has done a tremendous job even with the level of injuries that we've had to hold that group together.   So we're very pleased with that part of our team, and know the future is even brighter in that regard. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT