ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2011
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   MIKE FINN: We now welcome Duke head football coach David Cutcliffe. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and then go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Our guys have come back and worked very hard this week. Extremely disappointed coming off the last ballgame. You certainly had to worry about that. But we've had good practices. They're putting a lot into it. We've got a big challenge like it is every week. Another really outstanding team coming into Wallace Wade. Big challenge to even slow down their offense. 
 A fine Georgia Tech team. We'll have to play as good as we can play to be in the ballgame. 
 Questions. 

 Q. Hoping to put this issue behind you. Has there been any dialogue with you and Mike London or anybody else from Virginia about some of the hard feelings that existed at the end of the game the other day?
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: I don't know of any hard feelings that existed, so I can't comment to that. 

 Q. You were not upset with Virginia after the game?
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Who said that? Who said that? 

 Q. There's a TV feed of your discussion with Coach London after the game where you said you'd been insulted by No. 13. 
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: No comment. 

 Q. You started two freshmen linebackers at Virginia, one a true freshman, one a redshirt freshman. How did they do and how tough would it be if they have to go a long way or most of the way against that Georgia Tech option?
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: I thought they both did really well. C.J. is pretty banged up so we're just trying to get him back. David Helton has just continued to get better and better. He's had a great week of preparation. I expect him to start this week against Georgia Tech. I feel like he'll play well. 

 Q. Is his development in any way comparable to what Kelby did last year as a true freshman?
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: I think certainly to some degree. He certainly has done well and I'm very pleased with David. 

 Q. Coach, I know yesterday you couldn't talk too much about the injury list, who will and won't play. After another day of practice, are you feeling more optimistic or less optimistic?
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Still a lot of people are doubtful. Another day is going to be critical. We got a couple people back to practice today that we didn't have yesterday. Just going to have to wait and see where we'll release that tomorrow. 
 Hopefully we can by Saturday get some that we may not think we can have. Day by day right now. 
 MIKE FINN: Coach, we're out of questions at this point. We'll let you off easy and wish you well for this weekend. 
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT