ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2011
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH CUTCLIFFE: But we had a really good open date to this point. What we expected, we've gotten really good attitude and work coming off three wins in a row. That helps a bunch, obviously.   
 Really upbeat, uptempo. We're having a chance to get some people that have really been banged up feeling better as well. So a big key, and everybody does this. In open dates, you've got to find a way to get better. And I thought at this point, anyway, that our team has done a great job of doing that at practice. So with that, I'll take questions.  
  
  Q. I wanted to ask, obviously Donovan Varner and Connor Vernon are moving up the charts of being the most productive duo in ACC history. They're getting close to that. Can you talk about those two as a combo and how they complement each other?   
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Obviously, they play on different sides for us in most formations. We put them together some, but we try to limit the number of double coverage opportunities people get on both of them by having them on different sides at times. Then, as I said, we'll put them together.   
 Both of them are fierce competitors. They were teammates in high school. They know each other's moves. Actually one of the things they do best is push each other at practice. Those guys have the ability to make practice like a game. You see how hard they play. You get to see us play every game. You see how hard they play on game day. You see that same intensity and effort in practice. That's what they do. They push each other. It's been a great combination.  
  
  Q. In your long career, have you ever had a pair that's been as successful over as long a period of time as those two?   
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: No. This is the top duo that I've had in all the great players that we've had through the years. But those two together are just absolutely pretty phenomenal, I think. Obviously, both of them will end up pretty close if not breaking the all-time career reception record at Duke this year. Clarkston Hines is a Hall of Famer holds that record, And there is a good chance both of them will pop that number before the season's over with.  
  
  Q. Coach, Connor was talking about how I think you quote unquote took the handcuffs off of Renfree. Can you kind of put some context what you meant by that?   
 COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, I don't think he was ever handcuffed. What I said all along was that Sean had played with a lot of weight on his shoulder. He was playing to not make mistakes.   
 I think what Connor was saying -- and I did it in a team meeting, I told all of them, this game's got to be fun. You can't have burdens. You can't carry anyone's burden. The only person carrying a burden is me. I'm old enough and equipped to handle it. So cut it loose, just all of it, cut it loose.   
 He obviously knew, and I addressed Sean on part of it, we don't have any secrets from each other, because we are a family. I would say he's not talking about play calls, he's not being negative at all. He's just saying let him relax and play. And I hope that Sean has taken that to heart. And actually he played his best game against FIU. It wasn't statistically the best game, but it was his best game.  
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT