ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2018
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Duke head coach David Cutcliffe.  If you could please give us an opening statement, then we'll take questions.   
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: This Matt Rhule and his staff have done a tremendous job.  This Baylor team is balanced, play a great kicking game, got good talent there.  They have the ability and a lot of people on defense that are chasing the ball and running to the ball.  Then offensively a lot of play-makers.   
They are really doing a great job with creating explosives.  It's showing.  They're scoring a lot of points.  We got our work cut out for us as we travel to Waco.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The NCAA rule change with the fair catch option on kickoffs, what was your theory on that going into the year, and how have you seen that rule either used or not really used so far?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Our theory going in, we're making no change.  We pride ourselves on being an outstanding kickoff return team.  We've been very successful there.  We will continue to do that.   
In our game versus Army, they fair caught all of them but one.  We pride ourselves in being a solid kickoff cover unit.  They chose the 25 yard line.  I think people will have different philosophies.  One of the interesting things about the rule that people in the public don't know, you're standing there fair catching one on the three, and you must have the catch, ball hits the ground, it's your ball right there on the three.  There's a lot of little things strategically you have to be aware of.   
 Q.  When you think in general about going against a team that has a big-time kick returner, what is the philosophy in terms of kicking it to him, away, kicking it short?  How do you come to that decision as a staff?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Well, I mean, obviously you have who you have.  He's only as good as he is.  You could kick all touchbacks, you would do that.  We have had, depending upon the strategy of the game, location kicks, sky kicks, certain types of squib kicks.  We practice those.  We have it in our repertoire.   
I think you always go into a game knowing what you think you're facing.  You don't have everything in your game plan.  As the weeks go by, when you see somebody like that, you always bring in some alternative kicks.   
 Q.  I'm curious if you have a contingency plan for staying out there in case you're unable to travel home on Saturday with the storm?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Yeah, we've got a couple of things we're going to do.  I think we're going to be fine, but you never know.  We've got different locations to go to.  The hotel there can handle us another night, which I think would be enough.   
Biggest thing when you're traveling with that large of a group, you got to fly somewhere.  If it's an alternative place, one of two things:  either we're bussing back into Duke or you're staying somewhere where you know you can be accommodated.  We've got our ops people, both athletic department and football, working on all those scenarios.   
 Q.  What is leaving a day early mean or do for your guys in terms of prep for the game?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: It's going to be unique.  Because we're having to leave so early tomorrow, you're actually leaving almost two days early because we're going to practice tomorrow on the road at a high school and Friday.  That's highly unusual.  We normally practice here, travel on Friday afternoon, go in and play a game, and come home.   
We've put our itinerary together, how we're going to do it, when to give them free time in their room.  We're going to try to tell them to take advantage of this opportunity.  I bet there's a few coaches may take a nap or two.  You get it where you can.   
We've done a great job, our people have, with meals, timing.  I feel really good about our football portion of it.  We did practice schedules.  Our football itinerary yesterday.  We're ready to go.   
 Q.  As a man of the south, do you have any particular appreciation for Waffle House and its role during these natural disasters that could affect us here?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: I'm a Waffle House fan.  That may go down as the most unusual question I've had (laughter).  Sometimes in recruiting, I choose my stay locations where I can have breakfast at a Waffle House.  Tells you how important they've been to me.   
I've known some people that have owned some Waffle House franchises.  They do a great, great job of being a community-oriented organization.  I'd support them any way I can.   
 Q.  We talked about Quentin and the offense.  You've had another day of work.  Tell us how he's doing.  You said he's got his package of plays.  How is he doing running the team?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Really good today.  What he's done best is he's not trying to be something he's not.  He hasn't changed his approach, preparation to practice.  He's been good.  He really has.   
I think one of the things that may help in this circumstance, a couple.  First, he's a veteran.  Secondly, he's already had the instant 'I'm the quarterback' thrust into a game last week, a close game he had to close out, and we won it.  It's not like he's just finding out he's starting.  He's known that.   
It does pay dividends.  I talked to our young quarterbacks all the time about you prepare every week as if you're the starter.  I think Quentin has taken that to heart.  He's really a smart, smart, smart young man, well-prepared.  I have great confidence that he's going to play real well.   
 Q.  With Gilbert out, what is your concern or not about your secondary as you get ready for this Baylor passing attack?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Baylor has tall, fast receivers.  They're really talented there.  They were a year ago.  Now they're playing at a higher level at quarterback.  It's always a concern.  It would be a concern if Mark Gilbert were in the game.   
We're down a great player.  We've got young people that are excited about the opportunity.  They've played.  They've played well when they've been called on.  We have more than one option.  We've tried to be really deep.  We're a five DB kind of three corner team really because we're such a man-to-man defending team.   
Michael Carter plays our man lock safety or corner.  The versatility hopefully will help us get through this because it is who we're going to be the rest of the season, not just dealing with Baylor but everybody we have left on the schedule.   
 Q.  What do you think has contributed to your success in the special teams unit over the years?  Also, when there's variations year to year, what typically causes those?  
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: I've been very fortunate that my background has included mentors that just were sold, not just being sold on special teams, but a process, the way you go about teaching it, coaching it.  It's something we've grown through the years.   
You kind of got to love it, too.  We do.  We spend staff time, not just special teams coordinator, but we spend staff time watching special teams tape.  We have meetings in the off-season that are addressed only to special teams.  I learned that from mentors.  Don't expect to be good if you don't emphasize it.   
Rules change, and they're going to change more over the next two or three years, in my opinion.  But as rules have changed through the years, schematically things adjust and change.  Obviously in the area of special teams.  We're all punting the ball a little differently than we used to.  The specialists go to these camps all over the country.  Some of these guys are so good at what they do, it's been kind of fun for me.  It's almost like coaching quarterbacks for me, coaching those specialists.   
I think it's something you just have to learn to embrace.  We've had good coaches that headed it up for us, too, is the other big part of it.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT