ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 19, 2018
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID CUTCLIFFE: I think really the word, and I've mentioned this multiple times now for us, is competition.  We had really good competition between the offense and the defense.  I think it made us better.  It was a lot of give and take.  We've got a lot of competition at almost every position.  Doesn't mean you've arrived yet, but this team is deeper than any team we've had, and certainly think it is the fastest team we've put on the field.
So I'm excited about the blend of some returning veterans and some very talented young people.  With that, I'll take questions.
Q. To speak on the improvements made by quarterback Daniel Jones, just what you have taken away from him from the spring?
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Daniel's been healthy for one thing.  He's really matured.  I would say he dove into the spring.  I mean, he's really put a lot of heart and soul into it.  He's had a really good spring.  I've seen almost every area of his game improve, his understanding, just every approach.
He's a very talented guy.  He can run, he's got a big arm, he's got great size.  I think he understands what his capabilities are.  I think his word has been consistency.  It's what he wants to see from himself.  I think we're making progress in that area.
Q. As far as what you can say you've seen through the tight ends through the spring and establishing depth there from the offense through 2018?
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: It's probably our deepest position right now with two seniors in Daniel Helm and Davis Koppenhaver, and Noah Gray who played a lot a year ago, and Mark Birmingham, another guy who played a year ago, and Jake Marwede, a very talented guy as a freshman who red-shirted.  Then we had a mid-year come in, Zamari Ellis who is a very talented young player.  So it's probably overall our deepest position.
The thing that I think our tight ends bring is versatility within personnel groupings and what they can do.  I really am excited about what they accomplished this spring.  Jeff Faris has taken that position.  His experience as a receiver's coach, it's been a really good mix.
They've had a lot more catches and have been really beneficial for us in the area of the passing game.  I'm going to continue to see those guys grow more and more physical, that's just the next big step for us.
Q. What did you see from your defense during the spring game?  I know it's a controlled spring game, but what do you see during practice from your defense this year?
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: I like our defense.  I think this is the deepest, most talented we've been on defense.  We've got great linebacker play, experienced people there.  It's deeper.  Besides Joe Giles-Harris who had an All-American-type year, then Ben Humphreys and Koby Quansah has made a great jump.  We've got some other young people that matured.
Up front on defense, this is the deepest, most athletic group on the defensive line.  We return all but one starter there.  Certainly Mark Gilbert who was an All-American a year ago, he's just gone to a whole 'nother level.  I'm excited for Mark.  You can tell he had a great winter.  We spent a lot of time four days a week and all of our winter lifting.  He's stronger.
Our safety play has been good.  We're trying to find the other corner.  Myles Hudzick, really right now is the other starter.  He's going to battle.  That's what I love, competition.  We've got other people competing to play, but it's going to be interesting around here.  We've got some depth in the back end, and I'm anxious to see how that all comes about when they lineup five starters in the fall.
Q. Do you see a difference in your team after winning that big bowl game in December in Detroit?  Do you feel they have a purpose to get better every day in practice so they have a better season?
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: I think this team, there are so many people that return.  I think the end of the year, the way we finished, that the practices for the bowl game were even better than what we played.  That's why we played so well.
We played a really good team in Northern Illinois and we played really well.  We've continued on that path.  We've got to continue there.  Our league, our schedule is tough, but I believe this team is going to be willing to work to be as good as it can be, whatever that is.
Q. You've talked about the depth on the team.  Obviously you've got some veterans coming back.  But were there a couple guys who maybe surprised you who stood out with their play this spring that could be bigger contributors in the fall?
DAVID CUTCLIFFE: Yeah, I think without a doubt there's been a few.  Robert Kraeling, everybody has looked and rightfully so at our offensive line, Robert Kraeling was one of our award winners from the spring.  He's a big, talented youngster.  From day one, he looks like a different player on the field at right tackle.
We've had really multiple guys.  Our transfer in from Ohio State, Jack Wohlabaugh, who hasn't played in two years, he red-shirted there and then didn't play.  I thought he learned a system.  Jim Bridge did a great job of getting him up to speed.  Zach Harmon on the offensive line, he's a returning starter, but he's jumped into center and just really played at a high level.  Julian Santos is another guy.
I think just all our young safety play.  Michael Carter, Marquis Waters, Damani Neal, Leonard Johnson, you're talking about athletes.  That's the best group of young athletes we've had at one position.  So it's interesting.
Jordan Hayes hurt, missing all spring, and Jeremy McDuffie, I would say both of those two guys, all of this has gotten their attention.  Lummie Young is another one I'll mention of the young safeties.
They just put on a show, a big part of this spring.  I mean, everything from pick sixes to big hits, to I think Matt Guerrieri has done a tremendous job with that young group getting them ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT