ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2017
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH CUTCLIFFE: We are obviously very familiar with Georgia Tech, a team we play every year, a team that as you just mentioned, traditionally it's Duke and Georgia Tech have played a lot of football.  They are really a good football team.   
This is one of the best Georgia Tech teams I've seen coming off a huge win.  They have a lot of talent.  They execute well in all areas, all three phases.  It's going to be a huge challenge for us.   
It's our senior' last game, so it's certainly emotional in that regard in Wallace Wade Stadium.  We have to rise to the occasion and when you're playing a team like Georgia Tech, you have to make yourself do that.  We've worked hard and hopefully we'll be well prepared.   
I'll take any questions.   
 Q.  You just came off the intro speaking on Georgia Tech and a lot of football being played between your team and their's.  What can you say about Paul Johnson and the level of respect that you have for him and just how you would describe him as a coach on the only side.  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Sure.  First of all, Paul and I have been good friends for a while.  I think when you're on the other side of the field, you know exactly what you're going to get.  You're going to get a guy that manages a game as well as any coach in the business.  He is so versed in what he does offensively that really no matter what you try, he's got the answers.   
I think it's been a lot of years he's put into running his offense and so he does know the answers and reacts and adjusts quickly, as well as anybody in the business.  He's got a great staff and so these Georgia Tech teams, every year they play good defense.  They are outstanding on offense and they play really terrifically in the kicking game.  I think just all around, is just one of the best coaches in the business.   
 Q.  What can you say about this year's team and what you've learned, coaching Duke for as long as you have and the work you've put in.  What has this team taught you this year?  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: It's been interesting.  We open up with four straight wins.  We played really pretty well.  We are a team that hasn't been able to win in the fourth quarter.   
I think you realize when you lose four games by a touchdown or less, that you're not winning the fourth quarter and that's where conference games are won, that's where championships are won, and just how critically important that is.   
And regardless of whether you -- doesn't matter which side of the ball you may be struggling in.  You get in a game and you get an opportunity in the fourth quarter, you have to take advantage of it.  We haven't done that very well.  That's my job.  Hope that we can solve that riddle starting Saturday.   
 Q.  TaQuon Marshall only completed two passes on Saturday out of eight attempts on Saturday but the two he completed on playaction led to Georgia Tech's victory over Virginia Tech.  Your thoughts about facing this young man an Saturday.  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Yeah, he's a terrific athlete, first of all, and a really accurate passer.  He is so quick and elusive.  He can buy time in the passing game.   
But because of their ability to run the ball so efficiently with him, you find people committing too much in the back end.  You commit your safeties too much to the run, and as I mentioned earlier, Paul Johnson is going to see these things, and TaQuon is a kid, a player that can execute.  They have got really good receivers that can stretch the field.  They can run.  Their quality, big receivers.   
So that's the risk all the time.  I think, was it an 80-yarder and a 60-yarder, the average, to round them out, and they are brutal.  You just work all week long at your eye discipline and responsibilities, and hope that your guys don't lose focus a single play, because it's there every snap potentially.   
 Q.  In your opinion, which is tougher to cover, the spread option or triple-option that Army had last week?  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, Army has got a lot of the same formations.  They are just not throwing the football.  You know, they have decided that's a better way for them to win and it minimizes a game greatly.  They threw one pass against us.  They did not throw one against Air Force, so in two games, that's one pass.   
But some of the other concepts are similar.  I think obviously Georgia Tech is harder to defend first because they have more talent, just overall.  They are a very talented football team.   
And secondly, when you are efficient throwing the playaction, run action pass, if you will, and even drop-back, then it's very difficult to defend that team.   
And so, not that both of them haven't difficult and both of them aren't difficult to defend, but if I had to choose, Georgia Tech is more difficult to defend.  They are more versatile.   
 Q.  Your impressions of the Army quarterback, Bradshaw.  What makes him so good?  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, he is strong physically.  He's bigger.  I don't know if stout is the word, but he's stronger than you might think he is.  He's not a big, big person and he also has quickness.  He's got great hands and ball handling skills.   
So he's just as consistent with that football as you will see an option be.  We've seen a lot of him, and I think it's probably time for him to graduate.   
 Q.  He really squats low.  I think he squats lower than anybody I've ever seen.  Does that help him?  
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, a lot of option coaches believe that that's where you start the whole thing.  What it does is he's bent-kneed and in a great position to move, and he also -- you can ride the fullback lower, which they do.  Their fullback hits really, really low behind his pads.   
So they are conscious of that fullback game, and the follow game where he follows the fullback, and/or also a halfback.  I just think that's their philosophy.  It looks like a baseball catcher down there.  You've got to be a strong young man to be able to do that.  It doesn't look very comfortable, that's for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT