ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2018
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Duke head coach David Cutcliffe.
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Obviously going to Clemson, just playing the quality of that team, the number two team in the country, that certainly plays as if it's a number one team in the country.  At Clemson, Death Valley, Saturday night, is a huge challenge.  One that our team needs to embrace and look forward to.  And you hope you have a program that's excited about challenges rather than getting overly concerned about it.
So we've practiced well.  We'll see what happens one day at a time.  That's all I've got on this end.
Q. You haven't played Clemson since I believe 2012.  That was Brent Venables' first year as defensive coordinator.  I'm just wondering how you think they're different or similar since the last time you saw them.
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, obviously it's been a while.  So I think they've continued to improve physically.  I think Venables has a system in place that veteran players have really embraced.  They do a lot of different things they do them well.  They were aggressive then.  But I think this is a completely different level of Clemson defense.
And I think he's as good as there is in the business.
Q. How much does it help to have a veteran quarterback like Daniel Jones when you're going into an environment like Death Valley, what do you say to some of the younger guys that may not have seen an environment like that?
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, it always helps to have a veteran quarterback.  He can have a settling effect.  We do have some veteran players on offense.  That will help.  To some level, you still have to -- the environment's one thing.  The defense we're looking at is a whole different thing.
So they're both really difficult, but there's no question that a veteran can help not only on the field but in the preparation and just we're counting on our leadership to help control those young folks' emotions.  And sometimes you have to -- takes a little while to get through that, the opening quarter even can be a jolt to a lot of young players.  But we'll somewhere in there settle down, I believe.
Q. I'm writing a story about Dexter Lawrence.  I don't know how much video you've seen of him this week.  But I was kind of curious your impression of what you've seen?
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Well, I watched him play in high school, live.  I've certainly watched every game they've played this year and watching him play defense.  He's a great player.  He's, as we all know, a big, powerful young man.  His athleticism defies someone that size.  Always has had it.
And they've done a great job.  He looks like he's in great shape and can play a complete game and plays really hard.  So a guy that's 350, 350-plus pounds, whatever that is, he plays really well.  Plays really hard.
Q. In terms of trying to contain that Clemson offense, can you take a page from anything that, say, Syracuse or Boston College have done this year to kind of try to keep this within reach there?
COACH CUTCLIFFE: Yeah, you always watch opponents, and particularly pay attention to games where opponents have played better, maybe, than some others.
I think a lot of that comes down to players that you have in matchups.  Certainly you've got to play with great effort, focus and intensity.  But you also have to be able to match their physicality.  And Boston College and Syracuse both, defensively, are playing very physical right now.  And we've got to pick that up a notch to be able to stay on the field with those guys.  And then once you do that, you still have to be able to handle an incredibly gifted quarterback with a lot of weapons.
They can run the ball.  They are physical but they can also create explosive after explosive in the pass game.  So I think our young people realize that they've got a big challenge in front of them.  We've certainly practiced with great intensity.  But it will be just something you do one play at a time.  You can't live and die within a single play.  But you've got to play every play as if the game depended upon it.
Q. Obviously you've had a lot of experience with high-profile quarterbacks, having to make decisions about their futures.  And I know you still have a couple of games still left to play but a lot of NFL folks liking what they're seeing out of Daniel Jones.  When do you begin to have those types of discussions with him as he tries to evaluate his future?
COACH CUTCLIFFE: He should be drawing a lot of attention, because he's legitimately that type of player and person.  We've already had a little conversation.  Nothing -- I've just tried to help he and his father both, because I've been through it so often, just as to what to expect and here's the thought process that you need to put into it and you need to learn that you don't listen to noise; you need to evaluate your information clearly from the league.
And we'll get to that pretty quickly, once we finish next week.  And there's so much in the media that you just -- and I told both of them, you can't ride that wave.  It's unimportant.  And I'm going to tell you, he has been incredibly focused and will be.  He's such an unusual young man that he would not ever -- he's such a great teammate, let me put it that way.  He would never let himself get distracted.  I've been very pleased with that part of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT