ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 27, 2013
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH CUTCLIFFE:   As Mike just mentioned, there's a lot at stake, obviously, in that regard, and then I think everybody does realize it's enough, that it's just Duke and North Carolina.   As we look at it, I don't think‑‑ I know as we look at it, this is the biggest challenge we will have faced all year long, a North Carolina team that's playing extremely well, on their own winning streak, so it has the recipe of being a huge challenge for our team, and I hope our team will embrace it and give us their best effort.   That's what you certainly expect in an environment like this one.   With that, I'll take your questions. 

Q.   Just curious, when you're facing a punt returner like Ryan Switzer, do you see guys snap to it and pay a little more attention? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, yeah, we've asked obviously our guys to do that.   He's had a tremendous year, and he's had one called back, in fact.   He would have had four.   And I don't know if I can ever remember a guy doing that.   He's strong, he's fast, he's quick, he catches it very well.   So you really don't see a weakness.   So we'd better be zeroed in. 

Q.   I know a few days ago in your press conference you talked about the three phases of your team and how you've kind of seen them come together, at times almost in the same game.   Have you seen that on tape with North Carolina, the defense and offense all coming together?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Absolutely.   They're the same kind of team.   They're getting key returns and they're a good kicking and punting team, and certainly have improved on both sides of the ball.   Both sides of the ball are making significant plays throughout a ballgame, and I think they've hit their peak at just the right time. 

Q.   Have you seen anything specifically with their defense over the last‑‑ I guess the defense has been playing better the last four weeks.   Have you seen anything on film or anything? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, all the way back to Boston College, and I'm sure part of it is like anything else.   People get healthier, guys are feeling good, you kind of get all your rotation in place.   They're playing a lot of people.   They play very hard.   I think that once you start playing well, your confidence builds.   They've got experienced, good football players in all of the right places. 

Q.   Does it concern you at all that your guys have never really been in this position with everything on the line, a championship out there to grab and that kind of situation?   Does that concern you at all?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Not really, because as you're well aware, there's nothing we can do about that, but not a lot of teams have a bunch of players that are that familiar with those circumstances.   I think it's great for our guys is the way I have viewed it.   To face these kind of challenges and that kind of pressure in your young life, I think, and I've told them, you have to embrace it.   Sure, there's a lot of pressure.   Sure, it makes you anxious.   It does all of those things.   But you've got to learn to embrace that all your life and look forward to those types of challenges, and this is certainly a huge one.   But I think it's good from freshman to senior that they're having to deal with that.   It's a growth opportunity. 

Q.   The other thing is in your first five years you've won one game in November, you've won three this year.   How much of that is health?   How much is the focus the team had?   I know finish was kind of the unofficial motto.   But what's played into the success you've had in November this year? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, this team is really a good football team, and it's obviously part of it.   Our depth, less injuries than we've had, I think all of those things that you mentioned at the front end asking the question are a big part of it, and then I really believe that the maturity of this team and the maturity of the program has certainly helped. 

Q.   I've been asking coaches today, we do have to vote on All‑ACC this week.   It's tough at a couple of positions.   You guys sent out some nominations.   Can you make a case for a couple of guys especially on the offensive line?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Yeah, I think everybody has a difficult time knowing who's playing well in the offensive line.   Perry Simmons, who's a four‑year starter, who has never missed a snap‑‑ he hasn't missed a practice.   It's almost unheard of.   He's the most durable, consistent offensive lineman we've ever had.   I'd love to make a case for all of them, but you asked for a couple, and certainly Perry is just‑‑ and an incredible student.   He's the student athlete everybody talks about and dreams of.   He's going to New York as one of the finalists for the top student athlete in the country, and then his partner right next to him, Lincoln Tomlinson, is playing at an extremely high level.   He's a very gifted, really quick 315‑pounder that's got tremendous strength.   He has become a really good technician.   Lincoln is in his third year of not missing any time.   Very appreciative of those guys in the trenches anyway as you well know. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT