ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 2, 2013
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Open date after five games, three and a half weeks of camp, came at a good time for us.   Fairly beat‑up team at this point in time.   Coming off a really hotly contested win, kind of catching our breath, but also felt good to get the win. 
Been pretty energized this week.   We've got one more day left to practice, tomorrow.   Coaches will be on the road recruiting, and the players get a little bit of time to recoup emotionally and physically Sunday. 
With that I'll take your questions. 

Q.   David, how does this bye week affect Anthony Boone's status, if at all?   When he does come back, given the way Brandon has played, how does that change the way you look at your quarterback situation and how you might use these two guys? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, we don't know yet still on Anthony.   Anthony is getting some light work in.   Obviously, until he can be cleared for contact, which may be quite some time, who knows.   We're just taking it week‑to‑week.   Nobody in medicine, the doctor or trainers, can give me any kind of timetable.   They'll take more x‑rays, look at it clinically, we'll make a decision. 
As far as how Brandon has played, really pleased with him.   As we've gotten into the season, we knew we were going to have a couple styles of play, one with Anthony, one with Brandon.   We'll continue with that role. 
If Anthony is full speed, he would come back as our starter and we would go from there. 

Q.   There's no possibility he'll be ready to come back after the bye week?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   I have no idea.   As I said, it's still day‑to‑day.   I can't get a date.   Again, the hard part, in fairness to the doctors, is contact.   How do you evaluate that?   That's a very difficult thing. 

Q.   With the bye week, you're going to be in the same position that Boston College is in this week with Army.   Do you have any thoughts on how the government shutdown is affecting the academy football programs? 
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, I hopefully believe that they will find a way to work out the games and separate it.   I think there's a lot of people willing, conferences, et cetera, to help support the circumstance where you don't have to cancel football games because it's very difficult to make them up. 
At this point I'm going to let someone else worry about that.   We're practicing as if we're going to play against Navy.   We'll continue that until we hear differently.   I hope and believe that Navy will play Air Force this week and Army will play Boston College. 

Q.   You mentioned this was a week you do some recruiting.   You've recruited some big‑time guys at a lot of positions, a lot of hype.   One position that has been tough to recruit at, is defensive line.   Is that a more difficult position to recruit, and if so why?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   I think you're talking about really big athletes that make the best defensive linemen across the board.   Those guys are the least likely to be out there in any number.   There's some small, really fine athletes.   There are some big guys that are pretty good athletes.   But the big ones that are just outstanding athletes become a premium. 
Whether it's the NFL Draft, there's less of them when they look for guys that they think can be big‑time players at that level.   No different than a power forward, so to speak, a LeBron James, they don't show up very often.   You want big, powerful men that can run, jump, change directions.   There's just not a lot of them. 

Q.   In the absence of the 280 guy that runs the 4.6, what do you do to find guys that you did develop?   What qualities are you looking for mostly?
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   They're different than ends and the interior people.   The first thing we start with is a guy that is athletic.   We know we have to get them bigger and stronger.   The other part of it is a mentality.   You got to be a mentally tough person to go inside and take all that banging and keep competing at a high level. 
The other word you would use is 'flexibility.'   If they don't have flexibility, they're going to struggle in there regardless of size or strength. 
We know we're going to be developmental.   We've developed some good players in that regard.   We're continuing, we believe, to get better at that position. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT