ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 28, 2013
David Cutcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   We now welcome Duke Head Football Coach David Cutcliffe, who begins his sixth season as head coach at Duke this Saturday when the Blue Devils host crosstown foe North Carolina Central at Wallace Wade Stadium in Durham.   The game will have a 4:00 p.m. kickoff and will be available nationally on ESPN3.   
With that, we'll bring on Coach, ask for a brief opening statement, and then go to questions.   Coach?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Hey, Mike.   I'm certain we're like every college football team in America right now, anxious to play, anxious to see a few new faces, and just to see how we've grown.   
We have a team that's breaking in a new starter at quarterback after three years and a few other key people in the secondary.   I'm excited for those people, and I'm excited to see how they respond.   
So interesting to always see people that play five miles from our campus.   These guys know each other.   They're an athletic team.   It's a good opening game for both of us and certainly a celebration of the city of Durham.   
So with that, I'll take your questions.   
   
 Q.   David, good afternoon.   I wanted to ask you about Jeremy Cash.   This has been a big week for him.   Been waiting a long time for a game.   Can you just kind of give us a rundown of his attitude and what he's been like the last few days getting ready for the big game.   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, he's been eager and anxious.   This week‑‑ or about a week ago, I guess, actually, I had a flashback to standing there telling him that he'd been denied by the NCAA the opportunity for immediate eligibility and how disappointed he was, I was, very difficult time.   That youngster is a fierce competitor.   
I know he's excited.   He was a little tired, like all of them today.   We went at it pretty good.   But he's going to be on the field.   He's going to play a lot of defense, and he's going to play on the special teams.   So he's going to get a lot of football, Steve.   He's a very good player.  
   
 Q.   Is it trying to temper expectations with him?   There's so much‑‑ being an Ohio State transfer, there's been so much built up around him finally playing.   What can we really expect out of him in this first game as he plays for the defense?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   I do think there's been a lot of hype, and that's something that good college football players will have to deal with.   
I think Jeremy himself, what's important to me is where he is right now, his mind.   He knows that he's got his hands full playing defense, competing consistently.   I don't think it will flash through his mind any that they'll expect me to make every play.   That's a fast way to play fourth.   
He's got to play his assignment and read his keys and be where he's supposed to be, and he'll have plenty of opportunities where he's playing to make plays.   I hope that takes care of itself with his focus, maturity, and concentration.  
   
 Q.   With all the talk about the change of coaching at North Carolina Central, how have you kept that from becoming a distraction for your team?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, I think these guys have been so busy.   You know, we certainly addressed it, but they've been so busy with their own camp and own practices, I don't think it's distracted them at all.   Obviously, they know that the staff is intact otherwise.   
So they've just settled down and gone about their business, and I certainly won't expect it to be a deterrent for us.   
   
 Q.   Coach, there's been a lot of talk preseason about Brandon Connette and all the many roles he plays on your team and how you're going to use him.   Can you address his development as a real quarterback, not just a short yardage specialist?   Obviously, he's the second string guy at that position this year.   If you have to use him an extended period as a real quarterback, are you comfortable with that?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Absolutely.   You know, people forget his freshman year he came in and performed so well that he became an option for us at quarterback.   He wasn't doing anything else as a freshman but playing quarterback.   We used him situationally, but as a true freshman, he really was making leaps and bounds weekly.   
Then he got hurt and redshirted, and unfortunately, played and then got hurt again.   So just pray for his good health.   
He's had a really good fall.   He didn't get the benefit really of spring practice.   But Brandon's a student of the game.   He has really, really progressed his body to a level.   He's cut his body fat.   He's gained strength.   Now he is faster than he's ever been.   He's throwing the ball better than he's ever thrown it.   
So I'm very pleased with where he is.   Brandon Connette's a winner, and he can win at quarterback in this league, in my mind.  
   
 Q.   Have you made a determination at all on one of the freshmen, Parker Boehme?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Parker's going to go into the game as the third guy.   We're pleased with everybody.   Quay Chambers had a really good camp, very versatile athlete.   And Thomas Sirk continues to rehab and make amazing strides.   He's obviously out the early part of the season, but I'm anxious to see what he does long term.   
You're hitting all around it, but we'll have to use Brandon smartly, but we're not afraid‑‑ you know, Brandon wants to play, and I don't blame him because he helps make us a better team.   So we'll use him in various circumstances also.  
   
 Q.   I guess what I wanted to ask about Parker, though, is‑‑ I know he's the third guy, but are you committed to playing him?   Or would you like to be able to hold him if Anthony and Brandon hold out?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Yeah, I would not see us playing Parker without sustaining an injury.   He has obviously been‑‑ he was hurt all spring and performed well in the spring game.   
He's had a good camp.   What I mean by good camp is specifically the last part of it.   He has really made gains.   What we did, we rested Brandon and worked Brandon as a quarterback the last half of last week, and so he really got a lot of reps, Parker did.   
I think it was great for him and great for Brandon to work on all his other skills.   And I think that was the beneficial thing big time for Parker.   
So we're back operating with Boone one, Connette two, so they're getting the majority of the team snaps.   Parker right now is very limited in that role.   I have a lot of confidence in that youngster.   He's a tough young man.  
   
 Q.   Do you see significant progress in defense?   If so, why?   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Yeah, I think we're running better, spending the explosives better to this point.   The biggest reason, I would say, is we've grown up up front.   Kelby is back on the field.   That makes us better.   Our young secondary folks have worked out to this point, and they're playing at a good level.   
We've got a lot of competition to play defense.   So you're going to earn playing time, and I think everything I just told you has made us the better defense.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about a couple of guys that are in the right now that used to coach.   Conner Vernon hanging on with the Oakland Raiders.   And Buffalo Bills having a little trouble at quarterback.   It seems like at the beginning of the preseason have picked up Thaddeus Lewis.   Talk a little bit about the guys that you coached already that are having a little bit of success.   
COACH CUTCLIFFE:   Well, I'll tell you, Thad, the Bills called me during the week, and I told them the only mistake they could make is not to get him.   He's got great take in the NFL.   He's one of the best people you could have on your team in the locker room, and he can play.   He's got great command of the ball.   Just an incredibly tough, competitive young man, very spirited.   He just made the Bills better.   There's no question about that.   I was happy for him in that regard.   
He'll get some meaningful reps.   He's a fast learner.   He's learning his fourth pro system, which is amazing.   But he catches on quickly, and I just have a lot of belief in him.   
Conner Vernon is just an outstanding football player.   I think they found that out.   He can catch punts.   He can run routes.   He's durable.   He gets hurt, banged up, I should say, and then he still practices.   All of the things that a lot of the NFL teams like to hold their standards to, Conner lives.   So I've had nothing but good reports.   
It's a tough circumstance for everybody.   I've gotten to see Sean Renfree a bit.   Glad to see that he is throwing the ball well and healthy.   I think he's a‑‑ going to be a fine member of the Falcons.   Vinny Rey playing at a high level, I guess is the special teams captain in Cincinnati.   
So when our guys are healthy and they get a shot, with the system and the practice habits and the character they have, it seems that they stick.   That's great for them.   We keep up with them.   
Matt Daniels is another one, of course, with the Rams, another free agent.   Just doing great things.   He's coming off a year of rehab.   
I may be leaving a couple off, but I get the same comment from the NFL clubs.   Your guys know how to work, and they also just like them being on the team.   They're dependable.   They just keep ticking and keep going.   So we're proud of all of those guys.   
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thanks for being with us.   Good luck this weekend.   We'll talk to you next Wednesday.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT