WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2016
Tara Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/T. Moore
  6‑1, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. You were grinning quite a lot in that. Was it the most enjoyable game of your career?  
TARA MOORE: Yes and no. I think enjoyable definitely for me to be out there and have the fans behind me. They've been absolutely fantastic. I can't describe that feeling when someone is screaming your name, how many people were out there screaming my name. They're great. I just adore them so much. They're lovely.  
   
 Q. What was it like to hear a bunch of people singing at you?  
TARA MOORE: You know, they're very creative out there. It's great. I think that's what British tennis is, what we need. We love that support. You can't fault that.   
Yeah, that is what you're all about. You want to go out there. Who doesn't want to hear their name chanted and sang?   
   
 Q. You must be very proud of taking a set off of a player that's won two Grand Slams.   
TARA MOORE: Yeah, sure. Svetlana is someone I grew up watching. I've seen her win many tournaments and Grand Slams, as well. I think she's a great fighter and great champion.   
For me to go out there, I've given my all. Maybe I didn't play the greatest of tennis, but she definitely played some very good tennis, and she showed everyone why she is where she is.  
   
 Q. Who were among your supporters today?   
TARA MOORE: Do you want to be here for the next two hours (smiling)?   
I had family down today. My grandparents came down from Doncaster, which was really nice. My coaches were there. Tony was there, my life coach. I had a lot of friends that came down, actually, my ex‑doubles partner that I played with last year, she retired after we played last year 'cause there were a lot of financial difficulties with tennis, she actually came down. That meant a lot to me. It was great. So thanks, Nicola, for your support as well.  
   
 Q. Were some of your family watching and cheering on the TV from HongKong?  
TARA MOORE: I'm sure they were. I haven't had time to chat with them yet.  
   
 Q. The financial difficulties, was that you or your partner?  
TARA MOORE: All tennis players playing on the ITF tour, it's tough. The tennis is definitely there. We're definitely at a good level. I'm sure I've shown some of that over the past few weeks as well.   
But I play the majority of my time on the ITF tour. Yeah, that is very tough for us.   
   
 Q. Heather mentioned when she lost, she said she spoke to you and Naomi about it. Could you offer any advice? Was it a cup of tea and sympathy?  
TARA MOORE: There's always going to be people who really love you, and people who don't love you. That's life, I think. You've got to take everything as it comes.   
I think there are so many people out there sending loving messages to us, those are the messages we really need to remember and notice and take all credit from that and all positive notes from that, because there are some lovely people out there that were definitely on my court today.   
It's tough. It's with every sport, I think.   
   
 Q. Was your dad there again?  
TARA MOORE: Yes.  
   
 Q. Is he from Doncaster as well, originally?  
TARA MOORE: I would say he is, yeah.   
   
 Q. A topsy‑turvy game. What went right and then what went wrong?  
TARA MOORE: I think there are a lot of things that I maybe need to get used to. I probably didn't play great for the first set. Svetlana played pretty well. I think it is a step up in level for me. I think it took me a little bit longer than it should have to probably come out there and change.   
But, again, all credit to Svetlana. She played great. I tried my best. I threw my house at her and ultimately came back with nothing, so yeah.   
   
 Q. You've had some tough three‑set losses in the past at Wimbledon. You spoke about how those affected you maybe in a negative way. How do you ensure this performance, that you take positives from it?  
TARA MOORE: I don't think I've ever said I've taken a negative spin on it. I actually believe you said that last time.   
I've always taken positives from Wimbledon. I think it's a great, great tournament. I enjoy playing here so much. There's nothing else like playing at home. The All England Club and the LTA have backed me, given me this opportunity to play. They've given me this opportunity before.   
All I'm here to do is just prove that my tennis is there. I definitely think I've done that. That is a positive. I think everyone else can see that's a positive, too.  
   
 Q. At the end of the second set, did you feel you could win at that point?  
TARA MOORE: Of course. Even after the first set I thought I could win it. I just knew it was very little things, very little details.   
I think you have to think that you're going to win as a tennis player. I think it's important for everyone to believe in themselves, and I definitely believe in myself all the time.  
   
 Q. Does this feel like a big moment in your career?  
TARA MOORE: I think it's going to be one of the many big moments in my career. I ultimately want to be here for as long as I possibly can. I think I'm playing some great tennis at the moment. I'm definitely going to continue and carry forward and take all positives from these last few weeks.  
   
 Q. Is it a challenge to be alone with your own thoughts, without the coach, or do you actually use the coaching very much?  
TARA MOORE: Like I say, I play most of the time on the ITF tour. You don't have that. It's the same rules as here. I think some people really enjoy having their coach come on the court. Some people really don't enjoy having their coaches come on the court. It's personal preference.   
At the end of the day, you can't blame anyone or point fingers at anyone. At the end of the day, it's you. You're the one playing tennis, you're the one that has practiced, you're the one that has put your game on the court.  
   
 Q. Is it fair to say that this week has been a life‑changing experience? You won your first Grand Slam match, you came close to beating a Grand Slam champion, winning £50,000, when it's difficult to make a living on the tour.   
TARA MOORE: I think, you know, there's no doubt that this has been a great few weeks for me. Again, I'm really grateful for how I've done over the past few weeks. I'm also grateful for all the opportunities I've been given.   
I definitely have shown I'm ready to be here. This is my next step. I'm definitely going to take the next step to try to be here on my own merit as well.  
   
 Q. You played aggressively today. You hit more winners than she did. Was that a tactic?  
TARA MOORE: I think I play aggressively all the time.   
Yeah, you know, for me, I like to be aggressive. I like to take my game to the opponent. I think sometimes it can go really, really well, like it did in the second set. And sometimes it can go not so well.   
I think today was actually okay. I mean, again, she played really well. Again, you can't take away anything from her. At the end of the day, she's the one that fought out there and she gave it all as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT