AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2016
Tara Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. MAKAROVA/T. Moore   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Another loss, but you really seemed to be hanging in quite well today.  Just marginal points.  Is that how you felt?  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, I mean, I definitely put out a good fight out there today.  She's not 37 in the world for nothing.  I do think that there are little things I can do to improve to maybe get up to 37 in the world, but I think she played some good tennis and she made me play.   
 Q.  Do you feel happy about you can actually hang in with these games?  
TARA MOORE: I mean, happy...   
 Q.  Relatively speaking.  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, I think it's definitely positive, and it's definitely something I can take forward into my next tournament.  I think it's definitely going to be something that I can, you know, take as a positive now and definitely work on things and hopefully get it better, as well.   
 Q.  Do you feel those five set points in the first set were sort of pivotal?  
TARA MOORE: I mean, she played really well on them.  I mean, yes, maybe I could have played slightly better on them, but, you know, she played really well.  That's why she is where she is.  I think I can definitely improve on things, but all credit to her, as well.   
 Q.  And you were unlucky with three let cords in the second set for the break.  That must be pretty tough to take.  
TARA MOORE: That's tennis, I guess.  I mean, you know, sometimes I get let cords and sometimes the opponent gets let cords.  It's just on the day who's a bit luckier.   
 Q.  You have had a good run at Eastbourne before.  How do you sort of assess going into Wimbledon?  
TARA MOORE: It's been a good grass season for me all in all.  I could definitely take away some positives from how I have been playing.  It's not like I have had easy opponents the last few tournaments.   
You know, they have been very good, and that's why -- I mean, that's where I'm aiming to be.  I am competing with them and I am going out there and I'm playing very well.  I just need to work on a few things here and there.  I do think I will get there.   
 Q.  Obviously we're all giddy about Wimbledon forthcoming, but how do you feel about your long-term game and strategy?  It's not all about the grass court season.  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, yeah.  For sure, I think this is definitely a very good spring board for the rest of my season.  I think that it's put me in a good position for the rest of the season.   
I do think that I'm going to be able to sustain this level.  I'm definitely playing some good tennis and I am definitely confident, and I definitely feel this is where I'm at and this is my level and I'm definitely going to keep improving.   
 Q.  What's sort of made the difference for you this year in particular?  We talked about a lot more of the British women's tennis, all of you pushing each other on.  It can't be just that.  
TARA MOORE: Personally, I can't speak for everyone else, but personally I have made a lot of changes in my team.  I've started to work with a life coach, Tony Lachage (phonetic), and he's really helped me in a really positive way.  I think there were a lot of things I needed to sort out off the court before I could put performances on the court, and I think that that's definitely one of the biggest changes that I have made.   
 Q.  Is that as a result of Jo having that kind of help, as well?  Is that an idea that sort of...  
TARA MOORE: I mean, Jo and I are separate people.  I can't really speak for her.  But for myself, I think I started a while ago and I do think it's been a long process and I do think that now finally everything is coming together.   
 Q.  Do you keep track during the match of how many set points you've got?  
TARA MOORE: No.  I don't keep track, no.  (Laughter.)  You tell me.   
 Q.  You lost five in the...  
TARA MOORE: Yeah.   
 Q.  So that doesn't play on your mind?  
TARA MOORE: You can't really let that play on your mind.  I think in tennis it does sometimes happen, but, you know, it happens to everyone, and I think that I did continue to fight and try my hardest out there, and I don't think that I let that affect me too much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT