AEGON CLASSIC
June 15, 2016
Tara Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. PASZEK/T. Moore   
4-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions or Tara Moore, please.   
 Q.  Is that the first time you've actually played on a court with a slug that's chasing you?  
TARA MOORE: I don't know if it could chase me.  It's not very fast.  But, no, actually, strangely enough in Eastbourne, there were a few on the court.  I guess when it's quite damp and wet, they quite like it.  Nice grass for them.   
 Q.  It looked like a battle royal.  Tough loss obviously.  What can you take away, especially looking back at Nottingham as well?  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, I mean, Tamira played really well.  She didn't give me much room to breathe today.  She came out and played a good match.   
Today wasn't enough for me, but I have to take away the positives and keep working.  Obviously, we've got two more weeks until Wimbledon, so I'll just try and practice as much as possible and come back stronger.   
 Q.  Are you heading to Eastbourne?  
TARA MOORE: I don't know yet.  It's just always a waiting game here.  Hopefully next year I'll get my ranking up and I won't need to wait.   
 Q.  Just putting into context.  It's been a great run on grass for you.  What does that mean in terms of the later part of the year for you?  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, I mean, I think I really improved a lot in the last two years.  It has come from a lot of hard work.  I've definitely made a lot of team changes.  I work with a really good life now, Tony Lekic.  I think he's really made a big positive changes and helped.   
 Q.  Were you expecting to get a wildcard?  
TARA MOORE: For?   
 Q.  Wimbledon?  
TARA MOORE: I don't think you can expect anything.  I'm very grateful to the All England Club for awarding me one and to the LTA for putting me up as a suggestion.  You never know with Wimbledon.   
I think it's great that I have another opportunity to show how I've been playing this season.  I do think I've played well enough to deserve one, so...   
 Q.  With so many British women now beginning to forge ahead, how does that make you feel?  Do you think that is a good thing?  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, it's fantastic.  I mean, Heather Broady, Joe, Laura, they're all my friends.  I've grown up with them and it's great to see everyone doing so well.  We're definitely helping each other out and trying to give each other encouragement whenever we can.  It's a great group.  I do wish the best to all British players.   
 Q.  How significant for that you've got the cushion now of a definite first round in Wimbledon?  Does that financial reward that you'll get, is that a great relief, security for you for the rest of the year?  
TARA MOORE: I mean, yes, in a way.  In many ways, it helps financially a lot.   
Again, I'm not trying to look at it as a cushion.  I want to look at it as an opportunity.  I want to go out there and play some good tennis.   
Hopefully it won't just be a first round for me.  That's really important to me.  I just really want to prove to everyone that I'm able to be at that level.   
 Q.  So I don't mean to be vulgar in pushing the subject, but in terms of your career earnings, what you could earn this year, it could really be massive for you, couldn't it?  
TARA MOORE: Yeah, for sure.  I think with every opportunity and every Grand Slam, there is a lot of prize money involved in the Grand Slams.  Again, I don't even want to focus too much on that.   
At the end of the day, I'm here to play tennis.  Whether there was a million pounds involved or zero pounds involved, I'd still be playing and still be trying my best every day.   
 Q.  Just quick question, in the third set when you were two games to one up, it went back and forth.  What's the difference-maker that you knew that Paszek was going to get the upper hand over you?  
TARA MOORE: You know, I never really thought it wasn't going my way.  I think it was a very tight Match.  Tamira  plays really well.  She's a good grass court player.  She's done very well in the past on the grass court surface, and on other surfaces as well.   
I think today she played really well, really solid.  Didn't give me much room to breathe.  I tried my best out there and definitely gave it my all.  That's all you can do sometimes.   
 Q.  Obviously rain is a big part of the British grass court season.  What kind of things do you do to keep yourself amused during the rain delays?  
TARA MOORE: I just bought my iPad Pro because my computer broke.  I've been watching a lot of movies and trying to keep occupied in that way.   
But it's about trying to keep active and not to get to lethargic.  Keep moving around.   
I think it's the same for every player.   
 Q.  No sleeping in the corner for you?  
TARA MOORE: Well, sometimes.  Sometime a nice nap is all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT