WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Tara Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/T. Moore
  6/4, 7/6, 9/7 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were saying I gave it my all the two times you served for the match, and then we were interrupted.   Would you like to develop that?  
TARA MOORE:   I mean, she played good on the big points.   I mean, she didn't give me anything.   She made me work for everything.   I think I did the same for her.   She had to try very hard to beat me today.  
   
 Q.   Having turned it round so well in the tiebreak last night, did you want to carry on?   
TARA MOORE:   I mean, it's the way it is.   You have to stop for light.   It's not rain or anything like that.   Just nature.   Well, so is rain, actually.   
But, I mean, I think‑‑ I was very happy to level the match one set all.   I knew that if I got myself into the third set I had a big chance.  
   
 Q.   By that, I mean do you feel you had the momentum when play was stopped last night?  
TARA MOORE:   I felt like I was playing well and thought I came out and played well again today.   I don't think it really affected much, no.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any idea why you lost your momentum when you served for the match twice?  
TARA MOORE:   I don't think I lost the momentum at all.   She played very well and didn't give me any free points.   Momentum is hard to carry on when someone is playing so well on the big points.  
   
 Q.   First time I saw you play.   Impressive.   What do you think you need to do to step up?   Is it serve?   Is it conditioning?   Something else?   You clearly got a great forehand and a really aggressive game.   
TARA MOORE:   Thank you.   Well, I mean, I know that it's just consistency.   I mean, coming out and doing that every day.   You know, I work incredibly hard, and I definitely think that I can do it.  
I definitely think next year I'll come back and my ranking will not be this anymore.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned in the other room about the positives you'll take rather than regrets from today.   What would they be?  
TARA MOORE:   She was 2 in the world and I pushed her to her limits.   I was nervous out there obviously playing on a really big court, and I am just very grateful to play on such a good court.  
I am so grateful for the opportunity the All England Club have given me.   I hope that I've really showed them that I wanted to be there and I tried my hardest.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure you weren't counting the fist pumps during the game, but there was a special motivation for them, wasn't there?  
TARA MOORE:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, it was devastatingly sad it hear about Bally.   She was obviously very close to me and a great mentor to all the players in British tennis.  
I just want to remember her and hope that everyone does remember her fighting spirit.   Fist pumps is the best way to do that.   
And three, yeah, I mean, they really went out on a limb to sponsor me.   I hope that it goes to a great cause.   I know it does.  
   
 Q.   You have any idea how much you've raised?   
TARA MOORE:   It's over the 300 pound mark so far, so very happy about that.   
   
 Q.   Do you normally fist pump?  
TARA MOORE:   Yeah, yeah, I normally do that.   It's how it all started.  
   
 Q.   It's already a fantastic legacy for Bally, isn't it, in a very short space of time?   
TARA MOORE:   Of course.   She was probably one of the best British players out there, and she fought every single match.   She fought off the court and on the court.  
I mean, that's what I aspire to be.   I want to fight in every single point and every single match.   I hope I did today.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what your next month involves?   
TARA MOORE:   Well, I think I'm going to take a few days off after this.   I've been having a little bit of issues here and there, but nothing to worry about.   
But it's great to have some rest.   I will definitely let you know on the schedule, because I'm not really sure about it yet.  
Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Go back to Yorkshire?  
TARA MOORE:   Yeah.   My grandparents live up there, so I'll go and visit as much as I can.  
   
 Q.   Doncaster?  
TARA MOORE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You said your ranking will be better by the time you return.   Have you set yourself a specific target?  
TARA MOORE:   I think if I fight the way I did and put the performance in I did today, that will speak for itself.   
   
 Q.   Did you learn something today about how to fight those big points?  
TARA MOORE:   I've always known how to do that.   I think it's important to know that this is what I do every day.   It's not just these two weeks that this happens.  
I fight all the time and I work incredibly hard, and I think all the British girls, all of the players do.   It's the best place to show it, and I hope everyone is seeing that.  
   
 Q.   How much will the prize money help your career?   
TARA MOORE:   Obviously tremendously.   Playing the Challenger Tour you don't obviously earn that much and you're barely breaking even every week.  
I think these opportunities to play the bigger tournaments as well, you're fighting for more as well and it's very encouraging.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT