MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 16, 1998
David Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you wearing the Babe Ruth cap tomorrow?

DAVID WELLS: No. Not at all. It is put to rest.

Q. The comment you made Game 5, do you wish you could take that back or was it a joke
or -- talk about that?

DAVID WELLS: It is not a matter of me taking it back. It was out of context. I told
nobody I was not predicting everything. Whoever wrote it, they had fun with it. So be it.
I had a conversation with Howard Stern yesterday and yes, I do call him and B.S. with him
from time to time, have some fun with it, but sometimes when somebody says something and
he keeps coming at you, you have to say something just to make him go on to another topic,
but no, I am not -- for the people out there, no I am not predicting anything in five. I
think San Diego is an outstanding team, and I don't think it is fair to myself, my
teammates or anybody else out there, even the Padres to predict anything like that. So
that was not correct at all.

Q. How about some favorite Padre memories from growing up out there?

DAVID WELLS: Too many to go into. But I have had very fond memories of growing up in
San Diego. I think it is one of the finest cities -- it is God's country to be honest with
you, and I think that growing up there, watching Dave Winfield, Nate Colebert, Willie
McCovey, guys like that, Randy Jones, and it was something -- it was a thrill as a kid
going out there and being a Padre fan. So when I was a little kid playing wiffle ball, all
that, I had a favorite American League team and that was the Yankees. I went back and
forth. I had helmets for everybody in the lineup.

Q. Do you buy into Joe's assertion that there is something different and better about
you in general since the perfect game?

DAVID WELLS: No. I just go out there and try to do my job the best I can. Just because
of, you know, the bad outing before that, you just have to be lucky. It is not something
that, you know, that happens every year. I haven't really looked back on it. I have
enjoyed it, yes. I have gotten a lot of recognition, you know, the City of New York has
just been very, very good to me and I thank them for that. But it doesn't make me any
other than what I am out there on the mound every five days. I just try to go out there
and give it my best, win or lose.

Q. Does pitching a perfect game change your life in any way?

DAVID WELLS: As a player, I don't think so. But in ever day life, yes, because I have
been recognized a lot more than I have in my career. People, especially memorabilia
people, my mail has just overflown and it is crazy, something like that because everyone
is congratulating me on that perfect game, but you just -- just to go out into the public
is pretty tough at times. But I manage. I get through it and I think I am very flattered
by the comments and stuff that I get from the people from that game. But it just doesn't
change me visually.

Q. Did you lose a little weight since that game, because since it there hasn't been
much of an issue about it?

DAVID WELLS: Now we are getting into the weight thing. No.

Q. Your agent was saying that he has gotten all kinds of offers to write a book about
your life. If you had to title that book, what would it be?

DAVID WELLS: I don't know, but I think it is irrelevant to what we are trying to talk
about here. I don't want to go into anything about that, I want to talk about baseball.

Q. How much is 125 victories and what would that would mean for your place in history,
how much is that a topic in the clubhouse?

DAVID WELLS: I think it is always going to be a place in history for us as a team. As
for individuals, I don't know. I don't think anybody has really keyed on that to make them
any better than what -- than what we have accomplished. I think it is great because it
takes a lot of teamwork and a lot of hard work to put that kind of -- those wins up. It is
just going to go down in history until somebody else -- some other Yankee team tops that.
But we are just going to ride it out and see how far this thing goes. It is an honor to be
a part of so many wins in the season. To me, it is very gratifying because that just goes
to show what we have done to get to that point.

Q. You have never been one to hide your emotions on or off the field. Yet you usually
speak your mind. Has that ever worked against you or hurt you?

DAVID WELLS: It has hurt, it has helped. But I could care less. I don't give a crap
what people think or what they say. Sometimes I do give a crap what they write because a
lot of it is -- I think it is just to throw shots at me because maybe that individual
doesn't like me. But that is the way my mom brought me up. That is the way her life
reflected on me and I think that it has provided for me to be a better individual in life,
even though I am outspoken at times and -- but, you know, to me it is something that I can
deal with -- the consequences. A lot of people can't. So I just take it as it comes. Take
me for what I am, and if you don't like it, then, too bad.

Q. Can you talk about Jorge Posada and how you work with 

him?
DAVID WELLS: Jorge has been very, very patient and very good to work with. Last year I
had him a couple of times, and I think, to be honest with you, I think he got a good
teacher in Joe Girardi and now that Jorge has come into his own, he has called
unbelievable games for me and for others, other guys. And I think when you feel
comfortable with your catcher, it just makes it that much easier for me because I know the
hitters. Some hitters that I might not see them move in the box or something like that and
that is his job to notice that kind of thing. So I pretty much let him call the game. That
is my game out there when I am pitching, so I make the decisions, but it makes it a lot
easier for him or for me to pitch a game when he is already, you know, on the same
wavelength as I am. I think it is very exceptional to have a catcher like Jorge and like
Joe to throw to because they know the game of baseball.

Q. You have come through two tough lineups, Cleveland and Texas very well. Would you
talk about the San Diego hitters and your approach? You haven't seen them in a long time.

DAVID WELLS: For me, I just -- from the scouting report and what I have known on some
of the hitters that I have faced in the past, you know, I just have to be very aggressive
and just utilize everything that I throw at them. And just try to -- try to make good
pitches. Because they are an outstanding team. I have been watching them for a while now
and it is something that they are going to hurt you if you make mistakes. Look what they
did to Atlanta. Atlanta was supposed to be one of the best teams in baseball, which I
think they are, but they got beat by a team that they didn't think was going to beat them.
So you know, putting that in mind, I just have to go out and just be confident in my
ability and knowing what I have to do out there to try to keep these guys off stride
because I will tell you, that is -- I faced them in spring training, that doesn't really
mean anything -- spring training it is just trying to get ready for the season but you
make good pitches and guys tee off on it, you keep that in the back of your mind.

Q. You are a guy who is uniquely qualified understand the difference in the history of
these two franchises. How would you describe the difference, what it means -- difference
between what baseball means in New York and in San Diego?

DAVID WELLS: Putting me on the spot. That is a trick question. Two different cities. It
would actually be like two different countries to be honest with you. I think -- I think
just traditionally the Yankees have put together tremendous teams in the years past and
present. And the Padres have always -- they have had good teams and when they have had
good teams, they have let them go. They could have done so much for that city and it used
to bug me when they would get rid of a lot of their good players, because I think San
Diego deserves a championship team because of the support that they get out there when
they did have good teams. But I think for me, I am just going to stay neutral and go out
and do my job and hopefully we go out there and do the 
job we have been doing all year.

Q. Are you glad you don't have to hit against Kevin Brown in Game 1 and have you seen
him pitch much?

DAVID WELLS: I have seen Kevin pitch for a while. He is nasty. But you can't take that
if -- if I get an opportunity to Game 5 and he happens to be the guy, I am going to go up
hacking. That is the only thing I can do. I know he is an incredible pitcher and I just
can't, you know, I can't understand how his ball moves so much. Maybe I might have to ask
him so maybe it works to my benefit because if he throws me that pitch, I am going to
throw him the same. But, no, I would love to. I think a challenge is a challenge. If it is
pitching or hitting, you know, I am ready for anything.

Q. How did you feel when you saw the headlines today, did any teammates tease you about
it?

DAVID WELLS: No, nobody teased me. They just -- it was another writer that came up to
me and mentioned it and something that like I told you guys yesterday, I am not predicting
anything. You guys heard something on another show that I was on and keyed off of that. I
think that is inappropriate because that is something that I talked to somebody and I told
you earlier that, you know, you have to sometime -- when a guy keeps egging you on
sometimes you have just got to tell him, yeah, just to shut him up. But I told you guys
right to your face yesterday that, you know, I am not predicting anything. And I don't
plan on predicting anything because I don't -- I don't think it is right. It looks bad.
And if it is something that, you know, if I am going to predict anything, I'd rather
predict it in four, not five. Why go five? Like I said you can't take anybody for granted.
We are playing one hell of a team, and I don't think it is fair to them for me to do it
because that is just probably going to pump them up. You know, we are not predicting
anything. We will just see how it goes.

Q. How often do you get back to San Diego, what would it mean for you to pitch there in
front of family, friends?

DAVID WELLS: I get back a couple of times a year and you know, I think to me it going
to be very nerve-wracking, but I am ready for it. I think that this is, to me, a dream
come true. It is just a lot of memories are going to be built up into one. For me, I know
it is going to be hard because now that I am with the New York Yankees and am very proud
to be here, but it is -- I have a job to do and I can't really worry about who is out
there and all that. It is going to be great to go see family and friends, yes, but I have
a job to do and I am going to do the best I can to help them out.

Q. Speaking of traditions, you are known as somebody who kept up with Yankee tradition
over the years. There is a lot of talk about what might happen with this stadium. Can you
imagine the Yankees not playing in Yankee Stadium here and what do you think about this?

DAVID WELLS: I can't fathom it at all. I think this is -- history has been made here
from the beginning and to up and move it, you are going to piss a lot of baseball gods off
and I think that, you know, I don't want to be any part of that because if I do I will --
I will do everything in my power to tell them that, though, I am not part of this. But I
do believe that life goes on and certain situations need to be met, but you know, unless
they did move it and took this stadium without damaging anything, which is virtually
impossible, then I don't know. I mean, to me, I think it should stay here. But a lot of
people would think otherwise.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT