AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 11, 1998
David Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just a hunch, but it didn't look like you were real eager to come out of the game
when he came to get you?
 
 DAVID WELLS: I got a second wind after that inning and just -- I told him to get
somebody up just in case in the 8th I think, just go with me. After the first couple of
pitches to Omar, I just, wow, I felt like I did in the second, third inning. Just when you
get caught up in the game, you refuse to want to come out. 
 
Q. Everyone around the mound seemed to be laughing, what did you say to Joe?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Not a whole lot. Just wouldn't give him the ball. Tried to pry it out and
it was something that I just -- I told him just let me have one more hitter at least.
That's how good I felt. It's not like that all the time. Last game, I pitched, I was dying
out there and I told Mel if I get -- somebody gets a hit you just kick me out of there and
then Manny ends up hitting a homerun. One of those things where I just got good tonight
and I wanted to stay in. 
 
Q. The trouble you got in earlier, first, second inning, was that a point maybe earlier
in your career, different times you may not have fought out of the trouble like you did
today?
 
 DAVID WELLS: No, the first inning I was a little disturbed because of some reactions I
got out there when I was warming up. I felt good, focused going in there and when you get
a bunch of clowns out there that start talking about your mother and not knowing that my
mom passed away a year-and-a-half ago, it really bothered me. What got me more was some
little kids out there starting to do the same thing. So I was just -- I was in awe out
there because I couldn't believe that could happen. Low-lifes come out there and try to be
cute. I don't care what they say about me, that's fine. I can deal with a lot of negative
crap out there, but when it involves my mom or anyone of my family members, it's just --
it was really -- it really bothers me, so to those idiots out there, this one is for you.  
 
Q. People in the stands, David?
 
 DAVID WELLS: In the bullpen. 
 
Q. When you were warming up?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Yeah, so that's what really just kind of got me out of focus and it took a
while and I was out there fighting myself and it just -- I said, I got a job to do. I got
to go out there. Jorge came out and he just gave me a breather and I got out of it coming
out 3-2. So I settled down after that and had to focus on what I had to focus. 
 
Q. Yankee Stadium has a reputation for being just as bad for visiting bullpens. Why
does Cleveland stand out any different?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Well, it's -- I've played against the Yankees for a long time and I've
never heard anybody get personal with my family members and they can be crazy, can be wild
and that's part of the game. That's fine, they're entitled. But I think it's -- it's only
fair that you talk about that individual instead of bringing other people into it. This is
not the first time it's happened in Cleveland with me, so I don't understand it and I
don't appreciate it. I don't think anybody in the game of baseball should appreciate
somebody talking about family members. I think they should just focus on trying to rattle
you up and not get personal with other people than that individual. 
 
Q. David, the late afternoon shadows here at Jacobs Field hurt the hitters. Did they
hurt you today?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Yeah, apparently, because I forgot who told me before the game, he says,
they said that somebody mentioned from on the other side that Wells is going to be
throwing out of the tower, from the shadows. But I said, no, that's a trick. They're just
trying to trick me there and it didn't -- I knew it was something going on out there, but
it didn't make a difference. Those guys were locked in, they really were. 
 
Q. What was your reaction when you saw the lineup today? Surprised so many familiar
names out of it?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Yeah, I was. I'm like, one of those thank you type things. But sometimes
that's what it takes to -- I've pitched very well against Cleveland and I think that when
you try to change the lineup and throw different lineup at you, it's something that -- it
can have it's positives and I think it happened in the first inning. Despite what I was
going through and the pitches I was making, it was something that I didn't expect. But I
guarantee you, man, I don't take any one of those guys lightly because they've got one
fine ball club here. 
 
Q. Did you have a great hook all day or just the last three, four innings that looked
so sensational?
 
 DAVID WELLS: I had it working right out of the get-go. Right from the first inning. The
fastballs were up. But the curve balls I was throwing for strikes. So I relied on that a
lot more than I did my fastball. Last game I relied more on the fastball and not the curve
ball. You can't pitch any of these guys in a pattern. If you don't have a certain pitch,
you've got to throw it out because you never know when you might get that pitch. Bless the
baseball gods for that curve ball I had today. 
 
Q. Are you having as much fun as it seems like you're having for somebody watching you?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Damn right, man. This is what it's all about. We've got to go out there
and fight and get pumped up. It's a lot of fun. I think it brings out the best in every
individual when you get to the playoffs. This is what it's all about, fighting all year to
get here and it's been a lot of fun during the season and now it's a lot of fun. Win or
lose, you still got to go out there and have a good time. What we did is we went out there
and played hard, but still had fun doing it. 
 
Q. David, in the first inning after those three hits to open up, how did you lock in
and, if you can, how did you get out Ramirez and strike out Whiten, Sexson?
 
 DAVID WELLS: Well, I had to -- I had to wake up. Obviously. And it was something that I
just went back to basics. I got focused and just moved the ball around. Used the breaking
ball and the fastball, just mix it up. Try not to go in pattern and that's basically what
I had to do. Threw a good curve ball to Mark that he was late on and it was something that
-- it wasn't a strike. That was a blessing itself. I think if you leave anything in the
zone with Mark, he can hurt you. So it was fortunate that I did not get that pitch the
first strike because it could have been the other way. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT