AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 10, 1998
David Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Joe told us you went into his office today and offered to pitch tonight.

DAVID WELLS: I just asked him how he felt and what he was -- you know, what his
intentions were and I feel pretty good right now and just when you get in situations,
nothing -- not taking away from anybody else -- but I feel pretty good and I want to
pitch, so I guess I'm stubborn.

Q. Could you pitch Game 7 if you pitched Game 5 if he asked you to?

DAVID WELLS: It would be tough, but depending on the -- how many pitches and situation
of the ball game, going to score a bunch of runs, get me out after 5, I could probably
manage. I can dig deep and find a little extra.

Q. How different is your level of confidence when you take the mound in the playoffs
now versus when you're a young pitcher and you got a chance to pitch in the postseason?

DAVID WELLS: Well, being younger, back in the early days for me, it was something I was
just pretty much a thrower. I had a better fastball than I do now. I really didn't think
about what I was doing earlier in my career. But now, I've learned the hitters, learned
how to pitch, and used my off speed stuff as well, just to try to keep some of these good
fastball hitters confused from time to time. It's not going to be like that all the time.
I wish it were, but my confidence is -- it just grows every year going out there from
being 20-something years old compared to 35.

Q. Do you remember last time you did pitch on two days rest or have you ever?

DAVID WELLS: I don't think I've ever done it two days -- three days, I have. But two
days, only just out of the bullpen. I've gone like 3, 4 innings in the bullpen and then
came back and threw two days later. But it's a lot different. Less pitches.

Q. Your team hasn't been in this position all year. Are you curious to see how it will
respond or do you think you know how it will respond?

DAVID WELLS: Never curious, I know what these guys are capable of doing at any given
time. But when you're in this situation, when your back is against the wall, you're going
to see what these guys are really made of. See if they're going to go out there and play
aggressively, more so than ever before. And I think that with the makeup that we have and
the tools that we have, I think we can go out there and put up some solid numbers on
offense as well as defense, make the great plays, like Derek over there, he does wonders
there at shortstop as well. But I just think -- I hope not. I hope that the guys don't
feel the pressure because that's the worst thing you want to do in this situation when
you're down 2-1 is start to get nervous out there, just go out there and play and just
play as hard as you can and try not to let any little thing upset you. So last night was
-- to me, everyone looked flat. They weren't really geared up for the game. But things --
things happen. One day we'll be flat and the next day we'll come out and do some damage.
So I think that -- these guys are ready to play.

Q. A lot of -- guys talked especially the 2nd half of the season. If you didn't win at
all the 114 wins didn't really mean anything, et cetera, do you think that people are --
especially like guys like Tino and some of the hitters -- are putting that pressure on
themselves and is it manifesting itself now with the offense?

DAVID WELLS: I don't -- I don't think that just because we won 114 ball games, knock on
wood, that's something that you can never take away at all. I mean, if we don't win it,
not going to say that doesn't happen, I think the credibility of our team has proved
itself, regardless of what we do. It just makes us look that much better if we do win it,
but I think overall you just have to go out there and just -- and try to accomplish things
that are hard to accomplish. And with that in mind, we've just got to go out there and
play the best we can play, regardless of what people say, what you guys write. I think
that overall we should be proud of what we've done and what we've accomplished and I think
that it would be -- to me, would be disturbing to hear otherwise because that's just
unheard of nowadays because the teams are so good out there and to put those kind of
statistics up with the ball club that -- not a single guy in the lineup hit 30 homeruns.
One guy only went 20 our bullpen was outstanding. It just was a combination of everything.
So I think everybody should be proud and if there is any negative feedback on that, they
should just laugh, you know.

Q. Because the offense is starting -- is having it's problems now, do you and the rest
of the pitchers feel added pressure feeling, if I give up one or two runs?

DAVID WELLS: No, I hope not because that's the worst thing a pitcher can do is think
like that. I think that if you do give up runs, you just -- you go out there and you try
to limit them to any other runs. I think that you have to -- you know, you have to be
aggressive, you have to pitch guys accordingly. There's certain situations. But that can
go back to his question about with Tino. He's -- just hasn't found it yet. That happens.
Tino has carried us a lot of times this year and guys go into slumps. Pitchers go into
slumps as well. But I think that anything can happen. You wake somebody up at any given
time, maybe I'll go in and slap him in the back of the head, Tino, wake up. Something like
that. But Tino, he's a competitor and he's not going to let something like this bother him
or he's at least not going to let us see it. I think I'd put him out there every day. I
don't think -- I don't care if it's 0 or 50 because when he erupts, it's going to be
heard.

Q. What did you do last night for today to blow off steam, kill off time?

DAVID WELLS: Nothing. Nothing at all. Just chilled out and took it easy and basically
what I always do two days before I pitch.

Q. Do you think regardless of whether your club wins or loses in these playoffs that
your owner will look back at the season and say it was a great year?

DAVID WELLS: Is this a trick question? (Laughs). Wow, I don't know. You guys know
George. He's -- he could be a happy man or an unpleasant man at any given time. But I
think, regardless, in my mind and knowing George, I think that he's -- would be upset if
we didn't and I think anybody would be upset with what we have done and what we've
accomplished this year. But he is a forgiving man and I think that he's proud of what
we've done and what we've did to prepare ourselves for the playoffs. You know, he knows --
he's a competitor himself. He knows -- I don't care how good you are, you can get beat.
But we're not looking at that this way. He's in there ranting and raving right now, we're
going to kick some butt and I think it's great. To me he should come in there and spark a
fire under everybody's butt, but don't over bounce, do it in a good way because he can
motivate you and piss you off at the same time. So I think that the overall -- the outlook
of it all is that he's proud of us and I think that we're proud of him for sticking with
us and putting the team out there that he's done.

Q. David, considering the Indians 2nd half which was kind of mediocre, are you
surprised they've gotten this far, what they have done here?

DAVID WELLS: No, because they kicked some butt the first half and I think that they've
had some injuries and they've had their problems, but they're fighters, man. It's like,
you know, it's like, you know, you're on a streak and you come across a team that you
don't think is going to come out and do what they've done and just start kicking some
butt. That's just the way they are. They're street fighters, know what it takes, been in
this situation quite a few times and you can't count them out no matter how bad of a
second half they've had. I think we felt comfortable coming in because we kicked the crap
out of them the last four games of the season we were against them. I think that was a
positive for us to come in and try to do some damage, but a couple of situations, it was
turned around in their favor and now they're taking this and trying to run with it and
we've got to prevent that from happening. But, no, they're a solid ball club. I wouldn't
count anybody out at any given time.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT