AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v YANKEES
October 4, 2003
David Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How tough is it for a pitcher here, coming in, just with the turf and the dome and everything that goes into pitching here?

DAVID WELLS:   Well, the turf speeds the game up a little bit.  But coming in here, I've had good success playing in this stadium.  The only thing, the only downfall is fly balls, you can't see them.  As you said, it's fast.  As long as the guys are positioned right and I make my pitches, you know, it's just like anybody else coming in. 

Q.  You mentioned how obviously the turf is faster here, when you're at your best, you're throwing ground ball after ground ball; has that ever been a problem in this ballpark? 

DAVID WELLS:   I've never really paid attention to what I've done, fly balls, ground balls.  I know over the last month, I've been throwing pretty good and I've got a lot of ground balls.  Hopefully it carries over here.  I think you have a better advantage with fly balls here more so than ground because it's so fast. 

Q.  We talked to Andy and Roger, but have you given any thought that this might be your last start with the Yankees?

DAVID WELLS:   I'm just throwing one game at a time.  It's not up to me if it's my last game or not.  It's the Yankees' option.  I just come out every day, as long as the season is going, and just wait and see. 

Q.  Do you go into this start with any more confidence, knowing how much success you've had against the Twins? 

DAVID WELLS:  I take every start seriously.  I've had good success against this team.  I want to be in this situation.  I'm not afraid to fail.  And the thing is, you know, when you get to the post-season, you get hyped up a little bit more.  This is what it's all about, getting to this point in the season and going out there.  So you want to try to make the best of every start that you get.  So to me, I go out with confidence and just trust in my ability. 

Q.  When did you learn that you were going to make this start, and what did you make of the uncertainty, there was some thought maybe Mussina was going to pitch Game  4, maybe you, what did you think of that?

DAVID WELLS:   I was told in New York on getaway day, just briefly, Mel said that I was up Sunday.  He told me I was starting game 4. 

Q.  Did the uncertainty cause you any anxiety, anything different in your preparation? 

DAVID WELLS:   No.  Nothing surprises me.  So I just, you know  -- you get the call, you get the call.  I'm not going to  -- I just wait for my opportunity to pitch.  I pitch if it's necessary.  To me, I got the call, and I'm just going to go out there and make the best of it. 

Q.  Does it matter to you as a starting pitcher that you don't know what time tomorrow's game is yet?

DAVID WELLS:   That's what happened last year.  They switched the times around last year in Anaheim.  I don't know where this game is going, because if they can't decide on times, normally they usually do, but so much TV and with all of the other hoopla that's going on, it's a shame that they can't pick a time.  I think 12:00 games are a little absurd, you shouldn't have them.  They should 4:00 or 7:00 or 8:00 games.  It gives the guys time to relax, get their thoughts, or rushing into games, you have an off-day workout, you turn around and you're at the ballpark again.  But it's out of our hands.  It's all about the TV and all that.  So we've just got to do what we're told.

Q.  I know you approach every start the same, but do you think whether you are up 2-1 or down 2-1 will affect how you go out there tomorrow?

DAVID WELLS:   No.  I've been in situations like this before, and I don't make  -- I don't do the signs, none of that.  It's up to Joe on how he  -- all we have to do is put up zeros and try to keep the team in the ballgame.  As long as we're going out there, keep our pitch count down, for some of us, that's key.  It can take you into a ballgame late. 

Q.  As a left-hander, did you pick up anything from what Andy did the other night that you might be able to use? 

DAVID WELLS:   I paid attention.  I pitch differently than Andy.  So my strengths and my success are different than Andy's.  I just go out there with my game plan.  That's kind of tough to top.  Andy pitched an unbelievable ballgame.  To try to top that, you don't want to go out and try.  You just want to go out and do the best that you can and hopefully if it happens, then that's great.  But my approach, I think is a lot different than Andy's. 

Q.  How difficult of a year has this been for you, flew all of the distractions back in the spring, and would you have changed anything along the way if you could have? 

DAVID WELLS:   No, just the flavor of the year.  It's something that usually seems to happen.  I'm a guy that doesn't back down and usually fights fire with fire.  The New York media has been pretty tough.  There's a couple guys that are  -- that take it personal, have a personal vendetta against me.  That's something that it doesn't faze me.  I kind of get a kick out of it.  Obviously it has not really affected me.  I've pitched well the last two years here, and it's something that they want to do and I go out and still do my job.  So I don't think there's anything they could say about my job and let the rest speak for itself. 

Q.  The way you finished the season health-wise, are you confident that you have another year or more productive pitching ahead of you if, indeed, you decide you want to continue? 

DAVID WELLS:   I feel confident that I can play another year.  But, you know, what goes on here, hopefully we will and I'm confident that we will, take this to the next level, and hopefully the next one after that.  And going out on the top is a nice way to go.  You know, you just wait and see.  I know physically, in the off-season, I can do a lot of things to try to correct the back and try to strengthen it up even more.  So coming out here and doing all the standing around and all that stuff  -- that's the toughest part for me is going out and standing around during batting practice, especially when it's cold.  The off-season, I can do a lot to strengthen my back, and if necessary, be prepared for another year next year, the last year.  There won't be any more after that if I do play.

Q.  You said, take it to the next level, going under the assumption that you guys run the table and win, would you retire on that note; or if it did not work out with the Yankees and you were healthy, would another team be an option? 

DAVID WELLS:   Oh, of course.  I think with the things that have gone on this year, I mean, what's written is  -- you can only take that so far.  It just all depends on George and if he wants to, and if not, I'm sure there will be teams out there that would be interested.  But, you know, that's a far cry from now.  We just have to wait and see and do that.  This is the greatest organization ever built and I feel strong about that no matter what goes on.  To me, it's not my option.  It's George's option, and if he decides to, that's great.  And if not, there's other teams out there that I'm sure might be interested and might not.  So, this could be my last year, and, you know, I wouldn't lose any sleep over that, either. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT