THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Team Europe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE TODD: Guys, thank you.  Delighted to be joined by the winning European Team.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, baby, that is us.   
STEVE TODD: You've said one team, one continent and tonight you stand victorious on the top table.  Give us your thoughts on today's outcome.   
THOMAS BJØRN: How do you sum that up?  You know, I felt like -- I felt all along that this was a good group of guys, but I have to say, when we got here on Monday, we got together.  This turned out pretty exciting because the way that the 12 of them have just joined up together as a team and the way they looked after each other and been there for each other and been there for each other throughout the whole week made captaincy pretty easy.   
The hardest thing about the captaincy I think this week was that there's so many guys playing well, and being in such good frame of mind that I didn't really -- I wanted to get everybody on the golf course, but you can't.   
Today's performance, there was a little moment in the middle of it all where I was getting a little bit worried, but then everybody stood up and did their bit.  You know, I can't describe how I feel about these 12.  They have been amazing from day one, and I'm just so proud of them.   
STEVE TODD: Francesco, just a quick comment from you.  Five from five, first European player to do that and to hole the winning putt.  As far as Ryder Cup weeks go, that's not a bad one, eh?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm just so proud of every one of these guys.  You can't even imagine.  Every single one, you know, you could see on Monday when we got together, it wasn't ending up any other way.   
I've been part of another two winning teams where I didn't bring full points, and I'm glad after I've been carried on the shoulders by some of these guys to give something back.  But it's about every one of these guys, the vice captains, it's just the best team I've ever been part of by miles.   
STEVE TODD: Thomas, every single person on here contributed at least a point.   
THOMAS BJØRN: Yeah, that doesn't happen very often.  You know, the whole team has been part of this.  And I think it's very easy to sum it up:  Some play five matches and some play two matches, but they all contribute, and when you sit in this situation at the end of it; you know, I've played in my Ryder Cups, and I don't care how many matches I play in as long as we win and I think that's what it's all about.  I think we all feel that way now.  We got it right this week.  We worked as a team and we knew we were up against very strong opponents, but we went out on the golf course and believed in ourselves and what we stand for as a team.  We never, ever looked towards their team about what they were about.  We were about us as a team and what we do.   
This is the best team room I've ever been in.  It was calm.  It was determined.  It was focused.  It was fun.  Everything that this Ryder Cup was, is what I think The Ryder Cup should be about for a European Team.   
STEVE TODD: Nice words, Thomas, thank you very much.   
 Q.  This is a question for Rory.  You spoke outside about how well connected everyone was to one another and how that created lots of options for pairings.  What are the qualities that allowed that to happen?  What is it about all of the people up there that created that situation, also the qualities Thomas was talking about?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think as Thomas just said, the togetherness in the team room all week, we've all had this WhatsApp group going for awhile, which has sort of been just one big love-in.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: We even managed to get Rory on WhatsApp.   
RORY McILROY: I wasn't on WhatsApp before this week.   
JUSTIN ROSE: Tommy Fleetwood scored four points on the WhatsApp group, too.   
RORY McILROY: That was a big part of it.  We all get along so well.  Thorbjørn was a little late to the party.  He didn't sort of chime -- he had the mute.  He didn't chime in for a while.   
JUSTIN ROSE: He arrived.   
RORY McILROY: He certainly arrived on Sunday.  You know, I think there's just something about this group of guys; I think, for example, Ian and I sort of got word on, sort of Wednesday night, Thursday morning, that we were going to play foursomes together.  But we've played together before, and we've been successful, or Ian's been successful and I've watched.   
I just think we all get along so well.  We've known each other for a long time and there's a continuity in our group that maybe the other side don't quite have, just because of the rookies coming in and the new guys, but even the rookies in our team, we've all known for a long time; I first played with Thorbjørn in the Egyptian Open in 2010.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: (Imitating "Walk Like an Egyptian").   
RORY McILROY: We've known each other for a long, long time and we get along well.  I think collectively, we all have one question:  Where is Alan Shipnuck?  (Team calling out and all raising a glass).   
SERGIO GARCÍA: I don't know how good a predictor you are.   
RORY McILROY: The togetherness of the team, the great camaraderie we have, that's built up on The European Tour, and obviously we all have our separate lives going on, but once we get together for The Ryder Cup, we all come together as one.  You know, it was just such a good week.   
 Q.  I know you said you didn't look at the other team, but there was so much made before this Ryder Cup of how strong the American Team was, one of the strongest teams ever put together, etc.  Now that you guys, you've not only beaten them, but beaten them pretty convincingly score-wise, how good does that make this European Team in Ryder Cup context?  
THOMAS BJØRN: It's up there, I have to say.  But it's down to the players on the team.  It's down to what they are as their personalities and what they want to achieve.   
You know, it's no secret we get together about this and we always have done.  We went through a transition last time, and you know, in the team, and sometimes you go through that and that becomes difficult, and especially when you go away, this team was just a very, very solid team, and all of these guys that are here, they are quality golfers.  They are putting their stamp on the world scene, and there are a couple on this team that are right on the way to the top of the game over the next few years, and they will be massive parts of these European teams in the future.   
It's a great group.  It's a group that believes in themselves and what they stand for, and they carry the torch on for what the European Ryder Cup teams is all about.  They understand the history.  They understand what we're about, and that's what will do them great going forward.   
 Q.  I've been asking you about the Spanish passion for a year now, so this is a question for you or for anybody who wants to comment:  How much was that a factor this week?  And for Sergio and Jon, how much did you spend watching each other play this week and spending time together?  
THOMAS BJØRN: He wasn't a bad pick, was he.   
RORY McILROY: The four picks weren't bad (team applauding).   
SERGIO GARCÍA: I promised you three.  I got you three.   
THOMAS BJØRN: I think Sergio's Ryder Cup story tells its own -- it's a whole thing of its own, and it's a brilliant story.  It's a fantastic achievement.   
He is very much the centre of what we do, and I've been saying this all the time:  He walks into the room, he is right in the middle of everything.  And you know, you've got to have great people that look at the team from the outside, but you've also got to have great people from the inside, and he's one of them.  But all of these people understand each other.  All of these guys can push each other forward.   
But Sergio's done amazing, and for Jon to go out in his first Ryder Cup single and beat Tiger Woods, you know, that's a pretty cool thing that you'll have for the rest of your life, and that's something that he will carry in his career, knowing that on the biggest stage, against the best player that's ever played, I can stand up and do great things.   
STEVE TODD: Jon, do you want to go on, some comments.   
JON RAHM: What he asked?  Yeah, every time Sergio is on the course, obviously I was watching.  I mean, I grew up watching him play golf.  I grew up glued to the TV watching him do great things in the Ryder Cup and watching him do great things in golf in general.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: (Pretending to tear up).   
JON RAHM: I mean, you can cry as much as you want, but it's still true.  (Laughter).   
Just to be -- even before the tournament, standing in the same team as him, on the same team, it's a dream come true.  And just to keep watching, and once I got -- I was over with that match, watch him make history, Ryder Cup history, it was a true honour.   
So I think I speak on behalf of everybody, it's an honour to be here witnessing Ryder Cup history.   
(Team applauds for Sergio).   
SERGIO GARCÍA: For me, obviously it was a pleasure to be with everyone, every single one of these players, but obviously with Jon, being a Spaniard and being the present and future of Spain, it means so much.  You know, we played I think one practise round together this week, but I know that, you know, he was fighting hard and got a little bit unfortunate the first couple of days and wasn't able to get any points.   
I knew he wanted to bring his passion and at least a point to the team, and we talked about it yesterday, last night, and I told him what I thought of him.  I told him, you know, what I thought he was going to do, and to just believe and show everybody how good he is, and he did.   
You know, it's as simple as that.  He's a wonderful player.  He was a great team player, and you know, he's just another piece of the puzzle that helped all of us.   
 Q.  When you were making the captain's picks, obviously you have to leave people off and there was a handful of guys that were having pretty good years that you left off and went with the experience with these guys.  Can you speak to how much of a difference your captain's picks made in these matches?  
THOMAS BJØRN: Well, I'm not very good at adding up but I'm sure if I put these numbers together, they make the difference in the score.  I think I got it right, and so, you know, they have been fantastic.  They bring more than they do -- I couldn't have dreamt of what they brought on the golf course.  They have been fantastic this week on the golf course.   
But in the team room, you know, they bring the experience.  They bring the understanding.  It's those guys that last night sit and make sure that everybody's in the right frame of mind and they are ready to go out and play because they have done it so many times before.   
I think it takes to play in The Ryder Cup and being in a lot of team rooms and to understand what it's all about.  Sometimes when you have some great new guys coming through where you've got to balance it out with experience; it worked well for us this week, it really has.   
When you take on the captaincy, you can never dream of a score line like this.  You know it's going to be close, but you can't dream of a score line like this.  That's obviously down to all 12 players, but I'm extremely proud of those four guys that got picked, because it's by no means easy to be picked.  There's pressure on you if you're going to be picked, and they stood up, all of them this week, and showed what they are worth.   
You know, from Sergio and Ian that are such the heartbeat of what we do; Henrik that brings all the calmness, and then Paul, you know, you can only say, welcome back.   
 Q.  Francesco --  
 (Team cheering for Alan Shipnuck).   
 Q.  I know it's exciting to clinch The Ryder Cup, but to see a proud champion like Phil end it by hitting it in the water --  
IAN POULTER: What was your quote two weeks ago?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Why are you painful now?   
 Q.  This could be the last shot he ever hits in The Ryder Cup.  He's been doing it for a quarter century.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Obviously Phil is a class act and he fought hard all match today.  Obviously probably didn't have his A Game this week, but you know, he fought hard, and yeah, we obviously -- you hope, you wish to finish The Ryder Cup holing a putt and making a birdie or stuff like that.  But it happens to all of us, and I'm sure it's not going to affect, you know, the other stuff that Phil has done in his career.  He's an amazing player, and it's one shot, so it doesn't change anything.   
JUSTIN ROSE: Well said.   
 Q.  You're the first European to win all five of your matches in a Ryder Cup (team cheering for Francesco)?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm so good at this stuff; they just want to see me laughing.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: His name is not Molinari anymore.  It's Machinari because he's a machine.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I thought it was Moliwood.   
 Q.  Can you just talk us through what that means to you, how much it's taken out of you to play in all those games, and you've become a bit of a folk hero, as well?  And Ian, can you tell us what you've done with the post box outfit?  Is it going back with you?  Maybe wear it at home alone while doing housework or something?  
IAN POULTER: I might go and deliver some letters around Lake Nona in it when I get home.  I'm going to frame it.   
 Q.  How do you frame that?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Poults frames everything.   
 Q.  Francesco, can you talk us through just your weekend, and summer, as well?  
SERGIO GARCÍA: But before that, before that, why don't you ask Francesco how are 17 and 18 playing.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: What holes?   
SERGIO GARCÍA: You know this golf course has 18 holes.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Really?  I think I played them on Tuesday.  (Laughter).   
SERGIO GARCÍA: Thank God we played 18 that day.  (Laughter).   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Sorry, what was the question?   
 Q.  You've become a folk hero, winning The Open, and winning five points here.  Tell us about everything to do with your summer and this weekend in particular.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: My summer has been great, but it's been about, like I said before, these guys have been on two winning teams doing a little bit, but not a lot and my record was pretty shocking, really, coming into this week.  So statistically, there was a good chance of winning some points, and (laughter).   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: So arrogant.  So arrogant.  Get over yourself.   
 Q.  How much has it taken out of you?  
IAN POULTER: Nothing.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Talk for yourself.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: He's played more holes than anyone else, he's played five matches.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's been intense, but the adrenaline is so much that you could keep going.  Today it was hard.  There were many energies, but like I said, you know, it's not about individuals, it's about the other guys on the team and the atmosphere that we created, getting here on Monday.  I honestly don't feel any difference bringing five points or one point or half a point like I did in Wales or in Medinah.  I said it yesterday when they were asking me and Tommy about winning four out of four, it doesn't mean anything if you don't win the Cup.   
That's what this team is about, and I think honestly, that's what makes the difference in the end of the week.   
 Q.  Question for Ian and Justin.  You both have been around in lots of teams.  Could you just identify the thing that you think Thomas did perhaps better than anything else?  You've had a lot of captains.  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I've played a few now.  Thomas has been extremely calm all week.  He's allowed --   
THOMAS BJØRN: We took note of that.   
JUSTIN ROSE: Unlike his playing career.   
IAN POULTER: He's allowed us to be very relaxed and chilled in the team room, and he understands every player on a personal level and professionally, as well.   
So to be able to have that level of calmness in the team room, I think this week showed through.  And we had an extra bit of motivation this week, as well, which --   
SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, bring it.   
IAN POULTER: You might all see -- I don't know when it's going to get done, but we had some extra motivation this week to make sure we put our hands back on that trophy, as little or big as that number is going to be; it will be a very interesting number to see.   
JUSTIN ROSE: So I guess just bringing it back to slightly more serious, I think that --   
SERGIO GARCÍA: What?  Why?   
JUSTIN ROSE: Was it a number or an image?   
IAN POULTER: Score.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: We still have to work the initials of the players.   
JUSTIN ROSE: I think they might be talking about a tat, to keep everyone in the loop.   
RORY McILROY: There could be a visit to a tattoo parlour coming soon for Mr. Bjørn on his head.   
JUSTIN ROSE: Plenty of real estate there.  (Laughter).   
I think what Thomas did and the backroom staff did for the team and what you don't see along this line right now, you see a bunch of guys who are elated and you see a bunch of guys enjoying the situation and you see a bunch of guys having drinks to celebrate.  What this team did was not drop their guard until this moment right here.  This team was relentless in its pursuit of excellence.  We ticked every box we could control all week long, whether it be recovery, nutrition, practise rounds.  Our focus was unbelievable this week.   
IAN POULTER: Here-here.   
JUSTIN ROSE: Thomas didn't fill our week with pointless team meetings.  He trusted us to be 12 players that would come together, and today trusted us to be 12 individuals, like Rory said, sent a great message earlier, but 12 individuals working towards the same common goal.  And that was his strength this week.   
And I think that we didn't drop our guard all week long.  We stayed on point as a group, and everybody, the discipline that we showed got us to this point where we can now let our hair down and now really drop our guard hard.   
IAN POULTER: Thomas's team, you don't see, which are the ones that really help us, the backroom staff, the vice captains, the chefs, the nutritionalists, team physios.  The list goes on, and you only see 12 of us sitting here right now, five vices, the wives, the caddies, we can go on and on.   
But Thomas has pulled his team together and I'm not including us 12 as a team, but the entire team behind the scenes to make all this work, and that's what's been very, very impressive.   
STEVE TODD: If I could get you to follow on that, as well, the five vice captains in with us.  Just the role of the backroom team.   
THOMAS BJØRN: When you start out on this journey, you look at the things that you can do differently, and you know, the modern golfer is a different guy today.  They are very healthy.  They are very focused on how they recover, how they look after themselves, and it's such a big part of their lives.  They are also used to having a big group of people around them.  I felt like I needed to do things that were for the players.   
When you go back over the years, the European team room has changed.  I wanted to do this for them.  I wanted it to be for these 12 players that they walked into an environment that they recognised and it was better or on par with the environment that they normally work in.   
So a lot of that work was what we wanted to do; I brought in some very good people, and I'm so thankful to those people that have worked so hard and so many hours to make this happen for these 12 guys.   
You know, as vice captains, you couldn't have a stronger or better group of guys.  I have all the information.  They have been brilliant.  (Applause for vice captains).   
Where are they?   
RORY McILROY: Westwood just gave you the finger.  (Laughter).   
THOMAS BJØRN: You know, and for guys, I've been there myself.  It's a new -- for a lot of these guys, it's a new step in their careers, and it's not always a pleasant step to take when you go from a player to doing something else.   
It shows what we are all about on this side of the Atlantic.  We get together and we do this for these 12 guys and give them the experiences we had.  So I'm proud of everyone that's been involved in this team process.   
 Q.  Francesco, congratulations.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Thank you.   
 Q.  You've seen a lot of Mr. Woods, you and Tommy had lots of activity there.  How would you compare this with what you played against him in Medinah, and how does this all stack up in this big picture for you?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, it's hard to compare with Medinah.  I think he obviously came here after a great win last week.  Maybe that took something out of him, but he was still hitting great shots, and he's a really tough competitor obviously.   
You know, we've done great with Tommy.  Tommy's been amazing.  I love him, like I said the other day.  We need to spend more time together I think (laughter).   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I feel so far away.  (Looking down from the end of the table).   
 Q.  How big does the tattoo have to be?  Does it influence where it will be?  
 (Players simultaneously):  In a huge place.   
THOMAS BJØRN: Let me put it this way, it's going to go on a part that only Grace will see.  I might have to send them a picture, well, then you'll all see it as well, I guess.  (Laughter) the worst decision I made all week.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: No, it was the best.   
IAN POULTER: It was clearly the best.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: Something to fight for, extra.   
STEVE TODD: Thomas, on that note, thank you for joining us.  Team Europe.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT