NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 28, 2007
Daniel Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Last night's game obviously you made a lot of contributions.  What's your mindset going into the next game? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Just trying to bring some of those same things, energy, intensity, and just looking forward to playing in this next game. 

 Q.  People know a lot about your shot-making, but it seems like your defense maybe caught Detroit a little bit off guard.  Can you talk about that. 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  That's something I do when I come in the game, you know, on the defensive end, pick up full court, try to change the tempo a little bit, and just play as hard as I can, get up and guard those guys and get in tune. 

 Q.  With Larry being less than himself obviously heading towards the next game, do you anticipate your role might change a little bit, increase a little bit? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Probably, possibly.  But I think that throughout the season Coach has prepped me for that situation.  I've gotten a lot of minutes, so I think it's prepared me for this situation where if Larry can't go, I feel like I can step in and take care of business. 

 Q.  What's been a key for you defensively against Chauncey and their guys?  You guys as a group have been really able to limit their effectiveness? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Those two guys are great players.  We just try to get into them as best we can, learn as much about them as we can, and playing do the things that they're not most comfortable doing.  That's probably our best philosophy. 

 Q.  People talk about rookies hitting a wall, this season up and down for you, starting role.  Talk about how you are mentally at this time of the year. 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  It's definitely a long season, but this is what you play for, the opportunity to play in big games, in the playoffs, Eastern Conference Finals, and just to have the opportunity to get out there and play.  That's why you work so hard in the summertime and why you work so hard during that long year, to get to this point. 

 Q.  As a rookie what's the difference between the regular season and the playoffs? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  It seems like it goes to another level as far as the intensity and as far as teams' focus on every single play.  It seems like every possession counts, so everything is broken down and you try to make sure every possession is your best. 

 Q.  The Pistons were aware of you going into last night's game, now they're really aware of you.  If Larry's out, you're certain to be playing longer minutes, you'll probably get more concerted defense.  Are you ready for that challenge, to have even more defensive pressure from these guys? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, I'm ready for it.  I'm going to just go out there and do some of the things I'm capable of doing, get out there and play hard.  I feel like if I play hard and play with passion, regardless of what's put in front of me, I'll be able to handle myself. 

 Q.  What does it mean to the team when Larry can't go? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  I feel like as a team, we feel like he's one of our key elements, so if he's not able to do, I think that these guys that haven't been playing that much are going to feel like they have the opportunity to step in and play key minutes, so I think that guys will be looking forward to getting out there and filling that void since he's not going to be there. 

 Q.  There are some rookies who in a playoff situation the pressure just feels so huge.  How did you feel in the fourth quarter? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  It's fine.  I'm out there smiling and having fun because at that time everybody is watching and waiting to see what's going to happen.  I feel like if you can take that moment and just have fun with it and just get out there and enjoy it, I think the best things will happen for you. 

 Q.  Stepping up in regular season versus the Eastern Conference Finals, two completely different dynamics, what does having a game like you did last night do for your confidence? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, it definitely gives you a lot of confidence where you feel like you could play in any type of situation, so I feel like it's definitely going to give me that boost for the next game knowing that it's also a big game, that I need to get out there and do some of those same things. 

 Q.  How better equipped are you to start now than when you first took over? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Probably night and day.  I feel like with the opportunity I had at the beginning of the year to get out and play, and start in some of these games, and now I feel when I get out there I know exactly what I need to do, and I feel like I'll perform a lot better. 

 Q.  Is Chauncey's strength at all a problem when you try to guard him? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, he's a strong dude.  I mean, that's pretty much an understatement.  I just try to play him as tough as I can, play him early, and play him to my help.  I just try to do and fight him as hard as I can because I know my teammates are behind me waiting to help me out. 

 Q.  LeBron has really had your back and has really talked you up, what's that meant to your confidence? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Oh, the most.  I remember at the beginning of the year he told me he was going to make me a great player, regardless of whatever, and he's done that.  He's been in my corner since day one, and to have a guy like that, who has so much going for himself, to know he's behind you, it really gives you that much more confidence. 

 Q.  I saw him stop you during that time-out, he kind of told you something, what did he tell you? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  The game wasn't over.  We've been playing well, but there's still two minutes and 30 seconds left, so stay focused and let's get this win. 

 Q.  This fantasy game that you played when you pretended to be him when you were a kid, just knowing his moves, does that actually help you in any way out here now? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  I think it helps me a little bit because, you know, I watched him for a long time when I was in the backyard doing those back-down fadeaway shots he does.  With the clock running down, ten seconds, shooting those three-pointers that he shoots all the time.  I also feel like it's made me prepare a lot more mentally because I think of how great he is. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT