NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 29, 2009
Daniel Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Question about confidence.)  
 DANIEL GIBSON: It just says no matter what the situation is, no matter what the (indiscernible) is, we have the right guys to pull out any win.   
  
  Q. LeBron was able to do a lot to sort of facilitate last night in addition to scoring. How valuable is he as you guys go forward into these real tight games?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: What he makes of this team can't be described in words. You can't -- you can't say one or two words about how important he is to what we do. So, you know, we're just happy to have him on our side. And hopefully we continue to play the way we did last game.  
  
  Q. When you look at the superstar on the other team, Dwight Howard, you guys have gotten more and more successful on him on his way to the basket. Can you talk about that strategy?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: Once you get around the basket, he is so athletic and able to finish, you want to -- you want to try to make him earn them from the line because if you let him get up and get around the rim, he's going to put your guys in foul trouble as well. So you just want to wrap him up and make him earn it from the stripe.  
  
  Q. How are you guys getting him in so much trouble?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: Once again, we have No. 23 on our team. And I think everybody has been aggressive and attacking the basket.   
 When we go to the basket, he is their main line of the defense. He is the only one back there looking to block shots. So we was trying to go right at him and make sure we don't shy away from his contact.  
  
  Q. Boobie, why is small ball working? You can't do it for 48 minutes, but why is it working?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: I think because they create so many matchup problems with the guys that they have on the floor, with Rashard and Hedo and those guys. They're tall guys, but they play as smalls.   
 So the matchups we have, they work better for us and we are able to rotate them and sometimes switch those screens.  
  
  Q. All that being said, you haven't been able to get a win here this season. What do you have to do now to get a win in Orlando?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: I think we have been in the right position the last couple games here. So we don't feel like we can't win in this building. They haven't been blowouts.  
 I think if we continue to play the way we have been playing and close out games the right way, we feel the right amount of confidence to win it.  
  
  Q. Is this the most difficult series you have ever experienced in your career?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: Nah, I can't say that, playing against Detroit my rookie year as well as the Boston series last year. We have been in tough series before. It is hard to put this one above any just because we're in it, but it is a tough series in itself.  
  
  Q. How much does that experience from those couple years matter now?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: It's been great. I'm thankful that, you know, I've been a part of great basketball teams that have had the opportunity to play in those types of situations because now it's just like another game. You know, you know what to expect. Nothing shocks you. You know what to expect going in and you prepare for it.  
  
  Q. Coach Brown was talking early in the series about he kept telling the bench to stay ready, you will be called at a moment's notice. Were you over there waiting and you want to make an impact and get in there? How do you keep yourself from saying, all right, I'm hoping it will come and be able to capitalize like you did last night?   
 DANIEL GIBSON: Yeah, I think that it is just understanding that your team needs you, understanding that you have to be ready at this point in time or you could really hurt your team as opposed to helping them.  
 So I just think I put in the time when I wasn't playing before games and after games to knowing that if my number was called, I would be prepared to get out there and perform.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT