NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2009
Daniel Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANIEL GIBSON: You could say that at the end. You can say, well, Dwight scoring that we're allegedly not getting in some foul trouble. 
 But it's a Catch-22. It's hard to figure it out. But we've done a great job in spurts of figuring out. We've just got to sustain it for a 48-minute period.

 Q. These last couple of games particularly seem more off the bench. Would you like to see even more Darnell Jackson giving him a shot going up against Dwight?
 DANIEL GIBSON: I think every guy on this team is capable of getting out on the floor and being productive. So I think if any guy's called on at any moment to go out and get a stop or make a shot, the guys are ready. We just have to all be ready now because it's win or go home.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 DANIEL GIBSON: We didn't, I can say we didn't ever anticipate being in this position. But then about our group, we've developed a tough group of guys. You don't see the pressure at this moment on any of our faces. We understand that we have a team that's been assembled that's capable of coming out. So we are capable of beating anybody at any place at any time. So we've got to go out and do it.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 DANIEL GIBSON: Defending. Getting out and running. I hope the last, the whole season has been able to get stops. And with this team being a prolific 3-point shooting team and a guy as accurate in the paint like Dwight, they're tough to cover. But if we want to win the next three games, we have to get back to getting stops, making our offense easier for our defense.

 Q. What's the word, desperation?
 DANIEL GIBSON: Not at all. I wouldn't say desperation. These are times where you have to buckle down. And it's win or go home. But, like I said, the guys that we have on this team, we understand the moment. So we know that we're capable of winning these games.

 Q. What was the mindset, the big smile came across your face as soon as you got out?
 DANIEL GIBSON: I can honestly say I've been labeled as a nice guy. But when somebody tosses one of my teammates around, they do something I don't like, I get out there and show it. And they did something I really didn't like. 
 So I took a lot of pride in myself, when I was playing defense, to let them know that, defensively. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT