NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2008
Daniel Gibson
Darrell Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR:  If you could make an opening comment about your performance this evening. 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, it was unbelievable.  It was special.  I never imagined, never dreamed that I would come out and shoot the ball as well as I did in an environment and atmosphere like that.  So right now I don't really know what to say.  I'm just excited and I'm happy I got the opportunity. 

 Q.  What was going on with Coach James on the sideline?  What were all those antics about? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Well, you know, before the game he said, "If you get an open look, take it."  And I told him if I make my first one, it might be a good night for me.  And since I came in, I made that three in the corner, and I shook his hand.  And after that it was all she wrote.  Every shot I made, I pointed to him, or I saw him doing something over there.  It's kind of like the chemistry how we got on the floor.  Just the way we're supportive of each other, that big-brother/little-brother type of thing. 

 Q.  This is often a game in which guys promise big dunks, things like that.  How funny do you find it that it kind of came down to three-point shooting after all? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  I'm thankful to my teammates.  Jordan, he told me he was going to look for me.  Rondo, and then once I got it going, everybody started to look for me. 
 I just attribute a lot to my team.  I'm thankful to the coaches for calling plays for me tonight.  And my guys were looking for me and I was just making shots. 

 Q.  I remember the three-point contest at the McDonald's game, you had an issue.  Does this put that behind you like you feel you needed to? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, this is great.  The McDonald's All American Game I had a wardrobe malfunction, where my drawstring broke in my shorts.  And every time I shot the ball, my shorts were at my ankles.  So that kind of throws your rhythm off a little bit (smiling).  So I ended up losing. 
 So I think coming into this tomorrow night, my confidence will be high from tonight, and hopefully I didn't use them all up. 

 Q.  How's your hamstring feel? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  On a night like tonight you don't feel it at all.  Maybe I'll feel it in the morning, maybe I won't.  But tonight it didn't affect me at all.  I got out there, performed, and yeah, it didn't bother me one bit. 

 Q.  Can you actually recall shooting this well in an NBA game that counted?  Do you think this is going to kind of get people back in Cleveland excited and raise expectations on the floor over there? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Well, last time I remember shooting like this was probably Game 6 in that fourth quarter, when I think I made like six or five.  That was probably the last time.  I've had a couple games this season where I've made five threes, or six threes.  It's definitely getting me back into the groove of things.  I'm always thankful to the fans of Cleveland because of how supportive they are of me.  All of them are always in my corner, with the "Shoot, Boobie, Shoot," T shirts.  I love them a lot. 

 Q.  Is there any relationship to the star in your hand and one in your hair? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  It's funny, Rudy Gay said to me they match, the star on my head and the star on the trophy.  So maybe that is the reason I won it.  I'm excited.  I'm thankful that I won it, and I'm feeling great right now. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach Walker, can you make a comment about the game.  
 DARRELL WALKER:  Daniel Gibson can really shoot.  He can flat out shoot the basketball.  No, it was a great experience for me.  I'm sure for all of New Orleans tonight, I'm not going to say it was a great basketball game, but it was entertaining, for sure. 

 Q.  What does it mean to you to be able to participate in kind of the festivities that are going on this weekend here? 
 DARRELL WALKER:  As a player I've been in this league since 1983, when I was a rookie with the New York Knicks.  It's great to be in this atmosphere.  And what I told the rookies before I went out there, "You better soak up this moment because you may never get back in this situation again."  So I had a long talk with them about that. 
 But it's great to be able to sit over there and coach the game tonight.  The league has a very bright future with the sophomores and with some of the rookies.  So the league has a bright future.  So it was a great honor to be over there tonight. 

 Q.  Is it obvious to you that the sophomores win every year?  As a player is it that big of a jump every year, rookie to a sophomore? 
 DARRELL WALKER:  I think at times the rookies get star-struck, and the sophomores have been there before, because most of the guys on the sophomore team were on the rookie team the year before.  So talent-wise, most of the sophomores have played a lot of minutes in this league and kind of know what's going on. 
 Like I said, the rookies, the guys I had tonight were star-struck.  Even though Kevin Durant and Jeff Green, those guys are pretty good players, they were still in awe of Brandon Roy and the guys on the other end. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT