NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 6, 2007
Daniel Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You seem to be putting on some moves the last few games that we hadn't seen in the last few years.  Where did that come from, the hard drives to the basket, the pull-upshot? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  I mean, just working hard throughout this entire season.  Chris Jent, who's our player development guy, he's been working me constantly, just working and working and working, and I think the more work I put in, when I got the opportunity on the floor, I just took advantage of it and tried to go do it. 

 Q.  Can you take us through your decision to leave Texas?  You only worked out for two teams.  Take us through the process and how difficult a decision it was. 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, when I decided -- me and my dad, we decided that I was going to leave.  But at the same time, we knew that he didn't want me to go and work out for a lot of teams.  He wanted me to go and work out for teams where we felt like I was going to have the opportunity to play and be productive.  We kind of broke it down, and I worked out for the Rockets because I felt like that would be a team that I could play for and help, and also the Cavs. 
 I think that after my workout for the Cavs, I was like, I think I might have missed maybe one shot in my workout.  After I had a workout like that, I was kind of like, I'm going to just leave it to chance.  I think those guys really like me and like what I did out there on the floor, so I was hoping that if they got the opportunity to pick me that they would. 

 Q.  You were so wide open in Game 6.  I'm just wondering what adjustments you think San Antonio is going to make in Game 1 and throughout this series and what you'll have to do then to adjust to them. 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Well, I'm pretty sure some of those looks will be more contested, they'll be there.  But I think at the same time, you still have to pay attention to LeBron, and that's where I get a lot of my looks from.  When teams collapse on him and try to stop him from getting to the basket, I think he kicks it out to me, and that's where I get those open looks from.  So I believe that if I continue to find an open spot and continue to move the ball, I think with teams focusing on LeBron I'll still get some of those looks. 

 Q.  Tony Parker, you'll probably have to guard him at some point.  Can you just talk about the line-up that you faced to get to this point, another point guard, Tony Parker? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  Yeah, Jason and Tony and Chauncey Billups are bigger guards who like to post-up and put you on the floor.  But Tony is a different type of guard.  He's a guard that likes to push the ball full court and bring it at you face to face.  He's a lot quicker, probably quicker than those guys.  I just think if I continue to watch him on him, continue to work and just try my best to stay in front of him, because I know he's going to be a tough cover. 

 Q.  I know you only missed the one shot and you had a great workout with him.  That gave you confidence, but did you have any other assurances?  They had three picks, but did you get an indication from them that if you were available, somewhere along the line they would take you? 
 DANIEL GIBSON:  (Laughing) no, I just kind of played it from my heart.  Me and my dad, we just kind of sat down, and after that workout, I just felt so good about it and just felt so good about the way that I had talked with Coach Brown and the way that I just felt with the team.  I just felt like if they had that opportunity with three picks, I felt like with one of those picks that they had to take me. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT