AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2012
Oliver Golding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. BAKER/O. Golding
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was that like as an experience compared to last year?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   Completely different match, really, because, I mean, there was a lot of different expectations, obviously.   Last year there was no expectations on me, and I could just sort of swing freely.  
Even today maybe, you know, he was still slightly the favorite, but it was a much more winnable match than last year.  
Yeah, I mean, for me, I wanted to win that, you know, pretty badly, obviously to win a round in the ATP and an opportunity that would have come in the second round, but Jamie played quite well, and I felt like I was quite a long way away from playing my best tennis.  
   
 Q.   How much have you played on grass so far this year?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   I have actually played quite a bit, because I cut my clay court season a little bit short because I had some niggling ankle injuries.   So I ended up having three weeks' practice on it before Nottingham.   
I played quite well up in Nottingham, and I was hoping to play well here.   You can't play well every day, so I don't want to take anything away from Jamie either because he played a good match.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel long term that you can play well on grass?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   Yeah, definitely.   I have been playing well.   I played well last week.   I think it wasn't because of the surface I played badly today.   I think it was just one of those days.   
   
 Q.   You have got a wildcard for Wimbledon.   That must be a big boost.   
OLIVER GOLDING:   Yeah, I got that news yesterday, and for me, that's a dream come true.   It's amazing to be playing in a Grand Slam, and I'm really looking forward to it.   Obviously thank you to Wimbledon for giving that to me.   It's an amazing, you know, opportunity.   Hopefully I can grasp it.  
   
 Q.   You get quite frustrated on court a bit.   Are you trying to channel that a little bit?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   You know, recently in the last couple of sort of months I've got a lot better like that, and I think today just because I purely wanted to win so much, to be honest, it was just so frustrating, because for the last couple of weeks, you know, I have been training hard and I felt like I have been playing really well, and, you know, I felt like I've improved massively.   
Just today was a big opportunity for me, and it's frustrating not to be playing the way that I know I can play, because, you know, I know that I've got the levels to win those sort of matches.   
Jamie is a good player.   He's 200 in the world.   But, you know, I felt like I had a chance.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to go from winning junior Grand Slams to trying to make your mark on the senior tour?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   Yeah, obviously the first couple of months are really tough.   It kind of sort of creates ‑‑ sort of almost the older guys, they want to beat you almost a little bit more, because they want to show you that, Hey, you know, you might have done something in juniors but that means absolutely nothing.  
I think, yeah, that's true.   Obviously it's a great experience, what I achieved in juniors, but in the long run, you know, it doesn't mean anything.  
I think, yeah, in the last couple of months I felt like I had grown up a lot in playing futures, and I obviously started to go deeper in them.   I think that it's ‑‑ now, you know, I will try and get out of the futures now and into challengers would be a good improvement.  
   
 Q.   You've obviously seen how much of a dog fight it is in futures.   You'll try to get out of there as much as possible?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   Yeah, it's tough to play your best tennis in the conditions sometimes.   They're sometimes not the best courts, not the best umpires.   The ball change is really not very regular, it's kind of 11 or 13, so it's tough, you know, not easy conditions.  
You've got to sort of accept that you're not going to play your best tennis and kind of sort of scrape through them.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel confident that kind of so far you're on course to make what is traditionally a very difficult, probably "the" most difficult part of your career or anybody's career, that sort of 19, 20, trying to break through in the seniors?  
OLIVER GOLDING:   Yeah, obviously these years are going to be pretty tough and pretty key in my development.   I haven't played that many tournaments this year, partly because, you know, I have been working a lot physically, because I think that's something I can improve on, and I have improved massively so far this year in that area.  
I think like, yeah, just try to focus on, you know, being a bit more patient, as well, because, you know, I know I've got a decent game and it's trying to improve little areas that, you know, at the moment are weaknesses but can be improved, because I think once you get playing with these guys in big tournaments, they're going to look for your weakness.   If you've got any weaknesses nowadays, it's really tough.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT