U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Luke Jensen
Murphy Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Where did you'se learn to tee off on that second service return?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: Where did you learn how to speak English? 
 MURPHY JENSEN: What was the question? 
 
Q. You were wailing on some second serves.
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: Yeah, I actually started to feel it. The second set I couldn't find the
forehand, I was still in a boat heading for the ocean, but, you know, I just got it going
and felt really good today. I mean, the beginning of the week I was really sick and I
didn't know how we'd do and the first match was kind of shaky. This match actually came
out and served pretty good and felt good today. I owe a lot of my success in the last
couple of matches to Luke because he stepped up and, you know, he realized that I was
feeling really down and made 
 me -- 
 LUKE JENSEN: Pepto Bismol.  
 MURPHY JENSEN: -- and made me feel a lot stronger. I've got -- actually, the reason we
won today is because two of my best friends came down from Kansas City. They support us,
play for World Team Tennis, my sister over there. That's kind of cool. So, kind of a
surprise. 
 
Q. Have you guys done anything different to prepare this year as opposed to last year?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: What's prepare mean? Is that with concentration and focus. It's just one
of those things that's -- 
 MURPHY JENSEN: We save that for Christmas. 
 
Q. You sign your autograph cards in advance?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: Yeah, exactly putting the sticker on, that's what we do, stamp our
autograph cards. I think, you know, that whole year you're watching that football
preseason, these guys' coaches getting up at 5:30 in the morning, I mean, we're getting in
at 5:30 in the morning. (LAUGHTER). 
 MURPHY JENSEN: That's what I want you to say. 
 LUKE JENSEN: We're actually -- the last two -- the Grand Slams, we've done well at the
French Open this year and here. We have really been riding a huge losing streak. So
through World Team Tennis and a couple of tournaments we'd lost nine straight sets. So
forget matches, we couldn't even win sets. So we really had to pick it up and really
create our own momentum. It's really easy to go out and play in front of the crowd,
there's so much electricity. You hit out on your shots and you don't really get tight, you
don't really think it's such a big, big event. And it is -- it's bigger than life, but the
thing is you have to think about is watching the ball making your returns, doing the
basics and all of a sudden good things happen and a lot of guys, because we're able to
play at night a lot in front of people or throwing things and going nuts and doing cart
wheels, that I think it's intimidating and it's too our advantage most of the time. 
 
Q. I think it's the first time I've seen the wave in tennis.
 
 LUKE JENSEN: I think we got a wave -- 
 MURPHY JENSEN: In Paris. 
 LUKE JENSEN: In Paris, yeah. You've got to get it going.  
 
Q. You guys are pretty mellow by comparison though. Do you sometimes when you sense
that you could win a match do you --
 
 LUKE JENSEN: So you're saying when we're going crazy it seems like we're -- 
 
Q. Well, no, but is there a correlation and not tighten up or do you start to treat it
a little more serious?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: Sometimes the situation just happens. It's more of you ride the wave of
the emotion of the situation. If things are going good, it's easy to really take certain
shots or certain points that really climax. I know our last match, first round, we got
down to breaking the third and then all of a sudden you're rallying and everyone -- all of
a sudden it sparks and things are really going and you have some great points on -- some
big shots on big points, and here we're winning and we didn't close it out and then we
kind of lost the momentum, and then right away we jumped on it in the third and kind of
rode the wave out. But it really depends, sometimes you're more excited than others. And I
remember -- because we're not winning all the time, it's tough because people expect to
come out and get this great show every time, they put all this intensity, all this fun and
laughter, well, when you're losing nine straight sets, I mean, there's nothing really to
celebrate. I mean, these guys are kicking your butt and you're like yah, rock and roll. I
mean, there's not much you could do. It's tough when you lose. But when you're winning you
just really go for it. We don't win so much so when but we do we're going crazy. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: You should have seen me when we won our first tournament since the
French at Nottingham, right before Wimbledon, it was a joke. I mean, Luke was ready to
jump through the roof. We won a tournament man. 
 LUKE JENSEN: It was awesome. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: It was like eight finals. 
 LUKE JENSEN: It was a real tournament. It was one of these official tournaments they
put on the tour. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: It wasn't something that we did in our hometown. 
 
Q. Did he clock you in the face this time?
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: No, no, no. In Nottingham? 
 
Q. Yeah.
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: No, I -- I got you with champagne. 
 
Q. How much do you pay attention to the crowd, like one young lady yelled I love you
Luke tonight and you turned around and said shush?
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: Actually, he said don't tell anybody, don't tell anybody. 
 LUKE JENSEN: I think it really depends on -- the situation was 40-Love, you're not
going to do it when it's a break point or 15-30 and they're most likely going to win that
point. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: It's one way of relaxing, you know, just kind of accepting that there's
a big crowd. A lot of people walk on the center court and really just wet their pants. 
 LUKE JENSEN: Well, so much is talked about, for some reason the last ten years -- 
 MURPHY JENSEN: I just look at it and just say let's go for it. 
 LUKE JENSEN: You wet your pants and then they go for it. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: No, I just go for it. 
 LUKE JENSEN: You look at every book or listen to any sports psychologist and they tell
you to watch your strengths and focus on everything. I think you really have to accept
what's going on. I mean, you have planes and all these things going on and if you're
trying -- it's too hard, you're already trying to focus in on the match and trying to take
care of business and then if you're trying to focus on if someone is screaming here, a
bottle falls there, and whoever is in the crowd watching and, you know, it's more of a
distraction, you're not supposed to be thinking about that and your mind -- because some
guy told you you should be doing this and that, just accept it, you look at it, you
address it and then you move on. And I think just to get involved -- I mean, how many
times do you get a chance to play in front of people screaming and yelling who want to
make a difference, positive or negative, against you. I mean that's fun, that's what you
want to do. You don't want to be playing on court 75 with janitors out there sweeping the
courts. You want to make noise and that's exactly what should go on. 
 
Q. How did you guys get so good coming from Michigan where the winters are cold?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: Hey, Michigan has the most players in this tournament. 
 
Q. Really?
 
 LUKE JENSEN: We kick butt. We could have our own Davis Cup team. Washington, Krickstein
-- okay, you've got the Jensens, that's one brain cell and then you've got -- well, our
sister's played, so that's two brain cells, so that's four. Then we had Frazier, Martin,
the Washingtons, we had three of the Washingtons play and then Krickstein. Who all lost to
-- who am I thinking of smoking Detroit? 
 MURPHY JENSEN: Oh, Campbell. 
 LUKE JENSEN: Campbell. So Michigan was -- right when the indoor boom came tons of
juniors from the -- Victor Amaya from -- tons of great players from Michigan. 
 
Q. Only from the lower peninsula.
 
 LUKE JENSEN: Yeah, only Yupers (ph). We're not Yupers, our parents are Yupers. 
 
Q. I'm from Marquette.
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: Really. Luke's first article in our newspaper was of him snowblowing the
snow off the court so he could hit outside. It's kind of funny. 
 LUKE JENSEN: You had to be there (LAUGHTER.) How many courts are in Bristol? 
 
Q. One. It's a racquetball court.
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: There you go. My dad's from mark Marquette. 
 
Q. Really?
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: I used to go to Marquette for our tennis games. 
 LUKE JENSEN: Northern Michigan University. 
 MURPHY JENSEN: My grandfather has the lake trout record for fishing in Lake Superior. 
 
Q. Are you going to start telling fish stories?
 
 MURPHY JENSEN: It's true. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT