HUAJIN SECURITIES ZHUHAI CHAMPIONSHIPS
September 24, 2019
Zhang Zhizhen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ZHANG ZHIZHEN/D. Koepfer
7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Congrats for winning this important game. After your victory in Jinan you have been in very good form. Can you tell us why that is?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: Well between then and now that is about two weeks, and I also played Davis Cup in that period, and in that week I stayed very good and my form and my whole condition were very good. Actually in Jinan my coach told me to remain aggressive on the court, no matter I'm going to win or lose, just remain aggressive. So I suppose that could be part of the reason why I could have stayed in this kind of good form and, yeah, no matter, it's a win or lose, I just keep fighting, just remain aggressive.
Q. Congrats. I suppose that has been a very tough game for you, I mean especially in the first set, so how could you have turned things around and achieved the final victory?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: Yeah, it's been tough, especially in the first set and the score went to 0 to 3 and at that time there was a set point for my opponent. And at that set point I didn't think much, I just played my service game. And I suppose he, from the beginning to that point, my form and my situation were not so ideal, so in that service game I turned a little bit and my strategy improved a bit. I didn't think much about the set point, just played. My opponent played a very good game, I mean good set in the first set, especially in terms of, for example, returning the balls I hit his way. Anyway, I just kept trying and worked very hard.
Q. I want to ask, which is your strongest aspect in playing tennis and in what aspects do you see room for improvements?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: I suppose my strongest aspect is service. And in terms of improvements I suppose there is improvements to be made in all aspects. You can never be perfect in any aspect.
Q. Congrats for making this victory. Both you and Wu Di won your first match. I want to ask your relationship with Wu Di, I mean, before your matches did you have some kind of connection?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: Yeah, we had some connection, but nothing special. Before his game, his match and my match we had meals together and we had some kind of chats. Apart from that, nothing special.
Q. Although the opponent for your next match is not determined yet, but I know that you mentioned you expect to play against Kyrgios. So what's the reason behind that? Why do you want to play against him?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: Actually, there's nothing special about that, I mean I come here to play and to win matches, that's important for me, but it's more important to play against a strong opponent and that's part of the reason I want to meet him on the court.
Q. First congrats to you and Wu Di. You are very good tennis players, but your victories seem to be something accidental or something that occurs by chance. Every one or two years we see such upsets staged by male Chinese players against top players around the globe. So what can we do to change that something that's accidental to something normal and something that occurs regularly? What experience do you have for your victory, what kind of message do you want to summarize from your victory? At some time, in some places, we can see this kind of upset, how can we change the upset into normal?
ZHANG ZHIZHEN: Yes, we have the opportunities to win matches and win in good form, we must remain in good form to win matches. We can play ATP 250, 500, 1,000 matches, wild cards, and we can play for them for like five matches in a row and we can win some matches. And if we are to remain stable in our performance on the long run we got to work harder, that is too many ups and downs at this moment.
As for appearance of some key matches from my victory, I don't want to say at this moment because we need to wait until the end. If I provide some appearance or some very, very high level matches at this moment and lose tomorrow or in a few days then what's the point?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT