LAVER CUP
September 24, 2017
Jack Sock
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAVER CUP   
Prague, Czech Republic   
24 September, 2017   
ISNER-SOCK/Berdych-Cilic   
7-6, 7-6   
Europe - 9   
The World - 6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congrats for the win, and Happy Birthday.  Jack, you were part of all of the doubles matches.  Not considering the result, which one of those three was the most fun for you to play and why?  
JACK SOCK: Oh, man.  Obviously all three were different and special kind of in their own way.  First night I'm playing with one of my best buddies in Nick, and that's our first point on the board so obviously that means a lot.   
I mean, to go down 4-0 is different than being down 3-1.  That was special, and it was our first point of the weekend.  Kind of got some momentum going for us.   
Then you have the monumental match everyone loves to talk about, Roger and Rafa playing, two massive legends in the game.  That one is just special because of who we're playing.   
Then today, you know, just kick-start the day with a W.  Obviously you guys could see I was pretty fired up out there.  I thought we played some great tennis.  Those guys played well.  Could have gone either way there in the end.   
Yeah, so all special in their own way.  Yeah, I mean, it shows why this event I think is going to be something really special, as well.   
 Q.  Happy Birthday, first of all.  There is a lot of buzz right now in the U.S. regarding the statements of your president and on the topic of inviting the U.S. sports teams to the White House winning a championship.  There is a lot of buzz right now from LeBron James, Steph Curry.  Any comments on that?  
JACK SOCK: No.   
 Q.  Happy Birthday, first of all.  You threw quite a party on the court.  You're also, by far, the busiest Team World player at the tournament.  Did you expect this before the tournament?  How does it feel?  
JACK SOCK: Well, to be honest, I didn't really know the format coming in too well.  I didn't know that one player could play every doubles match as long as it was a different partner.  I didn't know how many singles matches you could actually play, either.  I didn't know a ton about it.   
You know, I was leaving it up to the team.  I didn't come in and say I expect to play all the doubles matches.  It was a team vote.  Obviously I feel very comfortable on a doubles court.  I have a good history on the doubles court, and I trust myself out there, you know, playing with any of the guys on the team.   
At the end of the day, it was the team's trust and support in me to help me get out there and, you know, get the energy up.  Yeah, even with the loss yesterday, I thought I played some great doubles this weekend and helped out the team.   
But overall, it's a group effort and just happy to be out there and be a part of it.   
 Q.  I just wondered if you could comment on your reaction to this event generally, how you have enjoyed being here?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, we were, John and I were actually just talking about it in the locker room now.  It's first year.  We were saying it's one of the best events of the year already.  I think everybody on this team, Team World obviously -- I don't know what's going on on the other side, but in our loom locker room and our dinners and prematch and during the matches and our bench and everything, 100%, I think you could ask any of the guys that it could potentially be our favorite week of the year so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT