LAVER CUP
September 24, 2017
John Isner
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAVER CUP   
Prague, Czech Republic   
24 September, 2017   
J. ISNER/R. Nadal   
7-5, 7-6   
Europe - 12   
The World - 9   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  John, congratulations.  It must be good satisfaction to win this match and to keep alive the hopes of The World Team.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, absolutely.  We knew we were up against it today, but all of us had a lot of belief.  It started with the doubles, and now we're just one match away from tying this thing up.  We can't ask for anything more than that.  We are going to get out there and see if Nick can pull this off.   
 Q.  How do you feel after beating the World No. 1?  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, it feels good.  I mean, honestly, it's actually pretty easy to go out there and play singles after playing a doubles match.  I was in a pretty good rhythm already, so it's not like I was tired or anything.   
Yeah, the doubles match was pretty intense, but, you know, there were no long points or anything like that, and I didn't really have any long points in singles, either.   
I went onto the court feeling pretty good, loose, and my arm was feeling loose and everything.  So I just went out there and swung away.   
But that's what you have to do against a guy like him.  It makes the game plan pretty easy.  That's what makes him one of the greatest players of all time, because he gets everyone's absolute best effort every day.   
 Q.  Did you consider the record that you have with Nadal going into the match?  
JOHN ISNER: No.  I mean, yeah, I know I have never beaten him in an ATP match, but I have played him close a few times, I think.  And with how I play, just because someone has beaten me five, six times, I have never beaten them, it really doesn't mean anything.  With how I play and if I play the right way, I know I can go out there and win.   
 Q.  Could you compare this to other great matches, particularly beating Federer in Davis Cup?  Is this your best match?  
JOHN ISNER: It's up there.  I definitely played extremely well.  Personally, I'm very happy about that.  But more importantly, our team is still alive.   
And this event has been amazing.  I never thought it would be this intense, really, but it is.  We're all loving it, and it's coming down to really the last match.  This is, what, 13th or 12th match?  The 12th match of the Laver Cup.  So it's pretty cool.   
 Q.  Before, you said that it helped you to play doubles before singles.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Normally the players don't want to play doubles before singles.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah.   
 Q.  So would you change your mind in that aspect or it's different?  And one more thing, too, just to Patrick.  You're probably not going to tell us who would play doubles if you have to play the final doubles, but do you have an idea?  I mean, have you already thought who would probably play for you or not?  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: We have a pretty good idea, yeah.   
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, the players on tour never play doubles before singles, but actually, one time I played someone who actually elected to play doubles during the day and then play singles against me at night, and he won the doubles and he beat me, as well, in singles.   
 Q.  Who was it?  
JOHN ISNER: It was in Houston, like, three or four years ago.   
 Q.  Who was the player?  
JOHN ISNER: His name is Gabashvili, a Russian guy.  Yeah, so he beat the Bryan brothers in doubles.  Then he was seeing the ball, like, this big (indicating hands wide apart.)   
That was the exact same thing out there today for me.  You have a win like that in doubles, riding high on confidence, and I have nothing to lose.  It was a perfect little recipe for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT