LAVER CUP
September 23, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAVER CUP
Prague, Czech Republic
23 September, 2017
N. KYRGIOS/T. Berdych
4-6, 7-6, 10-6
Europe - 7
The World - 3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just talk about that match, a slow start, and John getting involved and pushing you and all that.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, obviously I had a slow start.  Obviously I didn't think I was comfortable just with how big the court is and stuff like in an actual match.  Like, I practiced on it, but getting out there in the match, it took me a bit of a while to feel comfortable.
Obviously it was one of those matches where --  you know, I thought he played pretty well.  I think he could have played much better.  I thought he served unbelievably well.  He was playing well from the back.  Obviously had a couple unforced errors, but the way he was hitting it wasn't giving me much rhythm at all.
But just one of those matches my serve just got me through.  I played the bigger points better and got a pretty crucial win for the team.
Q. Could you just talk a little bit more about the specific influence of John McEnroe out there.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, we just get along pretty well.  You know, he was just telling me, you know, just leave it all out there and it's all right to lose to a good player.
I was just telling him, like, Mac, this is the way I am.  It looks like this at times.
But we just had a lot of fun out on the bench.  We were getting along well, and it was really good to have him out there.
I'm excited if I play again tomorrow.  I'm excited to go out there again with him and hopefully get another win.
Q. What's it like being around John this week, generally?
NICK KYRGIOS: It's been awesome.  You know, I asked him -- I actually told him, I was, like, You don't have the personality that I would have thought played tennis.  I asked him, Why did you play?  He said, you know, It's the same reason you play.  It's because we are better at it than everything else that we do.
I think we can relate on many things.  He's been a great help for me.  I think he actually understands me, gets where I'm coming from on most things.  It's pretty refreshing having someone that actually understands where I'm coming from.
Q. Now that you have played under the two captains you have played under in a team competition, Hewitt and John, how would you compare them?  Or can you compare them?
NICK KYRGIOS: I think they are very different.  You know, Lleyton is obviously one of the most competitive guys I have ever met.  You know, he does understand, you know, the way I function, as well.
But it's a lot different.  They are very different.  But at the same time I think they both understand me.  And, you know, I'm still pretty new with Johnny on the sidelines.  I'm still getting to know him, as well.
After today I feel very comfortable.  Even when I was just serving, hit a good serve, he instantly says, you know, Great serve.
I love that sort of feedback.  Yeah, it was good playing.  But they are very different.  Davis Cup I have Lleyton, you know, squatting in front of me, sort of yelling stuff to my face, and it all makes sense to me.  But Johnny is more laid back, but also what he says is spot on, as well.  They are very different personalities, but at the same time, they get me, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT