LAVER CUP
September 22, 2017
Frances Tiafoe
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAVER CUP
Prague, Czech Republic
22 September, 2017
M. CILIC/F. Tiafoe
7-6, 7-6
Europe - 1
The World - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Well played.  How big an experience was that for you, Frances?  Were you very nervous to start with?
FRANCES TIAFOE: It was unbelievable experience.  No, I wasn't nervous at all.  I mean, the last match I played was on Arthur Ashe, so it felt pretty good out here today.
Yeah, I knew it was going to be a tough one.  You know, I like these stages.  I usually end up playing good tennis.  Too good today from Cilic.
Q. Can you try and sum up what is different in the experience of playing today as opposed to playing like your first match at an ATP event?
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, open up something hopefully that's going to be historic.  This is an unbelievable event.  Everything around it is unbelievable:  all the facilities, how they treat us, and everything.
You know, to play on center court was pretty special today.  It was a lot of cool things out there.  Atmosphere was unbelievable.
Yeah, being on the team environment always means a little more to you.  I think, all in all, it was unbelievable out there today.
Q. You talked about Arthur Ashe.  Is it somehow similar to Grand Slam tournaments, organization, atmosphere, facilities?
FRANCES TIAFOE: Better (smiling).  I mean, my locker has my face on it, so I think I like it a little better here (smiling).
Yeah, it's unbelievable.  As far as crowds, you know, everyone working so hard to make sure we got everything and all we have to worry about is tennis.
You know, it's an honor for me being here besides John and Pat McEnroe and all the other players, and, you know, all the other players on the other team.  You know, everyone is such a good player.  Yeah, this is an honor for me.
Q. It was a really nice performance.  You're one of those young guys coming up in the ATP Tour, now playing against Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.  Could you point out which could be a role model for you, work ethic-wise, and how they play tennis?
FRANCES TIAFOE: I mean, those two are unbelievable.  I think they're role models to everyone, even current players, even Top 5 players.  They have been on top of the game for so many years.  Just waiting for them to retire (smiling).
Yeah, I mean, you know, Rafa, his intensity he brings every day, doesn't matter how bad he's playing or the situation.  He's going to put it at all there.
Roger is doing everything right, both on and off court.  You learn so many good things from them.  Being here and seeing them casually and being around them is unbelievable.
Q. During the match, your teammates seemed to be really into the match, up on their feet.  Your coach was on his feet.  You talk about the camaraderie.  Talk about how you guys are feeling playing together, you know each other, what that means to you.  During the match, were you surprised by that?
FRANCES TIAFOE: No.  You know, we were joking around in the locker room.  They said, We're going to get up a lot.
We are all really good friends, everyone on Team World.  Especially me and Nick and Jack are extremely close.  Yeah, they were pretty funny out there today.
Yeah, I mean, it's just kind of like a Davis Cup feel but even better because it's among friends and not only for your country.  I haven't experienced that yet, but, yeah, I mean, today was a lot of fun and, you know, having the likes of John McEnroe next to me giving me tips is definitely unbelievable.  Something I'll remember forever.
Q. What were some of the tips that John McEnroe was giving you?  What was he telling you?
FRANCES TIAFOE: John saying, I wish I could play.  No, I'm joking.
I mean, you know, try to be aggressive.  You know, look for chances to come forward.  You know, kind of use the whole court, keep him moving.  Don't let him try and dictate the whole time.
I think the game plan worked.  There were just a couple of points here and there I didn't take.  Other than that, I think everything he was telling me was the right things.
Q. Patrick, from your experience as Davis Cup captain and being here, comparisons with the team spirit, different countries, how is it different?
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: I think it's an awesome concept.  Our guys have certainly really bonded.  Obviously we have quite a few Americans, but even with the Australian guys and Denis, as well, they're really enjoying the atmosphere.
Tennis needs something like that.  I think the team environment is, as you know, Richard, from all your years covering Davis Cup, it's unique, and I was lucky enough to be captain for a long time.  A lot of great memories.
This, I think, is the start of something really special.  You see these legendary players from the past and the present all together.  That's pretty good for tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT