LAVER CUP
September 21, 2019
John Isner
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/A. Zverev   
6-7, 6-4, 10-1   
Team Europe - 3   
Team World - 3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  John, congratulations. Things turned around obviously when you got that break. How did you feel you were able to play such good tennis in the match tiebreak? The way you were able to get up 7-0, that was pretty incredible.  
JOHN ISNER: Yeah. For 85% of the match, Sascha was, in my opinion, the better player. I was just holding serve and I was making no inroads on his serve. That was clear to see.   
Finally I had a little bit of a chance at 4-All and I definitely got lucky, no doubt about that, to break.   
From there I had a lot of momentum. That freed me up, because I was tight and I couldn't get free. Of course I was holding serve. That's what I do. I don't get nervous on my serve or tight and intense. But once I was able to win that second set 6-4, I felt great. I did feel like I had the momentum, and I think that showed.   
A format like this is one that I like (smiling). That was the best tiebreak/match tiebreak I have probably ever played.   
 Q.  John, how important was it for you just to be able to stay in touch with him? The first set was the breaker, but not to let him get ahead too far?  
JOHN ISNER: Well, yeah, for sure if he gets up a break in that second set, he probably wins the match. Matches like that are -- I have played a bunch throughout my career where things aren't going too great for me, but I'm holding serve and staying even with my opponent, and then maybe I get a little opportunity and I can turn the match around. It just happens so quickly and certainly what happened in the match today.   
 Q.  So in this sort of format, how much are you thinking, John, in the match tiebreaker, maybe late in the second set, about the 1-3 scoreline and how much it would flip? If you lose, you guys go down 5-1, and obviously if you win, it's 3-All?  
JOHN ISNER: That's a good question, Nick, but I wasn't thinking about that at all. I was really just focusing on trying to win that second set, whether it be 6-4, 7-5, or 7-6.   
It's been well documented that our team has had some tough luck in singles match tiebreakers, me especially. I think I was 0-3. I lost to Dominic. I lost to Roger and Sascha last year.   
That was my first win in a match tiebreaker. Generally, in a situation like that, you kinda gotta like my chances, but we're going up against the greatest assembled team ever, really.   
Finally we were able to get one. I think we were due, and that's the beauty of this format is that we are all knotted up, and Nick's out there trying to put us ahead.   
 Q.  Patrick, John just touched on the fact it was 1-3 coming into today, so the importance of at least leveling at this point of the weekend for Team World?  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: Yeah, I mean, really important because they have been playing from ahead pretty much this entire series the last couple years. We'll see how this one goes.   
Obviously Roger certainly knows how to play under pressure, we know that, but slightly different feel to it. If we make it even, and hopefully we can get out of this day with a lead.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT