LAVER CUP
September 21, 2019
Nick Kyrgios
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/N. Kyrgios   
6-7, 7-5, 10-7   
Team Europe - 5   
Team World - 3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The crucial moment at the end of the second set, was the key factor the shot selection or the lack of power or lack of confidence? Can you share some thoughts?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Probably just had to do with something that I was playing someone that's probably the best to ever play the sport. I don't think it was a lack of shot selection or lack of discipline or lack of power or lack of anything.   
I think the guy I was playing was just pretty good. Don't you think so? Yeah. It's a pretty bad question, to be honest.   
 Q.  Obviously it's a gutting loss for you. You looked very dejected at the end of the match. Can you compare it to two years ago when you lost in Prague? How more difficult was this one, or was the other one more difficult?  
NICK KYRGIOS: The one in Prague was heartbreaking, obviously. If I had won that match we were going to send that into a deciding doubles match.   
Both pretty tough, to be honest. Yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously you gave the fans a lot of pleasure. Did you have any pleasure? What positives can you take away from it? Everyone loves you here. Maybe you didn't love the match. I don't know. What positive can you take from the match? What emotions can you take from the match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, going toe to toe with the best to do it is pretty special, especially to do it in his home arena. But, you know, to go out there again and compete in front of both the McEnroe brothers, my team, going out there and laying it on the line, I thought it was an amazing match.   
But again, obviously I would have loved to have won, but it just wasn't to be today. Hopefully we can get behind Milos and he can get a win for us and we can go out there in the doubles and get a win.   
You know, it was a fun match, as well.   
 Q.  If asked, are you available to play tomorrow? And do you expect to play tomorrow?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know, mate. I finished about an hour ago. I haven't even had anything to eat. Haven't really talked about it.   
 Q.  Patrick, have you decided about tomorrow?  
VICE-CAPTAIN PATRICK McENROE: We haven't made any decisions about tomorrow, but certainly based on Nick's play and his effort, he would very much be a contender to play. He played his ass off. He played great.   
 Q.  Well done, anyway. Even if you lost, it was a great match. Do you remember those three points when you were 2-All in the tiebreaker? Federer did three miracles, in my opinion. I don't know if it's difficult for you to remember all the points, the important points, or if it's not important for you. But, I mean, still, did it stick a little bit in your mind or not?  
NICK KYRGIOS: (Shaking head.)   
 Q.  Not at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean...   
 Q.  Reaction volley, and then...  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he played them all. I mean, I'm not going to sit here and continually say he's the best, he's the best, he's the best.   
Yeah, he's good at tennis, yes. He played unbelievable. He was way too good for me today. Can we, like, ask a different question?   
 Q.  We have spoken numerous times how you revel in the team camaraderie and working with a team, for a team, whether doubles, Davis Cup, this kind of format.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.   
 Q.  The interaction that you had with John and with a lot of the other teammates while you were on the court was very intriguing and fun to watch. Do you almost enjoy that more than the singles where you're out there on your own? I mean, you're making decisions on your own obviously, but you're getting input from other people. Do you enjoy that part of it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think it's more fun for me, you know, to, I mean, see Jordan on the bench, a guy I have grown up with, I have known since I was eight, and then be sitting next to someone that I can relate to and I feel understands me in John and he knows the game so well, and then to see my buddies on the bench and guys I'm playing for, you know, representing the World.   
So I don't think there is much more you can play for. I feel like this is the ultimate event. You're playing for Europe and playing for the rest of the World. I'm just out there trying to do what's best for my team. If that's me watching them play, standing out there for practice, I'm going to do whatever they need.   
If my best bet is to go up against Federer every time, then I will do that and I will try my best to win, and I will do everything I absolutely can.   
Today I came up short, but I just love the team environment. I think it's much more enjoyable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT