SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Mike Goodes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously, a great day.  Take us through it.  
MIKE GOODES: Yeah, it was.  I played really solid.  7 birdies and no bogeys.   
It was -- started off and I missed a short birdie putt on 1.   
Pretty good birdie putt on 2.   
And then I just started making birdies.   
I think I birdied 5, what, 5, 7 -- no, 5, 8, 9, 10, 6.   
I made a good par on 11.  I hit a good shot, just went over the green.   
Then I birdied 15 and 16 coming in.   
So it was great.  I played really good.  I putted good, I hit my irons good.  I had to chip one time all day.  That was where I hit a good shot on 11 and it trickled over the green and it wasn't from a bad shot.  So it was fun.   
 Q.  Obviously, there's a lot of golf left to be played, but you're right in the thick of things, how great of a feeling is that?  
MIKE GOODES: That's what you want.  We got two and a half more rounds before it means anything, but you want to start off good.  It's such a key.  I'm glad to be where I am, I hope to play good the next couple days and see what we can do into the weekend.   
 Q.  Runner-up two weeks ago and now this.  What's been the difference recently?  
MIKE GOODES: I hit my irons a lot better lately.  I usually drive the ball pretty good.  When I HIT my irons pretty good I have a lot more birdie putts.  I give myself a lot of chances.  I made 7 birdies today.  A lot of that was because I had a lot of good birdie putts.   
 Q.  A lots of rounds early this morning were under par, not so many this afternoon, but yours was.  So how are the conditions out there?  
MIKE GOODES: Early it was fairly windy and it kind of calmed down some.  They set the golf course up -- and you can see the scores -- to have, for people to make some birdies.  And it was available.  You still had to hit good shots, these greens are in little quadrants and stuff and you got to get in that right area and a lot of times it will feed to the hole if you do and you have a lot of short birdie putts.   
So, I'm not too surprised, after playing, to see somebody like Rocco shoot 9-under and Gene shoot 8-under.  I'm sure there will be some more good rounds.   
 Q.  And you shoot 7-under.  
MIKE GOODES: And me shoot 7-under.  That's right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT