INSPERITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2013
Mike Goodes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Final round 72, you birdied the 16th hole, it got you in a playoff.   Just take us sort of through the day and then talk about I guess the overtime, a couple of routine pars and it happened at 17 there.
MIKE GOODES:   I really played good today.   I hit the ball good all day.   I made four bogeys, 7,8, 10 and 11 and never hit a bad shot.   I hit good tee shots every hole and just miss‑judged‑‑ finally misjudged some wind and miss clubbed a few times and had the ball on 8, I hit I thought dead‑perfect and it trickled over the green and I had an awkward lie with sprinkler heads in front of me.   So I had to try to pitch it and didn't do a very good job.   Bermuda is not always that easy to pitch out of the grain coming at you.
I really hit the ball good all day.   I thought I hit a lot of good putts.   I thought I made my birdie putt on 15.   I couldn't believe it didn't go in. 
But anyway, I was very satisfied with the way I played.   I came after making those bogeys, I came back and birdied 3, made a really nice putt on 13. 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   How far? 
MIKE GOODES:   It was probably 12 feet, ten feet. 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Did you hit wedge? 
MIKE GOODES:   Yeah, I didn't have but 74 yards I think, hole. 
And then had a good 2‑putt on 14, that was a brutal pin, and a brutal hole.   Got kind of in the back fringe on the right of the hole.   Made a nice little second putt.   Hit it right on the front edge. 
I wasn't but a couple inches off the green on 15 in two.   Thought I hit a good putt but didn't roll out quite as much, hit it probably 3 1/2 feet and missed it.   Once again, hit the putt and usually have a gut feel when you hit it and I thought I hit a good putt, and it looked like it moved a little right instead of a little left.   Then hit a really nice 8‑iron on 16 probably about seven, eight feet and I made it. 
Nice up‑and‑down from over the green on 17 and 18 for pars. 
So I mean, I played great.   I got‑‑ I would like to reclub myself a couple of times out there.   Other than that, I drove it great and hit my irons solid and I didn't get it enough times.   I didn't get it up‑and‑down on 18 from long left, which wasn't terribly awkward but to know how you've got to get it up‑and‑down to high is always a little more nerve‑wracking. 
And then the playoff, hit good shot, good shot, good shot on 18.   I thought I had made the putt the second time on 18 and it moved a hair right.   It looked like it was in the hole.   We thought it was a pretty straight putt. 
But anyway, I hit a good putt.   You're not going to make them all.   You're not going to make all good putts. 
And then 17 was disappointing obviously.   I had just hit 9‑iron and wind is left‑to‑right and I'm trying to favor it left of the hole and I pull it just a hair and then I get where it's right‑‑ it's out of the bunker in the grass but I've got to stand in the bunker and it's just, you know, I don't practice that very often.   Maybe I'd better start.   And unfortunately I ran it about probably six, seven feet by the hole, six feet by the hole or something and didn't hit a very good putt coming back. 
But Esteban played great.   I didn't play with him today but 5‑under, great round today.   It was tough out there.   The wind was gusting and the greens got real crusty and hard to make putts coming in.   But once again, I played great, three straight days, just a little short. 

Q.   And the missed putt on 17, just cut to the chase, is that the only disappointing shot you hit all day?
MIKE GOODES:   Really the 9‑iron I hit.   I've got all the room in the world to hit it and I'm hitting my irons so good.   You know, I should have‑‑ hindsight is great, you know.   I should have maybe aimed right at it. 
Maybe the wind, I draw the ball a touch anyway but I'm favoring‑‑ if I aim at it, I probably get it 15 feet left of the hole on the green instead of on the edge of the bunker there. 
That was really more disappointing than anything, because that's kind of an unforced error when you don't hit the green with a 9‑iron in your hand, perfect lie, perfect fairway, tee shot right where I wanted.   Yeah, it's a hard game sometime, that's golf. 

Q.   You and Gene obviously were locked in a battle all through the front nine into the second nine.   When did the two of you become aware of Esteban getting into the conversation or did you simply block that out? 
MIKE GOODES:   I never knew until we were‑‑ I heard my caddie ask Billy Ray Brown going from 17 to 18, I just heard the answer, that there's three tied at 6.   So I figured it was Esteban, because he was playing right in front of me and I saw him doing some fist‑pumping. 

Q.   That was the first time really you were aware? 
MIKE GOODES:   I knew Gene and I were 6‑under.   I did know that.   And Gene played fabulous.   He hit one bad shot and then he stepped on his toes the rest of the way on that one hole.   It was really unfortunate. 
Gene, he was playing so good, and you know, that 15th hole, I felt really bad for him.   He hit one bad drive really and truly and then he‑‑ like I say, he just stumbled the rest of the way up there, unfortunately. 

Q.   What do you say to a guy like him who is your friend and battling to win a tournament; do you do anything there? 
MIKE GOODES:   We just‑‑ we both birdied 16 and I said, that may be the best come back ever, after tripling on 15.   We kind of touched fists coming off the green.   I said, that may be the bestcome back of the year right there, and it was. 
He's got a lot of guts, he's a great player.   I hope we get to play in the final round on Sunday afternoon a lot together. 

Q.   It was Cinco de Mayo, so maybe this is preordained?
MIKE GOODES:   Well, I had no chance the whole time.   I wish you would have told me that, I wouldn't have been sweating so much out there (laughter).

Q.   Weren't overly cognizant of that fact either, I assume. 
MIKE GOODES:   No, I knew it was May.   (Laughter).
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT