U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Mike Goodes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Mike Goodes, shot a 66 today and is even par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Good round, sir.   
MIKE GOODES:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Well, played.   
MIKE GOODES:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What was it out there that made you able to get to 66?   Was it your play?   Was it a combination of your play and the golf course, or was it mostly your play?   
MIKE GOODES:   All my play.   No, you know, to be honest, I got‑‑ I hit the ball, played good.   I putted pretty good.   I got some nice‑‑ few times I hit it in the rough, a couple of times, I got a couple of decent lies, which is hard to come by out here in the rough, and was able to take advantage of some of them.   
I only made one bogey the last hole, and that was I drove it through the fairway in the left rough and just misread the last putt.  
But the course is very similar to the first two days.   I think the scores will be very similar.   There's not much wind.   The greens are holding.   They're receptive.   I'd be surprised if there aren't quite a few scores under par like the first day.  
   
 Q.   A number of the early finishers were saying that the hole locations were probably the easiest of the week.   Would you agree with that assessment?   
MIKE GOODES:   Well, I didn't really see‑‑ I thought they had a good mix, like they've had the first two days, to be honest.   You got a couple of tough ones.   You've got a couple of very accessible pins.   I thought they did that the first two days.   I thought they've done a great job in setting the course up.   
The rough is tough enough.   It's hard enough to hit fairways that they don't need to put the pins on edges to at least give us a chance to score a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Do you see a 64?   
MIKE GOODES:   Oh, yeah.   I'd rather that somebody shoots it.   Somebody could shoot 6 or 7 under out there.   You start off with 1.   Everybody can get to 1 and 2 and 15 is downwind.   So most everybody is going to get to 15 in two.   So if you drive it good on those two holes, the course is more like a par 69 or something, instead of 70.   
And somebody's got to put it in the fairway a lot.   Then you're hitting a lot of short irons.   You've got to get by 12 and 13.   12 and 13 to me, from the time you tee off, you know you got to get by 12 and 13.   They're tough holes.   You've got to hit good shots.   You can't guide it through there.  
And then you've got a lot of holes you can make birdies off good drives.   But you've got to put the ball in play.  
   
 Q.   Would you say that you made up enough ground today, Mike, to get to a point where maybe, if you put another one together tomorrow, you've got a chance?  
MIKE GOODES:   Well, I'm even par.   I think you're going to look at more like 10 under.   60 is going to be pretty tough on this course.   More than anything, I felt I put myself in position to, if I play good again tomorrow, to have a good tournament because I made the cut on the number.   
Didn't even think I was going to make the cut.   I was sitting at the airport, but I wasn't leaving until it finished, and then the cut kept going up, and I got in the cut.   So I headed back.   I never even took my bag out of the car.  
   
 Q.   Was it something you found between rounds?   
MIKE GOODES:   I didn't do anything.   No.   I mean, I hit the ball pretty good the first two days.   It's just a fine line out here.   Sometimes you get a lie you can play out of in the rough, and sometimes you get one, you go sideways. I mean, you can be a foot apart.   
So a little bit of it is being fortunate at the right time, hitting some good shots and making some decent putts.   And I made more putts.   I putted the ball better today than the first two days.   I didn't putt the ball terrible the first two days.   I just didn't make many birdies.  
   
 Q.   So you were sitting at the airport.   You had already checked your bag or anything?   
MIKE GOODES:   No.   I hadn't even taken the bags out of the car.   They were nice enough there, the volunteers.   They let you‑‑ may not want to report this‑‑ leave the car sitting in front of the terminal.   I left it there for an hour and 20 minutes.   The volunteers are saying‑‑ you know, they said it was okay.   
So I sat there and chatted with them for an hour and 20 minutes until I finally got down to like 54th and there wasn't enough people to be able to bust me out so I headed back.  
But my last flight‑‑ I live in North Carolina, Greensboro.   My last flight was at 7:30.   So if I wasn't there, I wasn't going to make it, and I wasn't going anywhere until I knew that I missed the cut.   I would never leave.   I wanted to make the cut too bad and come out here and play this weekend, because you never know.   
Like I say, it would be hard for me to think I can win the tournament at even par now, but you can have a good tournament. You never know, you could sneak in the top 10 or 15 or something.   It's good to be here, and this is a fabulous place.   I'd like to play this course as many times as they'll let me.   Great place.  
   
 Q.   Thank you, Mike.   
MIKE GOODES:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT