THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2011
Mike Goodes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just tell me about the round. 
 MIKE GOODES: Well, I kind of got going like yesterday and eagled two. Hit a couple of good shots and made about probably a 30-footer today. And then I hit two good shots on 3 instead of what I did yesterday. 
 But I hit -- it's a tough green, and I hit it by the hole probably 30, 40 feet and 3-putted it. And then I really played pretty good after that. I made some good putts. 
 I got, what was it, I think 3-under after 9. And then I hit an easy driving hole, just hit a hybrid off of the tee on 10, hit a screwy shot to the right, got in the hazard. Could advance it but stayed in the high rough and then knocked it on the fringe and didn't get it up-and-down. Made double. Then came back with two good birdies back to back. And then missed the green on 13 and didn't get it up-and-down. 
 And then really played solid coming in and made a good par putt on 16, but I had a lot of good birdie putts, a lot of good shots.

 Q. Overall, Walton Heath, you're sort of adapting to the course?
 MIKE GOODES: You have to drive it here. I think you adapt a whole lot better if you hit your tee balls good. But this course will eat you up if you get cooking when you're driving.
 I don't care who you are. You gotta get really lucky if you're a little quick with your driver in the wrong spots.

 Q. Are there any holes that you can gear back to a 3-wood just to make sure you hit it out there?
 MIKE GOODES: There's a couple. 7's one that I did today. I had 3-wood off the tee there. It's not a long hole. I hit 3-wood off of 13 to lay up for a bunker, and it was a great play then I hit a poor iron after that. 
 But, yeah, there's a few holes. Yesterday I hit a hybrid on 18 and today I hit driver. You know, just wanted to be a little more aggressive today. And actually just had wedge to the green. I didn't hit a great wedge but had a good birdie putt any way. So there are some holes. 
 There are some holes you have to pull your driver out and whack it, because there's some pretty long holes out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT