BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2013
Edouard Roger-Vasselin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. DODIG/E. Roger‑Vasselin
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you explain what happened during the match?  
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Well, I'm rather disappointed because I was never able to play well in this tournament, and this is really upsetting.   I had a good week before.   Of course it's always difficult to follow on a good week.  
But I was confident, I was feeling good, and for the seventh time here I really didn't play well.   I am extremely annoyed.   I have no excuse.   I was fresh; I was fit; I was confident.   
Well, of course my body is a bit tired, but I really wanted to do well.   Maybe too much.   What disappoints me more than frustrates me is that again I played a bad match here.   I'm really upset.  
Even before the match I was afraid this would happen, so maybe this explains why I am not able to let go.   I just can't play well on Court No. 1 here.   
   
 Q.   You also are thinking about reaching top 50?  
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   No.   Oh, well, it's better to be top 50 than top 51, just for financial reasons, of course, but this doesn't explain why I played bad today.  
My opponent played a good match, but I can't find any reasons for my playing so bad.   I tried to play my game, but it didn't happen.   It's like a permanent fight to remain focused.  
After the third game already I was thinking, What am I doing here?   After that I tried to fight, but it's tough thinking all the conditions are there for me to play a good match and I don't do it.   I am very, very disappointed.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about this before the match?  
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Well, now I'm starting to think about it, yes.   Every time I'm thinking, you know, I hope this time I'm going to play well; whereas in other tournaments I just walk onto the court and go ahead with it.  
I don't know if here the conditions don't suit me, if the ceiling is too low.   I don't know.   Maybe if I could win one match here I would feel better, but I just can't do it.   
So it's disappointing.   
   
 Q.   How can you explain that French players all reach their best at 30 years old, 20 years old?  
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   I don't really have an answer for that.   But as far as I'm concerned, I know that I am playing my best tennis a bit late in my career.   Maybe because physically I was not tough enough before, and I knew I would need time to be able to sustain very high‑level matches for a long time.   
I was not able to do that four or five years ago.   I was able to do that for one match or two in the season, but not during the whole season.   Now I'm able to play better in a consistent way for the whole season.   
I know that it is the daily work you can do that makes a difference, and it took me four or five years.   I don't know about the others.  
   
 Q.   I imagine after that loss and your being annoyed, you don't want to try to tell us what you think of this season for you.   
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Well, yes, it was my best season, but this ends in a negative note.   I'm still motivated because I have doubles to play.   I think it's a good tournament to play here.   
And anyway, in singles or doubles I will reach my best ranking this year, so this season was very good.  
   
 Q.   And playing doubles with Julien?   Are you thinking about Davis Cup?   
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Not really.   A possible selection in Davis Cup means you have a very high ranking.   Of course my ranking is not that bad now.   I'm still a bit low and I think I can improve it, but in doubles Mika is better than I am still.   
But why not in the future?   I have more chances of being selected playing with Julien than anyone else.   But of course if I end the year top 5 with my present partner, I might be selected, too.   
I like my partner very much, but maybe it's nicer to play with a French player during the year so if ever in Davis Cup there are some injuries or something and we have to play, well, we would have some practice.  
Anyway, it's a great partner to have for next year.   
   
 Q.   Apart from your ranking, top 50, do you already have the feeling you went a step forward now?  
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Well, not if I look at my match today.   But when I was watching top 50 players, I could see I was not far behind.   Since March I have been top 60, top 70, so I was not far behind.  
And although I didn't totally change, it's something that makes you happy, and I will be able to play most tournaments, and the Masters 1000s, anyway, so I hope next year will be a good year.   
But I think also that if I'm there it's because I deserve it.   In all tournaments I know I will have to play very good players from the start, so it's up to me to prepare well to make sure I have good results from the beginning of the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT