MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2013
Edouard Roger-Vasselin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/E. Roger‑Vasselin
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You had several opportunities to break back.   Overall it was a good match. 
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   That's the point.   It was opportunities to come back, but not to be ahead of him. 
I let him take the lead from the start, except for that first breakpoint I had.   Very quickly, he was up in the score and I was down.   It was the same type of match as the one we played in the Australian Open.   I always had to struggle to come back. 

Q.   What did he do to put pressure on you? 
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   In the beginning I was totally dominated.   I was not able to play a single point.   I was making errors.   I was not able to find a good rhythm.   I couldn't find the balance between being aggressive and not making mistakes.   I was not able to find a solution. 
But I didn't give up.   I kept fighting.   Otherwise the match would have been finished very quickly.   Here it finished less quickly.   I was not far behind, but it's tough fighting him. 

Q.   What makes his game so difficult?   He's not a clay court player. 
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   He's not?   He played the same as in the French Open.   I believe he's not bad on this surface, even if it's not his favorite surface.   I believe he moves very well on clay. 
I asked several players to give me some advice, and not a single one was able to give me good advice.   They were all saying, Don't make mistakes and play well, as if I didn't know that.   It's difficult to find a solution to his game. 

Q.   The second set was pretty good.   You must be pretty happy with that. 
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Yes.   In the first set he was ahead pretty quickly and he served well on tough points, like at 30‑All or things like that.   In the second I played better.   But, as I said before, I was always trying to come back, never being ahead. 

Q.   How can you compare this match with the one in Australia?
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Well, in this match I had a breakpoint at the start, and I started believing I could do something.   But immediately after he hit three winners and that got me down.   He was very aggressive from the start.   After that I was able to raise my game and it became tighter. 

Q.   Overall this was a good tournament for you. 
EDOUARD ROGER‑VASSELIN:   Yes, it was.   But I feel disappointed after this match.   If I had been able to play like I played in the second set for the whole match, it would have been a lot better.   I believe I gave him the first set easily. 
But I'm very excited to play the next tournaments.   I'm hoping I will be able to play against those kind of players again.   But for this particular match, I find it difficult to find anything positive in it.   I'm quite disappointed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT