U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Karel Novacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It's been a long year. What do you think about the match?
 
 KAREL NOVACEK: Well, it's been a tough year. I've been fighting with injuries this
year. Actually, I felt pretty good coming into this tournament. I just got somebody who
was serving so big, it was hard to deal with today. So I went down, and I'm still going to
have good memories for this tournament. So tennis it's not over yet. After semi-finals
last year, it's been a very hard draw. 
 
Q. What do you remember of last year; does it seem longer than twelve months ago?
 
 KAREL NOVACEK: Seems like yesterday. Actually, the year passed very quickly. It's good
to be back here. At least I still got my doubles left to play. And hopefully, I can enjoy
to play that competition and go longer than I did in my singles. That's life. I think I
could have done better, if there would have been better decent draw, but I played somebody
who last couple of weeks was really playing well. And he was really only one who gave
battle to Agassi. He just proved today he has a big, big serve. That when he's on fire,
he's very, dangerous. 
 
Q. Do you think that people have forgotten how well you did here last year?
 
 KAREL NOVACEK: Well, no. I don't know. 
 
Q. You know.
 
 KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, I've had a drop in my rankings. On the other hand, at least I did
it once. That's in my head as a good memory. 
 
Q. Just one more quick one. You've had back --
 
 KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, I had the knee, knee injury which got better right after
Wimbledon. But I have been struggling with that for three months, and I got into it and
after the tournament in Amsterdam right when I came to play tournament, I hurt my back. I
was out for another three weeks without any practice. So it's been -- I passed one injury,
and I got back into the rhythm again and another injury blew me away from tennis
tournament so... I felt okay today. I was just not able to return the serve. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT