COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Karel Novacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What about your season in this year, you had  last year a very good season?  

KAREL NOVACEK:  Well, the first part was not  good at all.  And been struggling with basically  everything.  I couldn't really concentrate on matches,  on practice, and then I find a new inspiration with my  new coach.  I start to work harder and start to have  fun, not only during the matches but during the  practice as well.  And since that moment, I have been  enjoying the game much more, and I start to play again,  the tennis I like to play.  It was more fun anyway.  Even I was winning much more but it was more fun the  second half of the year, and I have been happy about  that, including the semifinal in U.S. Open.  


Q.  Is it true that you don't play Davis Cup the  first round?  

KAREL NOVACEK:  Right.  That is true.  


Q.  Why?  

KAREL NOVACEK:  Because there has been a lot  of - not a lot - but there have been some trouble this  year, and I have been playing Davis Cup for a long  time.  And because of these troubles, because of the  changes in -- of the manager of our Davis Cup team and  because all the little things got changed, and I decide  that all the pressure which I felt always during that  Davis Cup Ties I felt like I need a little break out of  it because I have been playing a lot for long years and  I can enjoy my family or just rest for the week which  was not easy decision, believe me, and -- but I made it  and ...  


Q.  (INAUDIBLE) your former coach?  

KAREL NOVACEK:  That has nothing to do with  it.  I was the one that support to put him on the team.  


Q.  With Korda you are playing?  

KAREL NOVACEK:  Right.  I decided when I was  in South America playing tournaments I felt tired and I  have been going through what everything happened and  that was my decision which I took and I informed all  the media and our country and our press of the  Federation and the people really don't understand, I  think.  They still think that everybody should play and  they don't really understand the point of view which  that different single person has, you know?  They take  it as think it should be done naturally, just to  compete for your country, but that has nothing to do  with it.  These little things which makes me not -- I  didn't enjoy to be in the Davis Cup too much in the  last year or this year, I mean, so that was the  decision why.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT