U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Karel Novacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah. I felt fantastic. I played like no mistakes. I plan for the game,
worked 100%. I didn't want to really hit the ball very hard, but I wanted the ball to keep
playing. Once he hit shorter, I take my chance and hit the ball, but everything seems to
be working very well and I felt like I've been really playing one of my best matches this
year. 

Q. Is that your big effort win at the Open? 

KAREL NOVACEK: No, I think I beat Stefan Edberg last year right from right here on the
Grand Stand, but of course it's always good to beat a seeded player and especially the way
I did today because I think I was playing really without any mistakes and very clever and
it paid off. It was just the game I wanted to play. 

Q. Do you think you took him completely out of his game? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, because I started from the beginning and I was able to keep it all
the way through, and once I was just maybe few times down on my serve, I was able to come
with the big serves and that was it. I was very consistent with my game and I just didn't
give him a chance to get to his game. 

Q. Reneberg was saying that after he beat Becker that he played the best match of his
life against Becker, he didn't know how he was going to do coming in the second match. I
know you didn't have much time to think about it, but when you have a day like today, does
the next time you play in a tournament like this make it -- is there a bit of uncertainty?


KAREL NOVACEK: I think I played a great match in the first round-- and I think I played
really really good match and today it was just a bit easier because everything what I hit,
important points, it went in and he didn't really take any chances then to fight back. So
it was that way a bit easier. But, yeah, I mean, I have to just keep my concentration for
the other matches and keep going the way I'm just playing now. 

Q. Did it surprise you that he didn't fight back more? 

KAREL NOVACEK: It surprised me that he didn't try to change something. Maybe just hit
the ball as much as he can or just keep the ball playing and try to get to the rallies.
Even that I was controlling the game, maybe if he just -- maybe he just didn't feel the
way -- he didn't feel the ball today or something, but it surprised me he didn't really
try to change the game. That one was not working. 

Q. He's a young player. Do you think that that's something that he's got to learn to
do, find a way to -- 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, of course. He's 20, he just turned 20 and he has a lot of time in
front of him and he has already achieved a lot of great successes in his tennis and I
think anybody in any age, especially in tennis, can learn anything and can improve his
game because his dominant surface was clay and I think hardcourt or indoor is where he can
improve his game. 

Q. Is there any feeling among the other guys that once you get him down he cannot fight
back or doesn't know how to -- 

KAREL NOVACEK: It's also matter how able you are to keep the same game against your
opponent because once you are able to keep going, I believe it's tough to get back to even
the game and to stay even until maybe 4-All, 5-All, you know, anything can change with one
mis-hit and one lucky shot, you know. So I don't know how the other players react, but I
felt today that I'm in total control of the game. 

Q. Goran, for example, has the idea some players, when you get them down, they begins
to explode. Does Medvedev not have that reputation? If he doesn't, that's fine. 

KAREL NOVACEK: I played him three days before today's match and I beat him one time
before indoor and lost to him twice when he was on a roll last year when he won Estoril
and Barcelona. He was hot at time and he beat me and I was playing well in Rotterdam and I
just rush him also. So it's hard to really take a comment on it. But, well, he's young. I
mean, he's got plenty of people around him, so hopefully they are going to advise him to
do things. 

Q. You've played well here again this year, you played well last year, do like this
place? This place isn't a place that a lot of people like. 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, it's one of the Grand Slams, you have to realize that and
everybody is really playing a lot of tournaments, but still wants to be on the top on this
big one. And it's always a great thing when you are able to play good when you are able to
beat a seeded player on a Grand Slam tournament. You can give your serve a good
reputation, a lot of people is watching and it's just the place where you can make your
name bigger and I think I've done it in the past two years, hopefully I can go even
further this year. 

Q. Do you come in here feeling real good about this place, New York, or the hardcourts,
everybody always criticizes or says it is a tough place to play. 

KAREL NOVACEK: Do want me to be very honest. 

Q. Sure. 

KAREL NOVACEK: I love New York it is a great place to be in and it's great, and can't
really very much enjoy this facility here -- I'm not talking about the courts. The courts
are fine. I mean, there's nothing we can change about that. But the players are here and
the locker rooms, I think could be some way improved and as I see, yourselves here, as
well. 

Q. Well, what I meant is if you have success, why do you have success here -- 

KAREL NOVACEK: I love New York, I love to come to the City of New York. It's something
special and it's one in the world and I don't know if I could live here but it's just
great to spend a few weeks in a year in this great city and I'm just saying -- I'm not
complaining about courts, I'm just saying that the place is very -- the places for having
lunch and having shower maybe could be better. The main reason, the answer for your
question in New York I love to come, I love the place. 

Q. You do very well here, the conditions don't seem to bother you at all? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah, but I'm staying in Connecticut and come here for the match and I
practice on the garden and just coming here to play the match. The great thing about it is
the spectators. They are really coming in, they appreciate the game and they really love
to watch tennis, which we saw last night when Agassi was playing evening session, it was
so full. So, I think that's a great thing about it. 

Q. So just coming to this place, you feel good? 

KAREL NOVACEK: I feel good. Coming on the court, playing, hit the ball, it's perfect. 

Q. Where are you staying in Connecticut? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Mats Wilander's house. He's my friend and he just woke me up in the
morning and he works well as a coach. 

Q. Playing golf with him? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yeah. 

Q. You do play golf with him during the off days? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yes, yesterday we played 18 holes; don't ask for the results. 

Q. What did he shoot? 

KAREL NOVACEK: He shoots 79, I guess. 

Q. Do you think your feelings about New York-- do you think you're in the majority as
far as the players are concerned or in the minority? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Well, everybody has different taste, I guess, and -- but one thing
remains. It's New York and it's one of the four Grand Slams and I think many of the
players would agree with me about the facility, and many would agree with me that there's
a lot to do in New York City. So that's my answer. 

Q. So you're more comfortable here now than when you lost to Connors when he made his
big run in '91? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yes, that year was the best for me in my tennis life. I made Masters, I
finished 8 in the world in the year and I just didn't play that specific match and I've
been a little nervous before I was coming in on the match and he was really hot. So it was
kind of difficult for me to get myself together and play competitive match at the time.
But once it can happen. I guess, and -- 

Q. And now you're more comfortable? 

KAREL NOVACEK: Yes, it is not like now, but I didn't play really well in the beginning
of the year. I've been struggling to the French Open and I really was not feeling well,
and I've been not winning matches. But then I pick it up and practicing a little harder.
So it's the timing, when you are playing really well, sometimes you play a little bad and
you don't feel the ball as you would like to. But it doesn't really change that much your
opinion about the court or the City or about my wife or about my daughter or something. 

Q. You enjoy it. You like playing here. Medvedev -- 

KAREL NOVACEK: I'm enjoying almost everywhere, to be on evidence. 

Q. Medvedev has said in the past, this place-- he doesn't like this place that much; do
you think that surfaces on the court at all when somebody like yourself is beating him? 

KAREL NOVACEK: I like to play. I like to play even if I'm losing and if I'm struggling
I lost seven first rounds in a row and I still like the challenge that even if I'm 29 and
12 years on the circuit, I still like the challenge that there is a reason to train again
and practice again to get in better shape and get in a winning streak and right here I am
and I'm just feeling great again and it's really fun to play and even more fun when you
win it. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT