U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Jonah Texeira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're here with our next semifinalist, Jonah Texeira.  He's a junior at University of Southern California, came to us with victories over Colton Yates, Dawson Armstrong, Kyler Dunkle and now a 3 & 2 victory over Luis Gagne.
You've reached the semifinals at the U.S. Amateur.  What are your thoughts about your experience?
JONAH TEXEIRA: Words can't explain to be honest how I feel right now.  I mean, it feels like I'm dreaming.  I never thought I'd get this far.  When I got here, I was an alternate, so my whole goal was just to get into match play, and then to make it this far is an absolute blessing.  I can't explain right now how I'm feeling.
Q. You found out August 8 you got in the championship.  What a roll you've been on.
JONAH TEXEIRA: Yeah, I didn't really think I was going to get in, first alternate, but I was still practicing.  I had a little bit of faith and then my mom called me.  I was at the dealership and she's like, "You got in the Am!"  I was just jumping for joy.  I couldn't wait to get here and try my best to -- whatever happens, happens.
Q. Is the dealership a job for you?
JONAH TEXEIRA: I was getting my car serviced and she called me.  Then she's like, "Hey, you got in the Am!"
I was like, "Woo!" I was pretty excited.
Q. Tell us about your match today.  How do you feel coming off the course?
JONAH TEXEIRA: Definitely the hardest match I've played so far.  Luis is an absolute great player.  He hits it straight.  His putting and chipping is great.  I was lucky enough to get to a good start in the beginning.  I made some clutch putts.  I think I made like a 15-footer on 2, another 15-footer on 4, I made eagle on 6 and I made like a 40-footer on 7 to get to 4-up, and I was like, okay, this is like awesome.
But yeah, he played great.  On the back nine, he actually started making birdies and I knew he was coming back.  I was just like, okay, calm down, Jonah, make pars and let him catch you.  I did make pars and got some clutch up-and-down.  On 16, that wedge shot to two feet to clinch it was pretty special.
Q. That birdie blitz you had earlier, is that something you do from time to time, going on runs like that?
JONAH TEXEIRA: Sometimes, but it's very rare it happens.  And for it to happen in the quarterfinals is pretty spectacular.  So I'm just excited for it to happen on the front nine.
Q. And then secondly, with playing Luis, getting in as an alternate late, as well, did you have any humorous conversations?
JONAH TEXEIRA: We talked a little bit but we didn't really talk about that for some reason.  Just didn't cross our minds.  But I mean still, for two alternates to make it to the quarterfinals is pretty cool I guess.
Q. This is your second time playing in the amateur?
JONAH TEXEIRA: I played Olympia Fields last year and missed the match play by one.
Q. Was this remotely in your mind?
JONAH TEXEIRA: It was in the back of my mind.  I knew, I recently just switched coaches to Adam Porzak who just changed my game and changed my life completely.  He's the greatest guy I've ever met.  He's just so simple.
I went to him just after nationals because I wasn't really hitting it good.  Worked with him a couple times and got my swing down to really consistent and my putting, just absolutely insane.  You know, I definitely would give him credit for where I am right now.
Q. Your next match is going to be against Brad Dalke.  What do you know about going up against Brad?
JONAH TEXEIRA: Brad is a cool guy.  I remember when I was 15 and he was like 13, and we played the AJGA Thunderbird Invitational and he ended up winning it.  We hung out a lot.   Our dads played a lot of ping-pong and stuff.  But Brad, he's a great guy.  He's going to be a good match tomorrow.
Q. And tell us about the rain delay, or should I say the storm delay.  How do you deal with something like that that takes you off the course?
JONAH TEXEIRA: I just eagled 6 and I drove my ball in the bunker on 7 and then they called the rain delay, and I was like, oh, my God, I got a bunker shot, and I have like an hour, you know what I mean.
It kind of took -- I would say it took the momentum off a little bit; that's what I thought.  Then I got back and I made a 40-foot bomb on 7 to go like 4-up I think, and I was like, okay, well, that's a bonus.  So it was pretty cool.
Q. Who do you have with you support-wise?
JONAH TEXEIRA: I have my mom.  She's always there for me.  I love her to death.  Yeah, she does everything for me.  And I definitely wouldn't be here without her or my dad, so yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT