ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2021
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. I know we just talked about it, but this is the first time you've played by yourself at any professional event; is that right?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, ever.  Never thought in 11 years I would be having a first, but here we are.
 Q. What was this like, third round at ANA just being able to cruise?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Beautiful.  After yesterday being really slow and waiting on just about every shot, this was really, really nice.  The way golf should be played.
 Q. Take me through the mindset of this morning.  When did you start the feel that momentum?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I just played like I would normally play.  You know, I didn't really try to go fast.  I was just reading everything.  We even took a water break.  It was just a normal walk.
 Q. You say normal walk.  The walking scorer was just saying he had to catch his breath when you guys stopped for water at 16.
 JESSICA KORDA:   I think it was more or less just like being in the moment.  We're still -- we're getting our numbers, wiping the ball, still walking everything it off.  I did everything like I normally would, but just with no breaks.
 Like I -- there was no one stopping me.  I didn't have to wait for anyone and that was really nice.
 Q. Aside from No. 18, the round overall, what has this course been playing like this entire week for you?
 JESSICA KORDA:   It's tough.  I haven't been hitting the ball that great and haven't been making a ton of putts, which obviously results in not-so-great scores.
 I rolled some putts in this morning.  Obviously being the first out the greens were absolutely pure.  Got unlucky on 18 and laid it up in a divot.
 So, you know, it's golf, but it happens.  So I'm just glad to be done and get to watch everybody else.
 Q. I was going to say, is it weird being done for the day?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, I mean, I don't even know what time it is.  It is even 12:00, 11:00?  What time is it?
 Q. No, you finish at 10:44.
 JESSICA KORDA:   Perfect.  I'm going to go take a nap.
 Q. Hundred degree day.  Did you think about going with a marker or that would've just been -- slows you down?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I never had the option to.  Austin told me I could, though.
 Q. So tomorrow you probably won't have the option of playing by yourself again.  What's it going to be like that one day like this can turn around the whole weekend for you?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, you know, making the cut and having an opportunity to move up is always something you try to do.  It's called moving day for a reason.  Obviously you can move forward or backwards.
 I don't think I'm going to get myself in contention, especially with the way I finished.  Somewhere up there for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT