CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You told me you want to get out of here and go straight to the driving range. Your score doesn't show it. How good was the putter today?
JESSICA KORDA: It was great. I had a lot of lag putts today, and same like yesterday, I was able to hit a couple close and take advantage of the par-5s, which was nice.
Q. When your sister is at the top of the board like this, as are you, you both were 2-under after yesterday, what's the conversation at night? Does that provide some extra fuel to the fire motivation?
JESSICA KORDA: We actually don't talk golf at all. No golf talk at the dinner table. Yeah, really nothing. It was just talking about -- I think we're now on Tik Tok -- we found a new app called Tik Tok and we were just sending each other videos, and that's all we were doing really.
Q. What was the strength of your game today?
JESSICA KORDA: Definitely my putter. I was able to hit a lot of long putts today. That saved me where I only had tap-ins and I never really risked more than a bogey other than the one that I had, and I intended to hit a ball out of the hazard, which was actually a more fun bogey than I anticipated. But it was definitely the putter today.
Q. What's it like within the family for you when Nelly has been on this hot streak and she's at the top of the board today?
JESSICA KORDA: It's great. I mean, it feels like a normal week. You know, I don't really -- I do look at the leaderboard, but I know it's still really early. There's a lot of people bunched up at the top, and like I said, it's still early, still have 36 holes left.
Q. You guys you said don't talk golf all that much, but is there an inner sort of competition between the two of you, you see her up there and you want to push yourself a little bit more?
JESSICA KORDA: I think that's every single week we always say we want to beat each other, but at the end of the day, we want to be sure that our best is beating the other's best, that there isn't any kind of background games that we could play with each other if we really wanted to.
Q. You said you're heading to the range. What specifically are you looking to work on or tune up?
JESSICA KORDA: Just my alignment. I'm not really that confident over the ball where it's really flying right now. I'm not sure why. It just feels like it's going right. So we'll see, yeah. Just going to go work on that for a little bit.
Q. The whole family is together this week?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, we've got about nine people here this week.
Q. When is the last time your immediate family was all together at a tournament?
JESSICA KORDA: Last year, CME last year. We never get to see each other that often, so I just finished last week and then flew out here, and he's here against his better judgment walking 18 holes. But it's good to see everyone out.
Q. Does the week have a special vibe together because you're all together?
JESSICA KORDA: It's just weird having to make reservations for nine. We had to split up last night. But yeah, it's good. It's nice to have everyone here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT