PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 25, 2014
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You put up a fight today.   
JESSICA KORDA:   I did.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk overall about how you'd sum up your round?  
JESSICA KORDA:   Today you could see the rust.   You start feeling a little bit of pressure where you want to play well, and you can tell I'm still working on a lot of things out there.   But I'm really happy with the way I finished.   Yeah, I hit a lot of good shots today, really a lot of good putts that just didn't fall, so I can't be disappointed with that.   I honestly had one bad shot.  
   
 Q.   Can we talk about that one bad shot?   
JESSICA KORDA:   That swing change, I've done that out on the range plenty of times.   It's one of those things where my body got ahead of my hands and the ball was below my feet, and there's nothing you can do about it.   I'm sure that everybody saw my facial expression after that.   I can't believe I did that.   I don't think I've ever shanked a shot, ever, on the golf course playing in a tournament.   
But it's January, first tournament of the season, swing changes, and I've been working on a lot of stuff.   The shot after that I just stood a little further away from it.  
I made a birdie after that; that's all that matters, right?   
   
 Q.   What bad shot?   
JESSICA KORDA:   I should have started with that.   
   
 Q.   We only remember the eagle.   Can you tell us about finishing this round on a high note?  
JESSICA KORDA:   It was great.   I mean, I heard Paula, from the crowd, the reaction was great, so I knew that she was close.   I was like, I want that.   Nothing has fallen in the hole, and I really want something.   So I hit from‑‑ I think we had 196 pin, and I hit 5‑iron, and I hit it really nice, so I can't complain.  
   
 Q.   How does that change your outlook heading into tomorrow?   
JESSICA KORDA:   I mean, definitely‑‑  
   
 Q.   Your position on the leaderboard changes quickly.   
JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, for sure.   Okay, I didn't see that NaYeon finished 15.   Yeah, that's awesome, still in it.   Basically I'm still in it; that's all.   I'm going to go to the range and kind of work on a couple of drills so I can be a little bit more comfortable out there tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   There was just a lot going on with everybody.   I saw at 6 you did look at the leaderboard.   Were you kind of seeing how much things were changing?  
JESSICA KORDA:   I just wanted to see how it was going because yesterday I was expecting kind of higher scores and everybody was shooting low.   I just wanted to see what today kind of looked like.   I definitely watch leaderboards; that's nothing new.   I just wanted to see kind of what was going on.   I mean, you don't know what you're going to get.   You have beautiful weather and all of a sudden the golf course plays completely differently.   Instead of yesterday I had 152, I hit 9‑iron; today I had 152, I hit 8‑iron.   It plays completely differently.   You're taking different lines.   It's just like a different golf course basically, so it's a lot of getting used to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT