U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
JESSICA KORDA:   I definitely think for this morning it will.   We'll see for this afternoon.   But if it keeps the conditions that they are, yeah.

Q.   How is this week kind of different for you having Nelly here and your family.   This isn't how you travel anymore?
JESSICA KORDA:   No.   It's a lot better than I thought it was going to be.   I thought it would be chaotic in the house, but it's not at all.   I think it helps that we're on opposite sides of the wave.   But it's really nice to have everybody here.   It feels really good.   It does. 
I know that you can't have it every week, but I'm really glad that everybody could come out this week.   We've got our aunts and uncles out here and our friends out here, so it means a lot that everybody came out and watch and support us this week.

Q.   Did you talk golf at all last night?
JESSICA KORDA:   I saw Nelly for a whole 15minutes last night before I had to go bed.   I bought her dinner and said good luck tomorrow, I'll see you some time.

Q.   Was the course different today?
JESSICA KORDA:   It was definitely a lot different today.   It was windier, a lot of the holes played really tough.   You had to take your medicine here and there.   There were some birdie opportunities definitely.   If you took advantage of those, you could come out with a pretty good score.

Q.   Because of that were there some clubs that didn't come out of your bag today that you used yesterday?
JESSICA KORDA:   I think a lot of the longer clubs came out of the bag today that didn't really too much yesterday.   That was one of the bigger differences.   I had driver, 5‑iron or 3‑wood, 4‑iron and stuff like that.

Q.   What was the biggest problem the wind was causing this morning?
JESSICA KORDA:   Well, the wind switches at a certain time‑out here.   So it was just catching that and it's tough to tell yourself to take a certain line outside the fairway and hope that the wind will bring it back.   Sometimes it doesn't.   So just the gustiness of it was a little tough.

Q.   What got you started with golf?   How did you get interested?
JESSICA KORDA:   My parents moved to Florida in '92, and my dad practiced at the (indiscernible) Academy. 
When I was five years old, they actually opened a golf academy, the David Ledbetter Golf Academy.   I was trying all different kinds of sports.   My mom was like let's try this one.   I started with it, and I didn't love it at first but I had a really great coach that kind of kept me entertained through the whole thing.   And then kind of enrolled in the Academy when I was about eight or nineyears old went three or four times a week.

Q.   How long before you loved it?
JESSICA KORDA:   I think I was eight years old.   The fact I could go out and we played a lot in Czech Republic because that's where we spent most of our summers.   I got to play with my dad and play grandfather and met a lot of cool people through it.   Just the love it just grew from there. 

Q.   You and your dad go 18, who wins?
JESSICA KORDA:     He doesn't play anymore.   By the way, I win.   The last time we played, I won.   He doesn't play that much golf anymore.   His back is not that great. 

Q.   How old were you when you last played?
JESSICA KORDA:   Like actually we played when I was leaving Australia my second year, so end of‑‑ it was the first year of January2012.

Q.   And you won?
JESSICA KORDA:   Of course I did.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JESSICA KORDA:   I don't know.   I don't remember, but I did win.   That's the most important thing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT