WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2013
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome in Jessica Korda who's currently two shots off the lead of Morgan Pressel at 2‑under par.   Jess, welcome.   Your second trip to Rochester in the last month.   You were here for media day at Locust Hill a few weeks ago.   The weather is a little bit better than it was when you were here previously when we had some sleet.
JESSICA KORDA:   And snow.
THE MODERATOR:   And a little bit of snow.   But this week it's rained, and yesterday we got washed out.   So just tell us about what you did yesterday and how you prepared today to shoot 2‑under par. 
JESSICA KORDA:   Yesterday my practice was chipping in the hallways of our hotel.   My roommate Jodi and I were trying to hit our balls in the air.   So that's what afternoon looks like on the LPGA Tour. 
THE MODERATOR:   You stay a lot of weeks with Jodi Ewart, another young player on tour, for those of you who don't know who Jodi is.   If you would, just walk through the round for us.   You shot 2‑under par.   Great score to post in the first round. 
JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah.   I just tried to keep the ball in the fairway off the tee.   The rough is so nasty.   Every time you get in there it's just an advance, trying to get it back in the fairway. 
And I got stuck up in the rough on 4, I think, and bogeyed that hole.   And came back with a couple of birdies on par‑5s that I could reach and get really close to.   So definitely being long out here I think helped me today, and I tried to stay out of the rough as much as I could.   Most of my bogeys came because I was in the rough.
THE MODERATOR:   The state of your game, I feel like we're seeing your name on the leaderboard most tournaments you're at.   You had a great chance to win Mobile a few weeks back.   You're already a winner on tour.   You won last year at the Australian Open.   Just tell us about the state of your game coming into Wegmans.
JESSICA KORDA:   I think I'm just having a lot of fun out here and being relaxed out there is definitely helping.   Knowing a lot of the players and feeling comfortable, just being myself and having a lot of fun with the game, and I think that kind of makes it a show out there.   So the better I can play and come back in here, the better I'm doing.   So the more I have fun, the better I play.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jess. 

Q.   Did you see Meg out there following you?
JESSICA KORDA:   She was out there today? 

Q.   Okay.   You didn't. 
JESSICA KORDA:   We had a lot of people walking with us.   I played with Inbee and Paula today.   So didn't really look outside the ropes.

Q.   Yeah, she was going back and forth, back and forth.   How much is the Solheim Cup on your mind and what are your thoughts going the next two months before we get there?
JESSICA KORDA:   You know, definitely before Thursday starts I'm thinking about Solheim, and on Sunday I'm looking at points and see if I've moved up. 
But like Mike told us at dinner and has told us many times over and over again, if we think about winning tournaments, the points will take care of themselves.   He doesn't want us to think about the Solheim points.   So that's what I'm trying to do out there, and hopefully I can get on the team and help them win.

Q.   How pleased were you to get the round back today because you had it to 2 and then back to even and back to 2.   How pleased were you to get the round back on track?
JESSICA KORDA:   I was definitely happy.   Made a long putt on 16 to get it back to 1‑under.   You know, I knew I could birdie 17, get on the green and two‑putt.   So I was just scrambling really.   I was just trying to really hit the green and hit the fairway and get out of there. 
It's playing really tough.   Not that it wasn't playing tough at the beginning of the week, but I think with the added inches of rain and the rough is playing really ‑‑ it's mean.   It's mean. 

Q.   Is your length helping this week?
JESSICA KORDA:   I think on certain holes, yes.   You know, I had a hard time keeping the ball on the green today because every time I would hit it it would spin right off.   So all of a sudden I'd have like a 40‑footer instead of like a 10‑footer.   So yes and no.   So on par‑5s, yes.   On par‑4s, not really. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Jess?   Well, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT