BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 19, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JESSICA KORDA: It was fun. Danielle and Brooke both played really well, especially at the beginning where I feel like somebody was birdieing almost every single hole.   
There were birdies on top of birdies just to try to stay in and keep the lead. Yeah, it was a fun day. It was really fun.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) What might be your highlight today? For example the section of your performance that really made you feel happy and is the highlight?  
JESSICA KORDA: I think all day. All day was fun. I mean, you know, having players that are playing really, really well keeps you in it. Yeah, just the whole day was awesome. Obviously finishing with a birdie was really nice.   
But I would say that the whole day was pretty good.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Normally it would be difficult for players to capture titles in different countries. You have already won five in five different countries. How do you get yourself accustomed to the local weather, food, and so forth, to get this kind of glory?  
JESSICA KORDA: Luckily I got to travel with my dad when I was a kid, so I'm used to living out of a suitcase. Hotel rooms are homes. It's just another week.   
I would just say that foreign golf courses suit me more and maybe jet lag plays some type of positive in that.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) These days, past few days we've been seeing you practice quite a bit off the course on the driving range and so forth. Are you trying to make yourself some adjustment in order to fit more for the course here?  
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, God no. I usually don't hit a lot of balls. Yeah, I've been working a little bit on my swing. It's feeling more and more comfortable each day, so hopefully the trend continues.   
That's kind of more Tuesday, Wednesday, and I think after the round on Thursday, and then I haven't been out since then. Been my normal routine going forward, so...   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Normally actually as an older sister you are an example, a role model for your younger sister. It's been like this for a while, but now your younger sister obviously has surpassed you as far as ranking. Do you think you two sisters have this kind of positive competitiveness there? What do you make of it?  
JESSICA KORDA: I'm not necessarily looking at rankings. I'm more looking at how the years are. I don't feel like rankings reflect kind of how your year has been.   
There is a lot that goes into it. She's won twice or three times in the last 12 months. She's been playing great golf and it's been fantastic to see her grow into herself.   
For me, I've been struggling with injuries. I've been getting back to being healthy and playing good golf. When I'm healthy I've been playing well. It's just maintaining my health.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Obviously first of all, need to give you my congratulations on this beautiful round here. You did well. However, we noticed that actually on hole 10 you got a bogey there. One of the competitors actually got the eagle. So how do you manage to adjust yourself? Do you try to calm yourself down to do well? Afterwards you can follow with birdies. Is that one of your strategies, and what might be something different you've done and what might be your objective as far as this tournament?  
JESSICA KORDA: Honestly, I really didn't care. You know, it's golf. Stuff like that happens. Hole-outs happen. Chip-ins happen. Long putts are made. All that. You have to expect everything. It's golf.   
I bogeyed it, so obviously it's big swing, but in the big picture didn't really mean a whole lot. There are so many holes to be played. We still have 18 holes left. You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. We played great golf between the three of us today and we kind of just fed off each other. I think that really keeps you in the moment.   
You don't get too many breaks to think about what's happening. You're just trying to keep yourself in it, hit the next fairway, and make a putt either on top of Danielle or Brooke. I was just trying to stay ahead all day if I could.   
One-shot lead going into tomorrow is not that much out here.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Again, talking about tomorrow, obviously today you tied the score with the defending champion. Again tomorrow you will be teaming up with her. If you really would like to win this title, and of course you do, what might be the keys that you have to do well?  
JESSICA KORDA: Like I did the last three days. Not planning on changing anything. Go out there, try to hit some fairways, some greens, make some putts, see what happens.   
That's golf. Being in contention I can't control what anybody he is doing, so I am just going to concentrate on myself and go out there and try and put up a low score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT