BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 18, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was a pretty lively start to your day out there. One par in the first seven holes. Talk us through that.  
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, started off really hot, birdie, birdie, and then didn't really settle down with a bogey, bogey. I was actually surprised I missed that putt for birdie and I ended up making a par.   
I was just happy to stay in it. It was windy. The pins were really tough. It was a lot of thinking today.   
 Q.  How hard is it to pick the wind? We've seen so many players scratching their heads so far this week.  
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, one minute you feel something and the next minute you feel something else. It's tough. It really is. Just trying to guesses as best you can and listen to the wind as it's blowing through the trees and pray you got it right.   
 Q.  How does this golf course set up for your game and where were your real scoring opportunities today?  
JESSICA KORDA: It's great because I'm a long hitter, so I can kind of take advantage of a lot of the holes. It's still playing long. I know I hit the tree on 18, but I had 5-iron in. Into a tucked pin like that you can't really get close.   
So they're long. I'm still hitting hybrids and 3-woods into par-5s. It's just kind of staying patient and getting the greens right and the speed right. They're fast.   
 Q.  And it's long year. Getting towards the end of the season, how are you keeping yourself fresh?  
JESSICA KORDA: I just took four weeks off. I feel great.   
 Q.  Talk to us about being in contention.  
JESSICA KORDA: Obviously it's only Friday so still have 36 holes left. Just do the same thing I'm doing and we'll see Sunday.   
 Q.  Second round 67. Kind of had a roller coaster round, were especially to start. Opened with a couple birdies, couple bogeys, couple more birdies. How do you regroup when you have all those colors showing up on your card?  
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it was definitely an interesting front nine. Thank God scorecards don't show pictures.   
Luckily I was able to have more birdies than bogeys. I was playing good. If you miss a green it's tough to gauge exactly what's going to happen. Some are really firm and some aren't. Just trying to stay patient, give myself opportunities, but hitting fairways and hitting greens.   
 Q.  You also mentioned the wind was up and moving around today. What concentration does that take to control your game as the conditions were changing around you?  
JESSICA KORDA: A lot, because, you know, my caddie might feel one thing and I might feel another and we're confusing each other. So just trying to figure out where it really is coming from. At the end of the day, it's sometimes a lot of guessing and then committing to a shot you're hoping is the right one.   
 Q.  You five wins in five countries, three of which are on this side of the world, Australia, Malaysia, Thailand. What is it about the Asia swing, coming over to this side, that seems to suit your game?  
JESSICA KORDA: I usually like the golf courses. Greens are always in great shape. The greens are usually really fast, which is what I like. And a lot of them we play long and the par-5s are gettable.   
It just suits a long hitter and I like making birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT