SOLHEIM CUP
September 14, 2019
Jessica Korda
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've both gone out together in the morning. And another really successful day. How did you find it out there?  
JESSICA KORDA: It was really tough. We had really tough opponents. We knew that it was going to be a hard day. And we needed a really good start to get up before they did.   
 Q.  And what was it like going on that first tee together and having the crowd there even though the weather wasn't as good as it was yesterday?  
JESSICA KORDA: Definitely tough weather. It was really cool, being able to hit it into the fairway on the first shot is really important. And then having her hit it close on the green after they just stuffed it, and then holing the putt before they did, putting that pressure on them, it was just really good.   
NELLY KORDA: It was a dream start again. We birdied the first two holes and it kind of paved our way for the day.   
 Q.  And there was definitely teamwork between you, obviously chatting out there. What's that like? It's so different between you two and between other pairs.  
NELLY KORDA: She's my best friend. So she knows me so well. She knows how to push my buttons and she knows how to calm me down, too. She did a lot of that today, calming down part, not pushing my buttons. But it was a good team effort today, which we needed because it was a tough day out there.   
 Q.  You broke another record today with your 6&5 win. What was that like knowing that you're in the history books again?  
JESSICA KORDA: Awesome.   
NELLY KORDA: Amazing.   
JESSICA KORDA: Hopefully no one can erase us now.   
 Q.  Looking forward to singles tomorrow, what do you hope to get from the day?  
NELLY KORDA: I think we're going to rest up today and give it our all tomorrow. I'm sure it's going to be tough. I think the weather is going to be tough again tomorrow. So just rest up and get ready for tomorrow as best as we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT