U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your play today.
JESSICA KORDA: Pretty solid.  Pretty happy to see the wind wasn't pumping 20 today.  It was a little inconsistent.  Sometimes it would die down, and sometimes it would pick up so it was a little hard to guess at times.  But I still played pretty conservatively, I think.  I wouldn't really say I was being too aggressive.  I was trying to be more aggressive on the par 5s, where I could take advantage of it.
Q. How important is patience?
JESSICA KORDA: It's a U.S. Open.  Patience is the name of the game.
Q. What was the dynamic like between you and your sister?  Is there any trash talk or just all support?
JESSICA KORDA: No, it's literally all support.  I think everybody is so disappointed because they think we trash talk each other, or they think there's side bets.  We just have the one yearly one.  Other than that, we're trying to be supportive.  We know how hard it is out here.  If we see the other ones down, you always try and lift the other one up.
Q. What's the yearly bet?
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, for a purse or bag of whatever.  I still think that I shouldn't have lost last year because I didn't play as many events, and then I had -- took a medical at the beginning of this year, so I still feel like I'm behind her.
Q. What did you get her then?
JESSICA KORDA: She got a Louis duffel.
Q. In a situation like today, do you go talk to her after your round before she goes out, give her any tips for how the course was playing?
JESSICA KORDA: I would have liked to, but I had to talk to you guys.  I think she's already teed off.  I'm not actually sure.  She'll figure it out.  I'm sure she saw some coverage, and her and I talked very briefly yesterday.  I didn't have a whole lot of turnaround time.
Q. How important would a Major victory be for you?
JESSICA KORDA: I mean that's what you play for.  At the same time, I feel a lot of luck is always a big part of winning a Major Championship, making the most putts and the least amount of mistakes.  It's really hard to win out here, obviously.  I think everybody can see that, watching us week in week out.
Solid golf will always put me up top.  If I have a chance, I'll try to take it.
Q. Before the year, is that your first goal, top goals, I want to win a Major this year?
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, you want to win golf tournaments.  I think if a Major falls, a Major falls.  Obviously, it's a goal.  But like I said, it's based upon luck and being at the right place at the right time.
Q. What would you describe the difficulty of this course maybe that you can't see on TV?
JESSICA KORDA: The greens are really hard.  I think trying to hold a green even with a wedge is hard.  I had a couple 9 irons today that released a lot.  Maybe I landed it half a yard too far.  I really didn't hit too many bad shots today.
But honestly, just trying to figure out how much it's going to release.  And we can't see sometimes as well where the pins are, and so a lot of it is a guessing game and really dialing in those numbers, those landing numbers that you want to land at and committing to it.
Q. Thinking about this golf course getting firmer and faster and knowing where they could put some of the pins, how difficult could it get on Saturday and Sunday?
JESSICA KORDA: It depends on how the golf course is going to be.  If it's going to be kind of burnt out-ish, like firm and fast, I think I would say, it could be brutal.  And especially where they put the -- where they put the tees, you have -- I mean, I have 5 irons, and so I can't imagine some of the other girls that might have even maybe 3 woods in.  So, yeah, it just depends on how they set the golf course up pending, you know, how it's going play.
Q. Other than the obvious with the length, what do you think about your game suits this place?
JESSICA KORDA: I grew up on kind of golf courses similar to this, similar grass, and so for me, it's what I've been practicing on, and I love the greens.  I've honestly -- I feel like I can really read them well.  Struggled a little bit with the speed today.  I think I was just a little firm today.  I think I wanted it a little too much.  I think yesterday, they might have been a little bit slower with how windy it got.  So that was just something I had to adjust to a little bit out there.
Q. What do you mean, wanted it too much?
JESSICA KORDA: You try to push it a little bit.  You know, you want to make the putt.
Q. How are your parents doing?  Do they walk 36 again?
JESSICA KORDA: They will be walking 36 today, yeah.  My dad is waiting for me in the lunchroom.
Q. Jessica, have you had any interaction with the handful of 14, 15-year-olds in this field?  What do you think of players that young making it into this Championship?
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, I was that young.  In 2008, that was my first U.S. Women's Open, when I was 15.  I've seen a couple of them.  I had -- we made our tee times where I'd play with all my friends and my sister, so didn't really see a whole lot of them.  But I know that they're soaking this in, this golf course and the atmosphere and all the people out here.
These are amazing crowds.  Definitely, they're going to be soaking every single moment in.
Q. What is your biggest memory of your experience in '08?
JESSICA KORDA: I had so many.  I mean, I remember just walking into the locker room, my eyes so big and wide, and I was just literally taking every single moment in.  I had my little sister with me.  She's been through all that with me, walking the locker room.  I remember like getting a visor sent by TaylorMade and it was a big box with one visor.  I was like this is the life.  Whatever I want is right here.  So it was really cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT