U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome Jessica Korda into the Media Center.  Jessica, a 2-under 69 in the opening round.  Really good ball striking round, 13 fairways, 15 greens.  Talk a little bit about your round today and maybe take us through your three birdies out there.
JESSICA KORDA: I'd have to remember where I made them.  I honestly just tried to hit the fairways and then the middle of the greens.  I couldn't really be aggressive.  The one hole I tried to be aggressive was 12, and that was my only bogey.  So after that, I decided that no more on the aggressive side and try and make some putts, whether they're longer or try and steal one here or there.
I made a really good birdie on the par 5.  I don't even remember what hole that was.
THE MODERATOR: 15, yeah.
JESSICA KORDA: Thank you.  Yeah, on 15, where I hit driver off the deck thinking it was going to roll out, and it ended up just sticking.  So I had like an awkward pitch, and I was pretty happy to hit that close and be able to make that putt.
THE MODERATOR: This is your 12th Women's Open.  Your 37th round, and the 69 actually ties your lowest round.  Now, you played with Azahara Munoz.  She also played very well, 68 today.  Does it help to playing with someone who also has it going out there and puts up a red number?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, we all played really well. It was tough conditions.  I saved a lot of pars, and obviously that kept her round going.  I think we all appreciate any round at 1 over, even, or under par is fantastic out there, especially this afternoon, and try and go back out there tomorrow and do the same thing.
THE MODERATOR: Let's open it up for questions.
Q. Jessica, what you said earlier about middle of the greens has been a little bit of a consistent theme.  The consensus is, if you try to go for these flags, you bring a big number into play.  Is that going to be your strategy for the rest of the week, or was it just today because of the conditions?
JESSICA KORDA: It depends on where the USGA puts the pins.  I don't think I've ever seen pins like this before for winds like this.  There wasn't a whole lot of holes that were go holes.  We were literally just trying to play to the fat bit and try and make a putt from there.  Anything long or to the right, to the left, I mean, you were down the slopes.  Who knows where that could have taken you?  Just because of how firm and fast it is right now.
Q. Jessica, a couple of questions.  Firstly, on 11, you spent quite a while discussing your shot with your caddie.  Can you talk us through what you hit and how close you knew it was going to be?  Because evidently, it was very close to a hole in one.
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, really?
Q. Well, fairly close.
JESSICA KORDA: We were honestly trying to figure out where the wind was coming from.  Coming from 10, you really don't know.  On 11 tee box, you're kind of in the chute of the trees.  So we were just trying to figure out where the wind was coming from, a good landing number, because we knew it was going to release.
And actually, last minute I changed my mind and ended up hitting a full 5 iron instead of hitting a half a 5 iron.  I think that's what Jaye hit and finished up, and I hit it a little farther than she does.  I just knew I needed to hit it a little harder.  I didn't think I would hit it that far right.  That was a little further off than I wanted to, maybe three, four yards.  So I was just praying that was going to cover.
Q. That's why you reacted as you did.  And also, I saw your parents out there.  Did they walk all 36 today?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, we have not -- my sister and I, there might be one championship that we've been paired on the same wave.  We've always been opposites.  Even regular LPGA events, we're always opposites.  So they walk 36 every time they come out.
Q. That's quite a good effort.
JESSICA KORDA: That's a long walk.
THE MODERATOR: Jessica Korda, 8:06 off the 10th tee tomorrow.  Best of luck the rest of the championship.
JESSICA KORDA: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT