ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jessica Korda, a woman who likes rainbows.  Colorful is how I would describe your round.  How would you?  
JESSICA KORDA: A serious roller coaster.  Glad I got off it on 18.  Yeah, it was a crazy day.  I literally had everything you could possibly have.   
 Q.  You said a moment ago that you feel rusty.  How do you make seven birdies and feel rusty?  
JESSICA KORDA: I still hit it good, but bad ones is what I have to get back on the range and work on right now.   
Just rusty.  A little bit uncomfortable and more nervous.  It happens.  It's only my second event out, and I have to remember that every single time.   
 Q.  This is probably a question all you players are going to get asked all week.  Made some changes to the golf course.  Looks extremely difficult.  How tough it was out there?  
JESSICA KORDA: It's really tough, especially if you hit it in the rough.  Even around the greens you just don't know what you're going to get.   
Yeah, it's really tough.  Definitely brought it in and made it a little bit longer.  It's good for me.  I really like the longer setup.   
But it's tough.  It plays like a major.   
 Q.  How would you sum up the day?  
JESSICA KORDA: Obviously really good, under par at a major.  Can't complain first round.  Obviously frustrated with certain shots left out there.  Made some mistakes.  Can't be too picky.  I'll take an under par round out here.   
 Q.  Resilient.  OB on 3 and then come right back with some birdies.  
JESSICA KORDA: Just a bad swing.  Just a bad swing.  Like I'm going to have a couple of those.  The less I have each day the better.  Obviously picked a really bad hole to do that on.  I knew I had so many more holes to go.  Honestly.  Not my first time being OB on that hole.   
 Q.  The T-4 here last year, how much did that mean to you?  
JESSICA KORDA: Meant a lot, especially how much I struggled in majors the years past.  Kind of putting a good foot forward and having a chance to win, having to hit that shot on 18, yeah, it meant a lot.   
It was good momentum.  Obviously I wasn't lacking that at the beginning of the year last year.  A little bit slower this year.  I'm just trying to put one foot in front of the other at this point.   
 Q.  Three Top 10s in majors last year.  Obviously encouraging.  What would you say was the key to that?  
JESSICA KORDA: Kind of just changed my mentality a little bit.  Tried going the same way I do every single week, and obviously we kind of changed also the way that our parents come in and how we do stuff.  Having Nelly here obviously helps as well.   
I Charlie out last year a lot, which was really fun and kind of good distraction.  Usually you would be trying to see what everybody else is doing, and I have to take him out for a walk and go play with him.  He's been an absolute fantastic distraction for me to have.   
 Q.  When you said changed some of the family things, in what way?  More or less or...  
JESSICA KORDA: Just at a different time.  Give us a day to settle and then kind of have them come in versus coming in at the same time or too late.  It's just different because we don't travel with our parents every week.  It's not a dynamic that we're used to.  Same thing with our coach.  So it's a little bit of a different dynamic for us.   
 Q.  You were off a long time, you're coming back if injury, and boom you're T-2.  Now you have this round.  How did you explain getting back so quickly?  
JESSICA KORDA: I think I just take my time coming back from injuries.  I've never been one to rush.  I think rushing back you never actually heal.  Never actually confident over the ball.   
I have a great team that they're always trying to slow me down and making sure I'm not going out too early.  I wanted to go to Thailand and Singapore.  I was ready.  With five days of practice I would've gone and done it.  They were like, No, think about this for a second.   
I have a great team around me that really puts perspective into my eyes.   
 Q.  You and Nelly on different times, morning and afternoon, do you watch TV?  Try to watch her?  
JESSICA KORDA: No, I'll absolutely watch.  I'll watch how it's playing if the afternoon.  She has Charlie this morning, so I'm sure she's enjoying herself as well.  But, I'm definitely going to go back out -- not back out -- I'm going to go (indiscernible.)   
 Q.  What kind of breed is Charlie again?  
JESSICA KORDA: He's a mini golden doodle.  The cutest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT