UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 4, 2018
Michelle Wie West
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Michelle, Jess, you guys were able to get a win this morning.  A lot of clutch putts from what it looked like were being made, especially by you, Michelle.  How were you guys able to get it done and get this win?  
MICHELLE WIE: You know, on the holes where I was out, she was good.  On the holes where she was out, I was good, and it was pretty good chemistry out there this morning.  Even after yesterday, we were testing each other and we were just extremely proud for not giving up, and for getting to 18.  I think that helped a lot, and today it was tough out there.  It was cold.  It was raining.  It was not ideal temperatures.  Jess Jess no.   
 Q.  What was the biggest motivating factor this morning?  Was it stemming off of yesterday, almost getting back to getting a halve or getting inside because of the weather and everything else?  
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, it's a mixture.  We played really well yesterday.  We just didn't capitalize when we needed to, so we were saying, we just need us that kind of carry over, and obviously the motivation to come in a little earlier was pretty big, as well.  But you never know, it's match play.  We were ready to go full 18 again if that's what it needed to be, but I was really proud of us.  We did a great job today.   
 Q.  You guys stuck outside to continue watching the group behind you.  We talked a little bit about the chemistry of this USA team this year.  Michelle, how do you feel like you guys have bonded this week, and how do you feel moving forward in the competition?  
MICHELLE WIE: You know, I think that we've played in so many Solheims together, especially Cristie and I, we played -- well, for me since 2009 and Lexi since I don't remember, and her in 2013, we all know each other.  We know each other in and out.  So it's been easy this week.  The teams, too, we didn't have to figure out who was going to play with who.  We kind of knew even before we got here what was going to happen.  So it turned out pretty well.   
 Q.  Almost like a miniature pod system on a smaller Solheim Cup team; you guys are rookies.  Does it feel any differently playing in this competition versus Solheim Cup?  
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, I've never played a Solheim Cup or really a team competition outside the United States, so for me it's all new.  I think just having a partner out there is always better.  I mean, in terms of a mini-Solheim Cup and pods, like Michelle said, we already had it figure out as soon as we made the team basically.  So we were just out here having fun and trying to put as many points up on the board as we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT