THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 4, 2021
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. I asked Nelly, year of the Kordas so far.
 JESSICA KORDA:   So far.
 Q. I'm sure you've heard that plenty.
 JESSICA KORDA:   Two events in.
 Q. Yeah.  When you win and then she wins is there a little like -- obviously it's still early, but you guys -- with it being early and with some breaks early in the year is there a little bit of, Hey, let's push each other a little more?
 JESSICA KORDA:   No.
 Q. Keep it slow and steady?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, it's a long year.  We're just -- yeah.  I mean, winning out here is hard and I say that all the time.  Everything has to come together for you to be able to win.  Get lucky, make some putts, get some good breaks.  It's not easy.
 Q. Last week especially when you had an opportunity to go back to back, how hard is that and a chance to repeat?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I couldn't read the greens last week.  I was getting flustered.  We changed a couple things in my swing and I started hitting the ball a little bit longer.  You feel like you're hitting it well but then not scoring it's tough mentally.  I think that was my challenge last week.
 And then, yeah, this week just trying to maintain, right?  That's the whole goal.  Only thing the win added was the confidence maybe and a little bit more ease into the season.
 But other than that, it's still a grind.  Doesn't change just because you win once.  Doesn't mean you'll win again.
 Q. Advancing to No. 1 one day I would imagine is a goal.
 JESSICA KORDA:   It would be nice.  Personally I don't understand Rolex Rankings, so as much as that used to be my goal when I was growing up and started playing out here, I think I just get more frustrated then it comes to Rolex Rankings.
 So for me, if I can win a couple times a year, keep myself in contention, everything will take care of itself.  I think rankings are for other people maybe to look at more or less than me these days.
 Q. When you were able to play with the No. 1 in your group, you got your sister and No. 1.  What was that like?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, Nelly and I were talking about being in fish bowl today.  It was a little different for us first round.  It's awesome.  Jin Young is such a nice person.  We played together last week.  It's always great being able to play with someone that's just such a great all-around player and has been dominating our tour for what, two years, three years, however long she's been out here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT