ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2018
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Roller coaster ride out there for you.  Can you just talk about your round and go through it for us?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, I'm proud of myself for giving myself a chance.  That was my game plan today was trying to go low and give myself the opportunity to win, and that's exactly what I did.  Every time I made a mistake, I tried to bounce back as fast as I could.  Definitely certain things were on my side today, because I had a two-hole out, and that's always really special.
Q. Can you tell us about those holes?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, the first one on 9, I didn't even see it, so I can't even talk about it.  I don't know what happened, but I heard it swung back into the hole, which was really cool.  Then the second one I was visualizing it.  I was just visualizing it, and I thought that it was going to go in, and I was like, okay, let's do what I'm seeing right now, and it went in.  I was like, oh, my God.  It's always cool when you can visualize and hit it.
Q. Strategy-wise, did you come in today with a certain number in mind?
JESSICA KORDA: Kind of what I'm at right now, 14, 15.  I thought that was going to make it.  But I just tried to go as low as I could.  Whatever that was, that was going to be it.
Q. Lastly, can you just talk about bouncing back from some of those hiccups on the back nine or any of the bogies?  What do you learn from yourself about yourself when you can bounce back like that?
JESSICA KORDA: I don't have any quit in me.  I always want to come back.  I was really proud of how calm I stayed.  Obviously, Colin kept me very calm as well.  We just made a really good team out there.  Those mistakes happen.  Just certain times good things happen, and certain times bad things happen.  We didn't know the lie was going to be that bad.  I've never been on that side before.
If I miss, I'm usually on the left.  I know what that rough looks like.  So this was kind of just a weird situation for me.  I'm just proud of the way that I handled it coming in.
Q. Can you talk about the nerve and how hard it is to win a major championship out here?  What it takes to win?
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, so hard.  It takes everything on your side, and definitely the least amount of mistakes.  These girls are so good.  I feel like at the ANA we always see sometimes first-time winners and some experienced winners as well.  But it's amazing.  The crowds were awesome.  The golf course was in, I think, the best shape I've ever seen it, which says a lot.  It says a lot.
So I'm just really excited to get the year going and come back next year again.  Is it next year yet?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT