BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2018
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There're been a lot of coverage on the surgery you went through and the fact that you've got a little bit of a sinus issue now.  How much pain are you in?
JESSICA KORDA: None.  I'm not in pain.  I just have pressure, but it's not pain.
Q. You said after the surgery some of the people at the club where you practiced didn't recognize you anymore.  It's a stark difference.  What has that transformation been like?  I know you're happy the pain is gone.
JESSICA KORDA: It's crazy just to see how people react to it, which is to be expected.  I do look very different.  But with time everyone is going to forget about how I looked and remember this new face.
And it's taking me a long time to get used to it.  Certain days I feel like I am more swollen than others.  Also different temperatures, I'm starting to realize how that affects me with the healing process as well.
It's all just a process.
Q. How are you able to keep your strength up to compete this well having a limited nutrition intake?
JESSICA KORDA: Protein shakes.  You got to love those protein shakes.  That's about it.
Q. Is there any correlation to you having gotten this fixed and now are playing the best golf of your life?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I've been in pain for three years, so think about just the pressure in your head.  Affects your moods.  I think I was pretty snappy back then as well.
Just I'm much happier now.  Much calmer.  Just enjoying it.
Q. What stood out about your round today?
JESSICA KORDA: You know, I didn't feel that comfortable over my putter today.  Had some issues with speed.  Even though I didn't have my best game, I still came out with 4-under, which is awesome.
But shows me that I can definitely shoot a lot lower.  Yeah, just a much nicer day today, wasn't it?
Q. Is your cold better today?
JESSICA KORDA: I have this weird like dry cough now, but definitely is a lot less tissues.
Q. Do you find people out here are relating to you in a different way?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, I had a lady yesterday tell me that she had jaw surgery same like I did 32 years ago, except she has plates in her cheeks which I didn't have to have.
She said that like certain teeth she feels and certain teeth she doesn't.  All in all, her feeling in her face came back, which is amazing.  They broke my palate, you know, so I can't feel anything, even heat.  So that's a bit difficult, because I can't feel any heat on my lip or palate, so I don't know how hot things are going in until they hit my throat.
Q. I heard you say your meals are pretty much protein shakes; is that right?
JESSICA KORDA: I had turkey for lunch today.  I had some cheese.  For breakfast I had yogurt with some blueberries.  Last night I had soup.
Q. So not a lot of crunch yet.
JESSICA KORDA: No.  I tried a chip and it felt awful.  I'm like, Nope, nope.  Staying away from this.
But I eat it like if it's very soft and fine.  You know, I just try and put less pressure on it as I can.  I still have to chew because these muscles need to keep working, but when I can't feel it's kind of hard.  It's hard.
Q. What's something you're dying to eat that you haven't had in a long time that you can't eat right now?
JESSICA KORDA: Honestly, I don't even know.  If I wanted a pizza I would just cut it up in really tiny pieces.  I honestly haven't had steak in so long, and I really would love to have some steak.
Other than that, I've been crushing mac and cheese like it's my job.  I love mac and cheese.  Oh, my gosh.  I literally go to steak houses to order mac and cheese.
I can't wait to start eating bacon properly.  I think that's another one of those things that's harder for me.  Yeah, not a ton that like I can't eat.  It's just harder to eat.
Chips are totally out of question.  Chips and guac?  Uh-uh.  If I want maybe like some soft bread and guac.
Q. Back to my other question.  Do you sense people are rooting for you more?
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, hopefully.  I don't know.  I would hope the jaw surgery wouldn't be the reason for people to root for me.
At the same time, I'll take it.
Q. I guess in the sense that...
JESSICA KORDA: I don't feel like I need pity is...
Q. (Indiscernible.)
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it's kind of one of those things where I don't feel -- again, because I was so drugged up, I don't remember a lot of it.  I try to forget a lot of it.
I'm trying to go forward and not looking back type of mentality.  I don't think of it like I went through a lot, I just think of it as I'm pain-free and going forward.
So, yeah, people are like, Oh, you're so brave; you overcame this and that.  For me, I'm just going forward.  I'm not looking back.  I don't even want to think about it because it was so bad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT