HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2018
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jessica, you came into this event with hardly any expectations.
JESSICA KORDA: Yep.  That's exactly right.  I can't believe it.  Today was just such a blur.  Everyone was playing so well.  Pars weren't cutting it, so I was trying to make birdies and ended up making mistakes.
I tried to relax as much as I could, but I was nervous.
Q. You must be nervous.  It's been a couple years since your first win which came in Malaysia, and the journey the last couple months to get here.
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it's incredible.  This actually was my first event my rookie year, so being my first event back out is actually pretty cool.
I'm just happy to have the week over.  It was so hot today.  I really did play really, really well this week.
Q. So many good storylines.  When you looked at the leaderboard we had the Jutanugarns, the Kordas, the first time in LPGA history we had two sisters on the front page of the leaderboard going into the final round.
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it was pretty spectacular.  I really haven't spoken to Nelly a whole lot.  Kind of trying to let her do her thing and me do my thing.  I told her I was really proud of her.  Obviously Ariya and Moriya played amazing golf.  The fans here were incredible for them.  At one point when Mo made an eagle putt the crowd was so loud it took actually me back as I was trying to walk forward.
I told her that was the loudest thing I've heard in a long, long time.  Very, very cool.
Q. It did get down to two, which must have been very nerve wracking for you.
JESSICA KORDA: Very, very nerve wracking.  But Collin was really, really good on the bag today.  He just kept me calm and was like, We're still fine.  Everything is fine.  I knew if I got myself to the back nine with still a good lead I could hold them off.
I was really happy to do that.
Q. Playing in front of all these crowds in Asia, you mentioned the fans.  Golf in Asia for the LPGA swing is just terrific.
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it's incredible.  I felt at one point I was in the trees on 9 and hit a punch out into the bunker and I felt like Tiger Woods.  All these crowds are coming in right behind me.  I was like, This is really cool.
It's all really fun playing in front of crowds like this.  I really, really enjoyed it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT