HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2018
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here.  Very excited to be here with our 2018 Honda LPGA Thailand winner, Jessica Korda with a tournament record 25-under.  How do you feel right now with another title under your belt?
JESSICA KORDA: It's incredible.  This is my fifth title.  Every single one is so special, but this one, this one is really, really cool.
Coming in after surgery I didn't know what to expect.  I didn't know how I was going to be received.
Obviously when I look at myself I still don't feel like I look like myself yet.  That will come.  I'm just very, very happy.  All the hard work I was putting in in the off-season when I could has paid off rather quickly.
THE MODERATOR: That's a bit of an understatement.  You also said outside this is the place where you made where you LPGA debut.  Does that make it more special?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah.  I played here when I was 17 years old.  First LPGA tournament as a member.  That was really, really special.  These two weeks are my favorite two weeks on tour for many, many reasons, but it being my first, it always has a very special place in my heart.
To be able to win here is very cool.
THE MODERATOR: Well, let's go out to the golf course.  You had a big lead coming into the round.  You got off to the same kind of quiet start you did yesterday.  At one point you were making the turn and it was down two a two-point lead.  You said you're a leaderboard watcher.  Did you know where you stood?
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, yeah.  I mean, obviously I played with Moriya today and she played incredible golf.  I was playing fine.  I just wasn't making anything.  Everything was running around the lips or I had to putt through some spike marks and that kind of got the ball offline.
I was just staying patient.  Lucky I had the four-stroke lead because these girls.  My God, these girls are good.  It was really, really intense coming down the stretch.  I knew I had to keep my head down and try and make birdies and they would eventually fall.
THE MODERATOR: I think it says a lot about the caliber of the players on tour that at 25-under par it was still a game.
JESSICA KORDA: It always is out here.  I swear, these girls are getting better and better each year.  Age out here doesn't matter.  (Indiscernible) you got Lydia winning.  I mean, it's very, very cool.  It's very cool to be a part of the tour at this time.  You can see the change happening.
All my friends are back out on tour.  The girls I played junior golf with are starting to come out and are in their second or third year; some are rookies this year.  It's just really cool to see that generation come out and have some great years.
THE MODERATOR: And part of the next generation is your sister, Nelly.  What was it like to see her success this week?
JESSICA KORDA: It was really cool.  I knew she didn't really start off very well.  I kind of saw her start.  I could tell by her body language it wasn't good.
But every single one of these situations that she keep putting herself into she's going to learn, she's going to grow.  I have no doubt in my mind that she'll be up here one day, and one day very soon, holding up the trophy.
I can't wait to be there for her.
THE MODERATOR: Do we have any questions?
Q. How does it feel to come from a very successful sport family?
JESSICA KORDA: It's really cool.  I don't know what my parents did; they should write a book.  Our parents never pushed us to do anything that we necessarily didn't want to do.  You know, I hadn't talked to my dad almost all week,  and today he knew I was nervous and called me and calmed me down.  They just know.  They've been in these situations.  They've been here.  They know what that's like.  It's not a surprise what we're feeling.
They're just really proud of us, and we're very fortunate to have parents that aren't on top of us all the time that gave us room to grow and make mistakes.  Very, very lucky and very, very fortunate.
Q. Why doesn't your brother play golf?
JESSICA KORDA: Golf is boring to him.  He loves tennis and hockey.  He should just stick to that.  He's pretty good at it.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Jessica?  I'm going to ask you one last question to wrap up.  December 7th 2017 was the day OF your surgery.  Now we're at February 25th, 2018, nearly three months later, and you have another title under your belt.
Looking back, did you think you would be here?
JESSICA KORDA: No.  This is really cool.
Q. What are the things you like to do in Thailand?
JESSICA KORDA: Eat.
Q. What's the favorite food?
JESSICA KORDA: Pad Thai, mango sticky rice.  You name it, I like it.  This is the first year I didn't have enough time to go get a foot massage, but I wanted one so much.  Every year I go.  That's my favorite thing to do.  I had such late tee times, which is a good thing, and I just wasn't able to go.
So food, people.  The people are incredible.  Always so kind, so supportive.  Always a smile on their face.  I love coming here to see them.
THE MODERATOR: It's safe to say they love you too.
Q. Next two days is your birthday?
JESSICA KORDA: Yes, Tuesday.  25.
Q. Celebrate in Singapore?
JESSICA KORDA: Yes.  We're going to a friend's house tomorrow, have some drinks and some dinner.  So very excited.  Lots to celebrate.
THE MODERATOR: Shanshan says she likes to buy a handbag after a win.  Do you know if you're going to get anything fun to celebrate this one?
JESSICA KORDA: I got my good two things:  birthday and a win.  I have no idea what I'm going to do, but tomorrow I'm going (indiscernible), so I need to get on this flight tonight because tomorrow morning I need to be there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT