ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JESSICA KORDA: We saw each other, she was on 10, 11, 12, just stuffed it and I was walking off -- I was on, what, 15, 16?  We were waving to each other, we were looking to see if the other one was looking.
Q. Did that happen at any other point in the round?
JESSICA KORDA: No, not out here.  I saw my parents but I didn't see -- because they always like meet somewhere in the middle to talk and trade notes.
Q. So did your brother win --
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, he won his round this morning, so my parents were at Indian Wells this morning, drove back here.  I think my brother came and watch three or four holes and went back to rest.
Q. Was he watching you?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, he came out to watch me.  Good boy.
Q. Was he opening today or was he second round, third round?
JESSICA KORDA: No, no.  He's now I think in semis I think, yeah.  He's done really well.
Q. What is the tournament?
JESSICA KORDA: It's called the Easter Bowl.  It's like their major, whatever, yeah.
Q. So are you guys all obviously in a house together?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, we've stayed in the same house -- well I've stayed since 2010 when I played as an amateur.  They house all of us.  They are awesome.
Q. Obviously you've had the whole family here before.
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, Nelly played a couple years ago -- I think the year she didn't play, she came to watch, just to hang out.  It's kind of nice, because their kids are around the same age as the two of them, so they just come -- our families are close.  Their parents are like second parents to me.  They come and hang out.  They just love it.
Q. Did you meet them through this event?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it was through a friend.  They just moved into this massive house and they have enough room for us, but it's kind of -- it's a tight fit now.
Q. So is that tennis tournament always this week opposite?
JESSICA KORDA: They usually overlap.  Either it's like ending or know, when our week starts, their's ends.  This week it panned out nicely.
Q. So when you get to the leaderboard and you look up and you see corda up there --
JESSICA KORDA: And it's not me -- I'm so proud.
Q. Does your heart kind of skip a little bit?
JESSICA KORDA: It does.  I'm like, man, one day, I wish I was as good as her.  It's so great.  I know all the hard work that she's put in, too, and I'm so proud to see that it's paying off and paying off really quickly.  She's had a stellar, stellar rookie season so far and hopefully it continues.  That's all she's concentrating on this year is to be able to get into those final Asia events and obviously we have that little money match going at the end of the year.
Q. What are you playing for?
JESSICA KORDA: A purse.  Whatever purse we want.
Q. That could be really expensive?
JESSICA KORDA: I'm a little worried.  She's like, you have the Asia events.  But I'm like, yeah, it doesn't matter.
Q. Is it Money List?
JESSICA KORDA: Money List.
Q. So do you have one picked out?
JESSICA KORDA: No, I haven't started looking.  It's too early in the season.
Q. So what about your game?  Obviously you played well today.  What's clicking?
JESSICA KORDA: Nothing really.  I mean, I've been having a really hard time with my half-shots these last two weeks, and so that's been where my bogeys and doubles have come into, where I just put myself in a bad position.  All in all, I'm hitting the ball pretty well and today some putts dropped and I gave myself a lot of birdie looks, so that was good.
Q. You said in Bahamas that you guys were kind of going to do your own thing and you weren't staying together.  When was the first time you stayed together?
JESSICA KORDA: Last week.
Q. How did that go?
JESSICA KORDA: It's like baby-sitting.  My sister for gets her phone, she forgets her bag.  Yeah, it's interesting.   Her caddie, Jack, was like, "I'm going to take better control.    It will be great."
She had a cup of fruit in the car and before she gets home, like, make sure you get that cup of fruit.  Literally walks out, we walk in, she's getting her blisters taped up, and go, "Where's your fruit."
"Damnit, I left it in the car."  And then it's like, when where are we going, grab the keys, get her caddie to go get the fruit.  Yeah, it's interesting.  So far, so good, though, can't complain.  Apart from the baby-sitting.
Q. You haven't kicked her out?
JESSICA KORDA: No.
Q. Any particularly fun moment in the house this week?
JESSICA KORDA: We got a puppy.
Q. You got a puppy?
JESSICA KORDA: On Saturday.  We went to a breeder last Friday and got a puppy but it's going to my grandparents.  Yeah, so we're just kind of distracted by that when we're at home.  Puppy's here.  Staying in my room.
Q. What kind of puppy?
JESSICA KORDA: Pomeranian.
Q. What's it's name?
JESSICA KORDA: Mini.
Q. Where was the breeder?
JESSICA KORDA: Oceanside.  Gorgeous, gorgeous puppy.
Q. Is he going to be at your grandparents predominately?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, my cousin is flying over to come get it.  I wish it wasn't but it is -- it's a nice distraction.  So yeah, we're just playing around with the puppy.  It's the best fun we've had actually.
Q. How does Sebastian like having two older sisters?
JESSICA KORDA: I think it's fun.  I hope it's fun.  We have a lot of fun when we're together.  We talk about whatever.  We've been watching the tennis down at Miami, so we watched the Kyrgios-Zverev match yesterday which was a lot of fun.  We're pretty sports oriented.
Nelly and I like talking about the dumb shots we've got out here and the stupid positions we put our selves into, and with Seve, we just talk about the sick shots that he's been able to pull off and just watch some tennis, as well.
Q. Nelly said Sebastian likes to hang out?
JESSICA KORDA: He loves us.  He loves us.  Yeah, he's always hanging out in my room.  All of us are always in my room.  That's kind of been like the thing.  Even when I lived at home, the hang out spot was always my room.  It's nice that it's still that way.
Q. Do you and Nelly --
JESSICA KORDA: We don't play tennis.
Q. Don't go beat it around?
JESSICA KORDA: My arm gets really sore from it.  Plus when I go with my dad and my brother, they just like to make us run, so it's really not that fun.  You have like two basically professionals on one side and two wooden girls.  It's not good.  It's not good.
Q. Can we say the name of the family that you stay with?
JESSICA KORDA: Berenzweig.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT