DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 24, 2021
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome everyone to the winner's press conference here with Jessica Korda.
 I just have a question before I turn it over.  Jessica, how do you feel now that the rounds are all over and you have a trophy two inches from you?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Amazing.  It was obviously a huge grind.  Danielle was playing so solid, and then Nelly started to make a bunch of birdies.  I was like, Oh, my gosh.  What's happening?
 I knew that I was going to have to go low today, and then Nelly started to go low and I was like, I need to start to go low.
 It was just a crazy, crazy day.  Crazy two days.  Shooting 60 yesterday, getting myself back into contention after bogeying three holes in a row to finish my second round.
 Crazy week.
 Q. And throughout the day, early in the round at least, it looked as though you were frustrated with your irons, and then another switch flipped.  What happened and how did you turn it around?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I talked to guys, the group in front of us on 13.  They just relaxed me.  I don't know.  Mardy his rally cap going, and commented on that.  Talked to Aaron.  It was like a fun little get-together.  I think it just relaxed me a little bit, made me realize I was just trying to force a lot of stuff.
 When you're chasing you know you need to put the pedal to the metal, and I wasn't doing that.  I knew how I was hitting the ball the last couple of days, and it was just frustrating that I was trying to force it instead of sticking to my process.
 Once I started to do that, it kind of turned around for me.
 Q. Just how hard is it to follow up a near-perfect day when you woke up this morning, what were you thinking?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Nothing.  I was really calm.  I went for a walk with Charlie again, played with him for a little bit.  Heard that breakfast closed at 10:00, was really hungry and knew that that was a bit too early to be here.
 Nelly and I both kind of drove over, had breakfast, chitchatted with both of our caddies, and we were just really relaxed all day.  Music on the range.  Had Aaron behind me.  We were talking about our rounds yesterday.
 Yeah, like I said, just really relaxed, good vibes I think, and just positive people around me.
 Q. Just overall, what was the experience like playing with your sister on Sunday in the final group?  Do you think it helped you get to the winners' circle?
 JESSICA KORDA:   You know, it was like another day.  I think everyone hyped it up so much around us that we were just like, Eh.
 We just had a really good day.  Obviously I loved seeing her make birdies, and I caught myself like rooting for her for a couple holes.  I was like, You're still playing against her.  I was like, Yeah, whatever.  Doesn't matter.  She played some fantastic golf.  She beat the two of us today.
 I think just having that motivation and also the calmness of her attitude and just having a nice chat and good stroll out there definitely helped me.
 Q. Was what the momentum like, I think it was 14 through 17 where you really kind of made the charge and caught up?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I made some putts.  I hit it closer.  Like I said, kind of stuck to the process.
 I didn't have great numbers all day.  I was in between shots all day.  It was just frustrating because I wanted to be aggressive, but then I wasn't.  And then kind of just said, You know what?  Forget about it.  Just stick to your process and be aggressive when you can and take those opportunities.
 But having those putts roll in definitely helped.
 Q. I'm curious as to how you can bring this more kind of chill vibe into other events.  Like I feel like this event is an easy one to like create that more relaxed state with the celebrities here and stuff.  If that's kind of the vibe where you excel, how do id you bring that into other tour events?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Honestly, was telling my caddie, Kyle, today that I actually used to excel under the gun.  Like I love that pressure.  The last couple of years -- or actually from last year to this year I've learned to embrace the relaxedness of this event.
 Last year I was really struggling to like find the mindset how to play this tournament.  This year it was -- it felt like I was kind of playing at home with the guys.  You know, it was really relaxed.
 And I think going back into normal events I really didn't do a whole lot different.  I still am myself.  And you know, that's kind of what I was taking from this experience, is I can still be myself and it's still going to be okay.  As long as you have somebody next to you that understands that and is calm with you and helps out with that, that's all you need.
 Q. The putt at 18 with Danielle's ball being inside, did that make you a little more aggressive?  And if we brought you back out there and gave you ten of those putts, how many do you make?
 JESSICA KORDA:   I don't know.  All I needed was one.  I left every putt short.  I mean, 16 short, 17 short, 18, short.  I was like, Hit the dang ball.  They're all uphill.
 So I told Kyle, I was like, I don't want to play anymore.  Like I'm done.  This is it.  I told him, I don't want to play anymore.  I honestly thought that she was going to make the putt.  There was nothing in my mind that was like, Oh, you know, I got this.
 Danielle being Danielle I thought she was going to make the putt.
 Q. Could you just comment to the fact that it was a good week to hang in there.  You didn't have a great finish Friday; rebounded big yesterday; today you make the turn; you're down.  What about the grit of hanging in?
 JESSICA KORDA:   It's golf, yeah.  You never know what's going to happen.  Like I said, I mean, Danielle made, what, one bogey all week?
 Q. Yeah.
 JESSICA KORDA:   That's impressive.  That's so impressive.  She played some great golf.  Made some amazing saves.  Yeah, played fantastic golf.
 So I was just trying to do me in a sense and let her do her.  Honestly, at the beginning of the day I would've been very pleased to make it to 18 tied.
 Q. What was your comfort level this weekend on that back nine?  I mean --
 JESSICA KORDA:   I love it.
 Q. Yesterday was crazy and you stepped up again today sealing it with that birdie.
 JESSICA KORDA:   I was 7-under on the back nine on Thursday, I obviously bogeyed my last three the second day, and then yesterday 9-under in nine holes.  Who does that?
 And then today I think I was like 4-under.  Yeah, definitely like that back nine.
 Q. Is there something about it?  Because it's a par 37 back nine you can be more aggressive or anything of that nature.
 JESSICA KORDA:   Honestly, I have no idea.  I wouldn't be able to tell you other than I hit it close and dropped some putts.
 Q. What's the secret to winning in your first start out?
 JESSICA KORDA:   No idea.  Everyone says low expectations, but I always expect -- I don't show up to a tournament just to show up.  I'm too old for that.  This is my 11th year.  I know I've won a lot first week out.  First time I've ever won in front of my parents.  It was my dad's 53rd birthday yesterday.  It was just a very good week.
 Q. Knowing what happened last year with the playoff, I'm sure you're familiar, was there a sense of urgency trying to wrap this thing up, too?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah.  I didn't want to go past that first playoff hole.  I knew -- I mean, I'm putting well all week -- for a couple months now.  I just needed an opportunities and I needed to be aggressive.  Like I said, leaving it short on 16, 17, and 18, I was pretty motivated to get that ball to the hole.
 Q. What's kept you motivated these years?  You've dealt with injuries, the jaw surgery.  What's kept you going to get to this point to win again?
 JESSICA KORDA:   My family.  They're always there to pick me up when I'm down.  Let me tell you, I've been down.  My family is everything.  They're my biggest support system.  They believe in me more than I believe in myself.
 Thanks for that question.
 Q. My final question:  We haven't talked about how you're going to celebrate.  What do you want to do most?  You just celebrated your dad's 53rd birthday.  Is the celebration party just going to keep continuing?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Well, I live on the other side of Florida.  I'm going to go grab Charlie.  Poor kid has been in the hotel room by himself.  We are going to go grab Charlie and drive home.  This is the first time I am going to be able to celebrate a win, so I'm pretty excited about it.
 Q. Do you have like traditions when you guys win, like a cake or something?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Nothing.  Usually there is the next week and the next week and the next week, and now that we have five weeks off I'm going to take some time to really soak this in.  Even yesterday everyone was saying, Are you going to celebrate your 60?  You don't have time to celebrate the 60 because you have the next day.
 So just going to slow it down for a week and then really enjoy it.
 Q. Charlie, forgive my ignorance...
 JESSICA KORDA:   My dog.
 Q. I know, but what is he?
 JESSICA KORDA:   He's a Golden Doodle.  Best dude in the world.
 Q. How old?
 JESSICA KORDA:   He's three.
 Q. Golden Doodle?
 JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah.
 THE MODERATOR:   Definitely a treat for you both.  Congrats again.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT