THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it hard to keep the -- obviously it wasn't hard to keep the momentum going, but how did you keep your mind wrapped after, after being annoyed, to the fresh start again?  
JESSICA KORDA: Just pretend like it's Thursday.  There's no difference.  It sucked because I was playing so well yesterday, and some people weren't playing so well yesterday that are playing well today, and there's nothing I can do about that.  I just need to concentrate on myself.  I was annoyed until about 9:00 p.m. last night, and then I was like, all right, screw it; when I wake up, it's a new day.  What's done is done, and we'll just keep moving forward.  So that's what happened.   
 Q.  Did you feel any pain out there at all in your arm?  
JESSICA KORDA: No, no pain.  I mean, I'm doing a lot of stuff for it, making sure that I can be pain-free.  I'm not going to be able to be 100 percent until probably next year.   
 Q.  Obviously the conditions were totally different, but did you feel like your game was as good today as it was yesterday, like you just rolled right in, same swing, same feelings?  
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I honestly just wiped yesterday out of my mind.  Pins were different, certain tee boxes were different, and the fact that we played all of our holes downwind yesterday, so all of a sudden certain holes weren't as reachable as before and I had different clubs in my mind, it was a totally different experience.   
 Q.  So when you see someone that was 6-over yesterday leading the tournament on the leaderboard, what goes through your head?  
JESSICA KORDA: Well, I mean, we all expected it as soon as we all saw it.  You know it's going to happen.  I think Katherine Kirk yesterday was 5-over.  She just hit it in the hazard on 9, and she shot 5-under.  You're going to have people like that.  You're going to have people that were playing great yesterday that didn't play well today.  That's just the way it goes.  Welcome to golf.  I wish it wasn't scrapped, but welcome to golf.   
 Q.  Did you feel that it was okay to be 54 holes but they should have kept the scores?  
JESSICA KORDA: Honestly, I don't know what I would have done in that position.  I would have liked to have seen them keep the scores.  Obviously looking at this weather I see what they were talking about in terms of it's not going to be fair, but when is it ever fair, which is one thing that I kept saying yesterday is you can go back as many tournaments as you want, the morning to the afternoon, when is it ever fair?  That's golf.  It's an outdoor sport.  It's never going to be the same.  But I can see what they're talking about.  The golf course is totally different today.  It is what it is.  You've just got to roll with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT