KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2016
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great second round today.  You have to be feeling pretty good.  You played well in Thailand, missed the cut last week.  What's the difference?
JESSICA KORDA: I just didn't feel well last week, especially during the first round.  And out there, you've got to feel good.
Q. You're talking physically?
JESSICA KORDA: Physically, I was a little sick on Thursday.  But it was good, kind of good break on the weekend, and kind of refocused and got to practice a little bit.
Q. Was it the practice that helped you refocus?
JESSICA KORDA: Not really.  Just it was kind of like a fluke round, especially the first round.  When you shoot even par in Phoenix, it's not a good day.  It's a couple over actually.
I just got a little behind and even the 3-under on the last day, or on Friday, didn't really help.
Q. You mentioned earlier this year that last year was a bit of a struggle.  You went through some learning curves.  What do you feel like you've learned over the last year?
JESSICA KORDA: Stayed patient, have fun with it, and don't beat yourself up; the game will do it for.
Q. How are you having fun with it?
JESSICA KORDA: It helps having great groups.  One of my best friends was playing with me today, Austin and Azahara, so I didn't have too shabby of a group and it was really light and even if you miss-hit a shot, just oh well, just find it and hit it again.
Q. Last year you were stating to go through some swing changes and you ditched them, right?
JESSICA KORDA: Mm-hmm.
Q. Are you doing anything differently now?  Or have you gone back to the player you were in 2014?
JESSICA KORDA: I'm working with David Whelan really hard going back to fundamentals.  It's still a little iffy.  There's still a lot of miss-hit shots, but it will be there.  It's a process and we're having a lot of fun kind of working on it.
Q. You also mentioned you had big expectations heading into the last year.  Did you have those same expectations this year?  If so, what are they?
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, this being an Olympic year, it's different.  I would almost say that my expectations are a little bit bigger than they were last year, but I also feel that I'm a little bit differently prepared.
I feel really good about the team that I have around me.  I have Dave Stockton working with me on putting.  I have David Whelan working with me on everything else.  I have Paul Azinger in my corner.  I have great physio.  I feel really good about my team and just the work that we really put into it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT