HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2016
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How long was that putt on 18?
JESSICA KORDA: About 12 feet.
Q. That has to feel very, very good.  Good finish.  Overall, the day, not a lot of low scores.  Was it the conditions?
JESSICA KORDA: Tough pins, and the greens are really fast.
Q. Harder today?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah.  Anything really above the hole is lightning speeds.  It's really tough to judge, and then I think that the greens are starting to firm up, as well.  Rachel and I both hit really good shots into 17, and they landed short of the hole, which normally would stop, and they ended up over the green in almost an impossible shot.  It's just hard coming in with certain -- I think if you're hitting longer irons, then it's hard to stop the golf ball.
Q. Did you watch the leaderboards at all?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it was kind of just standard, just looking around.
Q. What was different today?
JESSICA KORDA: I made some putts finally.
Q. Just putts?
JESSICA KORDA: I was giving myself a ton of opportunities yesterday, which was really nice that 2-under was kind of the worst that I could have shot, but at the same time really frustrating.  So today just the putts really fell.
Q. Was it speed, reads?
JESSICA KORDA: Just it came together.  I don't know.
Q. Feeling it?
JESSICA KORDA: I was feeling it.
Q. You took off last week?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, I didn't play Australia.
Q. How was two weeks off?  What were you working on?  What were you doing?
JESSICA KORDA: It was nice.  I took like three days off after Ocala because the first two weeks it felt like super jammed.  Everything was really jammed in.  So I just took a couple days off and then went back --
Q. Completely off?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, nothing, yeah, so took three days off and then worked with my coach David Whelan.  I worked a lot with Dave, and then left to West Palm and played with Michelle and Austin and just had fun for a couple days over there, and came home and flew out.
Q. How was that, girls' day out?
JESSICA KORDA: It was fun.  We had a girls' night out, went to the Woods, had like Austin's belated birthday dinner, and then went and played Trump Jupiter, and it was a lot of fun.
Q. What did you do on the days off?
JESSICA KORDA: Organized my taxes and organized my house, unpacked, repacked, did a ton of laundry.  That usually takes a while, caught up on my TV shows.
Q. Taxes and TV, all right.  Well, obviously in great position for tomorrow and the weekend.  Goals going into the third round?
JESSICA KORDA: Just hit good shots and try and make some putts and give myself the opportunities that I have been these last two days.
Q. Anything you guys have been working on, you and David?
JESSICA KORDA: We've just been working on keeping my tempo kind of slower.  I kind of tend to rush, try and speed everything up, and just really trying to keep my tempo and keep myself happy and calm.  That's really about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT