BLUE BAY LPGA
October 22, 2016
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JESSICA KORDA: It was a good day.  I just tried to put myself in somewhat a position.  It was good.  It's a good third round, good position and see what happens tomorrow.   
 Q.  What do you think of your chances tomorrow?  
JESSICA KORDA: I'm going to come in with the same mind-set.  Yesterday I was 4-over through seven and then battled back to shoot even par and I was really proud of myself to keep myself in it.   
Like I said I just knew that I can make birdies out here and I've played well here in the past, and just stay with it, and that's exactly what I did today.  Birdies kept dropping and that's all I needed.  I had more opportunities, especially the first couple holes.  I had less than ten feet on 1; I had 20 feet on two; I had six feet on 3.   
So I missed a lot of birdie opportunities already at the beginning and I was just staying in my head, stay patient and stay positive, and I knew that I could make some birdies and just try and move up myself up that leaderboard, because I knew it was going to be tough.   
All the girls are kind of five, six shots behind, but everybody has a shot out here.  I don't know what the weather looks like for tomorrow, but yeah, I think it's going to be a really fun day.   
 Q.  What club did you hit on 7 and was that a key in the round for you?  
JESSICA KORDA: I would say actually making par on 6 was important.  It's a really tough pin today.  It's almost impossible to get close to.  I saved like a 6-footer for par.  Then I just hit 8-iron on 7.  I actually thought it was going to go in but it was nice to have a tap-in on that hole.  It's a tough pin placement, and I kind of saw where tomorrow's pin placement is going to be, and it's, again, not going to be an easy hole.   
Actually a lot of the holes are not playing easy tomorrow.  You've just got to take birdie where you can and make pars obviously and make the least amount of bogeys.  I was very fortunate to be able to do that today.   
 Q.  And the club you hit on 7?  
JESSICA KORDA: 8-iron.   
 Q.  This is your third visit to Blue Bay and the tournament here.  What are your impressions of Blue Bay?  Others are accompanied by relatives and folks; what about you?  
JESSICA KORDA: I'm solo.  Next year I'm going to have a travel companion.  My sister made it on to the LPGA Tour through the Symetra, so I'll have a buddy.  But I room with a couple girls out here and I have a good time just traveling by myself.   
But Blue Bay is great.  This is the first year I can say that we have had incredible weather.  The way that the golf course drains, obviously we know it drains very, very well the last two years.  I feel like I leave half my suitcase because there's so much rain.   
It's fantastic weather.  The golf course is in amazing shape this year.  It's really settled into itself, and I'm really happy to be here, because it didn't look like we were going to be able to play with the typhoon coming in.   
I'm just really happy to be here, and it's less stressful now that we are finally here.   
 Q.  You made the putt to tie with Minjee -- what was going through your mind over that putt?  
JESSICA KORDA: 12 in general is a really hard hole.  You have to land it perfectly at the top to have any shot at that pin staying on the back of the green.  It's really wet back there so you don't want to have to chip up.  It's not an easy chip.  So I was just really happy to be on the green to be honest with you and have some type of putt at it.   
I was going to be okay with par because par is really good on that hole.  And being able to birdie it, if that's what my reaction was -- I looked up and down and excited -- it was more like a surprise and it was a good surprise.  Like I said, it's a really hard hole and a really hard pin, so you're thinking par is going to be a great score, and the fact that I actually made birdie I'm like, oh, wow, cool, that's great.  It's just a really hard hole with the pin back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT