U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2016
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We were just asking Lydia how important it is to play from the fairway.  Like to get your thoughts on the same thing?  
JESSICA KORDA: The rough is kind of patchy, but it's really thick in a lot of places to where you can just get a wedge on it and that's really it.   
 Q.  I'm also wondering if length is an advantage here.  As it firms up and gets faster, it kind of brings everybody back.  But do you feel like length is a big advantage?  
JESSICA KORDA: In the morning I definitely think so, because it was quite soft.  But this afternoon, I mean, yes and no.   
On one of the holes I think I had a 4-iron in, on like 15 or 16 -- 15.  And then, you know, it's hard to even stop 9-irons and wedges on the greens.  So it's going to be tough this afternoon.   
 Q.  We have the crack USGA staff doing a little research now, you may be the first sister squad to make the cut if Nelly does it?  
JESSICA KORDA: We did it in Sebonic, as well.  She actually did, she made the cut there, as well, right on the number.   
 Q.  That would put you guys as the only two-time cut makers in --  
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, it would be really cool.  It's cool that she's playing.  It's a great learning experience for her because she's so young.   
 Q.  What are your folks doing, running back and forth?  
JESSICA KORDA: 36 holes.  The coach and the parents got 36 holes.   
 Q.  Any similarities between here and Sebonic?  
JESSICA KORDA: It's firm in the afternoon.  This morning, like I said, it was really soft.  They can't really play it firm in the mornings, because then it's going to be unplayable in the afternoon.  It's definitely firm and a lot more kind of open golf course, versus the typical U.S. Open courses that we played.   
My first U.S. Open was Interlocken, so you've got tree-lined, high rough, long fairways.  So it's a little different.   
 Q.  Since she turned pro, has she picked your brain more or has she just learned enough along the way that she doesn't have to?  
JESSICA KORDA: She's definitely still picking my brain a lot, every day.  But it's good.  She needs to.   
I think being young and trying to be on a developmental Tour is just a little bit different than actually being on a Tour.  But still making those same mistakes, like never giving up.  You're always trying to fight more for a check.  Versus in junior golf, if you don't win, you don't win.  So it doesn't really matter.  I think it's just her learning just -- just the learning curve is a little bit different for her than it was for me being on two different Tours.  But she's learning a lot and hopefully I'm making it a little easier for her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT