CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm just curious just before I ask about this week, how would you sum up the Korda sister's year as a whole, the two of you?
JESSICA KORDA: Well Nelly's is, I mean amazing. Obviously for me Solheim Cup was a highlight of the year. So much fun to be a part of playing. Obviously not the finish that we all wanted, but incredible for Suzann.
In general, pretty decent I would say. Obviously disappointed I didn't win, but did I give myself some chances. It's freakin' hard out here. (Laughter.)
Q. Is it harder every year to win?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, I think so. I mean, when I was coming down the stretch with Danielle, she gave me nothing. Look at how Charley played today. She gave up nothing. These girls are damn good.
Q. When you look at Nelly's two wins, maybe another one, we don't know, this season, you said earlier in the week you felt like she had grown a lot this year. What ways specifically have you seen her grow?
JESSICA KORDA: Just in her confidence in who she is. I think in your 20s, earlier, mid, late, whatever, you're still trying to find yourself. Not to say that I have it figured out or she has it figured out, but it's slowly coming together.
She knows who she is. She is pretty confident in it. I think that translates really well on to a golf course, not pretending to be somebody that she's not. Her and Jason have been together for two years now, and that relationship has gotten better and stronger. They're more comfortable with each other, so that's also really important.
Yeah, just everything around kind of who she is, how she is, the way she's been practicing, the way that she kind of -- she's not over-practicing now. She kind of knows what to do and when to do it. Just everything really. She's settling in.
Q. Obviously trying to catch you motivated her her whole life. How is she motivating you now?
JESSICA KORDA: (Indiscernible.) You know, obviously everyone knows that she's kind of lit a fire under my ass a little bit since she's come out on tour. That's really about it.
Q. So you feel different?
JESSICA KORDA: It's not that I feel different. It's I feel more comfortable. I have my little sis with me. Again, I don't have to -- it's not that you're searching for friends or anything like that. It's just that with her, like you don't have to be anybody -- you don't have to worry that you're going to say the wrong thing. You don't have to -- you just know.
Q. You're yourself.
JESSICA KORDA: Exactly. That's just how family is, or at least our family is. So for us, if we have a bad day, I mean, we'll go off on the other person, whether it's our parents, because they just know because they've been in these positions. When we have had a good day we're there for each other the same way.
I think it's just that type of comfort. I don't know. It just helped me a little bit.
Q. My last sister question. Do you remember the first time she came to watch you play?
JESSICA KORDA: It was at U.S. Open in 2008. I saw the picture of her in dad's socks because it was a little dewy in the morning.
Q. In your dad's socks?
JESSICA KORDA: Yeah, so he had the long socks always and she rolled them down. That was really the first time she watched me play at a professional event. Obviously that was my first one. In juniors I have no idea. I've caddied for her when she was a junior.
Q. Did she come in and eat with you, go to the locker room?
JESSICA KORDA: She did everything. She met Morgan. Morgan took her through the locker room. Yeah, she was a local. Like I said, she's been out here as long as I have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT