CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 19, 2015
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Knowing this is the last week for points, do you let that creep into your mind at all or how do you let that not be your focus and focusing on that?
JESSICA KORDA: Well, I haven't played very well this season apart from like the first couple of events, so I think right now I'm just having a little bit bigger thoughts in my head, and Solheim has been kind of put to the back a little bit.  Just trying to get my golf game back to where it's supposed to be.  Started working with a new coach a couple weeks ago, so I'm starting to feel my old self coming back.  So obviously hitting more fairways and hitting more has come into play these last couple weeks, and it's just converting now.
You know, if Juli sees that, I can help the team, great.  If not, I'm going to try to earn my way in.  But right now that is not the main concern.  The main concern is trusting what I have and being able to put it up on the golf course.
Q. Seeing other players like Paula and (Indiscernible), great players, you're all trying to battle to get in.  Is it more comforting to have other players with you and knowing that it's tough for everybody?
JESSICA KORDA: I think it's tough.  I mean, like Paula has been on every single Solheim since her rookie year, I think.  So I think it's just tough to see such great players in such weird positions, but at the same time it's tough because you know that they're great players, and I feel bad for Juli that she has to make that decision.
But at the same time, I told Juli the same thing, if you feel I can help the team or anyone can help the team that's who you need to choose, you can't choose just because you like the person or whatever.  But all three of us are going to try to play our way on to the team so she doesn't have to make that decision.
Q. When you have a captain like Juli, you have so much respect for her, is it going to be a little easier to at least like you want to play so well, but you understand the tough position she's in?
JESSICA KORDA: Oh, yeah.  I would hate to be in her position, but at the same time, if you're a pick, you can never be upset with who she picks because it's her decision, and it's your own fault you didn't play your way onto the team.  There are ten spots to be had, and if you can't play on to those ten spots then you're not going to play.  That's your own fault.  You had the opportunity and two years to qualify.  Sometimes that's the way it happens.  I started the season on fifth in the rankings and now I'm outside of everything.
Q. Still one week left.
JESSICA KORDA: One week left.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT