PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 4, 2015
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I just followed you guys, you were reliving last year's 18th hole.   Was this the first time that you played on this hole since last year?
JESSICA KORDA:   No, I played yesterday was the first time, so it was cool. 

Q.   So it was kind of different coming back and just remembering exactly step by step stroke by stroke?
JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, it was.   It feels completely different.   It's been a year and obviously a lot has changed in a year, but it was, it's always fun. 

Q.   Now I remember that last week first week of the tournament you mentioned you took off the most time that you have ever taken off, off season.   Obviously, it worked out pretty well for you.   What did you do in the off season, just kind of relax or what was going on?
JESSICA KORDA:   I relaxed, but I was in the gym a lot.   I'm trying to do something different this year and really incorporate going to the gym a lot and keeping my strength up, because it helps me with my swing and David and I talked a lot and I was talking about consistency and who I wanted to continue winning, but I wanted to just be up there all the time.   He said, well, you got to do some different things.   And we talked a lot and I think one of the things is definitely getting stronger, because I am tall and I am my limbs are quite long, so I need to keep everything together and obviously going to the gym is one of the things that have I to do. 

Q.   It's the last week on Saturday, obviously coming back from behind, you made your way up there pretty quick.   How was that, just you pushing away the nerves and starting out the season and giving you some confidence coming in this week?
JESSICA KORDA:   It was lot of fun.   I saw where my game kind of is and shook off some rust.   I'm sure that there's going to be some left over rust, it's going to take a couple tournaments to kind of really get back into playing mode.   We're used to playing week in, week out and you take two months off and you think that you're going to be in the same spot, you hit some pretty shots and then not so pretty shots. 
So we'll see how this week, what it has in store.   But this is a beautiful place.   I love coming here.   Whether it was a 12 hole tournament, which was also a lot of fun or last year's full tournament, so it's an amazing place here. 

Q.   Now being a defending champ, was there any certain perks?   I notice that you got some jewelry last night.   Anything else from this week?
JESSICA KORDA:   I did.   I did.   Not really.   I did get upgraded to a really nice view.   I have the whole ocean basically and the whole resort underneath me and it's super nice.   I mean, you wake up in the morning and you're just like, wow, this is my life right now. 
So I definitely feel very spoiled.   But, really, I don't really need any perk, but it was nice to get a private shuttle from the airport and not have to wait for everybody else to get on.   I thought that was kind of cool.   Everybody sitting in the bus and I'm just waving out of my car, see you guys later. 
(Laughter.)
That might put a bulls‑eye on my back, but that's okay.

Q.   Well, now that you have played the course and done your practice rounds and everything, what do you think the key is for this week?
JESSICA KORDA:   I think staying patient.   Because it's going to get windy.   People are going to have, there's going to be some really tough holes, some scoring holes and patience is going to be key.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT