SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2015
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
JESSICA KORDA   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, delighted to welcome Jessica Korda.  6-under for the day on top of rounds of 67 and 69 on Thursday and Friday.   
You seem to be getting stronger and stronger as the tournament progresses.  Tell us about your round.   
JESSICA KORDA: I mean, we had a lot fun out there.  I played with Lydia and Haru and just had a good time.  I'm pretty sure people walking with us were wondering why we were cracking up so much on the golf course.   
But we really did just have a good time.  I think for all of us the birdies were just rolling in, so you can't ever complain about a day like today.   
THE MODERATOR: Two-shot leading heading into the final day.  What's the plan for tomorrow?  Much the same or will you approach it differently?   
JESSICA KORDA: No, I've approached every day the same.  I think every day I forget less and less things.  Showed up on the first day without markers and my gloves were missing.  So every day I feel more and more prepared.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (Question regarding being in her position.)  
JESSICA KORDA: It's a confidence builder.  I haven't been in this position in such a long time, since basically January.  It's just so nice to be back.   
 Q.  You had a big fan here following you, Natasha Oon.  Just wanted to know how does it feel to inspire little girls in countries like this, in Malaysia, where golf is not necessarily a mass sport?  
JESSICA KORDA: It's awesome.  I met Natasha four years ago the first time I was here.  I did a TaylorMade outing and she was in one of the local magazines, so I made her sign that magazine, and just every year coming back kept in touch with her.   
She actually came to Florida in December to play in I think IMG World something, which is right by my house.  So I hung out with her there for a little bit.  It's just great.  It's great to see especially her growing and still loving the game of golf and being so passionate about it.   
Definitely fuels me as well just seeing the impact that we can possibly have on kids.  It's great to see.  I was so glad to see her walking inside the ropes with me.  We went to dinner last night, and she was so excited.  She was asking me what I was wearing.  I was like, We should wear pink.  It's pink day.   
But it was great.   
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned going around with Lydia and Haru.  Obviously had a lot of fun and were spurring each other on.  Lydia was right up there.   
How does that work?  Do you have an eye on the leaderboard at the same time?  Are you focusing on your game?  Talk us through the dynamics of that.   
JESSICA KORDA: You know, I can't say that I've been watching the leaderboard a lot.  I think when I've been struggling a lot this year I was just on the leaderboard nonstop.   
This week it's just I peek and see where everybody is kind of standing, but at the same time, I look ahead of me instead of -- what's ahead of me instead of who is behind me on the leaderboards.   
I think just a little bit different attitude this week.  That's definitely helping me.   
THE MODERATOR: Heading to the final round tomorrow, does being atop of the leaderboard put more pressure on you or are you quite comfortable?   
JESSICA KORDA: It's been such a long time and I'm so happy.  I'm very pleased to be back on top of the leaderboard.  I definitely wasn't expecting all my hard work to be paying off this quickly, first week out in the Asia swing, but I'll take it wherever I can.   
And I'll keep playing my game tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Just final thoughts about the tournament and the course.  The course is setting up for your game well.  Happy to be here?  Enjoying the tournament?   
JESSICA KORDA: Always.  This is one of my favorite events.  I love starting my Asian swing here in Malaysia.  All the people are so awesome.  Crowds are incredible.  The weather is so hot.  (Laughter.)  If we could just have personal fans out there that would be fantastic.   
Apart from it being too hot, it's just such an amazing place and I love coming back here.   
 Q.  What are you doing that's very different in your game?  
JESSICA KORDA: I changed swing coaches.  I changed my approach a little bit to things.  I think a lot of it just had to do with growing up as well.   
 Q.  The TV spotlight is on you.  How do you handle that?  
JESSICA KORDA: I don't really look at it.  You know, I think it would be different if I was a rookie or maybe second year on tour, but it's my fifth year now.   
I've been in this position already.  I know what it's like and I know what it'll take.  You just to have concentrate on your own thing.   
But it's always nice.  You always appreciate it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JESSICA KORDA: I do it for myself.  I want to look good.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JESSICA KORDA: I think it's just a long time coming.  You know, I've been putting in a lot of work and just playing fearless this week.  Just putting it together.   
THE MODERATOR: You last won beginning of last year?  Last win?   
JESSICA KORDA: Was in Mobile I think in May of last year.   
 Q.  Your colleagues in your group contribute to your excellence?  
JESSICA KORDA: We had fun.  If you see somebody pouring in birdie putts, you want to be pouring in birdie putts as well, so it was good.  We had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  You're a very familiar face because of your videos on Golf Channel.  Do you still do any of those?  
JESSICA KORDA: No, I have not done any videos lately.  I think those were from my first year on tour as well, so that's very funny.   
I did remember a lot of people telling me, Oh, we see you on Golf Channel all the time.  I'm like, That's so old.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT