BLUE BAY LPGA
October 23, 2014
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round of 66, but have to ask first, how is the wrist?
JESSICA KORDA:   It's fine.   A little unexpected shock but I'm good, just a little ice and some rest. 

Q.   Certainly didn't take the shine off what was a terrific opening round, a 66.   Talk me through your front nine. 
JESSICA KORDA:   It was really nice.   I was hitting the ball pretty good and then I made some long putts, as well, off the green.   I guess the putter was just hot on the front nine, so I took advantage of it.

Q.   We saw you drain a couple of long putts from difficult parts on the green.   With so many swales, how did you go about reading those?
JESSICA KORDA:   I'm sure you're talking about 10.   That was just playing that hole like a par 5 from where I hit that drive.   Honestly a lot of the putts are kind of straight, so just not over reading them.   The speed of them are perfect for my stroke and so I'm really hoping to take advantage of it. 

Q.   Your stroke is good, and also you are one of the longest players out here this week, which must really help set yourselves up, because the par 4s are long and demanding?
JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, definitely.   Yesterday when he played in the practice round, I had a bunch of 4‑iron punch shot into the greens.   I was worried coming out this morning but I had some shorter irons which was nice.

Q.   You've started working with David Leadbetter.   How is that working out?
JESSICA KORDA:   It's good.   Getting a little bit of experience, is great, as well, because he's been through it so many times with different players and he's seen different techniques.   It's good to kind of feed off of him a little bit and pick his brain. 

Q.   Is it difficult to do that midseason?   Has he made big changes or just working through the season?
JESSICA KORDA:   Just working through the season, trying to make the swing a little bit more compact.   We just went through some club changes, as well.   So it's been a crazy year so far. 

Q.   Two wins already this year, and you now find yourself in one of the most beautiful parts of China.   How nice is it here?
JESSICA KORDA:   It's amazing.   I call this the Hawai'i of China.   We got here and couldn't see anything because we got here when it was dark.   When the sun rose this morning we were amazed.   The hotel is amazing and so the golf course, it's in great shape.   Hopefully the weather stays nice and it stays calm and we have a great week. 

Q.   Talk about coming into the final Asian stretch, were you thinking about certain goals you wanted to accomplish?   What was the mind‑set?
JESSICA KORDA:   Just there was really no mind‑set.   I came in after Evian.   I took 2 1/2 weeks off.   Changes shafts in my clubs.   I started practicing maybe six days, four days before I left.   I had a 9‑iron and a 6‑iron and that's all I was doing.   It was a different preparation coming in.   But I'm just trying to stay injury‑free and really taking care of my body, because I think I've played more this year and just having to take a lot of breaks in the season.

Q.   Have you ever done that before, practiced with just two clubs, ever? 
JESSICA KORDA:   No, because that was the only clubs I had with the right shafts in them.   I got them like two days before I left. 

Q.   Were you nervous about that?
JESSICA KORDA:   I was very.   Last week was tough because of the wind, and I had no idea how to hit a certain shot.   So it was very difficult but this week was already my third week with them, and so starting to feel a lot more comfortable hitting certain shots and controlling distances. 

Q.   What shafts are they now? 
JESSICA KORDA:   Graphite. 

Q.   And are you a club changer? 
JESSICA KORDA:   No, I hate it.   I hate changing clubs.   This is something that I had to do in order to come to Asia, otherwise I would have to stay home. 

Q.   Anything else today?   What was the absolute high height?
JESSICA KORDA:   Highlight was No. 10.   Hit my drive way out right.   Didn't hit in the fairway.   Then didn't have the right club.   And the wind took it and I made the putt from across the whole green, from the back of the green to the front of the green, it was like from back to front, 60 feet.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT