RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Jessica Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You are inching up leader board.   Just express and plain to everybody how tough a day this is at the office?
JESSICA KORDA:   Oh, it's incredibly tough.   Not only mentally tough but it's tough on my caddie, because you might have a number set in mind but you don't nowhere that ball is going to go.   You are starting them outside the greens and just praying to God that it's going to come back to the green.

Q.   We've seen a couple of the balls coming backwards after they have been hit.   It's getting quite tricky out there. 
JESSICA KORDA:   Yeah, it is and it's not easy on the greens either.   You're standing over a putt and the ball is kind of oscillating a little bit.   The gust of wind is not pleasant out there.   I'm very glad I'm done.

Q.   How close do you think this could be by the end of the day?
JESSICA KORDA:   You know, the last holes coming in are pretty tough.   The wind seems to be picking up which is incredible, because it is blowing very hard out there, and I think it's going to be a close one.   The girls have to really keep the ball in play. 

Q.   Did you consider you were closing in on the leaders‑‑
JESSICA KORDA:   I didn't even care.   It's so hard out there.   It is so hard out there.   Even putting, I had so many opportunities.   10 I could have birdied; 11, I could have birdied.   But a gust of wind caught me and it catches the putter and the putter goes zigzag and you can't stop it.
I looked at the leaderboard and I see Inbee is I think even par or 1‑over, incredible.   It's so tough out there.   Not only tee shots from the fairway, keeping it in the fairway, the balls are rolling out, fairways are starting to get very firm as well. 
So you might think you hit a great shot and all of a sudden you're in the bunker and the rough and you didn't do anything wrong.   Same thing on the greens. 
I think 17th green is so baked out right now, it's the fastest green on the golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT