HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2011
Steve Hale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Steve, the caddy for our winner, Keegan Bradley. I was most impressed by the fact that Keegan went to 3-under on No. 10 and held it there for the rest of the round. What were y'all talkin' about for the last nine holes. 
 STEVE HALE: Early in the round we weren't talking that much about the golf tournament, but once we got to 16, there was a little conversation about just doing what we've been doing and not making any mistakes. Let's just keep doing what we're doing and let everybody else make the mistakes and come back to us. 
 We knew it was playin' hard and we knew we could get close if we made some good pars and made some good birdies, and we did. 

 Q. Did you feel the flow was great for 18 holes, or was there a time when you thought something might be slipin' away? 
 STEVE HALE: No, you know what? He made a couple of key putts. Throughout the round he made a bunch of 6 and 8-footers for par, made a 12-footer for par on 17. That was absolutely huge, and it's a testament to how well he played this week. 
 On Saturday I feel like he played better than anybody. He didn't score better than everybody but he hit 14 greens and got it closer to the flag than anybody else. So he played very well this weekend and he deserved to win. No doubt. 

 Q. The big talk for the weekend was the wind. I guess Keegan is from Vermont, played up at St. John's. Is he used to the wind? How do y'all handle that? 
 STEVE HALE: He's played in enough wind, and it was nice to be able to have a chance to be involved and to feel like a help to him and that's what you want to do as a caddy, you want to be involved and help them make good decisions. Ultimately they're in charge of hitting the golf shots but you've got to say a few things. 
 And you have a sales job and that's part of what you have to do and we were lucky to do it very well this week. 

 Q. How long have you two been workin' together? 
 STEVE HALE: Just seven weeks now. 

 Q. Seven weeks? How did you meet? 
 STEVE HALE: He has a mutual -- there is a player out here who I was lucky enough to be working for. He got hurt, and Keegan needed help about the time that Jamie got hurt, so I was able to jump in and caddy for him while Jamie has been out, and now we're going to have choices to make. 

 Q. Tell me how long you've been a PGA caddy. 
 STEVE HALE: I'm from Denver, Colorado, and credit to my wife, she sent me back for my second stint, for seven years. I caddied right out of college for four years, then went home, had a real life and a real job, and I'm still married with a great wife and great kids and lucky enough to have them be so supportive, and I could not do it without their support. 

 Q. That's great. Congratulations. Does she know you've won a new car? 
 STEVE HALE: She does. It a catch-22. My thoughts are with her dad. My father-in-law is in the hospital with some serious stuff, so my wife is in ICU right now and having mixed emotions for all the good and bad, but my thoughts are with him. 

 Q. Our best to him and thanks for the interview. 
 STEVE HALE: Thank you and thanks to the Salesmanship Club and all that you guys do. We couldn't do this without you guys. 

 Q. Thank you, and congratulations to you and to Keegan. 
 STEVE HALE: He's a great representative, you'll be lucky to have him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT