CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2007
Jack McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JACK McDONALD:  The situation with Chris Baryla today, Chris was brought in by a marshal and the ShotLink people, and Chris had taken relief from what he felt was a French drain that crosses the 12th fairway. 
 After consideration, it was decided that that is not a French drain.  We denied several other players relief from that situation earlier during the tournament, and Chris was assessed a two-stroke penalty on hole No. 12 as a result of that. 

 Q.  Did he sign for the right score? 
 JACK McDONALD:  No, we caught him before he had left the scoring trailer, so there's no issue with the scorecard or the wrong score. 

 Q.  What is a French drain? 
 JACK McDONALD:  A French drain is typically a trench cut four or six or eight inches wide and filled with rocks, oftentimes coming to the surface in order to drain water from a localized area.  And we would on the PGA hard card (ph), that situation would normally be relieved, pre-relief from that. 
 We had looked at these areas earlier in the week and talked with the superintendent, who gave us details of the construction of these and decided that, in fact, they were not French drains.  It is a drain, there's no doubt about that.  There's a four- to six-inch pipe buried maybe 10 to 12 inches underneath there with four inches above any turf or sand or rock which surrounds that drain pipe. 
 It's noticeable by a depression, and that's what Chris assumed to be the French drain. 

 Q.  He didn't seek a ruling then? 
 JACK McDONALD:  He didn't seek a ruling at the moment.  He and his fellow competitor looked at it and he proceeded on his own. 
 We had rules officials in the area, and I'm quite certain that in the future Chris will be asking about that. 

 Q.  Did you go out with them afterwards? 
 JACK McDONALD:  Yeah, we went out with PGA rules official, myself, Chris and the superintendent in order to confirm that it was not a French drain. 

 Q.  You were told by a marshal? 
 JACK McDONALD:  The marshal on that hole knew that other players had been denied relief in that location earlier, saw Chris take relief.  And then ShotLink radioed it in to us, so we were able to get Chris before he signed his card or left the scoring trailer. 

 Q.  Was he pissed off? 
 JACK McDONALD:  No.  He handled it like the gentleman that he is. 

 Q.  This isn't something that the player and his playing partner can agree on, once the playing partner says yeah, that's right? 
 JACK McDONALD:  It isn't one of those situations.  It's really up to the rules official to be deeming that a French drain.  And as I say, we had been -- all of us had been together and decided earlier in the week that that was not a French drain and we would deny relief when asked. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT