NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 8, 1999
Stu Barnes
Wayne Primeau
Jason Woolley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jason, could you believe your eyes when you saw that lane open up down the middle
there?

JASON WOOLLEY: I didn't really get much chance to do anything the whole game; did a
real good job of shutting the middle down. I just come off the bench so I think I snuck up
on them a little bit. Curtis made a great pass to me in overtime; you just want to shoot.
I got lucky, it went in. It was a great opportunity for our team here to go up 1-0.

Q. Jason, could you talk about the mindset of your team after the Stars had scored late
in regulation and how you guys were kind of able to hold it together after the third
period?

JASON WOOLLEY: Well, I think we faced a lot of that this playoffs. I think we do a good
job of not getting too down and just staying playing the way we played in the third
period. I thought we played a real solid. We had a real -- I'd say pretty shaky first ten
minutes but we have had a long layoff year and it has been tough. It is very hot out there
and I don't think guys are too used to that. Let's not forget how nervous everyone was out
there. So I think to see them -- they have scored big goals all year. I don't think it
really caught us off guard. It was kind of an unfortunate guard. Pec got his stick in the
front of the boards; he was in the right spot. That was a big goal for them.

Q. You described how the goal went in. What do you remember of that first emotion about
scoring that goal?

JASON WOOLLEY: Well, I didn't know what -- I didn't really know it went in, to be
honest with you. At first I think I shot through a screen there. I wasn't sure how to
react to it. I was obviously very excited about what happened after I saw it go in. It is
a big goal for our team and to put us up 1-0, it is a great feeling personally, but we are
along way from done and we know that.

Q. Wayne, we don't want to forget you. You were complimented on your goal by Ken
Hitchcock. Describe your goal.

WAYNE PRIMEAU: For me, on the powerplay, my main job is just to create traffic and try
and screen the goaltender. The guys were playing with the puck really well around the
outside - great slot at net, rebound came to me, I was able to pop it home.

Q. The overtime, to watch that performance by Dominick, he kept you in it there in the
overtime --

JASON WOOLLEY: We are very familiar with that. He has been doing that all season and
all playoffs. Obviously he is a big part of our success. We feed off that. We need him to
play like that for us to be successful. Gave us a chance to -- Sanderson could have put it
away on a breakaway; had a real good chance there, but he came up with some big saves to
hold us in there and gave us that chance to even it up.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT