WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. FISH/C. Berlocq
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Nice to get on and off the court pretty quickly there?
MARDY FISH:   Sure, always, especially with a win.   You can sometimes get on and off the court with a loss, so it's nice to win.
You know, somewhat tricky, because I have never practiced with him.   Only played him in doubles last year on clay, so, you know, you never really know what to expect. 
So that's nice.

Q.   Pretty obviously everyone here is getting ready for the Open.   Does that change the way you play in a tournament like this?   Are you just playing every point... 
MARDY FISH:   This is a big event.   This is a big event, too.   You know, I put this in the top, you know, six, seven tournaments that we play all year.   So obviously you don't want to leave anything out. 
You know, the US Open is the biggest one for us, certainly, but this is up there, for sure, with me, no doubt.

Q.   I guess I was thinking in terms of the timing of it because it's right before the Open. 
MARDY FISH:   Yeah.

Q.   That doesn't change the mindset of... 
MARDY FISH:   Not at all.   I mean, even more so you want to sort of peak at this time.   You know, obviously you want to be fresh, as fresh as you can.   Fresh is a strong word at this time of the year, but you want to be peaking now.   This is the time where you want to play well.

Q.   Mentally and physically, like comparing to last year, you know, here in Cincy and heading into the Open, how would you compare it?
MARDY FISH:   I'd probably say physically, you know, not as strong just because I don't have the confidence in my body as much.   I don't have the confidence in my body as much as I did last year, match fitness as much as I did last year, but it's coming. 
I mean, today I felt like I played as well today as I have all summer, for sure.   Hey, this guy is a good player, really good player.   If you're not on top of your game, you know, you're going to be in a lot of trouble.
I could still be out there, no doubt, and he could beat me.   You know, I come off the court 6‑3, 6‑1, and I felt like I was in control the entire match.   That's satisfying, for sure.

Q.   Rafa is out of the US Open. 
MARDY FISH:   Really? 

Q.   I'm not sure if you heard that. 
MARDY FISH:   That's too bad.

Q.   Thoughts on that?   It's surprising. 
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, it's too bad.   You felt like if he wasn't able to come to at least here ‑‑ a lot of guys took Toronto off, but at least come here.   Maybe he was in trouble.   So it's a shame. 
You know, he made the final last year and he's the past champion year before that.   He'll be missed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT