US OPEN
August 29, 2001
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Are you disappointed with the year?  You got to two Slams, didn't win a set.  How disappointing is that?  How philosophical are you about it? 
 
MARDY FISH:  I was just happy to get into Wimbledon.  That was just a learning experience to play my first ever Wimbledon and win a match.  I was kind of overwhelmed with everything.  That was good.  But it's good to get that out of the way. Then this year, here at the Open, I mean, Carlos is such a good player.  What can you say?  I mean, I almost won the second set.  I mean, I had a bunch of chances.  Two break points in the last game, didn't make it.  And then couple points here and there and it could be a totally different ball game.  
 
Q.  How do you get better?
 
MARDY FISH:  I just have to cut down a lot of unforced errors, try to maybe get my movement a little bit better so I can get out to a lot of my forehands that I miss, that I hit long.  Other than that, I mean, just keep getting experience in those type of matches.  
 
Q.  You had a great first service game. 
 
MARDY FISH:  First service game?  
 
Q.  Yeah, you had two or three aces. 
 
MARDY FISH:  Yeah, I don't know.  I thought I served pretty well.  That one side was tough because the sun was right there in deuce.  So there's nothing  -- I mean, but the games that he broke me were long games or I had game points and it was a couple points that made the difference I think. 
 
Q.  Overall, were you satisfied with the way you played today? 
 
MARDY FISH:  Yeah, I mean I was a little disappointed in how many unforced errors I made.  I mean, this week in practice I was practicing really well and I was prepared for this tournament and I had high hopes coming in to, you know -- not just winning a round or two, you know, hopefully , I mean, in the beginning of the year I played and I beat two guys that were Top 10, so I knew that I could play with those guys.  So, I mean, I was coming in and I was ready, fit and playing well.  Just came across a good player today. 
 
Q.  Who did you beat in the Top 10? 
 
MARDY FISH:  Enqvist and Philippoussis in March.  
 
Q.  That was a week apart? 
 
MARDY FISH:  That was one in Scottsdale and first round in Indian Wells was Philippoussis. 
 
Q.  Moya had a lot of depth on groundstrokes.
 
MARDY FISH:  Yeah, he was pushing me back.  My game plan was kind of to obviously play my game and just try to come in a lot because that's my game.  He was hitting the ball so deep and it was really tough for me to come in on a  -- I mean, I didn't really have all that many short balls at all.  When I did, I tried to take advantage and go to the backhand a lot because that side is a little bit weaker. He passed me on a break point in the second set.  I broke him right back after that.  But he had an awesome running cross-court pass.   
 
Q.  Are you satisfied with where your career is? 
 
MARDY FISH:  Yeah, I mean, beginning of the year I started, I was like 350.  And so right now, I'm like 170 or 180 or something like that.  So it's  -- I've been going up every week.  So, I mean, that's the only thing you can try to do, is try to keep improving, try to keep going up. You know, I'm gonna play a bunch of challengers in the fall and hopefully I can keep moving up.  
 
Q.  Where would those challengers be? 
 
MARDY FISH:  I don't know exactly where they are.  There's one right after this in California.  There's like eight of them.  
 
Q.  Brad changing anything mechanically in your game?
 
MARDY FISH:  No, not at all.  Not changing anything mechanically.  We worked a lot on my forehand this past month, month and a half, and a lot on my serve since like in the year that I've been with him.  
 
Q.  Brad Gilbert? 
 
MARDY FISH:  No, Brad Stine.  I mean, last year here, I played Gambill and my serve was nothing.  I mean, this year, I'm hitting serves like 130.  Last year I was hitting serves like 110.  So hopefully I'll keep improving.  Hopefully I can do some good things.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MARDY FISH:  Yeah, he is a little bit.  That's kind of not my mentality.  We're different guys and he understands that.  Jim, he was just a bulldog, you know, and a workaholic.  You know, I mean I work hard and everything, but on the court we're kind of totally different.  So, I mean, he understands that.  
 
Q.  What about the Vikings? 
 
MARDY FISH:  What about them?  
 
Q.  What about them? 
 
MARDY FISH:  They're gonna win the Super Bowl.  
 
Q.  Come on. 
 
MARDY FISH:  They are.  Every year they're gonna win the Super Bowl, I think.  
 
Q.  They have an unblemished record. 
 
MARDY FISH:  In the preseason they do.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT