BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2012
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/A. Seppi
  6‑3, 3‑2 (ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the role of Jim Courier in the Switzerland win?   It seemed like he really stepped up in terms of coaching.   How did he guide you guys through that?  
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, he has a great tennis mind.   We respect the hell out of everything that comes out of his mouth.   Gives you that calming sense on that side of the court where you know any situation you have been in right now he's been in at least five times.   
He's been in every pressure situation you can imagine on a court, and he makes us accountable.   He's not there for the money.   He's not there for‑‑ you know, he's not happy to be there.   He's not happy to, you know, to have the job‑‑ you know, to have a job, you know what I mean?   It's not your everyday coaching situation.   
He'll tell you what he thinks, and what he's feeling and what he thinks you should do.   It's better for certain guys, obviously.   You know, I've been in more situations than someone like John's has been; Mike and Bobhave been in more situations than I had been in, those types of situations, pressure situations.   
So, you know, there's a level of what you need to say to certain players.   I think he's got a pretty good grasp on that.   He challenged us.   He challenged John big time, and he came up with the goods.  
   
 Q.   Did I eavesdrop right, that you had bad plumbing so you added on three tournaments this year?  
MARDY FISH:   No.   I was just kidding.  
   
 Q.   And tennis is such a great mental game.   You don't have teammates.   Except for Davis Cup, you're out there all by yourself.   Could you talk about the mental side, the self‑talk in your mind during these matches?   How that's changed over your career and what it's like to have that dialogue with yourself?  
MARDY FISH:   There are a lot of demons there.   Everyone handles failure different ways.   Some people‑‑ you know, I can go on and on about how many scenarios you can handle it, how many ways you can handle it.   
But, you know, there's a lot of losing even when you win in tennis.   You know, when you win a match, a close match, you probably win 51% of the points which means you lose 49% of the time.   That's a lot of losing.  
So, you know, whatever you can do best to deal with that, you know, is the best way to do it.   And everyone's different.   Everyone can go about it a different way.  
   
 Q.   So you have to be kind to yourself?   
MARDY FISH:   Well, in some people that doesn't work.   Some people like to be hard on themselves.   Some people like to challenge themselves, you know.   And there's‑‑ you know, Roger, who knows what's going on in his head?   But it looks like he's pretty good on himself.   He's pretty easy on himself.   
You know, someone like Andy Murray, someone like myself, we're hard on ourselves.   You know, sometimes we show it outwardly and sometimes we show it inwardly.   People handle it different ways.  
   
 Q.   Are you satisfied with your season so far?  
MARDY FISH:   No, I'm not.   I mean, I would have liked the Australian Open to go a different way.  
Davis Cup helped, certainly.   It doesn't necessarily feel like a bad start to the year because of that, just because of that, but I had a real bad time in Australia.   
You know, I mean, that's the biggest tournament that we've played so far, and this is the next biggest one.   I have only played three events.   It's been a short time, and it just doesn't feel like it was that long ago that we were in London for the World Tour Finals.  
You know, you kind of have to keep that in perspective, as well.   Doesn't feel that long ago.  
   
 Q.   Are you sort of feeling that?   Last year you had a longer season that you're used to.   
MARDY FISH:   I think just the lack of‑‑ you know, sort of four‑and‑a‑half weeks really is not that long.   I mean, I'm gonna have that after Houston, you know, the same amount of time.   So that was tough.   
Starting the year so early might not have been the best for me, but you live and learn.   Here we are.  
   
 Q.   You decided to play Marseilles and Dubai rather than playing the traditional U.S. events.   Did you like that?   Was it a good experience?   
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, I had a great time in Dubai.   Marseilles was quicker.   I was sick for‑‑ I pushed my trip back to Marseilles two separate times.   We had to change flights.   My wife had to change our flights three times because I was sick going there.   
That wasn't the best experience, but I got better as that week went along and went to Dubai.   We had a great time.   I had never been there before.   Rode a camel, so that was cool.  
   
 Q.   Next Grand Slam would be the French Open.   What is your best memory in Paris?  
MARDY FISH:   Best memory?   I have to think for that.   
   
 Q.   You pushed back from the steaks and frittes, according to Justin Gimelstob.   
MARDY FISH:   Yeah.   You know, to be honest, at Roland Garros my best memory was when we played Davis Cup there in 2002.   We didn't win, but it was the greatest experience for me.   I was only 20 years old at the time and one of my first time on a Davis Cup team.  
As far as the French Open is concerned, I don't have‑‑ I have a lot of memories.   I don't have great memories on the tennis court, but I always enjoy playing.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Ljubicic.)  
MARDY FISH:   No, that's a good point.   That was when I was sort of getting to that stage when I knew I had something different with the weight loss and I knew I had flipped a switch somehow.   
I didn't know how far it was going to take me, but that's certainly one of them.  
   
 Q.   Flipping the switch, Ryan Harrison is only 19.   He's made a lot of progress, but do you feel like he's getting to be at a time in his life where he's making more of a statement at a tournament?  
MARDY FISH:   Yeah.   I mean, I'm on Ryan's side.   There is no doubt about it.   I love the kid to death.   But he's still got some strides to make, and he knows that.   He does all the right things.   
I mean, you guys know that from us saying that, from Andy saying that.   We've seen him work in the offseason we have seen him during the weeks.  
He's a really good kid.   He's got a great worth ethic, great feel for away from matches what you need to do.   He will do a better job of channeling his frustration.   He's someone that, you know, shows it outwardly.   
He'll do a great job of that when he matures and when he sees himself on tape a little bit more and realizes that maybe that's not the way he wants to handle himself.   But that's a good fire to have, there's no doubt about it.   
Yeah, I mean, he's a on a byer.   He's a byer for sure.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Excuse me, I have a question.   We all know that you're so good.   You finished off the match very quickly, but can you please finish off your press conference?   I'm actually after you, and I'd like to go back and...   
MARDY FISH:   How well did Rory play today?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Very nice, yeah.   
MARDY FISH:   Very good.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   7‑under.   How's your golf game?   
MARDY FISH:   Horrible.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't believe you.   You have your clubs here, I bet.   
MARDY FISH:   I do.   I haven't played well.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You should go out and play.   
MARDY FISH:   I haven't played well.   I might take a lesson from you.  
   
 Q.   How do you think he'd do on the PGA?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No comment.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT