DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: USA v SWITZERLAND
February 10, 2012
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/ S. Wawrinka
  6-2, 4-6, 4-6, 6-1, 9-7 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Press conference with Mardy Fish.   
   
 Q.   Mardy, congratulations.   Talk about this win and what it means to you, on of your the biggest comebacks, the biggest wins of your career.   
MARDY FISH:   It's certainly up there.   There's no doubt about it.   I think, you know, Colonial jumps out me; obviously the Olympics jump out at me.   As far as the Davis Cup and the team aspect of it, yeah, this is certainly right up there with them.   
   
 Q.   Mardy, you started so good the first set and then you made a lot of unforced errors and then you came back.   So do you have any explanation why your game changed or is this typical Davis Cup?  
MARDY FISH:   Yeah.   I mean it's three‑out‑of‑five‑set clay court match.   You're going to make errors, and you're going to make some here and there, and you're going to play well, too.   It's four and a half hours, so at times you're not going to play well, and hopefully you can be the guy that's won in the end.   That's all that matters.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the emotional journey throughout the final set.   Was there any time when you thought it was maybe slipping away from you?  
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, when I lost serve to go 5‑5 in the fifth, I certainly was trying to not think about what happened last year in Austin.   I had quite a few heart‑breaking matches there that took me a while to get over, and that would have been really brutal to lose as well.   
Apart from Columbia I had lost ‑‑ or I had maybe played six matches in a row that had gone four hours, and five of them were five sets, I think.   So seems like we're playing a lot on clay away, so I'd like to get off that.   
   
 Q.   Mardy, (indiscernible) for the second time at 8‑7.   What were you telling yourself?   It happened at 5‑4 and then you got down again.   How did you sort of regroup and regain your focus?  
MARDY FISH:   I mean I played a pretty good game.   He played a great game.   That was the best return game he played for at least a couple sets.  
I made a lot of first serves in that game, played a lot of good points, and he played a better game than I did, I guess.   And I still got down 15‑40 in that game.   I had I think maybe 0‑40 as well at 4‑3 ‑‑ yeah, 4‑3 in the fifth and got out of that one, so I mean I just kind of dwelled on that, you know, that I could come back, just take it one point at a time, which you know, at that stage you have to do because, you know, a couple points here or there and you lose the match.   
   
 Q.   Mardy, it was pretty loud out there.   What did you think about the atmosphere?  
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, I thought it was great.   I said on the court, I think that's probably the nicest away crowd that we've had as far as, you know, not getting into your face of the country that they don't want to win the most.   Very tennis knowledgeable.   
They weren't yelling at overheads and things like that, which happens pretty much every time you play away ‑‑ you play an away tie.   So they were very loud and they were cheering for their guy, which that's what Davis Cup is all about.   But they weren't ‑‑ you know, they weren't in my face if I made a double fault or something like that, so it was a pleasure to play out there.  
   
 Q.   Mardy, talking about tomorrow first I know you need a good rest for 24 hours, but you intend to play doubles.   Who do you play tomorrow doubles with?  
MARDY FISH:   Noon tomorrow you'll know.   
   
 Q.   Mardy, concerning the doubles we know tomorrow noon, do you know already?  
MARDY FISH:   We don't know.   To be honest with you, we haven't talked about it much.   I think we were probably going to play as to how today went and go from there.   But we've been here since Sunday, and I've been four hours every single day except for yesterday, so we'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   Was there anything about your check performance today that was especially satisfying, either the way you played on clay at this time of the year, which is not normal, the way you handled a particular situation, anything that you'll take away?  
MARDY FISH:   Definitely, yeah.   I mean first performance is to beat Stan, period.   Clay is his best surface, his favorite surface and in his home country.   So I'll take that away for sure.   
You know, mentally just staying in there.   Obviously it's Davis Cup, so it's not that hard to do, but sometimes your mind can go, so I'll take a lot of confidence from that.   I didn't have a very good Australia at all.   I didn't have a good start to the year, so hopefully this will help me.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Mardy?   
MARDY FISH:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT