BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 20, 2011
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/M. Fish
  6‑2, 3‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You played some great tennis in the second and third.   You must be disappointed not to have won that match 3‑2 and a break?
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, you know, anytime you get someone like that in those types of situations, for me that doesn't happen, hasn't happened, throughout our careers.   He's beaten me pretty handily most of the time. 
The past couple times I played him well.   But, you know, obviously it's a big spot.   There's a lot on the line.   We're well aware of what's at stake. 
So, yeah, it's tough. 

Q.   Were you upset about him disappearing at 2‑Love? 
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, no, you know with him you're not really going to get anything extracurricular.   So I just assumed that he wasn't feeling well.   We've all been there. 
So, no, I didn't think he was trying to ice me or anything.   He just broke me, so... 
I have a ton of respect for him.   Willing to wait.   He wins more Grand Slams than I've won tournaments, so I'm willing to wait for him as long as he wants.

Q.   You had a bit of a slow start.   Was that nerves out there?
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, maybe.   You know, I was just excited to get out there and be a part of this whole thing.   So, yeah, I didn't play well.   I mean, I hadn't practiced really that much at all with my leg, as well.   So that might have played a little bit of a part, too. 
Obviously I got a little more comfortable after playing a set, you know, sort of getting used to all the surroundings with people in there.   With the lights back, you know, dark, it makes for good tennis.   You can see the ball perfectly when you can't usually when the stands are foot filled.   Sometimes you lose the ball in someone's hat or something in the back.   You don't do that.   Conditions are absolutely perfect. 
So, yeah, that took a little bit of getting used to, I guess, 20 minutes or so. 

Q.   You have to play Tsonga and then Roger Federer.   Where do you think this puts you?
MARDY FISH:   Behind the eight ball, I think (smiling). 
I guess I'll play Jo now.   We had a great match at the US Open.   He's confident now and almost beat Roger, who's playing some of the best tennis I've seen him play in a while.   I mean, every one of these matches is going to be really hard.

Q.   How was the injury today?   Do you think it's going to hold up for the rest of the tournament?
MARDY FISH:   I do.   I hope it does.   Physically I felt pretty good.   Like I said, I haven't practiced that much, so it hasn't been ideal preparation for an event like this. 
But that's not an excuse.   I mean, I was right there.   You know, I would have liked to have had my fitness level, you know, my lungs a little bit fitter at this time of the year, especially coming in playing two events and then, you know, having a week off, being able to train and stuff. 
Yeah, it wasn't ideal.   But that wasn't the reason that I lost. 

Q.   Did you think with him struggling a bit physically that might be an opportunity for you in the tiebreak at the end?
MARDY FISH:   Well, yeah.   I mean, look, no matter how you're going to feel, if you get to a tiebreaker for the third, you're going to figure out a way to get it done.   That's what great players do. 
I mean, I didn't play a great tiebreaker; he did.   That was pretty much the difference.   I played one sloppy game in the third set after breaking him.   You know, felt in control there at that point before that game 'cause you know he's probably not feeling his best. 
But sometimes those guys are dangerous like that because he can play a little more aggressive.   When he plays a little more aggressive, sometimes he's almost tougher that way. 

Q.   How did you find the whole experience out there today?
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, it was amazing.   It's a spectacular event all the way through.   We've been here for nine days now.   We've had a blast in the city, from taking a boat to the court, just how they treat everyone.   It's been a great experience.   Hopefully we'll have a few more days to enjoy it. 
But I definitely have a couple matches left.   You know, I want to win those.   I want to be a part of that, as well. 

Q.   What are your memories of the last match against Jo at the US Open?   It was special with the wind. 
MARDY FISH:   Yeah, the wind.   The conditions were probably a little bit of a bummer for both of us just because we both came in high on confidence.   We both came in playing extremely well throughout the summer.   You know, you get into a match where it's just who can keep the ball in the court more because the wind was so bad.   So that was a little bit of a bummer. 
All in all, I remember the crowd.   Obviously it was for me.   If he's playing at Roland Garros, it would be flipped a different way. 
I felt like I let an opportunity get away, for sure, and felt like I probably should have won that match, being up two sets to win, and didn't.   So I'll hope to get a little bit of revenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT