ROGERS CUP MEN
August 14, 2011
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Fish
  6-2, 3-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mardy Fish. 

 Q. For the last few years you've been a player climbing up the mountain. Today you had opportunities and became closer to the top of the mountain. Do you take something positive from how hard you fought today?
 MARDY FISH: I mean, I knew I was going to fight hard. I don't think that was going to be an issue. 
 It's really hard to get to these spots in the first place. And I've lost four of them all in three sets. It's really hard to take. I mean, just so much energy mentally and physically goes into going that far. I've never won one. I want it so badly. It hurts. 

 Q. Obviously you're not happy with the results. Could you tell us a little bit more how you evaluate your game today? 
 MARDY FISH: I mean, I felt like I had an opportunity today, I really did. You know, I had a lot of chances in that first set. Ended up losing 6-2 early. If you try to forget who you're playing against, you're just playing another player, maybe you can figure out a way to get a break or two there. 
 I had a lot of shots early in that first set on my racquet that I'd like to have back. So I had a lot of opportunities. 

 Q. Yesterday you said that you weren't going to play a baseline game with Novak. Did you manage to get to the net as much as you wanted to today?
 MARDY FISH: Maybe not. I mean, tactically, like I said, I put myself in a lot of positions to have chances. I just didn't execute on the big points. I mean, there's a reason why he's won so many matches this year. He's got to be leading the tour in breakpoints saved, I'm sure, among other things. Those are huge. 
 I thought it was big to start serving in the third and to get through those first couple games was good. Everything was going according to plan. I just played one bad game. 

 Q. You mentioned the energy it takes for you to get to this state in a tournament. Does it make you appreciate what Djokovic has done this year?
 MARDY FISH: Yeah, I mean, I can appreciate it more and more as I have success. You just kind of think because he's playing better, is better than everyone right now, he's most likely going to win. That's just not how it works. There's so many good players out here. You know, I mean, he was in trouble in the first set in his first match. He just gets through it. It's incredible, yeah. 
 Much respect. 

 Q. Is he beatable? 
 MARDY FISH: Yeah, yeah. I mean, I felt like I had chances today. You know, I didn't watch much of the match last night, I'm not sure what happened to Tsonga, but he probably had a couple chances maybe, I don't know, in that first set. 
 But he's overall just so solid. He puts his second-serve returns, doesn't miss those, puts them deep, kind of puts you on your back foot. You're sort of uncomfortable. He returns so well and put so much pressure, so much pressure on you. 

 Q. Golf is going through a different discussion than tennis. They're lamenting the fact there is no dominant player. Do you believe a dominant player helps or hinders a sport?
 MARDY FISH: That's pretty deep (smiling). 
 I don't know. That's a good question. I think it draws interest to the sport, for sure. That we've got a guy that's 85-1 this year, or whatever he is, people want to see that. People like dominance, especially in the States. They love Federer. They loved him when he was dominating and he's not even American. They loved Tiger when he was dominating. So maybe it is good for it. 

 Q. What is it about the sport of tennis that you love so much that you're willing to keep putting yourself in these positions and keep going for it? 
 MARDY FISH: I love the competition. I love the competition, first of all. I love being really good at something. That's pretty raw and honest. I don't think I would be in the top 10 in the world in anything else, so I think I might as well play tennis (smiling). 
 The opportunities that it provides for, you know, your lifestyle, your life, my family. So all those things. 

 Q. You won big prize money this week. Are you going to invest in the stock market? 
 MARDY FISH: No, I won't. 

 Q. You have more confidence in your game than the stock market?
 MARDY FISH: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT