AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2010
Mardy Fish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/A. Murray
      6-4, 1-6, 7-6 
  
     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What's your opinion of today's performance?  
     MARDY FISH: I felt it went great. Llodra is obviously a dangerous player on this surface, and to beat him back-to-back years, not many guys can take him out on grass.   
     He's dangerous, for sure. Obviously this morning went about as well as it could for me, and conditions are good out there. It was nice and sunny in the afternoon. It was nice.  
  
  Q. Obviously this week is key preparation for Wimbledon. How is the preparation for Wimbledon going?  
     MARDY FISH: So far, so good, I guess. We've been here for about a week before the tournament started. Got here, practicing here, and on the grass, got a lot of court time, put our work in. Yeah, it's going well.  
  
  Q. I want to ask you about the incident last night. Andy Murray talked about the advantage of having light meters. Where do you stand on that?  
     MARDY FISH: I mean, I could care less if they have them or not. If it's really dark, then stop.  
  
  Q. Talk us through your position at that time. Was it affecting your play? Did you see that...   
     MARDY FISH: Definitely. Yeah, definitely. I mean, you just couldn't see anymore.   
     But I sat down -- I will just tell you what happened. I sat down at 3-2 in the third set. I said to the umpire, It's getting pretty dark, huh? He said, Yeah. I'll call the supervisor.   
     He called the supervisor. He said, We have to stop on an even game so we have to play one more game. I said, Okay.   
     So we played one more game. I walked up -- it was 3-All. I walked up to the chair umpire. I said, Okay, we played a game. He said, Okay. I'll call the supervisor.   
     The supervisor walked out, and said, Okay, Let's stop.   
     So I put my racquets in my bag and walked off.  
  
  Q. Did Andy speak to you off court at all?  
     MARDY FISH: No.  
  
  Q. What's it like being an American in London this week?  
     MARDY FISH: It's gonna be fun tomorrow hopefully, or not fun maybe hopefully. I'm not sure how to take it. We're all into it, for sure, and watching the games. It will be a fun month, for sure.  
  
  Q. Are you friends of any of the players on the States' team?  
     MARDY FISH: I don't know any of them. I know Andy Roddick knows a few of the guys. He's given them our well wishes. I don't know any of them personally.  
  
  Q. Do you have a favorite player?  
     MARDY FISH: Favorite soccer player? Probably not. I don't watch it too much. I mean, the only time I ever watch it is when it's over here. When we come over here, every two years either have the Euro Cup or the World Cup.   
     I don't know enough to know all the American guys, I guess.   
  
  Q. Was it tough mentally finishing the match against Murray and then having to come back to face Llodra in the same afternoon?  
     MARDY FISH: Mentally, yeah, more than physically. It wasn't too -- the conditions were so tough at the end. It was so windy and so dark that, you know, it was only gonna help both of us to, you know, to sort of get back.   
     I felt like I was in a good -- even though I was up a break in the third, I still felt like I was in a really good position. I was 3-All in the third with one of the best players in the world. So obviously I liked where I was.   
     I didn't think he had the momentum or anything. Yeah, he won the last few games, but I won the few games before that.   
     You know, it's grass. I mean, you can hold serve just like that, and momentum can turn just like that.  
     I think, you know, there were shot selection and things like that that had to change for me because of the darkness. I just couldn't -- I couldn't come in to the net as much as I wanted to because I couldn't pick the ball up.   
     You know, the conditions were just really, really tough. It was both sides, same on both sides. You know, so today was more mentally. Physically it's tough to sleep on something like that, you know, sleep on 3-All and I've got to go out and serve and hopefully -- against the best returner in the world and try to hold serve three times and maybe win in a breaker.   
     I won. Like I said, it went about as well as it could.  
  
  Q. Having beaten Murray and the other top seeds going out, you must fancy your chances for the next few days?  
     MARDY FISH: Well, I've got a tough guy. I played Feliciano last year here and played really well and beat him in Miami, too. I've won the last couple times we played. I mean, I like the spot that I'm in. You know, it's not -- it's not Nadal, so that's good for me, I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT