U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Ivan Lendl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ivan, what turned it around for you after the third set? 
IVAN LENDL: Well, it is difficult, I mean, you play out there, lose A couple of tie breakers. You have to keep trying. That is the only way. I finally made some breakpoints when I had to and that turned it around. 
Q. When was the last time you played as good a match like that versus somebody like Becker? 
IVAN LENDL: I haven't played anybody like that in the Grand Slams. I played pretty well against Edberg until 5-4 in the second at the Australian. I haven't played against top guy this year in the Grand Slams. 
Q. Did that match kind of, even though it was only a fourth round match, did it almost have the feeling of a final or later round match because of the intensity of the match that it was? 
IVAN LENDL: Not really. I had a little trouble with the intensity first because of the postponement and so on and so on. In the fourth set, I really got into it very well. 
Q. Ivan, tonight seems like the crowd was more rooting for you than like in previous matches; they were like against you. Does it make any difference or are you-- 
IVAN LENDL: You are just so pumped, you really don't know what they are doing. You really want to win the very next point; concentrate on that. 
Q. How satisfying is it for you after what you have been through, the last month? 
IVAN LENDL: I haven't been through much, last month. I thought I was playing good tennis, last month. 
Q. Last few months? 
IVAN LENDL: It is nice. I always felt that I have it still in me and it is coming together, which is nice. 
Q. What about your forehand, you were supposed not to hit anymore? 
IVAN LENDL: I thought this bunting today did pretty well for me. I was happy with it. I don't care what you call it. It works. 
Q. Emotionally, can you -- physically, you can probably get a day rest and raise it to another level. How about emotionally? 
IVAN LENDL: I will be fine. Don't worry. 
Q. You talked about playing Edberg in the-- any thoughts about playing Edberg? 
IVAN LENDL: I don't worry about it now. I am looking to go home, get some sleep, enjoy the family, tomorrow; have a hit, play some golf maybe and worry about it on Thursday. 
Q. What do you think about the match-up? 
IVAN LENDL: It will be okay. You can quote me on that. 
Q. At what time do you think you will be home in your bed? 
IVAN LENDL: I will be home in about a half hour. 
Q. How do you spend that long time you had to wait for the match to even get start? What were you doing? 
IVAN LENDL: I went to-- when they told us at 5-4 in the third set of the women's match that I was ready to go, they told us we are not going. I went and had to eat something because I ate at 12:00 for a 3:00-4:00 match. Then I was sort of putting little a more in; couple of bagels, here's a couple of bananas here. Then you have to get a warm meal sometimes. Them I went for a warm meal. I had some fish. I was feeling a bit heavy at first. 
Q. Can you make comments on your and Becker's play today? 
IVAN LENDL: Well, you know, I don't think he plays the way he used to. He bunts the ball now. That seems to be the thing to say, so why shouldn't I say it? Everybody else does. 
Q. Thanks a lot. 
IVAN LENDL: Thank you. 
End of FastScripts.... 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT