THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Ivan Lendl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Ivan, you have had a few hours now to-- I am sure you
weren't feeling great after that match.  Are you feeling any better
now? 
 
 IVAN LENDL:  No, I don't.

 Q.  Talk about the controversial call that you had.  Do you
think it cost you the match?

 IVAN LENDL:  I don't really want to talk about it. I think it
was rather obvious what happened and everybody could see where
the ball was, except one person, or two, so --

 Q.  What kept you away from South Florida for so long?

 IVAN LENDL:  Basically, the windy conditions.  I just don't enjoy
playing in the wind too much.

 Q.  Has it changed enough since you might consider --

 IVAN LENDL:  In the stadium, it was nice, yes.  It was still
breezy but it was very playable, it wasn't gusty.  It was very
nice.

 Q.  How upsetting is it to lose this way to work hard and--

 IVAN LENDL:  More than I care to talk about.

 Q.  Can you assess your performance other than that point?

 IVAN LENDL:  Didn't move that well.  I was struggling with my
movement.

 Q.  Do you know why?

 IVAN LENDL:  Yes, I do.

 Q.  Can you tell us?

 IVAN LENDL:  My back is still bothering me a little bit.

 Q.  That's sort of just after Australia; is that correct?

 IVAN LENDL:  Yes.

 Q.  To that point, you basically had what I would consider
a good start to the year; do you agree with that?

 IVAN LENDL:  That is correct.

 Q.  What were you hoping to be able to get from that?

 IVAN LENDL:  Just play-- stay healthy and play. That is all.


 Q.  Do you now take some time off to try to get the back as
perfect as it could be?

 IVAN LENDL:  Yes, I will have to have it looked at it and go
from then on.

 Q.  Do you still plan to play Coral Springs in May?

 IVAN LENDL:  I should hope so.  If I can't play in May, I guess
I never could play.

 Q.  Any idea what specifically is wrong with it?

 IVAN LENDL:  No, I don't.

 Q.  You had it looked at once and they haven't come up with
any ideas?

 IVAN LENDL:  That is right.  Give them another chance.

 Q.  Did they say it was more muscle, ligament; not just a
disc?

 IVAN LENDL:  I don't know.  Too hard to guess now.

 Q.  Obviously, today was a big annoyance for you, to put it
mildly.  Other than that, is it still a pleasure for you to be
out there or do you sort of question yourself when you are in
a situation like that; is it worth carrying on to put yourself
through that?

 IVAN LENDL:  It is fun to play, but things like that, whether
they happen today, five years from now or ten years ago, it was
always annoying. Another case for getting rid of the people there
and getting the machines going.

 Q.  Were you disappointed that didn't happen at the Open that
last year?

 IVAN LENDL:  If it doesn't work properly you can't use it.  You
have got to make it work properly.

 Q.  Which Grand Slams do you plan to play at this point assuming
your back is okay?

 IVAN LENDL:  I plan to play all of them this year.

 Q.  How often does the word retirement cross your mind?

 IVAN LENDL:  Every time you guys ask about it, which is every
time after the match, that is about it.

 Q.  It is not in your --

 IVAN LENDL:  No, it is not something I preoccupy myself with.


 Q.  Jimmy Connors been after you to join his group?

 IVAN LENDL:  No, he hasn't.  He wants to win them all.

 Q.  Ivan, has Tony Roache spoken to you at all maybe hitting
with some of Australian boys while they are here?

 IVAN LENDL:  He has, Greg.  You came late and I have to catch
a plane.  We talked about it already. Everybody asked me about
that specific thing.

 Q.  Its amazing, we don't get the announcement.

 IVAN LENDL:  I can't hear you puffing.  It is not that I can't
understand you.

 Q.  Can you please expand?  I didn't hear announcement upstairs.
 I am sorry, I am late.  Can you please answer?

 IVAN LENDL:  We talked about it, about practicing at Indian Wells,
and here they stayed at a different place, so it was too difficult.
 I am not going to St. Petersburg.

 Q.  Do you find a difference a few years ago when you were
really playing so well like any other top player or No. 1 ranked
player, other players showed a tremendous amount of respect and
fear when they played you.  Now he said today, what must pass
through a lot of players minds is that they can beat you or they
see that you are struggling, that they go after you differently
now; they have a different feeling that they can win; do you ever
sense that when you are on the other side of the court?

 IVAN LENDL:  It is very similar.  The more you win, the more
respect you get.  The less you win, the less respect you get.
 If you have a lot of respect, they give you free points here
and there.  If you have less respect, you get less free points,
that is all.  Very simple.

 Q.  You now find that happening?

 IVAN LENDL:  Yeah, sure.

 Q.  We heard a code warning given on the controversy of the
match when the racket was thrown; we didn't hear an announcement,
but sometimes there is a point assessed and you simply don't hear
it.  Was there a point assessed?

 IVAN LENDL:  Did you see us start from the left side the next
game?

 Q.  No.

 IVAN LENDL:  Okay, does it answer your question?  It should.


 Q.  Did you throw the racket?  I didn't think you did?  I
thought it slipped out of your hand.

 IVAN LENDL:  Certainly did.  I never threw-- let me leave on
that one.  You are pretty funny today.

 Q.  Seriously.

 IVAN LENDL:  I never throw it.  Whenever it leaves my hand, it
always slips.

 Q.  We actually felt that you made a motion; then like it
got away from you?

 IVAN LENDL:  No.  It didn't get away from me.  It got away from
me, but not by slipping.

 Q.  How frustrating has it been?  You started the year so
well in Australia with the way you were playing over there; the
back problem started again, how frustrating has it been since
then?

 IVAN LENDL:  More than I care.  One more, anyone?

 Q.  Catch your plane.  How are the daughters?

 IVAN LENDL:  They are doing all right.  They are less upset than
I am today. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT