SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Mikah Holder
Trey Lomax
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Fresno State - 27, SDSU - 3
Q. Trey, what's your initial reaction to the game?
TREY LOMAX: Just disappointing.  We're not responding very well right now to adversity.  We get down and things just kind of fall apart, so it's all I can really say.  I know we didn't play remotely close as hard as we have before and we're not making enough plays on defense, we're not getting stops, we're not controlling the line of scrimmage, we're not covering well, it's a combination of everything defensively.  It's tough right now, that's a huge loss.  We came in we thought, we were prepared, and we just got dominated, so we got to bounce back Monday.  We only have 12 guaranteed opportunities this season, so we've got to come out and take advantage of every week and approach each week one game at a time and just get better.  But we're not playing very well right now.
Q. What are your thoughts on their game plan offensively?
TREY LOMAX: We knew what they were doing, it was plays we practiced, plays we defended against in practice during scouts and stuff, but they just dominated.  I don't think anyone on our defense can say they won any of their one-on-one matchups tonight.  I know I didn't, there's a lot of plays that I left on the field that I should have played.  And when you're not winning your matchups you're not going to be successful and defense and I'm sure it's the same on offense, so.  That's all I got.
Q. When they were completing those deep balls early on, do you think that had an effect on you guys not attacking the run as quickly and aggressively?
TREY LOMAX: We were basically calling the same, we were basically running the same defense.  It's the first deep ball we gave up I kind of sat on -- they ran like a post and a dig and I kind of hesitated on the dig, and it opened the post up.  It's not nothing that they were doing that had us out schemed, we just weren't executing very well.  It wasn't that we were out of position and things like that.  I mean we were out of position, but that's on us, it wasn't anything with the play calls, we just didn't execute very well.
Q. Mikah, has the way defenses are covering you guys sort of letting scheming for you guys, has that changed during the course of the season?
MIKAH HOLDER: I don't think it's changed.  Everybody is playing us basically the same.  They're stacking the box and putting us mostly man on the outside.  I think it just might look different because were not executing the same way we were early on in the year.  We just hit a slump within these last two games that we got to bounce back from.
Q. Can you remember a game where you guys weren't able to score a touchdown or if you have it had like in college or even high school?
MIKAH HOLDER: No, it's been awhile for this type game so it's a little embarrassing.  It's something that can't happen with us.  We got to put the ball in the end zone at least once, especially at home.  Something that just can't happen.  So we got to bounce back from it, like I said.
Q. Did you have a feeling at halftime like you could still turn it around?  Or did you have a feeling like we're getting outplayed out executed, I mean, did you know at halftime, okay, we got a chance back into this, or has this slump thing just kind of been an internal thing that?
TREY LOMAX: I knew that, we knew that we weren't out schemed or anything like that, it was just a matter of guys going out and playing hard enough.  So we knew, obviously, if we turned around and played like the team we had been at the beginning of the season that we're still in the game, we're still -- still have 30 minutes left on the clock, a whole half was plenty of time.  But we knew we were getting out executed, we knew the guys weren't playing hard enough and that was addressed at halftime.  So we had full confidence coming out that we could still turn it around and come back.  But defensively we didn't, we couldn't make a play all night, we haven't had a turnover now in three games which is something that's been huge for us the last couple years and that was a big part of our success and we haven't done that.  We're not giving our offense good field position, we're not getting off the field on third down, we're not making plays when we need to make plays.  So we just got to improve for our team to have a chance to win.
Q. You talked about a lot of those different things.  Do you feel like you know the answers for what you have to do, it's just a matter of doing it or is it trying to figure out what's going wrong and not sure yet?
TREY LOMAX: If we knew we wouldn't be in this position, but it's definitely something that we got to figure out if we want to have a chance to win games, because right now we are not controlling the line of scrimmage, which is a major part of our success here both offensively, we want to run the ball and defensively, the way our defense is schemed up we have to control the line of scrimmage and that's something we're not doing, guys aren't playing hard enough, and that starts with the seniors down.  So I don't think we're doing a good enough job, I know I'm not doing a good enough job out there playing hard enough making enough plays and setting a good example for the younger dudes.  But yeah, I don't know, we don't have the answers right now but we got to figure it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT