ANA INSPIRATION
April 7, 2019
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Way to finish a fourth round at a major your rookie year.  How would you sum up the round for you?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like today, I don't know my exact stats, but I feel like I hit almost every fairway and every green.  My goal today was just try to -- I felt like the first two days I hit it really well and didn't really get anything going.
My goal today was not to make mistakes and play aggressive but safe at the same time when you know you can.  I feel like I did a really good job with that and was in control of my biking, which allowed me to be aggressive when I needed to but play safe on some of the tougher pins.
Q. So throughout the week what was your takeaway as each round progressed?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I had a slow start because I shot 2-over at the beginning in the morning round, so definitely wasn't one of the best rounds out there.
I mean, I just felt comfortable with my game, and so I just kept trying to stay patient.  My caddie kept telling me to stay patient and things will end up going your way.
Out there, I mean, wasn't like I tried to really change anything from the first round to this round.  Just tried to go out there and slowly be more aggressive as I felt more comfortable.
Q. How would you assess your season is going?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I'm definitely really proud of how I started as a rookie and just like my first year as a professional.  A lot of learning experiences.  I feel like I didn't realize like how tired you would be, I guess.  Something I have to try to figure out how to like manage.
But, I mean, I'm definitely happy with how I started, and hopefully I can continue this for the rest of the year.
Q. You played with Nasa who won last week.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah.
Q. She won multiple time last year.  Did you take anything away from her game, or were you just focusing on your own game today?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I was trying to just focus on my own game.  Nasa is a great player.  I played with her at the U.S. Open I think the first two rounds last year, so I kind of knew her before.
She is a great ball-striker, great putter, so I can definitely see how she's won some out here.  The more consistent you can be is the key, I guess.
Q. How would you say this round helps your confidence?  I mean, a lot of LPGA veterans found it very tough with the course condition, it being a major.  How do you feel like you measure up?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I've heard a lot this week that this is hardest it's played.  It's also helped that this is the first time I've ever played this course, so I didn't really have any expectations going in.  I think that definitely helped coming out here, it being my first time.
Honestly thought scores would be lower.  After playing the course you realize it's pretty hard.  I mean, yeah, I don't know what the question was, so...
Q. (Laughter.)  What are your goals this season?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I mean, one of my main goals is just to try to be -- like relax and have as much fun as possible, because you never know how long you can be out here for.  If it's only one year or if it could be up to 10, 20, 30 years, I'm just trying to enjoy every moment just in case it's my only year out here.
Hopefully it's not, but just trying to enjoy -- soak in everything.
Q. It's tough to manage expectations, because you are a competitor; you've competed at a very high level and succeeded in very high competition, and then to come out here and go to a new course almost every week.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, it's definitely hard getting to know every golf course.  I mean, I feel like everyone at one point in their career had to do this, so just kind of have to think to yourself, Next will be better; the year after that will be easier.  You slowly end up getting easier.
For know I have to grind each time I get to the golf course to try to learn it before the week starts.
Q. Absolutely fantastic.  You saved for a great day the best LPGA round of your young career.  How were you able to do it out there today?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I feel like all week I was playing pretty well; just couldn't get anything going.  My caddie just kept telling me to stay patient out there.  That was my goal today, just stay patient, play aggressive whenever I can, and I think that definitely helped me, gave me some chances to have some easy birdie putts.
It was a nice round out there.
Q. To do what you did today on this very difficult golf course on a Sunday in a major, how much confidence does that give you going forward?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Definitely gives me more confidence.  I mean, this is a tough course out here with the best players playing.  To be able to finish like this and prove to myself I can play out here definitely gives me confidence for the rest of the year.
Q. What do you take away from this week?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think I take away a lot.  Just kind of how to handle things.  I shot 2-over my first round if the morning and definitely wasn't one of my best rounds out there.  Just kind of that anything can happen, just stay patient, and things will start going your way hopefully.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT