U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Every time you did something, she answered you out there.  Were you getting a little bit frustrated that you couldn't claw ahead at some point during the match?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I definitely get kind of in the woods with myself being out there.  I had a couple putts on the back nine that I could have made to square it up and eventually hopefully get a lead, but I wasn't able to make any of those.  So I was definitely getting frustrated with myself, but I just kind of stayed patient, and keep fighting out there because it's never over until it's over.   
 Q.  Let's talk about 18; unusual shot for your second shot.  Talk about when she misses that drive and you had a long time before you hit your second shot, and just kind of what happened there.  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I think just my second shot, I think I was trying to play left of the flag when I should have just kind of been playing the more aggressive play, which is also kind of safe, just going at the pin in case you miss it right, then you have more room.  So I was just trying to play it low to the flag, but I had a 4 hybrid in, so I pulled it a little bit and hit it in the hazard.  I had a decent lie over there, but I didn't want to take any chances of not getting it out because I felt like if I didn't get out, then I would be done.  I just wanted to take a drop and try to get up-and-down.   
 Q.  You were inside the hazard line, yeah?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  The putt, you didn't take a whole lot of time before you hit that bogey putt.  Can you kind of talk about what you were feeling knowing how that was a must-make situation?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I could see the read pretty well.  It was just going a little right to left, and there's no point in overthinking it, especially because I know there was going to be more speed so it's not going to break as much as it usually would.  I just played it barely right of the hole and just wanted to get up there and hit it before I started thinking too much.   
 Q.  And then you had to 19, familiar territory.  I'm sure you were probably surprised that it was a three-putt again.  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Just kind of talk about being in that situation again and how maybe just having been there yesterday helped you.  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think it definitely helped because yesterday I was nervous going to that tee again.  Today I was even more nervous than I was yesterday, surprisingly.  But I hit the same club as I did earlier, and I knew there was a little bit more wind to my face, but with that pin, you can't go long, so I'd rather stay on the short side and just kind of put it up there close to kind of put pressure on her to have to make the putt to extend the match.   
 Q.  How long do you think your putt was?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I don't know, maybe 25 feet.   
 Q.  What did you hit on this hole?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: 7-iron.   
 Q.  And had you played that much with Kaylee before?  Did you know much about her?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I hadn't really played much with her.  We've played with each other's teams a lot, but I don't think I really played with her in college golf.  But I just know her because we're with each other at every tournament.   
 Q.  How about Jiwon?  Have you played that much with her?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Uh-uh.  I was telling Nicole, I don't know if I've ever even seen Jiwon.  I've never played with her before.  And kind of opposite of that, I've seen Lauren play almost every day for the last two years.   
 Q.  So which is better?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I want them both to get in.  No matter what, someone from Alabama is going to win, so at least we'll have that school pride.   
 Q.  Let's say hypothetically that Lauren gets in.  Will there be a lot of talking between the two of you, or will it be like when you're in the heat of battle?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I mean, I think it will be the same as it has been with every other match.  You kind of chitchat some but still have to focus on the goal at hand.  I know no matter what there's going to be no hard feelings, and we're going to go out there and try to play our hardest and just enjoy the day.   
 Q.  What's the best part of Lauren's game do you think?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: She's good with iron shots and putter.  Probably her iron shots.   
 Q.  Have you guys ever played against each other in anything before?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Not match play, but we've played like -- I guess against each other.   
 Q.  All the time but not head-to-head, not in your junior days or anything like that?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: No.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win this again?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think it would mean everything to me because I know how hard it is to win.  It's a great accomplishment if I'm able to do it twice.   
 Q.  You came from behind a lot when you won in 2014; do you prefer that, or do you just have the right personality for it?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think it's more I just have the right personality for it.  It's always a lot more stressful being from behind, so I don't think I'd ever pick to do that, but I'm never -- I never get too worried if I'm coming from behind because I know that I have the capability to come back.  If it doesn't, then it's just not meant to be.  But I know that I'm able to do that.  It's not too bad coming from behind, but obviously I'd prefer to be ahead.   
 Q.  You switched to a local caddie mid-week.  How has that been the rest of this week?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, it's been good.  I think it's nice to have someone who's like not as invested on the bag because I feel like if you have a parent and kid, then there's a lot of -- like a lot of emotion in there, so it's nice to have someone who kind of keeps you steady.   
 Q.  How has he been able to help you the last couple days?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, he's been able to help me with some putts out there, just some tricky reads that you can't see.  He's able to just kind of reassure me with the line that I see out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT