U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lucy took an early lead and you kind of had your fight your way back into it.  Can you talk about the match a little bit?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, she made a long putt on the first hole, and so she went 1-up, and I think she made another one somewhere, I think on 5, to go 2-up.  I just knew I had to keep staying in there fighting, and I got all square through 15, and then on 16 I hit it left of the green, so I made a bogey, so she was able to go 1-up.  Tied 17, and then 18, I had a 5-iron in, and I knew I just had to stick it close because I knew she wouldn't make a bogey.  I hit a 5-iron draw around the tree to about six feet and then was able to make that putt.  And then on the last hole, hit it to about five feet, six feet, and I missed that, but she missed a short putt, and I hate for it to end this way, but we both played our hearts out.
Q. Heading into the semifinals tomorrow, how much does this help your confidence knowing that you can kind of stay in the match like that and come back?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, it definitely helps knowing that I can keep fighting back.  I think the year I won, too, I was down every match, so I just kept telling myself that it's never over until it's over, so just keep fighting on every shot.
Q. How was it playing against Lucy today?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: It was fun.  She's one of my really good friends.  She's a great player, and so I really enjoy playing with her.  It's sad we both couldn't make it to the semis, but I guess that's just golf, but I really enjoy playing with her.
Q. And heading into tomorrow's match, what's your mindset like?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think you just need to keep going out there and making some birdies.  Today I didn't make as many birdies as I would have liked, and so I think tomorrow I'll just be going after all the pins again and just trying to hopefully make the putts and able to make some birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT