U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 2018
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a solid performance in your second U.S. Women's Open.  What is your takeaway from this week?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I felt like I learned a lot this week, that I am able to compete out here even though there's still a few things that I need to work on.  My game is definitely turning in the right direction, so that definitely feels nice.   
 Q.  How different is it having an experience like this compared to a collegiate event?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: It's definitely different.  I feel like out here, I'm just like, if I shoot a good score then I will move up.  These girls are just as good, so they are going to keep better scores.  So you really have to go how out here to be able to compete.   
 Q.  How does this compare with what you expected from it?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like it really surpassed any expectations because we had a lot of rain coming into it.  The course is in great shape.  The superintendent and everyone did so good with the conditions.  So I feel like it's past any expectation I had.   
 Q.  You have got a busy summer coming up.  You have got the Curtis Cup and the Palmar Cup and the Women's Amateur.  You must be looking forward to a lot of tournaments?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I definitely have a lot of golf left this summer.  I'm excited to get it started.  They are all going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  After all your team events this summer, what is next for you?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I'll be playing in a JLPGA event and then I have the Women's Am and that is really it for the summer.   
 Q.  Go back to play college golf again?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yes.   
 Q.  You had mentioned what you have to work on in your game.  What was that?  What is that?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like my putting definitely struggled some this week.  To be able to compete out here, you have to be able to make a lot of putts inside ten feet.  I definitely missed some out there, especially yesterday and today.  I feel like working on that and improving.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to the pros this week or in general lately about what they have seen on this tour to be successful?  
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I have talked to a lot of them about how many practice rounds they do and how many weeks in a row they go and stuff like that, host families and caddies.  I was able to learn a lot this week from a lot of the professionals.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT