U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on your round.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, my round, I feel like it was kind of crazy because I definitely didn't have my ball striking out there.  Luckily, my short game was able to save it.  Hopefully I'm able to give myself more opportunities tomorrow to be able to make birdies.
Q. Emma just said she didn't have any nerves or butterflies going into this.  Did you?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I was nervous but I was not as nervous as I thought I would be.  I don't know why.  But I think it's like what Emma was saying, I played here a couple of times so I feel like I know the golf course so well.  If I put the ball where I wanted to, I knew I would be fine.
Q. Is it nice having a familiar face out there with you?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: It was definitely nice playing with someone you know.  I feel that is another reason that can calm down the nerves.  We had a lot of fun today, so it was nice.
Q. You never played on the same team, did you?  You were on a recruiting visit when you met her?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I met her during visits, but we were never on the same team.
Q. You made a couple of nice saves early in the round.  Is that necessary on a day like this with the conditions the way they were?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I knew that with the conditions you'd probably get a few mud balls here and there.  You had to make sure whenever you did get those squirrelly shots that your short game can cover it and just be confident in it.
Q. How would you sum up Emma as a person and a golfer?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: She's an awesome girl.  She's very talkative, very nice.  So she's just really fun to play with.
Q. Talk about being in the moment and being ready for that moment because of the things that you have gone through in Tuscaloosa.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like that has definitely prepared for me.  Every tournament we play in, we always have the strongest field.  We even have a few really good players on our team, and so we are always competing.  I feel like that's pushing us to all to become better players.
Q. You are very composed.  Your name is on the leaderboard.  How do you feel?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: It's definitely cool seeing your name on the leaderboard.  There's still a lot of golf left, so you can't get too far ahead of yourself.
Q. What will you do the remainder of the day?  Will you work some or are you satisfied with where things are at right now?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I may hit a few, but I probably won't do too much if I do anything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT