BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2019
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under round, and you had a pretty awesome moment at No. 13. Tell us about what happened for you out there.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, No. 13, the par 3, I had 180 yards and was kind of in between my 5-and 4-hybrid. So I'm just like, just going to hit my 4-hybrid high into the wind and just kind of let it sit easy.
I hit it, and then right when I hit it, my caddie was like, "Oh, I thought you were going to get the car but then the wind took it."
A couple seconds later the crowd behind like started cheering, but we can't see the ball. So I was like, "Oh, maybe it just got close." I've never hit a hole-in-one, so I didn't want to get too excited.
We walked up and asked them and it went in the hole, and so -- hopefully. It was a good shot there. But yeah it was nice to finally have my first hole-in-one because it's kind of been a running joke between me and my friends that I've holed out a lot of shots on par 4s and par 5s but never on a par 3.
Q. And with a nice new BMW 7 Series ride. Going to be a pretty nice way for you to get around town.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, for sure. I didn't even look at the car -- because I didn't even know I made a hole-in-one. When I asked my caddie he said, "It's the nicest one. That's the one you want."
Q. You had an up-and-down day. You had a triple earlier and then closed with the hole-in-one and a bunch of birdies there at the end. How are you feeling now heading into the weekend?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I'm just going to go out there and try to keep doing what I'm doing. Hit good shots and then the putts will fall, and so that's all you can do out here.
Q. On top of that, hole-in-one, not only do you get the car but a $20,000 donation made to CME Children's Hospital in your honor. That has to be a good feeling to cap that off, as well,
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yes, anything I can do to help, definitely. So thank you CME for allowing us that chance to give back.
Q. You didn't see it go in?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: No. I'll need to see it. I've lipped out so many times. I came close a lot of times this year but me and like everyone around me just kept like, if I keep talking about hole-in-ones, I'm going to eventually get one, like, just keep talking about hole-in-ones and they will finally go in. So it's nice it did.
Q. What are you driving currently?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Toyota Camry.
Q. Nice upgrade?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: A lot better. BMW is a lot better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT