BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 18, 2019
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two eagles in a round.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yes.
Q. Done that before?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: No, asked me on 18 tee if I've ever done that before. I was like, I don't think so. Be pretty lucky to make two eagles in one round.
Q. Luck happened today.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah.
Q. Tell me about both of them. First one was on, what 11?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: 13. Yeah, I was on 13. I hit it in the greenside bunker right. I had a decent lie from there so I just like, okay, if I get within five, ten feet I was going to be happy. But luckily it like (indiscernible) the hole, and I was like, Oh, that's one way stop it, to make it.
Then on 17 I hit it just right of the green and chipped in also on that one but from like the fairway.
Q. Just pulled you up the leaderboard. A little stumble there at the end, but you've got to feel pretty good heading into the weekend.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, definitely. I felt good coming into today. Yesterday I shot 1-over but I had six birdies, so definitely knew I could. I was messing around out there on the golf course and had two doubles yesterday, so I guess it was makeup for the two eagles.
So definitely felt like I was playing well heading into it. Hopefully I can keep that going.
Q. You've had really, really, really good rookie season. Starting to wrap up, what are your biggest takeaways from your first year out here on tour?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Just kind of not to take too seriously. Like it is your job, but try not to take it as much as your job because you're not going to enjoy it as much and it's going to too long of years if you take it too seriously and get too down on yourself.
So just kind of go out there and try to have fun. That's usually when the best golf comes, when you play out there relaxed.
Q. First time here on the Asia swing. Did you talk to any players about tips to survive the next couple weeks?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Not really. Everyone just said bring a lot food because the food is not that good. But, I mean, I've been to Japan four times so I kind of knew what to expect like coming to like the all these Asia countries.
I just made sure I brought enough clothes and food, necessities.
Q. Looking at a pretty good tee time for tomorrow. What is the plan heading into the weekend?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Just kind of go back, relax, rest some, and hopefully find some good food tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT