THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2019
Kristen Gillman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kristen, career low 63.  You went 7-under over six holes, the 11th through 16th.  What's it like in the zone when you can do no wrong?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I mean, it was -- feel like I had a pretty good start there.  It was more like at the -- I really didn't get like -- think about it until after I was 7-under through 7.  Then I was like, Wow, now I'm 7-under through 7.
I as like, Okay, just try not think about that.  Just keep trying make birdies out there and pressing.  It was definitely a good start today.
Q. How did you (indiscernible) yourself once you make a par and that hot streak is ended?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I almost made my birdie putt on 8 and then I made par.  I was like, Okay, I guess 8-under through 8 is kind of a lot to ask for.  So it's okay as long as -- I just tried to just kind of stay calm and just not -- as far as I could -- not the think about my score all day.
Q. You hit all 14 fairways.  What was your approach to stay in the fairways all round long?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I just wanted -- my goal today was just focus on one shot at a time, so I just made sure I committed to every single shot I had.  Some of them I had a few in between yardages out there so I just kind of made sure I commit to each shot before I hit it.
Q. You were the low rookie to be in the Solheim Cup bonding after Mediheal.  What does a round like this today when you were so explosive on your opening nine show for your Solheim potential?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, definitely disappointed in how I played yesterday because I felt like I played a lot better than my score.  That's obviously been on my mind and I know I have to have a few good finishes here in the nest few weeks.
I mean, I'm trying to give it my all and prove to the captains why I feel like I deserve to be on the team, and so hopefully they see that it'll end up working out.
Q. So you had, what, all the birdies and an eagle in there.  Tell me about the eagle, first off.  What happened there?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, hit a good drive off the tee.  Hit an okay second shot, so left myself further back than I wanted to.  I still only had I think 57 yards to the hole.  It landed behind the pin and then like my caddie was like, Oh, that should be good.  Then there was no claps and all of a sudden we heard, Get in the hole and then we heard like the flag stick.
It was nice to be able to make that one.
Q. Your other birdies, were they long ones, short ones, anything that stuck out?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I made a longer one on, what was it, 14 I think it is.  Yeah, on 14 I made about a 15-footer.  Other than that, I think they may have all been inside three feet.  I was hitting really good shots out there making myself easier.
Q. Had to be a real good feeling to be dialed in like that.
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah, I know.  It was definitely nice to be able to go out there and hit a lot of good shots in a row and kind of give myself confidence for the rest of the round.
Q. How is the golf course looking out there?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: It's been good.  It's y soft.  Last year it was really firm.  The ways are pretty soft and the greens are definitely holding, so I think it makes it easier to go after pins.
Q. Halfway through your rookie season now.  You've been really consistent.  How are you feeling halfway through your rookie year on tour?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like I've definitely had a good start.  I don't know if I would say it's better than what I thought it would be or just -- because I know I definitely am good enough to play out here, but I know how hard it is just jumping straight into it.
I think I'm definitely proving to myself that I do belong out here, so makes it easier each tournament.
Q. In two weeks play the Dow Great Lakes Bay Invitational with Lauren Stephenson, one of your college teammates.  Are looking forward to that week?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: Yeah.  Should be so much fun.  I mean, any time I see the leaderboard I see her up there too this week.  Nice we're both playing well.  We played together at Curtis Cup so we had some practice there.  I think it'll be a really fun week.
Nice to play with one of my best friends, too.
Q. How do you think your games complement each other?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I think our games -- I feel like our games are very, very similar to each other.  We hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and so I think that it's easy, especially when you're playing alternate shot, to play with someone who kind of works around the golf course the same way you do.
So it makes it easier to have a partner like that.
Q. Is one of you more aggressive than the other or do you balance each other out?
KRISTEN GILLMAN: I feel like we balance each other out.  I feel like we're both pretty aggressive because we both know we can hit the shot.  Sometimes it doesn't work out our way, but, I mean, I think we're also both pretty smart on the golf course.  Definitely during alternate shot just kind of make sure you hit fairways and greens and don't make any high numbers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT