U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Gene Sauers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Gene Sauers is joining us.  He shot a 1 under, 69 today.   Q.  You look tired.  GENE SAUERS: Very tired.   Q.  How was play out there?  GENE SAUERS: The golf course is great, great shape.  I think they do a great job.  I'm a little tired.  I had a vacation last week in the Bahamas.  Caught a 350-pound blue marlin on Saturday.  So my back is killing me right now.  I fished on the Reel Pushy, so I want to thank them, but we had a great time. Here I am.  I played good today.  I bogeyed the last two holes.  Three-putted on 17 and hit it in the rough on 18.  I like where I'm at.  Got three more days.  Got to struggle and keep on going.   Q.  Tell me about recovering from the early double bogey, and then you birdied four of eight holes in the middle of your round?  GENE SAUERS: I double bogeyed, hit a driver right down the left side.  Caught the fringe.  I had a good lie.  My back gave out on me right then, and the club smothered in the rough there, and I hit it in that bunker.  Then I tried to hit a pitching wedge out and hit a little heavy in the creek.  So I made double bogey there. Coming back, my caddie told me, We've got a lot of golf left, a lot of golf left.  I took that into consideration and played well, hit some good shots and made some good putts.   Q.  Any of those birdies that you felt really got you moving back in the right direction?  GENE SAUERS: Let's see.  What did I birdie there?  That was the 6th hole.  I had a pitching wedge in there, behind the hole about 15 feet and made it, snuck it in the right side.  I think that got me back to even.  That's good.  I'm all right.  Calm down.  Keep going.  Keep plugging.  That's really all I did.   Q.  Seems like different state, same heat from last year?  GENE SAUERS: Exactly.  Might have been a little humid more last year.   Q.  Do you relish that?  Is that okay?  GENE SAUERS: I've always said don't throw Gene in the briar patch.  No, I'm used to it.  Back home, I'd probably be soaking wet with the humidity back home.  At least it's a little drier.  That sun got tough the last couple hours.  I think the heat of the day was about 4:00, 5:00. I hate cold weather.  I don't like playing in the cold weather.  Rather take the hot weather than the cold weather.  So it's fine with me.   Q.  Did the heat affect how the golf course was playing?  GENE SAUERS: I don't think so.  It's actually a great golf course, perfect for the U.S. Open.   Q.  Anything from last year?  You lost in the playoff, but you played well.  Any motivation coming into this one, say, Hey, I want to go back there?  GENE SAUERS: Everybody was telling me that.  You almost won it last year.  Just come back and don't finish second this year.  But, yeah, it's always good to have those good, good thoughts coming into a week, and I did.  I still do.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT