THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Gene Sauers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You told us yesterday you were very pleased with how solidly you hit the ball.   What's the verdict today?  
GENE SAUERS:   I started out kind of shaky.   I made bogey on 1, bogey on 3 and made birdie on 4.   Had a bunch of pars all the way around to 16 and made birdie.   I'm happy where I'm at.   I didn't hit the ball as well as I did yesterday.   I didn't putt it as well, either.   I had a couple 3‑putts.   
Other than that, I'm happy where I am.   3‑under, I'm right there.   That's where I want to be.  
   
 Q.   Give us a sense of playing conditions this morning compared to yesterday afternoon.   
GENE SAUERS:   It was a little easier today.   Wind was not as bad.   Picked up a little on the back, the last few holes, but nowhere near as bad as yesterday.   So it's playing pretty easy I think today.  
   
 Q.   You yesterday that you have links golf by watching on TV ‑‑ what have you learned?  
GENE SAUERS:   The last two I played, Troon, St. Andrews, I played with some veterans, Larry Mize and Scott Simpson, and those guys taught me the bump‑and‑run shots.   You have to land it short of the green and let it run up and all that.   My caddie and I worked on that this week.   And it's not as firm as it has been and it's tricky, you don't how far to carry your ball, and I think the rain last night softened things up.   You just have to keep going.   
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on the way you've backed up a terrific first round with a nice round today?  
GENE SAUERS:   Kind of shaky today bogeying the first hole and that kind of made me mad.   But like I talked about yesterday, about being patient, and I made a good par on the next hole and 3‑putted the next hole.   I made a couple birdies coming in and I'm back to even par today, 3‑under for the tournament and I think I'm right there just where I want to be.  
   
 Q.   There are plenty of very good rounds that are built from more foundationsand can be a wake‑up call.   
GENE SAUERS:   There are things you need to work on, like putting.   I'm thinking too much on putting.   I'm thinking of too many mechanics and stroke and I just need to go out there and hit it and be natural, you know what I mean.   But there's a lot of things that I learned today so going to go out and try to correct it for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   That suggests you're trying to tell yourself to let it happen and don't think of anything.   
GENE SAUERS:   Exactly, my caddie is trying to tell me that and everybody at home is trying to tell me that, but I kind of know my own body and know what it feels like.   I pretty much need to just let it happen.   I'm too hard on myself.  
Every day is different, so I've watched the British Opens a bunch on TV and I've seen a lot of guys make doubles and triple.   So I'm pleased with the position I'm in and giving me an opportunity to play this weekend.  
Like I say, whether you go hit driver off the tee or 3‑wood or hybrid off the tee, you've just got to play smart, that's all.   Just try to avoid all the stupid mistakes, which I made a couple today.   But just avoid the stupid ones and don't try to hit it too far and get a little aggressive and then you're stuck in one of those pot bunkers and then you have to chip out.   Just play smart.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned your caddie.   I gather he's got a story or two to tell?  
GENE SAUERS:   That's Tim.   Everybody calls him Smile.   He's been out here for, shoot, over 30 years.   He's caddied for Tom Watson and Fred Funk.   He's been around.   He can tell you a few stories, I'll let him tell you.  
   
 Q.   I just heard one where he was a survivor in the same way that you've been a survivor, as well.   
GENE SAUERS:   Yeah, in a motorcycle accident, yeah.   He's lucky to be here also.   He and I are a good team I think.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT