SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Gene Sauers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling after your round?  
GENE SAUERS:   I'm pretty upset.   I lost it.   What did I have?   I had about three or four bogeys.   And I made a triple bogey and still managed to shoot even par.   So I it kind of kept me in the game anyway.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the crazy start today, bogey, eagle, birdie, bogey, triple, birdie.   
GENE SAUERS:   Yeah, just, I had a good tee shot on 1 and I had mud on the ball and it kind of went left on me.   And I made bogey there.   
Then I had 80 yards to the flag on number 11.   I sucked it in the, sucked it on back probably about 20 feet coming on back right in the hole.  
Then I make birdie on the next hole out of a bunker and made it.   
And then I had an 8‑iron and pulled it left in the bunker and made bogey there.   Didn't make a very good bunker shot there.  
And then hit left off the tee and then I made a drop and then I hit it down there and I tried to flop it up and landed in the bunker and then went over the green, made triple.   So then came back with a birdie.   I hit it in the right rough, hit 6‑iron in there about pin high, 15 feet.   
   
 Q.   Mentally, after up down, up down, all front nine, how do you comeback from something like that?   Each hole?   You just try stay strong no matter what's going on?  
GENE SAUERS:   Trying to.   I kind of put myself under the pressure because I didn't really know what the cut line was.   I was going, what the heck is going on here.   I was up‑and‑down.   And I got to start all over, I thought.  
   
 Q.   You're 1‑under and in contention.   So on a positive note, you got a shot.   
GENE SAUERS:   Right.   I got a shot.   If I just play smart tomorrow.   I'm not really ‑‑ I'm really, I got to go to the range right now, I'm not really hitting the ball that good.   I'm missing a lot of fairways and that's not me.   I usually hit a lot of fairways and greens and today I just didn't do that.   
   
 Q.   It was an absolutely gorgeous day out here?  
GENE SAUERS:   It was nice and cool, didn't even break a sweat all day.   The weather is supposed to be good tomorrow.   Maybe get a little bit of rain but I think it's going to be good.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT