U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 12, 2016
Gene Sauers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel out there today?  Obviously, it looked pretty good.
GENE SAUERS: I didn't feel as comfortable today as I did yesterday.  I hit a few lousy shots.  I hit a few great shots.  I got to go to the range and work on a few things.
But it's kind of got a sink a little bit this morning, and I left a couple putts dead short.  Had a couple good opportunities for birdies.  Then, again, I made two good par putts too.  So I still didn't shoot myself in the foot so I'm still all right.
Q. One of those par putts came on 12, the hole that you bogeyed yesterday, the right-to-left tester.  What did that mean to you to keep the round going in some semblance there?
GENE SAUERS: Was that 12?  No, let me see, that was the par 3.  13, was it?  No, 14.  Yeah, I bogeyed it yesterday.  That was my only bogey yesterday.  So I hit a 3 iron that came up short and tried to hit a bump-and-run 9 iron and hit it a little too hard and ran it by, what, 10 or 12 feet.  Had good look at the line, and I made it.
Then I did the same thing on the next hole.  I was in between clubs, a 9 iron or a wedge, and I wanted to make sure I got over the bunker.  So I was kind of indecisive what to hit there, and I hit with the 9 iron, tried to take too much off and flared it out to the right in the bunker and made another good 12-footer there for par.  So that kept me in the game.
Then I turned around and missed a four-footer on the next hole, but that's okay.  I'm still right where I want to be and everything's good.
Q. Two days in, is this where you hoped you'd be after this point, or where do you feel about where you stand overall?
GENE SAUERS: This is great.  Vijay's just going out now, probably.  It's going to be tough today.  Hopefully, the wind picks up like it did on us yesterday.  I'm fine right here, just got to stay with my game plan, try to hit fairways and greens and have opportunities, and see what I can do.
Q. Slightly different topic, but I saw obviously, you've got the Trump Palm Beach on your shirt and your hat.  I know you're friends with Donald.  I wonder what it's like to be friends with a guy who could be the next president.
GENE SAUERS: It's pretty good.  I hope he does.  I've met him a couple times.  He's been good to me.  He lets me practice and play in Palm Beach at his place there and in Jupiter, and he takes care of me during the winter months when we're not playing in order for me to improve my game.  He's been great to me.  I hope he goes all the way.
Q. Do people notice that you're wearing a trump shirt?  Do people say anything to you when you're walking the course?
GENE SAUERS: A few people.  The states that like him say some things, but then some states that don't like him frown a little bit.  I'm just doing my job and doing what I'm told to do.
Q. The Majors you've played on this Tour, you've played a bunch of them now, it's been a few years.  How does this golf course rate as a Major test?
GENE SAUERS: I think it's right in top of the line.  You got a lot of shots.  You've got a lot of holes that are long.  The rough's up.  The greens are fast and firm.  You've got to think your way around it.  It's like my first time I played Augusta.  Man, I've never been so tired of thinking around a golf course when I got done that whole week.
I went back to Hilton Head.  That was the easiest week.  Almost won that week at Hilton Head.  I tell you, you've got to think your way around this golf course, just like Augusta.
Q. Is that what you want to do in in a Major Championship, especially a national championship?  Is this what you want?
GENE SAUERS: This is exactly what I want.  We're playing, what, 7,100 yards.  There's nothing short about it.  I'm hitting a lot of 5 irons, 6 irons, 7 irons, 3 irons, and hybrids that are par 3s.  It's a tough test.
Q. When you told Jack you were going to play it at 7,100 yards, he kind of laughed and said Senior golf?
GENE SAUERS: It's unbelievable.  When I first turned 50, everybody told me, Gene, they play 6,600, 6,700 yards.  I haven't seen one yet.
Q. Eight years.  I haven't seen one yet either.
GENE SAUERS: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT