WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2012
Mark Brazil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE: Certainly someone who needs no introduction.   Mark, just a few comments on where we are.
MARK BRAZIL:   Just a couple comments.   Obviously going tomorrow morning at a 9:00 a.m.   We're going to -- I apologize.   We're going to start -- -- anybody who had a ticket Thursday, Friday or Sunday is eligible for tomorrow, is welcome free admittance tomorrow and also free parking at the Coliseum and what we call our Premiere Lot, which is just right up the road here at High Point at American Furniture Warehouse.   High point and Merritt. 
So those are the two parking lots open tomorrow.   Free parking.   We'll probably look at about two hours 45 minutes if weather permits of play so we are looking 245 to three hours. 
Hopefully we'll be done around noon.   But it should be an exciting finish with so many bunched up players right there behind Sergio and so we're looking forward to it. 
We're sorry that we couldn't finish up today but the golf course really just wouldn't allow it.   It's just under water.   Hopefully we'll be better off -- the public parking lots that are, again, for free for the public will be open at 7:00 a.m. 
So that will start -- 7 a.m. and we'll be looking forward to having as many people as possible.   We're going to be live on Golf Channel from 9 throughout.

Q.   Is there any concern that the golf course won't drain to the point where you can play at 9:00 a.m.?
MARK BRAZIL:   Not from what I just heard from the PGA TOUR, no.
DOUG MILNE:   Anybody else?

Q.   Can you just talk about the actual time when the decision was made and, you know, just kind of go little bit more in-depth about that?
MARK BRAZIL:   Obviously we were looking at trying to start at 5 and I'm speaking on behalf of the PGA TOUR, which is a little dangerous.   They were looking at 5 and moved to 5:30, 6 just because the golf course -- this golf course drains very well. 
If you remember three years ago it's remarkable how well it drains but it never stopped raining.   This cell just stayed on top of us and kept raining.   It's not going to drain when that's happening. 
So just 15 minutes ago we all had a meeting and Mark Russell and Mickey Bradley kind of called it, come back tomorrow at 9 and try so the golf course, they can get the golf course ready, get it prepared but also, you know, let it drain and let it be ready for the players. 
There's just several holes out there that really just kind of unplayable.   No. 6, just kind of unplayable, 12.   Like the lake is going across the fairway.   But it will be ready tomorrow.

Q.   Is there a rain forecast between now and 9:00 a.m., do you know?
MARK BRAZIL:   I didn't know.   There's going to be a little fog tomorrow, maybe 30 percent chance of rain tomorrow.

Q.   The rain from last night have any effect as well, you know, as far as the rain that we got today, too?
MARK BRAZIL:   I don't think so.   I think it was mainly just whatever it was, two hour steady downpour.   First it was an hour and it wouldn't get out of here.   Just stayed on us.   That was unfortunate.
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   Mark, I know you're busy.
MARK BRAZIL:   Thank you guys very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT