ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 13, 2015
Brendon Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How are you approaching this game?  I heard that your team went fishing today.BRENDON TAYLOR: Our preparation has been really good.  It's still very upbeat at the moment, and players are very positive.  In terms of fishing, one of our teammates has gone fishing and the rest are just doing a few recovery sessions and just getting their minds right for tomorrow.Q. Brendon, Zimbabwe has faced a lot of 300 plus scores in this World Cup.  I wanted to ask you as someone who's seen a lot of one-day cricket over so many days of your career, do you think the whole pattern has changed of the way people score because of the new rules recently?BRENDON TAYLOR: I think so.  In terms of Twenty20 cricket and the way the game is evolving, particularly with that extra fielder in the ring now, it just shows if teams are starting fairly slowly, if they have wickets in hand during the middle overs to the end, the 350s and even the 400s, we've seen that.  I think it's great for the game.  It's entertaining for everyone, and I think it's sort of put everything to bed with regards to the one-day game falling away.  I think it's great for cricket.Q. Would you like the rules to stay as they are, or would you like them to go back?  There is a move to want the rules to move back to what they were previously without the field restrictions and so on?BRENDON TAYLOR: I think it does make sense.  Me personally as a batter, it does have its -- it has its bonuses, but in terms of the bowlers, I think it's extremely difficult on them to -- they can always start well, but at the back end of their spells, they really are taking a pounding.  I can respect that decision if they do change it, but that'll be out of our hands as players, I guess, and we'll let the ICC make that rule. But if it changes, that's fine.  I think the game is still heading in the right direction.Q. Brendon, this question may not have a straightforward answer, but could you just sort of summarise the last 11 years as a Zimbabwe player?BRENDON TAYLOR: It's been fairly enjoyable the 11 years that I've been extremely grateful for.  Every player's dream is to represent their country, and I've been lucky enough to do that.  We've had our challenges as young players coming into the side.  We've had some tough losses, but we've slowly evolved and managed to sneak a few great ones in for us.  It's been thoroughly enjoyable.  But you know, a very proud moment for me.  Sad for me that it'll be ending, but I'm very proud to be a Zimbabwean, I'm very proud to represent my country on a great stage tomorrow to finish up and hopefully end on a high note.Q. The Spider Cam is a recent innovation in terms of how cricket is viewed, and there have been some complaints about how intrusive it's been for some of the cricketers, batsmen or fielders or bowlers.  What is your perspective on it, and have you had any interaction with other cricketers, as well, on this?BRENDON TAYLOR: I personally haven't, and I personally haven't had the Spider Cam in our games, probably once or twice, I think.  I haven't had any issues with it.  It brings a new dimension to viewing and gives the viewers a closer aspect of what the players are going through.  In terms of maybe getting a little bit too close to the batters when they're walking in, I feel maybe that might be an issue to some of them, but I feel it's a great idea, and maybe they can tweak a little bit, but a great invention, I think.Q. Brendon, when you talk about the Indian team, talk centers around batting.  What do you think of their bowling so far in this tournament?BRENDON TAYLOR: I think it runs -- the number of players I've spoken to, they've been very impressed.  We all know how such a power house they are at batting, but they certainly hold their own with the ball.  They've had proven performances with their spinners, and we see how well they've done for India over the years, and even in conditions that are not so suited so them, they've still been very difficult to get away.  Even the new ball bowlers have struck early, where they possibly haven't done that in the past, and they're bowling with some good pace, too.  That's certainly good for Indian cricket, and it'll be very challenging for us tomorrow, not just the pace but the swing they're producing at the moment.Q. Dave Whatmore has been closely associated with Indian cricket.  What sort of input has he given you guys for tomorrow's match?BRENDON TAYLOR: Well, we have our team meeting at 5:00 this evening, but he's sort of at training sessions had little whispers in our ears as individuals and just really raising the idea about certain players and certain bowlers and certain batters.  He's been brilliant for Zimbabwe cricket.  It's still early days.  He's got some great ideas, and we'll certainly move forward as a team with him.  It's great to sort of pick his brains, and working with him has been very productive.  Long may that continue.Q. If you have to pick the pinnacle of your international career, what would it be?BRENDON TAYLOR: There's some fond memories, but me personally, it would probably be our first test win against Bangladesh.  Being in isolation for five years and coming back and winning our first test match back, that was an incredible feeling, and then also winning another test against Pakistan.  Those are two that stand out for me personally.  We all as players value Test cricket, so we all know how hard it is as players to go out there for five days and physically and mentally try and test yourselves against the best sides in the world.  Those are two that stand out for me.Q. Brendon, a lot of the smaller nations at this World Cup have really performed well and turned a lot of heads, obviously Ireland, but also Afghanistan and Bangladesh.  How much do you think they have improved and how much are they putting a little bit of pressure on Zimbabwe as a test playing nation?BRENDON TAYLOR: They certainly are, and I think credit to ICC for the time and money they've spent developing the associates, and the proof is in the pudding that they've come here and they can hold their heads up very high. In terms of putting pressure on ourselves as Zimbabweans, it's good, because it only gets the best out of players, and it shows that the gaps are very -- the margins aren't too big.  But it just means we've got to push a little bit harder, and if we get a bit more cricket in the future, that's certainly going to help us become better players.  From what I understand Zimbabwe cricket are working really hard to do that, but I think it's been excellent the way the associates have gone about their business in this World Cup.Q. When you look back, there are not many instances where international cricketers have left the teams to join a county.  Give us some perspective on why does it happen with Zimbabwe cricketers and how emotional is that game going to be tomorrow for you?BRENDON TAYLOR: Tough question for me to answer because it hasn't been an easy decision to make.  Just in terms of finding a competitive team to go and play for, yes, international cricket has always been the pinnacle for me, but it's something that I discussed with my family and my wife, and after two, three months of doing that, I decided to go and play in England. I think all players tend to try and maximise a little bit, and when you've got kids at home, you want to try and make sure they've got the best sort of upbringing that you can give them.  That all sort of favoured the decision. It's a three-year decision.  I don't think everything is lost after England, whether I continue to play on after those three years in England or come back to Zimbabwe.  That's all too far ahead.  But I just want to go there and try to better myself as a cricketer, and at the end of the day, we're all trying to provide for families, and to me that's very important.Q. In the three years that you'll be gone, there's a bit of a worry that Zimbabwe cricket, that more players will follow.  What is your sort of response to that, and what is the strength that exists in the depth of field in Zimbabwe cricket to see them through and making progress like they have over the past few years?BRENDON TAYLOR: I think there's enough depth there at the moment.  We've certainly got some experienced players, we've got some young and talented players coming through.  I'm not too worried about maybe leaving a hole there, people speculating about with me going.  I certainly don't think that's the case.  I think the players are definitely good enough to fulfill that No. 4 spot in Test cricket and one-dayers, exciting players as in Solomon Mire and Sean Williams in the middle there, there's talks of Graham Cremer making a comeback to Zimbabwe cricket.  For me that's all very encouraging, and I have no doubt on the day that more guys -- you'll start seeing the best from them, and I'm confident that there's a bright future right around the corner for Zimbabwe cricket.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT