ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 7, 2015
Brendon Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Did you think you had it there for a while with that partnership with Sean was going well?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, it started to kick in a little bit the longer we batted.  Trying to rebuild from where we were was always difficult, but a good partnership there, and sort of laid the foundation.  But again, we got out at the wrong time.  It hurts when that happens.   Q.  And I know you were in the room when it happened, but what was your understanding of what happened with William's walking off, sort of maybe before the decision had been made?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, I think there's fine lines there when you tend to take the player's -- the fielder's call and trust his word for it, but I don't think -- I couldn't really see from the big screen if there was enough evidence, and by the time he'd walked off the park, they'd sort of zoomed in on it.  From that perspective we thought it was just a clean, clear catch.  But it's gone.  Can't change it.   Q.  In the field there were maybe a couple of mistakes as Ireland batted that proved quite costly, especially with Joyce.  What's the solution there?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, that was -- I think we were below poor there.  I think we were symbolic, to be honest, in the field, and you can't give a batsman three chances.  Of course he's going to get a big hundred and lay the foundation for his team.  Again, we've dropped chances at crucial times.  That was the difference between Ireland and us.  I think they were more hungry.  I think they were a bit more energetic, and they probably wanted it a little bit more, and that's why they got over the line.   Q.  What was the umpire's message to Sean with that catch?  Did they give him out and he walked off, or should they have waited and checked before giving him out?  Do you have any opinion on that?  BRENDON TAYLOR: I don't know.  I couldn't tell if the umpire just -- I didn't know just if the umpire tried to hold him back or anything.  But the way that the fielder reacted, it looked pretty clear.  You know, I guess that's up for discussion.  But I don't know.  I don't understand why the umpires didn't do that, but I can't give you an answer there, I really can't.  It just looked from the dugout that it was a clean catch, and I can't speak for the umpires.  But it was just one of those things, I guess.   Q.  Looking forward, your next match is up against India and they've already secured a quarterfinals berth.  What do you think that will mean for that match, and what relevance does it still hold for you?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Well, it's another opportunity to try and get all three departments right, and if we do that, there's no reason why we can't beat India.  We've beaten them before back home, so we have that belief we can do it.  Yes, they're one of the best teams in the world playing on a pretty small ground in Auckland, but it's a great opportunity for us to be in the World Cup and showcase our talent and skills against the best in the world.  There's a lot to play for, a lot of pride at stake.  We want to try to finish on a high note.   Q.  Just when you got down to that last over, I think you needed 7 of 6 with two wickets in hand.  Did you sort of miss an opportunity then?  You're probably in the box seat going into that last over.  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, I mean, it's basically six singles.  If you're running hard, you're going to get the odd two.  Again, our calculations weren't good.  We weren't making smart decisions as batters.  We're going to be asking ourselves these questions for a long time and wondering why we didn't get over the line. We were sloppy in many ways, bowling and fielding and shot selection.  Those little things at the highest level, you need to be on top of those little key aspects, and we weren't.   Q.  Yourself and Sean Williams are both in the top four run scorers in the tournament now.  Sean just seems to have now been a really consistent performer in that middle order.  How impressed were you with the way he approached the innings?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, he's fantastic.  For me there's no one better than him to bat with because he scores all around the ground and he's a very busy player.  Yeah, it was nice to get that partnership going and give us that belief that there was a great chance of getting over the line.  But I'm sure he's hurting at the moment.  Yeah, he's a great cricketer for Zimbabwe cricket, not just with the bat, but I'm sure he'll admit that he wasn't great with the ball today.  But he's done some great things for us in the past with the ball.  He's a very handy cricketer.   
 Q.  Brendon, what if any update can you give us about Elton and is that rush still on to have him back for next Saturday's match against India in light of today's result?  
BRENDON TAYLOR: Yes, certainly.  I think even before today's game our main goal was to try and get him back for India.  Having him there today, experienced head on the shoulders, finished games so well for us in the past, he was desperately missed.  I know the physio will be working with him day and night to try and get him back ready.  There's no guarantees there, I guess, but he's got six days to try and get himself as fit as he possibly can and hopefully join us up in Auckland.   
 Q.  Brendon, there have been a lot of ifs when you walk up.  If you look at the game against Pakistan you would say if some of the dot balls had not been picked up.  If you look at today's game, the crucial dismissal of Sean, do you think that in the context of the game, probably that shouldn't have been given?  
BRENDON TAYLOR: I've answered that question before you arrived, but my feeling was the fielder gave the impression that there was a clean catch.  It's one of those things you generally take the fielder's opinion and you go with it.  But I don't know, maybe the umpires could have made a stronger call and had a few more looks at it on the big screen, on the replay.  But it's all history.   Q.  Do you think we have done as well as we should have done in this tournament?  Did we reach any of the targets that we could have set, or probably are we disappointed in terms of the target that we wanted to achieve?  BRENDON TAYLOR: We've been very disappointing, there's no doubt about that.  We came here to win three games, and we haven't done it.  There's been positions against South Africa, against Pakistan, even against West Indies, positions that we could have got over the line if we were a little bit smarter as batters, hold all our catches, put our bodies on the line when we're fielding, and at times we've been very sloppy, and that's come back to haunt us.  We played some excellent cricket for 80 percent of the time we've been here, and I think that 20 percent has been the difference, and that's why we're not going to progress.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT