ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 1, 2015
Brendon Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  When you and Sean Williams were batting, I think you added 54 and 49 balls.  You looked like you were cruising to that target.  Are you disappointed, especially with the shots the two of you played to get out?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, I think we both felt we were cruising nicely.  But again, we found ways to get out at crucial periods, some soft dismissals, as well.  That's been a major downfall for us in the last four games, crucial periods when batters have needed to get through those initial periods, and finding ways to get out.  It's not helping the team scores, but that's the way it goes, I guess.   Q.  Brendon, does it feel a little bit like a missed opportunity in this game in the sense that you could feel a bit of anxiety in Pakistan's game and maybe a lack of confidence after their past two matches that you might have been able to sneak in?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Absolutely.  We certainly did target this match and we felt that half the job was done particularly well, restricting them to 235.  But they came out the first 15 overs and made it pretty difficult for us and bowled some heavy balls, and it was difficult to score, but it needed a partnership, and unfortunately 50s or 30 partnerships, they're not going to get you over the line.  It was extremely difficult to comprehend this loss.   Q.  The facility of Irfan and Wahab, Irfan especially with the kind of bounce he was generating on this wicket, how would you rate his spell and what kind of a challenge is it to face a bowler of his height on a wicket which affords him bounce?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, he showed his class today and we expected he would come out the way he did.  I felt it's easier said than done but possibly maybe could have left the ball a little bit better.  I think we were playing the balls that shouldn't have been played, but he does make it a handful for you, and that's why he's a world-class performer. They bowled with a bit of pace and a bit of bounce that we're not really used to back home with our wickets being a little bit slower. It was a good challenge, but again, some experienced players not kicking on, and probably be taking a bit more responsibility.   Q.  Brendon, I guess it wasn't great that Elton had to leave the field after 24 overs and then he seemed to bat really bravely out there, but what does it do to the team when the skipper is down?  BRENDON TAYLOR: I guess never -- no team wants to be in that situation.  Unfortunately we can't control certain things, and just all we can wish for is a speedy recovery.  There were some senior heads out there, so we managed to keep the game moving forward.  There was some constructive decisions made at the time. Yeah, we just hope he's well because he's very important for us at the end of the innings, and if he was a little bit fitter and batting with someone who was just keeping the scoreboard ticking, there's a good chance we could have got over that line.   Q.  How crucial do you think what happened with Wahab at the end, because they had no momentum at all and then 54 in 46 balls.  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, I mean, jeepers, he's a tough competitor today and he fought really hard.  I think you've also got to give credit to Misbah.  He's the glue of their innings.  He's batted a number of times when he batted for a long period of time, and he created partnerships, which partnerships we didn't have.  That was the difference.   Q.  Were you guys expecting to be facing Yasir Shah in this match, even though after this game the purchase that Sean got and even some from Shahid tonight?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Not necessarily.  We sort of were told from the groundsmen that the wicket does bounce a bit, so no surprises there with their full pro pass attack.  With Afridi being the performer that he is, we expected that sort of attack.   Q.  What kind of an impact Whatmore had on your team, especially since against Pakistan he obviously has spent a lot of time, and I remember even in Zimbabwe he brought the team there.  So anything special, any part of the stature that he shared with you guys, perhaps something that you prayed on also in Pakistani batting this week at least?  BRENDON TAYLOR: No, nothing specific, but he did bring some great value and some ideas towards certain individual players and how to approach them, whether they were batters or bowlers.  The team certainly binded to him and really taken on board his knowledge.  He's got some great credentials behind him. We certainly very thrilled to have him, and he's brought a very relaxed environment.  But I think there's a few mental flaws as individual players that is costing us at crucial periods.  But it's a work in progress with him.  He knows how to get into individuals' minds and their mindsets.  It's still early days.  He's only been with us sort of six weeks, seven weeks, so we're looking forward to a bright future with him.   Q.  Brendon, what now?  You've got to still play Ireland and India and you'd have to win both those games.  How are you feeling about it?  BRENDON TAYLOR: Yeah, it's definitely a little more added pressure, but Ireland are playing some good cricket, and we feel we are 80 percent there.  I think if we can just close that gap a little bit more, I think we're heading in the right direction for a good win against Ireland, and if we can do that, India have been on the road for a long time.  Yes, they're a fantastic cricketing unit, but we saw what happened at Eden Park the other day, and if we play some good cricket, which we know we can do, there's no reason why we can't have that self-belief that we can win.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT