WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 17, 2005
Nykesha Sales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Just briefly your thoughts heading into Game 3 tied 1-1?
 
NYKESHA SALES:  Definitely from us, we definitely got to steal one here.  That's the most important.  This is a tough arena to play in.  They definitely, some arenas have some like curtains up and they kind of cut it off.  And it's full.  But it won't be hard to fill this whole building to the max.  So usually crowds give their home teams that extra energy.  So hopefully we'll just come out and play like we have been playing, hopefully Lindsay will be healthy and she will have the opportunity to get out there and we just can keep getting the ball up and down the floor and whichever team has the least bad possessions is the team that's going to win because the games are always so close that it's just maybe a few possessions that can turn a game around.  So whichever one makes the least mistakes is the team that's usually going to win. 
 
Q.  Psychologically does it help knowing that you were one of only two teams that came in here and won this season?
 
NYKESHA SALES:  No, we don't think about that because when we played Sacramento, it was back when our records were like 10-2, which we're totally different teams.  Lawson wasn't really playing, she was injured back at that time.  The rookie just coming in, getting a feel for the league.  And now all that has changed.  We're about 20 games down the road and you have two different teams.  We haven't seen them in a long time, they might play better at home now, even better than before.  So we don't think about that at all.  It's a whole new -- we take this as a whole new series or whole new almost league.  A whole new year almost because that's totally different from back then. 
 
Q.  You seem so evenly matched and you play similar; you both like to push it.  Is it almost as if you're staring at a mirror image of your team and you have to know what's coming, what they're going to throw at you, they know what they're going to throw at you, what does it come down to?  Is there an X factor in this or is it just who scores the most --
 
NYKESHA SALES:  It kind of comes down to who can get the best possessions.  Because of their style and how they play us and we're so evenly matched, like you just have to kind of put the ball in the hole.  Both sides are getting great shots, you just got to put it in the hole and maybe one or two more stops on the other team is going to determine who is going to win or lose.  But games are so close and we're so even that it's not a lot that can change, it's just very little things.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT