BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 24, 2009
Mariusz Fyrstenberg
Marcin Matkowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BHUPATHI-KNOWLES/Fyrstenberg-Matkowski
  3-6, 6-3, 10-7 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Must be frustrating to lose such a close match.   
 MARIUSZ FYRSTENBERG: Yeah, if you play against such a good team as Bhupathi-Knowles, you have to take your chances. In the second set, it was my service game, which I didn't play well. The percentage first serve was the biggest problem with this game, and that's why.   
 They take their chances. The tiebreaker, it's a lottery, and they play good, so...   
  
  Q. Do you think you struggled a bit today having been on such a high the other day beating the top seeds?   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: I don't think, not really. Because we start our match very good. We broke them in the fifth game. We could have been 5-Love up easily. We played pretty well.   
 We had one not a good game in second set. They start serving better in the second set. Super tiebreak, Marius say is a lottery. They start well, 5-Love. We came back. They came up at the top today. We have to give credit to them. They kept fighting and they won.   
 But we happy about the win of one set. In the end, it might come down if two teams have two wins, we'll be in good position. But still we have to win our match. We know if we win this one for sure we're in the semifinals. We know what we have to do. If we play well like this, I think we can do it.   
  
  Q. You're still in pretty solid position.   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: Yeah, if we wins. I mean, we played not as great as we played the first day, but we played very good match today. We lost very close one to a great team.   
 But, as I said, we happy about the one set. Hopefully it will help us get through to the semifinal.  
  
  Q. How did the atmosphere compare to Sunday?   
 MARIUSZ FYRSTENBERG: A little less people today. But still a few thousand. It's great to play. Usually during the tournament, not such a lot of people coming for doubles. But this event is great, you know, talking about people, and the atmosphere. It's really good, really good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT