NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Adam Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM OATES:  We have played against them a couple of times this year.  Scotty Bowman teams, you know, they talk about that left wing a lot.  They are very sound defensively and don't give you really that much. 
 

Q.  How do you get the powerplay going against their defense --
 
ADAM OATES:  Well, I don't have an answer for you right now.  Obviously it is something we are going to talk about.  We are definitely not happy.  We really didn't generate any chances at all on it.  But that is definitely something we want to work on. 
 

Q.  You guys played much better in the second and third.  What about the first, nerves?
 
ADAM OATES:  Maybe a few nerves; a little jitters. First five minutes we were okay.  As soon as they got the one, then we give them another one.  Other than ten minutes of hockey game, I thought it was pretty even.  You don't want to give a team a win.  I just thought that they scored the first goal and we had a little let-down for a few minutes.  Maybe a little, you know, like you uh-oh, for five, ten minutes and then other than that, as I said, it was pretty even. 
   
 

Q.  How tough is it trying to come from behind against them because they are so good defensively.  Is it more pressure --
 
ADAM OATES:  You obviously want that first goal.  We do have guys who can score, so, two goal lead is not something you want to give to the Detroit Red Wings.  You don't want to give it to anybody at this level.  If you look at the statistics this year with all the traps, the way the game has changed a little bit, two goals is a big lead. 
 

Q.  Even with this loss, talking to the guys, the confidence of this team isn't really shaken at all?
 
ADAM OATES:  I don't think so.  As I have been saying, other than the first ten minutes I thought we played a pretty hard and even game.  But, they are obviously a good team.  They are going to play better so we have to play better. 
 

Q.  Any positives that you can take from this game and bring them to Game 2?
 
ADAM OATES:  Maybe second and third period we picked it up a little bit, but powerplay kind of let us down.  We really didn't generate anything.  For ten minutes we gave them the hockey game. 
   
 
ADAM OATES:  I'd like to play better than I did.  I  didn't really feel that I had my best stuff tonight.  I am not real sure why.  But, you know, we obviously want a better result.  We need to chip in a little bit more. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT