NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 1, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
Adam Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  On the second goal of Brodeur, number one, what was your reaction when you saw it; and number two, have you ever seen that happen to a goaltender in your career and tell me when?

J.S. GIGUERE:  Well, I was pretty excited about the goal.  Obviously we bounced right back from giving a goal to them.  It was good to see.  Saying that, it happens to me once in a when while in games where I lose my stick like that.  Fortunately, it never ended up being a goal.  I can sympathize with what happened.  Obviously, he tried to play the puck, and he dropped the stick.  He will bounce back from that.  He's not going to let that bother him.

Q.  Adam, this team is starting to get a lot of attention for its success on faceoffs.  Can you talk about that?

ADAM OATES:  Well, our team has been  -- I think we're No. 1 all year long, and Babcock really stresses it.  If we win the draw and get possession and manage the puck, get it in, get on them, obviously control of the puck is very important.  What makes a guy good, you look at the stats, between 40 and 60 percent is pretty much every guy, and your wingers end up making so much of a difference for you in the draws.  Very rarely do you win it clean.  Certainly guys are obviously very good every year.  I guess it's a lot of practice over the years learning how to take them and staying with your game plan.

Q.  To either one of you:  It was pretty evident you guys dominated in every facet last night, but still needed a couple of fortunate goals and an overtime to win.  Does that concern you at all?

ADAM OATES:  I think we can play a lot better.  I wouldn't say we dominated.  I think we played a better game.  I think we can still play a lot better hockey for us.  I don't think we've really shown them our best game yet.  We got some breaks, and sometimes you need them.  Maybe that's the confidence we need to get rolling a little bit better for us.

Q.  One for each of you.  For J.S., how much of a relief was it finally getting the first goal and not having to play from behind; and also for Adam, from your many years in the league, what is it about a team, the mood or whatever it is, that makes a team so successful in overtime?

J.S. GIGUERE:  The first goal of the game is obviously always important, It was nice to see that.  Saying that, I can't control what we do up front.  And, for me, I've got to focus on my job, try to give my team a chance to win and that's the only thing I'm focusing on.  Obviously, you need to score goals if you want to win, but this is up to the forwards and the defensemen to do that job.

ADAM OATES:  In terms of overtime, I don't think there is any book on it.  Obviously, we have been very lucky so far.  And between periods last night after regulation, Babcock came out and talked about our penalty-killing.  We really just try to play the same way.  He goes over our game plan to make sure mentally we're doing the same exact things.  It's worked for us so far.  We're obviously glad about it.  And what makes a team successful in overtime, I don't know.

Q.  Do you start feeling like you guys are invincible, not like that, but really confident that you're going to take care of it?

ADAM OATES:  We obviously felt good in the locker room.  No panic set in.  Sometimes it's going your way.  It's been a couple games since we had one.  The plan doesn't change.  I think that's the most important thing, whether it's one or two overtimes, we're going through the same exact plan.

Q.  Question for Adam Oates.  The Devils played a tough 7-games series while you have rested and the Devils aren't used to traveling.  Do you think some of this stuff might be catching up with them?

ADAM OATES:  I really don't.  I think guys are in such a great shape I don't think fatigue is a factor at all.

Q.  Adam, I was wondering what was your impression from afar of Sandis Ozolinsh and his career and your career and now that you have been playing with him for a while, what about him is different from what you thought, or is anything different?

ADAM OATES:  Playing against Ozolinsh over the years he came into San Jose and obviously the Europeans are very heralded as skilled players.  Then he went to Colorado and played with some great players and won a Cup.  It just reinforced the feeling I always had.  The only difference playing with him here is he plays a lot more defense than I thought he did.  He's a big guy back there.  I think his game has changed a little bit over the years.  He's solid on the blue line for us.

Q.  Jean-Sebastien, you said you expected Marty to bounce back.  A mistake like that, for some goaltenders, they would fall apart.  Do you expect it might strengthen his resolve and make him that much better?

J.S. GIGUERE:  I'm sure he's not too happy about it.  Obviously, that's a tough break for their team.  Regardless what they're saying that it's no big deal, it is a big deal.  It gives us a chance to win last night.  Obviously, Marty has been through these situations before.  He's given up bad goals before.  Everybody makes mistakes.  And with the experience he has, I've got no doubt in my mind that he'll bounce back.  Saying that, we need to keep testing him to see what he's made of.

Q.  Adam, Mike talked about how, I guess for a lack of a better word, the one-sidedness of many recent Finals, because teams don't see each other and one team makes them out to be something they're not.  Having been through a Final like that, do you think that happens?  Do you think in your own mind you took the Devils down a peg?

ADAM OATES:  I would definitely agree with him.  If you look at statistics over the years, why does that happen?  It happens so fast.  Over the years that's one thing you learn.  You play such a long year and you get in the playoffs and before you know it it's over.  I think in the Finals it just accelerates even more.  That's something he's been stressing all along, and I think last night, it's huge for us.  Obviously, 3-0 would be pretty tough.  It's a big win for us.  We played better.  It gives us a little confidence.  We're holding serve and we've got to do it again tomorrow.

Q.  Last night in the postgame, John Madden was asked about the Mighty Ducks' faceoff ability, and he reacted negatively.  He used the word "cheating."  Do you think it's sour grapes or did you see anything unusual?

ADAM OATES: Maybe trying to send a little message tomorrow, trying to get to the refs.  I didn't see anything  -- I thought on the winning goal he should have gotten kicked out.  He took a swing.  I don't think he was quite set again for the draw.  The rules said he should have been. 

Q.  Adam, based on last night's game, would you agree that the obstruction calls that we were told were going to be called were not being made?  It looked like they were letting things go on both sides.  Did you see it that way?

ADAM OATES:  I think it's relaxed a little bit.  There was a couple called, and I think at times you get a little frustrated because it's obviously not called as much as it was during the season, but then all of a sudden it is called.  I thought all in all it was a little bit relaxed.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT