U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Matt Seitz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell me about your round, overall thoughts? 
 MATT SEITZ: You know, just went about my business, nothing really spectacular. When I got in trouble, I was able to get out of it. I only had a couple of bogies and putted fairly decent. I made some good putts when I had to, and I seemed to drive it in goes places for most of the day. 
 Really didn't do anything great, but just really kept my head on and stayed in the moment.

 Q. You had it to 3-under at one point; can you tell me about your birdies? 
 MATT SEITZ: Yeah, I birdied the first par-4, No. 5, I mean, No. 4. Hit a great drive and great 5-wood in there. It was about eight foot right off the hill, and left it short of the hill for an eagle, so that was disappointing, and turned around and bogeyed the next hole. 
 You know, I really can't remember my birdies after that. I know I birdied that long par-3 on the back. Just hit a 4-iron as hard as I could and got up there four-foot from the hole. I drained that. 
 And I birdied 10, a good tee shot and then I had it in there about seven feet. Made a birdie somewhere else, but I just can't remember where.

 Q. What do you think the key is for getting around this golf course with a good number? 
 MATT SEITZ: I think the key is I think you have to have a little bit of luck because some of the fairways are pretty hard to hit. I hit some tee shots that were really, really good. Just happened to curve just right and be on the fairway. But I think if you can keep it on the right side of the hole and figure out where you are then, then you're going to be able to do all right.

 Q. Did the rain last night change the way -- I'm sure you played some practice rounds -- did the rain change the way the golf course played?
 MATT SEITZ: No, it didn't. I don't know how much rain we had last night, but the course was pretty soft when we got here Monday. It did start to dry out a little bit yesterday. I'm just thankful it did rain, because I was thinking about my round tomorrow afternoon and I figured the greens would be about as hard as this patio here. So I was glad to see the rain, and quite frankly, I wouldn't mind if we had a little bit more that way the USGA guys won't dry it out too much.

 Q. What are your thoughts going into the next round or how do you plan to approach the round? 
 MATT SEITZ: I don't have a game plan. I really don't. For me, it's day-to-day. You know, I'd like to play as well as I can, but I just right now I'm just going to take it easy today, rest tomorrow, and work on that first tee shot tomorrow. After that, then I'll just play it as I get it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT