AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 18, 2018
Xander Bogaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Xander Bogaerts.
Q. You were a young guy in the run in 2013.  What sort of lessons can you impart to the younger guys on this team now that -- about finishing off the series, about keeping the intensity high even when you have a lead like this?
XANDER BOGAERTS: Yeah, I think it's always important not to get too comfortable.  We know we have a good lead, 3-1.  But they're a good team.  They've won a lot of games in the season.  They won it all last year.
So obviously they can win.  We've just got to come out with the same intention as every game, come out to try to win the game and try to score early.
Q. Were there guys on that team that you looked to as an example?  And are you passing along some of the same messages to the younger guys on this team that you got from those guys?
XANDER BOGAERTS: I think we've had a lot of experience these last couple of years.  We've been to the playoffs, couldn't get out of the first round.  And I think it's pretty much the same core that we have, just a different coaching staff guiding us and giving us that wisdom.
But so far it's been good.  It's been an amazing experience the whole season.  I look forward to one more win and heading to the World Series, hopefully.
Q. Can you talk about the growth of the young Red Sox players over the last few years?
XANDER BOGAERTS: I think it's been awesome.  I think a lot of the other guys have matured a lot.  I can definitely speak for myself, my first year, I mean I can remember it as if it was yesterday, playing with all those veteran guys.
But I think this year we have the same group.  This is probably the third time we're going to the playoffs with the same group.  And I think everyone's just used to each other and being able to trust each other a lot more.
Q. You guys all year long have mixed the ability to drive the ball, which Alex has emphasized, and the ability to control strikeout rates.  In this series against Houston you've been scoring a ton of runs, not many homers.  How would you describe the offensive approach that you've been able to implement against a staff that's obviously --
XANDER BOGAERTS: I think it's been a good one.  It's been a good one.  Not a lot of home runs.  I think if you go big or go home, we would probably go home.  Because these guys are a good pitching staff.  Although we know we have a short porch in left field, Fenway Park also.  But I think the big approach, it's not the best one against these guys, just try to single, put up good at-bats and get walks and hopefully the next guy can do damage, as Jackie has been doing for us big.
Q. Since you were a young player there have been different versions of you every year it seems.  Are you happy with what you are now, who you are as a player?
XANDER BOGAERTS: Yeah, I would definitely say that.  I think this playoff I've definitely taken a little bit of a different approach.  Also not trying to hit too many homers.
As I said, I don't think in the playoffs it's ideal to try to swing for the fence.  You're just not going to get results.  Even if you get one it's going to be one good results in ten at-bats.  And I don't think it's beneficial to the team.
So I still have to come out with the same plan today, same mindset and just try to get on base as much as possible, have a lot of guys on base, a lot of traffic.  As you've seen, the catchers had passed balls, a few wild pitches, a few good fair-ball reads, I think those are going to be huge for us.
Q. You brought up Jackie a minute ago.  Clearly he's had huge swings the last three games.  What's that mean -- like you were talking about, you have to be different and not swing for the fences.  He's not had some struggles in the postseason, but what have you seen that's different from him in the series?
XANDER BOGAERTS: I think he's just locked in.  The confidence has always been there, I think from the day the season started, no matter how much he struggled or not.  His confidence has always been there.  And I think it's just good to see the results coming in big situations for us and helping us win games.
Q. You've had the opportunity to play against Steve Pearce when he was in a number of different uniforms.  Since he's been on your side, what have you learned about him?
XANDER BOGAERTS: He kills lefties, he really does.  He puts up quality at-bats against left-handed pitchers.  And since he's been over here he's dominated right-handers also.  It's kind of hard to have him out of the lineup, especially -- whenever Mitch went down with a hamstring, he filled in nicely, had a couple of big hits for us.  It's just pretty much everyone up and down the lineup has been contributing and I think that's why we've been winning.
Q. The killing left-handers, I would assume, is something you were able to see from the other side.  Is there something you've learned from him as far as a teammate?
XANDER BOGAERTS: Great teammate, great guy.  I never knew him when he was on the other side, but he came on our side this year and he's been a warrior.  That play he made at first base, he could have easily have injured himself and we could have been in a bit of trouble with Mitch kind of injured.
But he just tried to catch the ball.  And he hauls it extremely hard and we're appreciative to have him on our side.
Q. The at-bat against Josh James, swung first pitch and hit a single up the middle.  How much has Alex maybe influenced you to make that a part of your game this year, to be as aggressive as you've been at the plate?
XANDER BOGAERTS: Sometimes I want to swing at the first pitch.  But it's not always -- it's in my DNA.  Sometimes I just don't feel that comfortable.  But obviously it's something that he's preached a lot to most of the guys on our team.  I think in certain situations it's good to use that plan.
Sometimes I'm not that type of guy.  I like to work at an at-bat.  I feel more comfortable the more pitches I see, stuff like that.  But sometimes it works, like yesterday.
Q. Alex was in here the other day.  He said he had to sit you guys down during spring training and remind you guys that are you're good and you have to play that part.  What do you remember about that meeting and how comfortable were you guys in acceptable that?
XANDER BOGAERTS: It was me, Jackie and Mookie.  I don't recall if there was one more guy.  I might be missing someone.  But I remember it was us three for sure with him.  He does it the whole season -- every day giving us daily reminders no matter if we're going up our down, if we're struggling or playing good, just try to remind us how good we are and stay even keeled, don't get too high, too low.  I think he's done an extremely great job as a first-year manager.
Q. What were your perceptions of Eovaldi when he was pitching for the Yankees or Tampa Bay?  And when you traded for him, did you think he could make this kind of impact?
XANDER BOGAERTS: I faced him.  I remember that game he pitched against Severino in the playoff round, the first round.  I remember saying, they're kind of like the same pitchers -- they're power pitchers, pretty much the same stuff.  Not the same pitches but the same stuff.  They're both nasty.  They both throw hard.
I guess Eovaldi has a little bit more movement with that cutter and it's a hard cutter.  So I think that makes it really difficult on the hitters.
Q. What one or two individuals have influenced you the most in your Boston career?
XANDER BOGAERTS: Individuals?  I would say Ramón a lot, Ramón Vázquez.  He's one of our coaches.  This year, Tim Hyers also helped me out a lot.  He's the new hitting coach.  I mean obviously, J.D., coming in, I think he helped change a lot of us with the mindset, hitting approach, stuff like that.  I would say, yeah, those guys this year for sure.  Obviously manager, Cora.  I mean there's been a lot of guys.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT