NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Jared Sullinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you excited about being in this game?  
JARED SULLINGER:   It's very exciting to be here as a player.   I saw all the work that Kelly had to do getting to this point, and I'm just happy I could share that experience with him.   
   
 Q.   When you got picked, what went through your mind?  
JARED SULLINGER:   Obviously what went through my mind is that I should have been here last year before I got hurt.   
And I busted my butt to be here.   And there's a lot more work to do, but it's always a blessing to achieve one of your goals.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the season you've been having thus far and kind of coming into your own.   
JARED SULLINGER:   These guys stay consistent.   That's about it.   There's times that I've been up and down.   But now ever since that talk with my father, it kind of changed my perspective on basketball, because I know what I need to do every night.   I know how I need to get to playing every night.   I need to do my routine the night before.   
I'm just finding a groove and finally figuring out the NBA.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your talk with your dad.   
JARED SULLINGER:   My dad told me I had bad body language and my attitude sucked.   So I'm just trying to fix that every day.   And ever since I did that, I noticed that I'm playing harder, I'm making extra effort.   I'm doing all the little things trying to win.  
   
 Q.   How is the finger coming along?  
JARED SULLINGER:   The finger is‑‑ it is what it is.   It's going to be this way to the end of the season.   I just made adjustments to it and found my groove.   
   
 Q.   Kelly and you, give me some insight on your relationship, what you guys are like behind the scenes and how much you try to help him out.   
JARED SULLINGER:   Honestly, I try to help him out a lot.   I understand that he's coming into his own.   And he's always asking me what did I do last year or how did I handle situations last year, so I'm just giving him the best advice I can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT