PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Jesse Levine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. FISH/J. Levine  
6-3, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Talk about the way Mardy was serving, how much pressure he was putting on you.   
 JESSE LEVINE: He served really well. I mean, I didn't really have a look until one of the last games in the second set, I had Love-30. I think that's as close as I got to breaking him. When a guy serves like that, there's not much you can do. Just concentrate on holding your serve.   
 I missed a routine like easy, easy, easy forehand in the first set to, you know, kind of let him back in the game. Cost me the first set. Just happened like that. You know, pulled it together in the second set. You know, could have gone either way in the breaker, but he came up with some big serves and I didn't really have a look at it.   
  
  Q. You played well here. What does it do for your confidence?  
 JESSE LEVINE: Yeah, obviously getting to the quarterfinals of an ATP event, giving a good fight out there, is a confidence booster, some match preparation for the US Open. Will be heading on the bus or train or whatever to New York tomorrow and prepare for that one.   
  
  Q. What was the difference today?   
 JESSE LEVINE: To be honest, that one shot cost me the first set. That's the way I feel. Second set, we were just holding serve, holding serve. You know, he had some -- definitely had a lot of breakpoints. But I came up with some big shots on breakpoints.   
 But, you know, when a guy's serving like that, there's not much you can do. Just try and stay in it and hope he has an off game. But he didn't have any of those today. I don't know what his first-serve percentage was, but he served great. He really kept the pressure on me.   
 I feel like I did a good job of keep holding serve, trying to focus on that, hoping for a chance, but didn't really get one.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT