WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 10, 2003
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Wendy, thanks for joining us.  The 63 was spectacular out there today.  You forced a playoff.  Can you give us some thoughts on your round and your day, and we'll take some questions.

WENDY WARD: I hit a lot of solid shots again today.  Probably the highlight was on number 4 when we had about 209 front and about 10 more to the pin, and I hit a 7 wood, and it hit the pin square on after one bounce.  I had like a tap in for eagle.  That kind of got my juices flowing.  That's the kind of luck that you need when you're 3 back at the start of the day.  I hit the ball well.  I putted well. 

I felt like I should have made that putt on the first playoff hole.  It was late in the day, and I didn't hit the place I needed to.  I made a great putt on the second hole, and the third playoff, I thought I made it, and it came up a little low. 

Overall I'm very pleased.  I'm disappointed, but it was a terrific day of golf for me.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: Probably 30, 35 feet.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: You know, it's funny, I hit it over that green in regulation today, so I kind of knew that it was a very slow downhill putt.  I tried to tag it as hard as I could for a downhill putt and did not get it on the left side.


Q.  Did you use your putter?

WENDY WARD: Yeah.


Q.  You said last night whatever one of the leaders did, you had to go twice as low as they did.  Did you wake up with a number in mind you had to shoot today?

WENDY WARD: No, I thought it would be nice to beat my 62.  I didn't want to get too far ahead of myself.  I had to get the putts to drop at the right time and gain some momentum.  I made a bogey on 14, which kind of stalled me a little bit, but came right back with birdie on 13 and 17.  I've got a new caddy that's been working with me the last four weeks.  His name is Adam Hayes, and he's just been a gem.  He's helped me so much on the course.  Each week we've improved.  We've gone from 32 to 11th to 6th to now 2nd.  I've got a lot to be grateful for.


Q.  How long was your putt on the first playoff hole?

WENDY WARD: About 7 feet.


Q.  That was a left to right break?

WENDY WARD: Yes, I actually thought I had read it too high.  I thought if I could putt it with any speed, it would be inside the hole, and my first take on it, which is usually what I go on, was all out.  I think I decelled enough a little bit to leave it low in the hole.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: Hee Won is a very, very good putter.  I actually expected her to make that.  I thought that was     it wasn't that it was an easy putt or a give me putt.  I expected her to make that.  When she didn't, I felt like I had a second chance.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: Well, I mean, you try to get the job done as quick and solid as possible, and I didn't hit     I pulled my drive off of 18 and hit a great shot in, so kind of that first playoff hole was a little bit of a roller coaster for me.


Q.  The shot an 12, you did what you wanted to do?

WENDY WARD: I knew the backboard was there as kind of insurance.  I did what I wanted to do in hitting it off the slope and take the water out of play.  Coming out of the ruff, it released back to the back like that.  It turned out very nice.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: I didn't look at the leaderboard all day.  I honestly didn't, and I knew that my putt in regulation on 18 would be worth something, but I don't need to look at the board to know that I've got to make it.  I left that one right there.  That's the way it goes.  I'm very pleased with the way I've played and looking forward to a week off now.


Q.  I know you just said you're pleased, but with everything you did today, can you believe you finished second?

WENDY WARD: With this tour out here, yeah, unfortunately, but I feel like I've still got some good weeks ahead, so I accomplished some big goals this week, and for myself personally, put myself into contention.  I played     Juli Inkster said something to me.  She said, just be aggressive.  I didn't change from that game plan.  I could hit 3 wood off the 18 hole if I wanted to, but I had her voice ringing in my head, and I'm proud that's what I did.


Q.  When was the first inkling you had that you were going to a playoff?  You knew you had to make up some ground even as well as you were playing, I would assume.

WENDY WARD: After my par on 18, after I tapped in, I looked at the leaderboard and saw that I was tied for the lead.


Q.  If you were to look at the leaderboard after the bogey, as we did, you're 3 down, and as well as she's playing, is that an example of why you don't look at the leaderboard because you might think, it is over now?

WENDY WARD: I don't think it does any much good.  I know I need to make birdies coming in.  The more birdies I make, I'm either going to catch up, tie or surpass.  To me that was just part of my game plan.


Q.  Is it tempting to take a look at it, sneak a peek?

WENDY WARD: If it happens to catch my eye just in gazing around, I'll look at it.  Honestly, I did see that Hee Won was     had gotten the 18 at one point, and I think     I don't even know what I was at.  I knew I wasn't at 18 myself.  I thought all I could do was keep putting birdies on the board and see if she could make a mistake.  She was playing great.


Q.  You didn't know when you turned in 29 she was about to turn in 30?

WENDY WARD: Never knew.


Q.  Probably a good thing that would probably be frustrating?

WENDY WARD: Not really.  I was more thinking if I could break my 62 more than what she was doing.


Q.  Adam Hayes is H A Y E S?

WENDY WARD: Yes.


Q.  When you made the change and everything you are making a charge towards Top 10 Solheim, at the point you made the caddy change, did you tell yourself this is at the point of the year that I've got to make something going?

WENDY WARD: I knew there was a few things I needed to do.  The gentleman I was working with was a very good friend of mine, and it was one of the hardest decisions I had to make.  I just needed some variables to change for me to have a fresh plate and clear mind and get back to because.


Q.  The caddy that was on your bag, was he here two years ago?

WENDY WARD: I don't know.  He's been out here off and on.


Q.  He wasn't on your bag?

WENDY WARD: No.

MODERATOR:  Wendy, can we go over your score card. 

(Score card done.)


Q.  So, what do you think about the Solheim now?

WENDY WARD: I think I'm in pretty good position.  I think I needed about a 5th place here to move into the Top 10, to take two weeks off.


Q.  Are you protecting it now, or are you going to take two weeks off?

WENDY WARD: I have to do a little bit of calculating.


Q.  Did you ask Patty if you have to play the next two weeks?

WENDY WARD: No, I'm a big girl.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: Definitely the greens.  There were a few you might have had to play a little bit of release.  Unlike last year, where you had to kind of play a bump and run shot, this would take it right to the pin where it would allow me to hit the ball probably the best I can.


Q.  Can you compare the two rounds, here and New Albany?

WENDY WARD: That's a tough one.  I did a lot of the same things.  Obviously today is a little fresher on my mind.  I hit it well and rolled it well, and the only difference was I had a two shot lead coming down 18 in New Albany and this one apparently I was tied for the lead.  It just leaves me hungry.  I have to come back one more year and try to keep on improving.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY WARD: It becomes match play is what it becomes.  I was pleased to draw the honor on the tee.  I like hitting first in a match play situation.  The crowd was great.  I looked at Adam as we were walking back to the carts, I said, do you hear that crowd?  I said, that's just like Solheim Cup every hole you play.  That brought some good vibes back to me.  They were terrific.

MODERATOR:  You guys all set.  Thanks.

WENDY WARD: Thanks. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT