WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 9, 2003
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  All right, Wendy, second straight round in the 60s.  8 under overall, 3 back.  You're right there at the top of the leaderboard.  Can you tell us how you're feeling, and we'll take some questions.

WENDY WARD: I'm feeling very exhausted.  A little hungry, a little tired, but very pleased with the position I'm in right now.

MODERATOR:  Questions?

WENDY WARD: They're tired too.


Q.  It seemed for a long time out there that Candie was just pretty much at the top and nobody was making a run with her, and then in the last hour to hour and a half, it seemed like birdies were flying in all over the place. 

Did you notice what was going on and watching the board and seeing people all of a sudden go deeper and deeper under par.

WENDY WARD: I didn't even look at the board until probably 15.  We were more focused in trying to see how much daylight we had left and trying to get it done out there.  We heard a few rumbles coming down 17, and we thought, oh, no, not that again.  It's funny.  Today, I didn't really pay attention to the leader board.  I figured I had a long way to climb.  I knew the birdies were out there.  In the beginning it didn't seem like I was putting too many in a row.  For me it was just trying to kind of create my own momentum.


Q.  You knew the birdies were out there just because of the way the greens were?

WENDY WARD: And the closer the better, because the greens were just as bumpy today in the afternoon as they were yesterday.  I mean, the closer I think the better as far as missing some of the bumps.  There is a lot of footprints.  The greens are soft and receptive, but not real smooth in the afternoon.


Q.  Now that you permit yourself to look at the board, do you look at that and say shoot-out tomorrow?

WENDY WARD: I mean, I'm definitely going to have to go low tomorrow.  Candie could probably shoot 4 or 5 under and be in good shape.  That means I've got to shoot 8 or 9 under to catch her.  I mean, it's not a change of game plan for me.  If I continue to hit the ball well and could just drop a few more putts, that's the key for me tomorrow.


Q.  Of course, you do have a 62 in this tournament.  Not on this golf course, but  --

WENDY WARD: That's something you always want to try to beat, so if I could do it tomorrow, I think I would be in pretty good shape.


Q.  It's a different golf course, obviously, but does it remind you of two years ago the way the scoring has been the last two days?

WENDY WARD: Yeah, definitely the golf course is very different, yet there is still some shot-making that needs to take place out there to get the job done.  In some ways, there is definitely some shots out there that remind me of my victory in 2001.

MODERATOR:  Wendy, can you take us over your card. 

(Score card done.)


Q.  Playing in the afternoon tomorrow with only half as big a field, will the greens be in better shape?

WENDY WARD: It will be better.  It's still the whole field ahead of you though, even it is only half.  At least I've played for two days.  The conditions can only improve really.  The course has really done well considering how much rain came in on Monday and a little bit Tuesday night.  It's starting to dry up nicely.


Q.  If they have a better forecast tomorrow and these clouds don't hang around and it looks like you're going to have a dry day, do you think you would be able to play the ball down?

WENDY WARD: I do.  There were probably two holes versus maybe 14 or 15 yesterday.  Yeah, if there is no more rain, it's a pretty good chance you'll see it played down. 

MODERATOR:  You all set?

WENDY WARD: Thanks. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT