WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2003
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEAL REID:  Not the way you wanted to finish, I'm sure, but you still shot 69 and still put yourself in position to have a shot at it tomorrow. 

WENDY WARD:   Yeah, I played really solid.  Probably hit the ball the best of any of the three days here this week, and so it's kind of frustrating, obviously, ending with a bogey and having 9-iron in your hands and missing the green.  But I just got a little aggressive with my approach and came over the top of it a little bit.  Hopefully I won't make that mistake tomorrow. 

NEAL REID:  What's your game plan for tomorrow?

WENDY WARD:   If I can do what I did today and just make a few more putts, I think I'll be in really good position.  Just felt like I didn't get really anything, a few putts early on to drop for me, and the back side, kind of hit a lull.  I had a lot of opportunities.  Every hole is an opportunity.  But yeah, I'm very pleased with my position. 

NEAL REID:  Let's go over your score card. 

WENDY WARD:   No. 2 hit a wedge to about from 118 to about 25 feet.  Made a nice little one there. 

Then No.  4, I had 120 yards in.  Same number I had on 18.  Hit a 9-iron to four feet. 

Then No. 10, 102 to the hole.  Hit a little wedge back into the wind to eight feet. 

Then 11, I had 220 to the hole, 210 to the front, and hit a 3-wood in to about 15 feet.  Left the eagle putt right in the jaws.  It was an easy 2-putt. 

Then on 18, I had 120 yards to the flag, simple shot, really, and I just got aggressive with it.  Wanted to really stick it tight, and I pulled a 9-iron left and kind of had a delicate chip shot.  Hit that to about 12 feet and left that one right in the heart, too. 

NEAL REID:  With the scoring conditions the way they are and if it stays that way tomorrow, is it just a matter of making putts, really.

WENDY WARD:   It is.  Hit the ball as well as I could hit it, minus one swing on 18.  So just have to make a few more putts maybe, maybe tomorrow is my day.

NEAL REID:  Are you surprised in this tournament that the scores are so low?

WENDY WARD:   Not really, with the conditions.  The conditions are very favorable for scoring right now.  The greens firmed up and the fairways firmed up quite a bit today and you have to adjust a little bit for that.  But I don't see why scores won't continue to go low tomorrow. 


Q.  What conditions would you like tomorrow?

WENDY WARD:   The thing is, I don't have a choice.  Whatever it is, it is, and that's what I need to like.  If it blows a little harder, if it rains a little bit, I've seen it at its worst here, I think, so I think we are definitely going to be better tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT