MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 6, 2003
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  All right.  Well, you say you are a little tired, huh?
WENDY WARD:  Yeah, mentally, I am thoroughly exhausted.

Q.  How come?
WENDY WARD:  Well, I mean, major championships are like this.  It's so much of a grind, and I wasn't striking the ball well, especially off the tee today, so I was kind of putting myself behind the 8-ball right from the get-go. 
So, I just had to grind it out.  Luckily I feel really good over my putter right now, as many of you saw, I think my shortest putt on the last three holes was at least 30 feet, so it was a grind, but fun group.  I mean, everybody was really encouraging each other. 
Obviously, Laura didn't have a really great day, but Annika was spurring everybody on, so that's always fun to try and keep up with and yet do your own thing and making your own putts.

Q.  Are you confident going into tomorrow even though you are three back from Annika because of your putting?
WENDY WARD: Yeah.  Definitely I am going to spend some time on the range this evening right into the dinner hour and try to get it straightened out a little bit.  My tendency is to just pull it left a little bit, and you have got to get the ball in the fairway, I think, and obviously, Annika proved that if you do keep it in play, then you have the opportunity to shoot a low number.

Q.  Are you going to miss some of that excitement playing with Annika tomorrow?
WENDY WARD: Am I going to miss some of it? 

Q.  Yeah.
WENDY WARD:  I think there will be three so I think I am still paired with her.

Q.  Well, I will just switch the question, then.  Are you excited with that atmosphere?
WENDY WARD:  I really enjoy it.  It definitely is a grind and for me, it really dials me in, it really tunes me in to the channel that I need to be in to play my best golf. 
My round today could have easily been a 75-76, and I just know I can't give her too many shots ahead of me, because I am going to have to play some good golf over the weekend to catch her.

Q.  How many times have you made three straight 30-footers?
WENDY WARD:  Did you talk to Laura before you came in here? 

Q.  No.
WENDY WARD:  She said that to me after I made my putt on 18.  She said how many times putts have you made in succession like that of that length, and I said I couldn't tell you the number in a row, that's definitely, I think, a first for me.  And like I said, I just have a real good feel over my putter, the pace seems to be really good, I think I mis-hit one putt today that I can think of, and that's really positive for me to walk away from the round having not struck the ball well today.

Q.  Wendy, did the course play any differently today than it did for you yesterday?
WENDY WARD:  I laid up a few more times.  I had to bail out of the rough a few more times.  I was hoping to -- obviously, if you miss the fairway, you hope to draw a decent lie, and that's just not really heard of this week. 
So, if anything, I mean, I just need to improve off the tee, and I think I have a good shot at contending still.

Q.  Wendy, what is it about the vibes at DuPont that makes you play as well as you do?
WENDY WARD:  I don't know, but I am not going to question them.  It's just a feel-good atmosphere for me, and I try and stay away from the quarter pounders, too, so  --

Q.  Going off in threesomes at 7:00 a.m. tomorrow, is that going to affect anything either way?  Does it matter?
WENDY WARD:  It doesn't matter.  I mean, the whole field is going to be out there.  We played the course with over half the field having played through it before, so I think it's as good of a call as we can make, really.  It's going to be wet and sloppy out there, we finally got the course to a place that is almost playable without lift, clean and place, but unfortunately, we are going to have the elements come in and get us again.

Q.  Wendy, do you girls go out there knowing Annika is going to make a move today, the way she was playing?
WENDY WARD:  You have got to expect it.  You don't know for sure, but you have got to expect she is going to play well.  I watched her play yesterday, and to most people's standards, she played excellent, and I know to her standards, you know, she probably played about average, so to get 1-under out of a round, yesterday playing average, I knew she was going to be hungry today.

Q.  Have you heard about the $1 million challenge Annika has been offered?
WENDY WARD:  Oh, from one of the PGA guys?  Yeah, I haven't really followed it that much, but  --

Q.  Offers her head-to-head anytime, anywhere, for $1 million.  Any thoughts?  Think she should do it?
WENDY WARD:  You have to ask her.  I can't answer that question for you.

Q.  If you were given that opportunity, would you do it?
WENDY WARD:  Maybe against my husband.  I have a much better track record.  No, those guys are good, and I don't know if he wants her to play the same tees as him, I would think that would be the bet, but I would have to improve my game quite a bit to seriously consider that, and gain about 50 yards.

Q.  In championship play, you are playing with Annika, what is your mind-set when you are playing?  Are you playing your own game or are you playing against someone like Annika Sorenstam.
WENDY WARD:  Well, I mean, for me, I am playing alongside her, obviously, but you definitely have to play your own game, and when you play with her, you are aware of what she is doing, but I am obviously not trying to match her shot-for-shot.  I am trying to stay in my own game, but at the same time, you got to keep an eye on her.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT