NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 28, 2000
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WENDY WARD: Birdie on 1. I hit a great drive starting out, about a 135-yard 7-iron into
the wind to about eight feet and made the putt. And then another birdie on 5, the par 3,
146 yards. It was playing a little downwind, and I hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet. Made a
lot of good putts that didn't drop until 15, was my next birdie. Good drive. 133 to the
pin, a little 9-iron. That was just about a 12-footer, and then 16, the par 5, hit a good
drive; had about 235 to the front. Pulled a 3-wood in the rough and hit a little 25 yard
lob-wedge to about four feet and made the putt. Thought I got another one on 18 but just
stayed up. Very solid day, though.  
 
Q. You mentioned that you missed a makeable birdie. Anything really short or inside 10
feet or what are we talking here? 
 
 WENDY WARD: Yeah, I missed a 9-footer, two 15-footers. And the other two were about,
you know, 20, 25 feet, still what I consider makeable. You are not going to make them all
the time, but definitely good attempts. The greens are in fantastic shape and they just
not giving anything right on the edges. The edges of the cup are very sharp; well cut.  
 
Q. On the leaderboard everybody right now that is either in the lead or towards the
lead started on the front. And I don't know if there's any reason for that, if it's pure
coincidence, is there any feeling you got out there in your round, is there a difference
between starting on the back, starting on the front today?
 
 WENDY WARD: I think the stretch of 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, those were good, solid holes.
Last week in Portland our finishing holes, 15 through 18, you had to golf your ball very
well. And this week, I think those are the hearty holes. 10 is usually into the wind. It
wasn't playing that way today. 12 and 13 were tough. It might have helped to be a little
warmer. We go off the back tomorrow. You know, you just -- the routine fairways and
greens; if you can do that, then the rest falls in place.  
 
Q. I looked at your performance sheet for this year. You've had a pretty good year in
Ohio. Looks like 63 at the last round in Dayton and third in Youngstown. Do you do this
every year? 
 
 WENDY WARD: I don't necessarily care for the Buckeyes because they beat my Sun Devils a
few years ago in the Rose Bowl. But the State of Ohio has been good to me. The golf
courses are great here. The fans are good and my putter seems to get hot in Ohio. Good
conditions, I don't know.  
 
Q. Do you like northern courses normally?
 
 WENDY WARD: I guess I've never really thought of it that way. Not necessarily. I love
the foliage out here. This is awesome. You don't see this in Texas or Arizona. I guess in
my time away from the ball is kind of entertaining to see all of the bright colors.  
 
Q. Also, according to the media guide, your performance fell off a little bit last
year, and now it looks like the second half of this year, you're playing better again. Is
that due to any particular reason? 
 
 WENDY WARD: I would probably say -- I switched coaches mid-year last year, and we've
made some swing changes and I'm finally becoming comfortable on the course with those. And
it's funny, because I look at the stats, too, because I see every one of them has got a
down year in there. And I'm hoping that was my down year. Just kind of growing. First year
of marriage. Just learning a lot, yeah. I don't blame it on that -- definitely not. My
husband was not out here last year which was an adjustment for me, and he is this year. So
just human, I guess. Got a human year in there.  
 
Q. Were you still at ASU? 
 
 WENDY WARD: I had graduated, but it was a fantastic game; I'll give you that. That's
got to be one of the great games. I finished up at ASU in '95.  
 
Q. Do you feel good enough about your swing changes that you've implemented and the way
you've been playing that you feel that you can -- obviously, that you feel that you can
win this week? 
 
 WENDY WARD: Definitely. That's what I've come here to do. Staying relaxed -- we haven't
played a 72-hole event in a number of weeks. So there's 54 holes left of golf, and that's
a lot. A lot of birdies.  
 
Q. How much difference did you find today in the clubs you were hitting -- were the
fairways really stopping your tee shots? 
 
 WENDY WARD: Yeah, I had to drive back up on 17 today. And I'm using the red Callaway
ball which is supposed to run a little further. Yeah, I was looking at a few of the holes
-- just depends. There's a few of them that played shorter today because the wind was
different than last year. But very few of them are playing shorter. 
 
Q. Going to be similar scoring this year? 
 
 WENDY WARD: Annika was 19-under last year?  
 
Q. But they kind of ran away from everybody. Annika was 19, Marty was 16, Emily was 12
--
 
 WENDY WARD: So it dropped off. I would say it would take 12(-under) to win.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT