U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good job out there in the heat.   Was that as good as you could have got out of it today, 72?  
WENDY WARD:   Know, you can always say you could have gotten one or two more, but at a U. S. Open you take even par just about any round you get out there.   I played real steady.   I played solid.   I didn't miss a fairway.   Missed a couple greens with good shots in.   Just you know, real fine angles out here.   
I kind of just tried to play conservative, steady golf and take my 30 and 40‑footers wherever they came, and you know, just par is good this week.  
   
 Q.   What's your assessment of first round 98 to first round 2012?  
WENDY WARD:   I don't even know what I shot first round.   I remember a practice round being a little warm like this, but yeah, I heard Paula say earlier this week it's a survival of endurance this week, and it's always a survival of patience, so I feel good about the first round being underneath my belt.   And I'll sleep good tonight.  
   
 Q.   What's harder, the conditions or the weather?  
WENDY WARD:   Know, it's funny because we were in Rogers, Arkansas last week for the Northwest Arkansas Walmart Championship, and it was just like this except probably not even quite as hot.   So now we're all joking.   That was our tune‑up for this week, and we thought it would be the other way around.  
   
 Q.   Is there any sort of carryover effect, or are you still kind of recovering a little bit from a week in the heat down there to having to do it all over again?  
WENDY WARD:   Unfortunately I had Sunday off last week, so I had plenty of recovery time.   I grew up in the heat down in San Antonio, so I'd much rather it hotter than colder.   Yeah, I mean it's just a matter of pacing yourself.   I'm pretty much done for today.   I'll go inside and rest and get ready to do it all over again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How much water did you drink today?  
WENDY WARD:   A case.   I don't know.   You feel like whatever you pull in you're pushing right back out.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to focus on a course like this with the combination of the heat?  
WENDY WARD:   I don't think so.   It's just another element.   At the British you got rain or wind or cold, so it's just another element that you can't get too caught up in.   It is what it is, and the golf ball flies nice when it's this hot.   A lot better than when it's cold.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to get it close to the hole with this heat.   I know there's some humidity that's helping keep some moisture in the greens, but is it hard to get it close?  
WENDY WARD:   There's opportunities.   You know, longer clubs.   I'm going to be going to the middle of the greens and the shorter irons I'm going to play a little more aggressive.   The shorter irons were holding this morning, so I just think you gotta take your chances where you get them, take your opportunities and make the most of it and stay patient.  
   
 Q.   Could you tell where they added some of the yardage on the holes?   You fared well on the 7th.   
WENDY WARD:   Yeah.   I think I fared well because I don't remember much of the golf course from '98.   I remember 18, I remember Lopez and Meg and Dottie walking up with their towels and that's about it.   So I don't remember a whole lot.  
   
 Q.   Did it play long or feel normal to you?  
WENDY WARD:   They didn't have a couple of the tees back on some of the par‑3s and par‑4s, so I'm sure they'll be happy to stretch it out on the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Is dealing with the heat more a mindset than anything physical outside of just drinking a lot?  
WENDY WARD:   Know, it's funny.   I don't even think about the heat.   Again, I grew up in it, so it's just kind of the way ‑‑ I don't know, you sweat a lot.   It's a good weight loss program this week.   Takes my mind off the golf, I guess.   I like your hat, by the way.   Go Devils.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT