CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 14, 2010
Wendy Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Wendy, welcome. Great round today. Just tell us a little bit about it. What went well for you? 
 WENDY WARD: I hit the ball really well and made a few putts, made some long putts that I haven't made this year. 
 Missed a couple shorter ones that I would've liked to have made. 
 MODERATOR: The long putts, but what and where?
 WENDY WARD: We started on the back side, and I made one from cross country on 12 that was about 40 feet. I hit it about pin high, but tugged it a little bit. So, yeah, that was a fun one to make. 
 And then I'm trying to think the other one that I made. Most of the other ones were right around 15 feet, 12 feet, 8 feet. I mean, I missed one green today, and I actually hit the green. It just snuck over the back.
 I hit the ball really well today.
 MODERATOR: We've been hearing things about the greens. Making those long putts, is that partly the greens and partly something you found in your stroke? 
 WENDY WARD: What have you been hearing about the greens?
 MODERATOR: That they're good.
 WENDY WARD: Yeah. Okay, I didn't know if that was a trick question. 
 MODERATOR: I could've said that. 
 WENDY WARD: Oh, yeah. Later in the day that po gets a little bouncy. But, yeah, they're rolling really smooth. Pace of the greens is really good. Actually maybe just a hair slower than last week, but I think that's good. You can be a little bit more aggressive.
 They're certainly not slow, but maybe a touch slower from last week.
 MODERATOR: The putts you're making, is that a product of having smooth greens, or is there something that you found your stroke recently? 
 WENDY WARD: I would hope I had something to do with it. But I have, I changed to a new putter in Arkansas. It was five weeks ago, but really only two tournaments ago. So just kind of becoming comfortable with that.
 Then, yeah, I mean, I'm just kind of fine tuning my stroke, and seeing putts go in the hole always leads to confidence. 
 MODERATOR: Excellent. Questions. 

 Q. Did you look at the leaderboard at any point? Did you see Brittany's 61 up there? And what were your thoughts?
 WENDY WARD: We saw -- I'm trying to think when we saw Brittany at 7-under through 13 or something. It didn't surprise me. You know, the course, the fairways are playing pretty hard and fast, and she hits it 50 past me. 
 And when I saw her post at 11, I thought, Holy smokes. She went ahead and took care of business. But she had a good final round last week on Sunday. It doesn't surprise me. 
 But it was fun trying to chase, because I thought of my career-best out here, which is 62. I thought, Well, you know, one better. Let's see if we can try and catch her.

 Q. Where did you shoot that?
 WENDY WARD: 2001 at the Wendy's Championship, opening round.

 Q. You didn't tee off until almost four and a half hours after she did. A lot of times if you look at that score or you're cognizant of it, that can maybe work against you. Seeing her put up that big number, did it motivate you or did you put it out of your mind?
 WENDY WARD: Well, she wasn't at 11 when I tee'd off. Like I said, she still had a few holes left when I saw her at 7- or 8-under. And then when we made the turn, we were on the back side, so I saw on 18 that she was at 11. I thought, Well, game on. (Laughter.)
Brittany is a good friend of mine, so it's always fun to see a fellow friend up on the leaderboard and then try and chase 'em. That's kind of what this is all about.

 Q. Is it realistic with the conditions out here to expect her and yourself to maybe repeat and for the scores to continue to stay low?
 WENDY WARD: I think they will stay low. For as many as were on the board when we made the turn at 3-, 4-, 5-under par, I think you're going to see low scores. I don't know if she's going to repeat 11-under. She's capable of it. 
 Usually when you shoot 11-under you get a couple good bounces and a couple 40-footers that run in that you don't necessarily expect to make. 

 Q. She said she made a couple 30-footers out there, and she only had 24 putts. How many did you have?
 WENDY WARD: I had 28. How many greens did she hit? 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 WENDY WARD: Did she? Okay. That's great. 

 Q. I think she drove all the par-5s but one or two.
 WENDY WARD: Like I said, she hits it about 50 past me, so that doesn't surprise me. I had 3-hybrid into No. 5, which is the one straight up the hill. I thought, Shoot, if I had 3-hybrid, she probably had 8-iron in here, you know, and I'm not exaggerating. 
 Yeah, if she continues to hit the ball well and roll it well o the greens, you could be looking at a record-breaking or record-setting scores this week.

 Q. Can a player who plays shorter though, under these conditions still do well? 
 WENDY WARD: Absolutely. 

 Q. Well, you did well today.
 WENDY WARD: Well I don't consider myself short, just shorter than Brittany.

 Q. Most people are, I think. 
 WENDY WARD: Yeah, most of us. 

 Q. Did you leave any putts out there?
 WENDY WARD: I did. I left a couple. One bounced on 6. I had like probably a 6-, 7-footer, and then I had like a 4-, 5-footer on 9 that I thought it was pretty slick down the hill. I just left kind of dead in the jaws.
 But I'm one of those people that looks at the 40-footer on 12, you know, that I don't necessarily expect to make that. You kind of got to balance them out some days. 
 Last week I had a lot of the good putts that didn't go in. I guess right now I'm just thankful for the ones that do drop. 
 MODERATOR: Anything else? 
 WENDY WARD: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT