BETFRED BRITISH MASTERS
May 10, 2019
Niclas Lemke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Incredible round, first of all we have to talk about those eight birdies in a row.  Did you realise what was going on as it was happening?
NICLAS LEMKE: I didn't realise it was going to be eight but I kind of got a couple and then I chipped in on 16, was kind of a bonus and hit a couple of good shots on 17 and 18 and No. 1, and second shot on No. 2.  Got a couple easy ones and I made a couple tough ones.
Q. Was there a conversation at all that happened between you and your caddie, making the turn starting on the back nine?
NICLAS LEMKE: Well, made pretty good yesterday and then I hit a good shot on 10 and I missed a 4-foot putt for birdie, and on the next hole I missed a 2-foot putt for par.  I said, let's get focussed.  I feel pretty well, and I stayed calm.  Then I started making some good shots and just went on from there.
Q. Just shy of the record of nine birdies, but among the list you're on now is people like Seve Ballesteros; a pretty good day at the office?
NICLAS LEMKE: Yeah, I didn't think about it was going to be a record or something like that.  It feels good to be in that sort of company.
Q. How do you imagine the play for rest of the afternoon?
NICLAS LEMKE: If it stays like this, it's going to be pretty scorable.  It was fairly scorable this morning.  The wind wasn't too bad and it was cold from time to time, but if it stays like this, it's going to be a lot of birdies.  The greens are pretty receptive, and the greens are not really, really fast, so you can make a lot of putts.  See what the weather will do but pretty scorable, I would say.
Q. You seem pretty comfortable on these kind of courses.  Do you find these kind of courses suit your style?
NICLAS LEMKE: I played here probably ten rounds before I got here.  I played the European Team Championships back in the day and played the British Open qualifier, and I really like the golf course.  When it is kind of narrow, I'm better at focusing in than on maybe wide golf courses.  I like it and I enjoy it.  You can be creative around links courses and stuff like that.
Q. How do you feel going into Saturday in contention?
NICLAS LEMKE: I will be actually a little bit nervous.  There's going to be a lot of people out there, which is going to be fun.  It's going to be fun to feel those nerves again.  It's been a little while but it's going to be good.
Q. Terrific round of 64 with eight birdies in a row.  Sum that day up from your point of view?
NICLAS LEMKE: One of those days where it kind of goes your way the whole round and took advantage of it, and just a fun day out there.
Q. What goes through your mind in a run like that when you're making birdie after birdie after birdie?  What are you thinking?  What are you feeling?
NICLAS LEMKE: Just trying to execute good shots and good routines and keep riding the wave as long as I can possibly do it.
Q. No obvious sign of this sort of form in your recent results, six missed cuts in the last seven.  Have you felt this coming?
NICLAS LEMKE: Both yes and no.  I was struggling with my swing the last couple weeks.  I felt like the game was really, really good in The Desert Swing during Oman and Qatar, but didn't putt really well.  Got the putter going this week and the swing is starting to improve a little bit.  There's still some job to do, but it's getting better and better.
Q. Been a long journey for you to get on to The European Tour, ten goes at the Tour school in various different ways, now that you're in this position going into the weekend, and sure to be in a position of contention, how excited are you and what are your thoughts on that?
NICLAS LEMKE: It's going to be fun.  There's going to be a lot of people out there.  I'm definitely going to feel some nerves, but I pretty much have nothing to lose.  Just going out there trying to hit good shots and trying to hit the shots that I want to hit and try to make some putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT