NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 4, 2004
Shean Donovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Shean, tell us about the injury; how you feel today?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN:  It's a leg injury and it's just something that see how it feels tomorrow and try to play tomorrow night.   
  Q.  It's a possibility you will be in the lineup tomorrow?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: Yeah, obviously there's a possibility.  See how it feels tomorrow morning and I mean, just see how it is.   
  Q.  Have the doctors told you anything?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: No, I hadn't really got it checked up or anything.  But hopefully it feels better tonight and tomorrow and we will just see how it is.   
  Q.  Guys go the extra mile to play in the lineup, play with injuries playoff time.  Game 6 possible Cup clinch, how much further would you be willing to go?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I obviously would kind of do anything to play.  For sure I am going to do everything to play and I think there's a good chance.   
  Q.  Was it the Jason Cullimore hit that caused the problem?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: Yeah, he fell on my leg and just kind of an awkward thing, so just he's a big body, so my leg can hold him, but it's something to suck up.   
  Q.  Do you feel better today than you did last night?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I kind of feel the same actually but I am starting to feel better.  Actually got a little treatment and stuff so feeling better.   
  Q.  Give us a sense of mood of the team coming back on the flight?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I don't know.  Most of the boys didn't come in today, so I know most of the guys are probably pretty tired and, you know, they are getting the rest now so they will be all fired up tonight.  I am sure everybody is excited.  Everybody knows what it means and it's just to kind of control our energy and play our best game tomorrow night.   
  Q.  If it wasn't Game 6 of the Stanley Cup Final would you even consider trying?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I mean, I don't know.  I obviously always try and we got a lot of guys who have done some pretty crazy things and come back from injuries, so I mean, I'd do anything to come back.  But I think it makes it a little extra special when it's Game 6 in Stanley Cup Finals.   
  Q.  When you tried to go in that first shift of the third period and you weren't able to go, was there almost a sense of dread that you'd gotten that far and all of a sudden it was being pulled out from under you possibly?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I don't know.  I mean, obviously I was little bit mad that I felt sore and I just  -- just wasn't meant to be for that game, so I guess I just need a little time to regroup and get back out, but obviously I know what kind of team we have here and, you know, I mean, it's if, you know, to be a part of, but I am just a small piece of this big team.   
  Q.  Personally, after 100-something games all of a sudden  --   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: Yeah, it was lots of games and stuff like that, but hopefully tomorrow night get back right back on track.   
  Q.  Where were you when Oleg and Jarome were doing their thing in overtime (check?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: They were awesome, and Kipper was awesome, but I was in the dressing room icing down a little bit and watching the game.  It sucks when you don't play because you have no control over it.  At least when you play you feel like you have some kind of control.  But that's no fun watching that.   
  Q.  What has the give and take, the back and forth of the series been like?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: It's been crazy.  It's been a lot of momentum switches and changes and, you know, I mean it's been kind of crazy.  But it's something that one team has to grab hold of and try to strike twice.   
  Q.  What is the difference from game to game?  Does it just really simply come down to heart and want to?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I don't know what it is.  Sometimes I know that in the games we haven't played good it's come down to a little bit of discipline from us.  Tampa has come out and played great, so, it's just, you know, sometimes second game after a win maybe get a little too confident you don't get into the game and have your head in there and the other team is playing their best hockey because, you know, they got their back against the walls, a little bit of that.   
  Q.  You have got to expect them to come out almost like caged animals?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: We know they are the best team in the Eastern Conference.  First, during the season, that's a good team.  We know how good they are, and we know they are going to play their best game so we have to try to play our best game.   
  Q.  What is more a motivating factor, being one game away from winning it or one game from losing it?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: Whatever team wants it most.  They are both huge motivating factors.  It is just a matter of whatever team is going to come out and play the best game tomorrow night.  Whatever team grabs hold right from the start, first draw is a huge indicator of who wants it more, that's the way it's been all series.  Little things like that.  As it goes through, whoever keeps on pushing the whole game.   
  Q.  How do you feel?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I feel all right.  I think I will feel better tonight and I will feel better tomorrow morning and see how it is and hopefully play tomorrow night.   
  Q.  Are you guys thinking about wrapping it you up at home?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: We want to play our best game obviously and you always want to win your next game, we know how important it is to play our best game tomorrow night and we just want to make sure that we have our best effort.   
  Q.  Has it sunk in one win away?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I don't think so.  We have been pretty good at not getting too crazy about anything.  That long flight and everybody being a little tired from the flight and stuff I think hasn't let it set in too much.  Obviously we know it's pretty exciting but tomorrow night we know we can't get too excited.  Whenever we have gotten too excited and gotten too crazy in games and got undisciplined and stuff that's when we're in trouble.   
  Q.  What happens if you do win or score; have you thought about that?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I haven't.  It's kind of like another game, Stanley Cup Finals, so I don't know.  You can't think like that.  I think if you start thinking like that, then you get a little crazy, can't sleep pre-game, it will be too much.   
  Q.  There was up to 60,000 people on the streets last night.  When you drive around Calgary, see the flags, see the red, what do you think when you see all that?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: I mean it's exciting.  It's just makes you feel proud to be a Calgary Flame.  And the city, they are great at hosting events with the Stampede, they know how to party.  You just see it now, every game they know how to get down in the streets and have good parties and they are good clean fun it seems like.   
  Q.  Do you get a lot of attention yourself when you go out, ever worried about yourself because you are so popular?   
 SHEAN DONOVAN: No, no.  Maybe some of the other guys are pretty popular but I think I mix in pretty good.  Other than the beard and stuff, people are nice, and I have a newborn so I spend most of my time at home, I guess.    
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT