CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2008
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, was it a tough way to end? 
 DAWN COE-JONES: Well, the golf part of it was horrible, but that's golf. But so far as playing and seeing people and the crowds out here, it was a lot of fun. 
 It was especially fun for me to have my best friend, Kelly Feltrin, on the bag. Just another special memory for her and I.

 Q. Where is she from?
 DAWN COE-JONES: We grow up together Lake Cowichan. 

 Q. Is this her first bag? 
 DAWN COE-JONES: Oh, no. My first professional victory was with her in Korea ironically enough following a Korean gal on tour now. 
 No, Kelly's caddie several times, and was very special four me to have her walk with me.

 Q. What was it like to walk up 18? You seemed pretty loose?
 DAWN COE_JONES: I certainly wished I had done some heroics like I've done in the past. I almost chipped it in from nowhere on 17. But, you know, it is what it is. We're moving along. I had a lot of fun. A lot of fun. 

 Q. Is it the hardest thing to do walking away?
 DAWN COE-JONES: Not really. You know, I'm ready. When I broke my foot in February I had a lot of time to think and a lot of time to spend with other people. I saw there's a whole great big world out there, and it's time for me to move on and find something else. 
 The golf just isn't there in my heart more so than anything.

 Q. Do you have any idea what you think you may want to do next?
 DAWN COE-JONES: You know, I kid, but I really truly would love to learn how to drive the Zamboni. I think that would be really fun. You know, if they get a new rink in Tampa and I might be able to apply for the job. 
 Fortunately for me I don't have to make that decision any time soon. Just going to enjoying being with my family, and if it's still connected with golf, certainly I'm interested in a few avenues. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAWN COE-JONES: Just that, the competition, the trying to improve your game and trying to strive to be better, trying to shoot a lower score than you've ever done in your life. 
 63 was my lowest, and it's hard to compete with gals now that are young, extremely talented, and they don't have families. That's what they do. Golf is their business, and it's our future. 
 I will certainly still be a huge fan of the LPGA. 

 Q. What's the best memory? 
 DAWN COE-JONES: I've got a lot of memories, and a lot of them come here in Canada. One of my favorites, aside from winning tournaments, was I think I've made the best eagle shot at Glen Abbey ever in the whole wide world. 
 Missed the cut by one, but still a good memory for me. It was a fabulous shot and whatever. But you get to play courses like this and it's just wonderful, unbelievable. 

 Q. But is it nice to be able to walk away knowing what you've accomplish and being comfortable with the fact that you can walk away and sit back some day and look back on your career and feel pretty good about it? 
 DAWN COE-JONES: Yeah, I feel very proud of my career. I've often said that I wish everyone who was ever out here had that opportunity to walk up 18 and be the winner just once. It's a wonderful feeling to be the best in your field this one time. 
 I was lucky enough to have it three times, and so, you know, those are things I think about. Excuse the raspy voice. It's not a whisky voice. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAWN COE-JONES: Well, only because she was trying to make the cut. That makes it tough. Then she had to make three birdies coming in and was trying to force the issue. Sometimes you do that and that's why.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAWN COE-JONES: Absolutely. Absolutely. It's all about having fun. I'm trying, despite the bad golf, to have fun. But then again, I'm not surprised she made the next one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT