U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 1995
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAWN COE-JONES: Okay, quick review of the round.  Hit driver, 7-iron to about 2 inches on 1.  Don't know how it didn't go in.  It was drawing perfectly; it finished just left and behind the hole; but you don't ask questions.  Played par all the way through to number -- well, I 3-putted 9 which was kind of disappointing.  I missed about a two-and-a-half foot putt there.  But still overall, very pleased.  I bogeyed 14.  I drove it in the right rough and tried to hit an 8-iron on there and just too much grass around the ball and left my shot short of the green and chipped it up past the hole about 10 or 11 feet and missed the putt there.  So made bogey on 15 -- or 14, 16, I hit the wrong club, hit 6, one-hopped it over the green, which is certain death,  and 2-putted for bogey from probably 30 feet or a little bit more than 30 feet.  17, I hit 3-wood down there just short of the green and chipped up about 2 feet and made birdie.  So in two days, my 4 birdies haven't even come close to 10 feet long, so I am making the ones that I am hitting very close, but, you know, I am certainly - I certainly haven't rolled in a lot of the chances that I have had, but definitely I am pleased overall.

DAWN COE-JONES: I did have one putt out there.  It was kind of funny -- oh, 13, I just knew I missed it; kind of pulled it; went left; kind of hung on the lip, actually, the hole -- ball was out of the hole and then it came back in the hole.  So it was like, oh, well that is kind of a gift.  But up-and-downs, a couple up-and-downs that I had were nothing heroic, just off the edge of the green and --

DAWN COE-JONES: No.  This was actually my target date, was to get through to The Open. Certainly, if the doctors would let me fly past seven  months, I might play a little bit longer, but it has been a good year and my husband and I are going to be building a new home.  So it is not a case that I need to be out here playing, but it certainly has been a thrill for me to get this far in this tournament.


Q.   Well, it is just really starting for you now; don't you think?

DAWN COE-JONES: Yeah, you got to get yourself to the weekend, that is true, but, you know, these hills are - they take their toll on everybody and certainly for me, and probably Sara - I am sure Sara is a little bit tired, you know, just to get to the weekend is quite a thrill.


Q.   You have played for two days.  Talk about your course management.  Are you working the ball here the way you kind of worked it, when you were practicing the first two days?

DAWN COE-JONES: The thing I noticed about the golf course, it wasn't a tough demanding driving golf course.  However, if you did miss the fairway, there was a lot of trouble to be found.  But the fairways are generous, I think.  They are quite wide, so I haven't missed that many fairways, so I am giving myself an  opportunity to go for the middle of the greens and then, you know, go for the pin when you have got the wedge in your hand and can afford to be a little bit more aggressive.


Q.   Outside of the obvious physical things you have talked about, being pregnant, did you have to make any swing changes?  Have you done anything like that? Anything different?

DAWN COE-JONES: Fortunately, for me, I have a flat quick swing anyway.  So, I never had to do any kind of adjusting that way.  Maybe open my stance just a little bit more, but other than that, no, I haven't had to, you know, do anything strange or different for me.


Q.   Other women talked about having a better center of balance, have you noticed that?

DAWN COE-JONES: I guess.  Certainly, in my third and fourth month, my back was killing me.  My back is sore right now.  As your ligaments and everything stretch and that center of gravity lowers itself.  It certainly makes it difficult.  I have lost a little bit of distance, I think.  I have noticed it this last week, but, you know, we will still be hanging in there.

DAWN COE-JONES: Yeah.


Q.   I know it is kind of half in gest - the other day you said you didn't want to go out here and embarrass yourself here this week.  Perhaps, have you put a little less pressure on yourself this week given your situation and --

DAWN COE-JONES: Oh, definitely.  My expectations coming in were certainly a lot lower probably than normal.  I don't know how many of you have actually gone out and walked the golf course --  Anyone?  Anybody?  I see three hands -- okay.  It is a lot different than looking at the program.  It is a lot hillier - let me tell you.  My goal every day has been to get to the 9th hole.  If I can get to the crest of the 9th hole and without getting too tired and my back getting too sore, I feel like I am on the downside now because everything else comes on down to the clubhouse.


Q.   I suspect you are getting moral support from the crowd and if so, can you tell us what people may be saying to you from the ropes? 

DAWN COE-JONES: Getting a lot of encouragement, definitely.  I have had husbands yell, "I am going to get my wife out there. She said she can't play when she is that big" - this and that.  Then I have others say that they have played right up until a couple of days before they have delivered.  I have had others tell me how worried they are and "make sure you drink enough" and "don't run" and "be careful," and all these kind of things and, you know, I have had to tell them I am in a little bit better shape than people are giving me credit for.


Q.   Under the circumstances, it is still the U.S. Open for you then?

DAWN COE-JONES: Yes, it is.


Q.   You said you and your husband are building a house.  Do you have any plans like when the baby comes as to what you are going to do with your Tour schedule?

DAWN COE-JONES: If I don't have any complications, all that, I am going to be in Orlando the second week of January to defend my title at Grand Cypress and play the tournaments in Florida and see how it goes.  I don't know... I might not be a very good  Tour mom.  There is a lot of great positive role models for me to follow, but, you know, I might be one of these mothers who likes to be at home.  If that is the case, I will just hang my clubs up.  That part of it, you know, will not upset me at all.  It will upset my husband more than it will me, that is for sure, but we will just take it one week at a time.  I am getting a lot of advice from you know, Juli Inkster and Dana Dormann and some of the newer mom's, they are giving me a lot of good tips as to what to do.  It is all individual.  I will know when the time comes.


Q.   What is some of the advice?

DAWN COE-JONES: "Get a nannie" is number one.  Higher a nannie, if you can afford it have somebody there to help you because there is just not enough hours in the day to get everything done that you need to get done in connection with your work, which is you know, thank you notes, and reservations, hotel, all that kind of thing; then you got to slip in dinner, like Juli told me, "get a nannie, even 30 minutes for you to run down to the hotel restaurant and get dinner, where it is quiet, is good" and she goes, she felt guilty at first doing that, but you still need some time for yourself.


Q.   Do you know if it is a girl or a boy? 

DAWN COE-JONES: No.  Didn't want to know. This is one of the best surprises that God can give you; I didn't see a reason to spoil it.


Q.   Back to golf just for a second.  Your thoughts on the leaderboard.  It is hard to say there could be 70 or 80 players that could make the cut. Have you seen anything like that in a U.S. Open?  Is that standard?

DAWN COE-JONES: What, many people making the cut?


Q.   That are in contingency?

DAWN COE-JONES: Oh, I think so.  By Saturday, I think you will have a lot more players, the field will get a little bit more separated, but I don't see anybody, you know, shooting lights out over both days on the weekend.  I think it is going to come right down to the wire like it seems to every year.


Q.   We have had a few players come in complaining a little bit about the slow play.  It would seem to be a little bit more of a disadvantage for you than anyone else.  First of all, is that true and, second of all, has it been much of a problem, what are you doing and...

DAWN COE-JONES: Disadvantage, are you kiding  me?  Yesterday I found every single ladies room out there.  I had plenty of time.  I could take my time.  The whole group could go.  Generally, I don't like to play that slow, but certainly this week, it has actually been beneficial and now tomorrow, for me, if we are in two-somes - which I presume we are - it will be a lot more difficult for me.  I am going to have to pace myself a lot better tomorrow than the last two days.  But today was fine.  I mean, it was still 4 hours and 40 minutes.  We waited every hole except maybe 2, you know, but with the heat and the hills and the pressure; not of The Open ... The pressure (pointing to abdomen).  It has been fine.


Q.   Was this a planned baby or was this one of those "wow, look what happened?"

DAWN COE-JONES: Oh, no, very planned, yeah.  I am not getting any younger so we had to get on with things.


Q.   What is the due date?

DAWN COE-JONES: October 15th.  Four days shy of my own birthday and I don't want to be in there on my birthday. 


Q.   Any kicking or movements?

DAWN COE-JONES: Oh, lots of movement, lots, lots of movement going on.  It is starting to happen now on the golf course; whereas, you know, three, four weeks ago it was basically at night when I was settled down nice and quiet and had my feet up.  Now it is after you eat, the baby starts getting a little energy, and, you know, it will flip around and --.  It is a shame that you guys can't experience this.  I rented the movie "Junior" with Arnold Schwarznagger (phonetic) being pregnant.  That was a classic.  That was so funny.  That was great.


Q.   Any cases today or yesterday over a putt or tee box or over a shot that you suddenly had to step away?

DAWN COE-JONES: I have backed off a couple of shots.  It kind of like jolted me a little bit, but I just give it a little tap; then we go on.


Q.   Telling him you misread that putt, wait a minute, mom, it don't go that way.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT