BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 9, 2004
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Dawn, thanks for coming in and joining us again.  Second straight round in the 60s. I imagine you are pretty pleased with that.  Tell us about the day and we'll take some questions.
DAWN COE JONES:  Kind of a strange day, we lost one of our gals out there.  She withdrew after 7.  The weather was kind of weird, had kind of a shaky start, didn't hit it close, hit it on the wrong side of the knobs, and then Kelly and I started feeding off one another and got a few birdies here and there.  And so overall, to be in at 7 under after two days is good.
Q.  Are you getting sick of sitting in here talking to us or what?
DAWN COE JONES:  No, I never get sick of coming in here.  Are you kidding me?
Q.  Dawn, I think if you look at the Top 5 right now, the average age is around 30    or 25 is the average because Lorena and Aree are about 20 and you and Meg are in your 40s. Has the experience you have had on Tour give you confidence against the likes of Lorena or Aree Song?
DAWN COE JONES:  I don't think age is a factor.  I don't stick it in the ground every day and say, here goes the 43 year old, let's see what we can do today.  It's fun to see these kids.  Aree, she's still a teenager.  It's fun to see these kids play, and they certainly do push the veterans, we'll say, because if you want to compete, you're going to have to beat these kids.
Q.  Dawn, what, however, is the feeling when Meg Mallon gets on    she struggled today and yet she's still at 9 under, and she's been on this remarkable roll since last Saturday.  Do you wonder what it's going to take to get her    to actually beat her or to have somebody come up and grab the lead from her?  Is that what it's going to have to take?
DAWN COE JONES:  Well, Meg has only got a one stroke lead, but given that Meg has one of the most beautiful putting strokes you'll ever see, and I said it the other day, that somebody can go low and that's what it's going to take.  Meg is not going to back down.  Meg is not going to be tired.  Mentally she's going to overcome that, if physically she is tired.  I think somebody is going to have to go out and shoot two low scores to win the golf tournament.  But the beauty of that is, the golf course is in such great shape that the scores are out there.
Q.  Dawn, you've played a number of rounds obviously in your career, you look like you're completely unflappable out there.  There is determination in your eyes and, I wouldn't say serenity, but a nice look:  You've been there, you've seen it, you've done it before, you're not going to get worked up about things.  Would you agree with that, or what's your assessment of your psyche out there on the golf course?
DAWN COE JONES:  Certainly I'm very relaxed this week and have been for a while playing.  Any time you get in the hunt or start striking the ball well and seeing the line on putts, it's fun.  It doesn't do me any good to get mad.

Today I had a very enjoyable day, both yesterday and today, great playing partners, which sometimes plays a part in how you feel out there.  Kelli Kuehne, she's a great gal.  She's a lot of fun and we had some great laughs out there.  Certainly that keeps me relaxed.  It's just a golf game.  You're just hitting the ball down, hitting it and finding it.

Come Monday I'm going to be in British Columbia and the clubs will go away for three weeks, so I'm going to play my hardest this weekend and whatever happens, happens.  But I know on Monday I'm in B.C., and Tuesday I have got 72 juniors that could care less what I do this weekend.  They're just happy to see me at my tournament.  I just try to keep it in perspective and have some fun.
Q.  You don't think they would care if you won this tournament?
DAWN COE JONES:  Certainly.  I mean, they might want to go through my golf bag or something, trying to steal some stuff.  That certainly would be awesome, but we're a long way from the finish line.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go through your score card.  You had a birdie on 4.
DAWN COE JONES:  Hit 9 iron in to about 12 feet below the hole and made the putt there.

5, I three putted from about 30 feet, left it about 6 feet short.  Not a very good effort at all.

7, around the corner, that's right, hit a wedge about 4 feet and made birdie there.

10, I put a 7 iron pin high right about 15 feet, made that putt.

15, hit 9 iron in to about 20 feet and made that.
Q.  I was talking to Laurie about your game and she said you're looking at a very happy golfer.  The family in good shape and your game is in good shape, and your team won the Stanley Cup.  What do you think that has to do with the way you're playing golf right now?
DAWN COE JONES:  I've always said the golf portion of it is the easy part.  It's what happens away from the golf course that makes the golf part tough.  I've got a great husband, I've got a great son, my in laws are here and they're great people, I love them to death.  I'm in Canada.  It's been a good year.

I mean, I took a week off, and my caddie went out and won with another player.  There's all kinds of good karma going around.  And I'm going home next week where I truly love to go.  I look at all those combinations and when I come to work, everything off the golf course seems to be in pretty good order, free of stress.
Q.  When you go home, you don't play at all?
DAWN COE JONES:  I'll play a little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT