ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2002
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:   Let's do your score card first, please.
DAWN COE-JONES:  Can I start on the back?  Birdied No. 12.  Hit it just short of the green and chipped up to about 6 feet and made that for birdie.
Bogey on 15.  I hit a 6-iron in pin-high about 10 feet right of the green, made a poor chip, missed a 4-foot putt for par, on 15.
And then 18 I hit 4-iron in about five feet right of the hole and made that putt for birdie.
On the front side, No. 6, I hit 9-wood in about 15 feet and 2-putted for birdie there.  I think that's it. 

Q.   Apparently they watered the greens.  How different were they together than yesterday?
DAWN COE-JONES:  The golf course is totally different than yesterday.  Certainly came out here expecting hard and fast again like yesterday and the golf course was soft.  The greens were soft and they were a little bit slower than they were yesterday.  But that's how it played.  So that's what we had to -- took us a few holes to click in that the ball was holding instead of how the golf course played yesterday.

Q.   Did the putting green, did it give you an indication that it was slower on putting green or do you know until you get out on the golf course?
DAWN COE-JONES:  Not until you get out on the course, until you get a feel about how the course is playing.

Q.   You're one of the few 40-somethings among the leaders, Betsy King and Rosie Jones, too.  This is a hard course to walk.  Is there any problem?  How do you explain how well you all are playing?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I don't know.  I've been sick for two weeks so I'm quite pleasantly surprised to be where I'm at, actually.  I think everybody is probably in better shape than they have been in the past.  Plus you've got to go to bed early when you play this golf course, so you do get your rest.

Q.   Can you comment on Betsy King's 46?  Not many players out here that age are still playing like she's doing.
DAWN COE-JONES:  Betsy is a phenomenal player, Hall-of-Famer and all, but her desire is there.  She works hard on her game and Betsy has always been a good striker of the ball and a good putter.  And that's the neat thing about this game.  You can be 46 and be very competitive and you can be 19, like Natalie last week, and be competitive, and that's what's nice about it.

Q.   What do you think, if the course stays like this on the weekend, how will that change?  Will there be more and more low numbers like this?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I think so.  I think if the golf course stays soft -- I know they're anticipating possibly getting rain tonight so the course may be even softer.  We haven't seen the low, low score yet, and I think it's still out there to be found.  And I think somebody will shoot that 64, 5.  I hope it's me.

Q.   What about Janice's 66 today?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I didn't know she had 66.  That's a great round.  Certainly not surprised, as soft as the greens were today, that somebody didn't get it going, yeah.

Q.   Have you played with her recently?  Do you know her well?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I do not, no.  I have not played with her.  I know her, obviously, yes, but, no, I haven't played with her in a long time.

Q.   What would you say the key to playing this course well is?
DAWN COE-JONES:  You know, obviously the fairways are quite generous, so saying hitting the fairways is -- you should be able to hit the fairways out here, and then that obviously sets up your shot into the hole.  You can't always be aggressive.  You have to look at where you might want to putt from.  There are times when you can go at the pin and there are times when you can't.  You just have to play smart and be patient.

Q.   You said you've been sick the two weeks.  What have you had?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I had a bad stomach virus.

Q.   When did you get over that?  Are you over that now?
DAWN COE-JONES:  I think so.  I'm still watching what I'm eating, but, yeah, it was not a fun couple of weeks.

Q.   The heat's not bothering you with that?
DAWN COE-JONES:  No, I live in Florida.  It's hotter in Tampa than it is here.  We've got a lot more humidity down there, but today there were times when I felt like I was back home playing, definitely.  But, no, drink lots of water and head for shade.  And obviously the breeze helped today. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT