DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 1, 1999
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  I saw my friend leaving last night.  He was sloughing along.  I didn't mean to bust him in front of his peers, but it was pretty darn funny when I looked up and saw him sleeping. 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Home country? 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  It feels great.  It is him.  Come on in.  You need a coke or something? 
 

Q.  Just had some coffee.
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  You are a good sport. 
 

Q.  Keep it short.
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Okay.  I will try and keep it short.  I will entertain you for about two minutes; that will be it. 
 

Q.  I can handle it.
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Feels great.  du Maurier has been such a great sponsor of ours, and especially for the Canadians, I mean, they, you know, are putting on a golf tournament for the LPGA Tour, but I know deep down they are just rooting their hardest for all of us.  When they honor us with this special award, it means a lot.  I have won it a few times, so I will take my beautiful carving and put it in my trophy room at home and take away a lot of good memories from this week. 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  I tied with Gale last year.  I am not sure. 
 

Q.  1993 was it?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  1993 in London.  Ottawa.  I mean, I have got some really nice memories of the du Maurier for sure. 
 

Q.  What was it like for you out there today?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Everything was fine and I made a mental mistake on 5 and made bogey there, and stumbled.  I pulled a little putt on that par 3; made a great approach putt on 8 from down below, I think, I don't know, 80 feet or -- and I made another bad stroke.  It was frustrating.  I can't blame anything but myself.  I putted well, you know, for probably 68 holes.  When I think about where I have come from this year, that is good. Maybe next week I will putt better for all 72, but I mean, I have got a lot of things to build on, but it was exciting.  When the rain started on 3 I was pumped.  I am like, "cool, this is -- I have been here before."  I like playing in the rain and then it cleared up and I am like, "rats."  But it was nerve-wracking to begin with.  But, you know, that is why you play the game.  I haven't been in the position in a long time.  So it was fun.  It was fun.  But it is a lot of work and, you know, it didn't happen today, but maybe next time. 
 

Q.  Funny on Friday, you and Laura both went out and shot really low scores and then today just didn't.  Could you feel it  in the group that no one was going to go low or was there --
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, I think the golf course just -- it played harder and harder.  Maybe we spoke too much about getting the feel of the golf course and the officials caught on because they had some really difficult pins.  For myself, I mean, I hit it in the rough three times; couldn't get to the green basically. When you are doing things like that, it is just -- it is hard to score, but you are right, the whole group just never really got it going.  I thought Laura birdied the first hole, bang, I birdied 3, I mean, I thought we were all going to just start doing the dance, but it didn't happen. 
 

Q.  What happened on 5?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, instead I should have just been aggressive and hit a wood down there, 5-wood or something; instead I tried to hit a club down and give myself a foot wedge in there. Had a little bit of a downhill lie there and caught the heal of the club on it, turned it over, put it right in the rough.  Well, there was no way I could get to the green, so you know, I did my best. 
 

Q.  Back-to-back 66s.  How good was that on this golf course given the conditions?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Oh, spectacular.  I mean, I shot 65 on Friday and it was great, but to go 12-under on the weekend, that is pretty awesome.  That is why she is 1 or 2, I am not sure where she is probably back to No. 1.  She is a special talent and we are lucky to have her on Tour.  This is her first major and I think it is going to be the first of many. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  I hope so, I really do.  I have struggled all year, looking for something, but to have another -- this is my only second Top-10 all year.  Do it here, build on it, and next week looking forward to next week.  I understand we are playing a really great golf course outside of Boston.  I am looking forward to building a little bit on it. 
 

Q.  At what point today did you sort of feel:  Well, I don't think it is going to happen?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  I think when I made the turn I was 5 back.  But I think when Laura hit it, she hit a great shot into 11.  She hit a beautiful knockdown 8-iron, I think, into 11.  That was just a real pretty shot.  Five shots with seven holes to go, you know, when you are 3-over par, it is different as opposed to being 2 and 3-under - then you might be thinking a little bit. Then I topped it -- I wish --.  I wish I had my mask that my son made me on 12.  Then I knew it was really over, but hey, I bet everyone in this room has topped one, right? 
 

Q.  Oh, yeah, three times in the same hole.
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Beenie, we call her, Beenie's husband came over, I says, oh, my God, can you believe that.  He goes, she just said I am glad I wasn't the only one to top one today, but anyway .... 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  3 was my first birdie.  Hit it short of the green and chipped up to about five feet, made that.  6, as I told you I made bogey there. 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Hit it in the rough and then had to hit it out.  Hit it on and missed about a 20-footer for par.  I 3-putted 6 from about 18 feet. 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  7-iron into 6.  And 8, I 3-putted from country mile, about 80 feet, I don't know, 90 feet, I don't know.  I should be saying meters, right?  I hit 4-iron in there.  Then good up-and-down on 11.  12 was a good par.  13 I bogeyed.  Had to take a drop off the path, oh, was just not good.  I hit a par-putt from off the green from about 20 feet and didn't make it.  14, I missed a 5-footer for a par coming out of the bunker.  15, my claim to fame, I birdied it everyday.  16, I birdied.  Hit a 9-iron into 15 and 16 and birdied both of them.  And then parred out. 
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  About six feet and about 15. 
 

Q.  The two short putts you missed on 6 and 8, has that been a part of your putting problems this year, the 3-, 4-footers or is it going beyond that?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, it has been this (indicating four feet), you know, missed that first one and, it startled me because I have been playing so well and putting so well.  Just rattled my confidence a little bit.  Instead of just sticking to what had been working, a little bit of doubt crept in.  You can't play this game if you have any kind of doubt about a shot or what have you. 
 

Q.  Tougher rebound because you have had trouble putting this year.  Does that put more doubt in your mind kind of thinking, I am going the other way?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  No, I didn't really think that.  I made a good putt on 9; that kind of settled me down.  I had to make a little right-to-left (indicating three feet), you know, little putt.  It went in the middle.  That kind of settled me down again.  Then you know, didn't have any problem really except for the one I missed on 14 coming in. 
 

Q.  When you guys got to 18 what did you think about Laura's chances of birdieing that?
 
DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, you know, Laura did everything to win the golf tournament today.  She played smart.  She hit a lot of good shots.  She hit a lot of greens.  She rolled the ball well.  Unfortunately on 17 it got away from her a little bit.  And you know, she knew what she had to do standing on the tee.  I think they discussed whether to hit a driver or not.  She pulls an iron out of the bag and she knows:  I can hit it in two with a  9-iron.  I actually thought she hit a pretty good shot.  She kind of got a little bit unlucky with it either kicking left or going in the trap where she could have spun it.  She had a difficult shot.  She just --  I feel for her.  She played so well.  But then Karrie, to go 12-under, that is pretty awesome. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT