DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 31, 1999
Dawn Coe-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What would happen if you took a full swing?

DAWN COE-JONES:  I'd probably hurt my shoulder.  I don't need a full swing.


Q.  You always had that three-quarter swing?

DAWN COE-JONES:  It was longer when I started.  I have seen tapes.  It is just getting a little shorter, a little faster, a little with age.  Now, come on!  (laughs).  I am a hockey player, maybe - no.  Okay, do we want to start with the card?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Let's see.  My first birdie was on 3. 2-putted from about 40 feet; 5-wood.  I had to make like about a 5- or 6-footer there.  Got up-and-down on 4.  Hit 5-wood in there, and hit a bad chip, and made about a 12- or 15-footer for par.  Bogeyed 5.  Hit it in the fairway trap and then in the rough, and in the rough again, and then a bad chip.  Missed my par-putt from about ten feet.  Then birdied 6.  Hit 5-iron in there about 25 feet.  3-putted 7.  I am not sure I will be alone on that.  That was the toughest pin of the day, I believe; hit 8-iron.  Bogeyed 10.  I hit 5-wood off the tee and didn't catch it, and left it in the left rough.  Couldn't get home.  Left it on the bank.  In fact, Juli and I -- I had to mark my ball so she could hit.  And I sort of scooped underneath mine.  I had such a good lie, just came underneath it, left it in the rough, then up-and-down to make actually a good 5.  Then I made birdie on 15.  I hit a 9-iron in about twelve feet; birdied that.  Then parred 16, 17, 18.


Q.  Strategy for tomorrow?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Hopefully, I will drive the ball better.  I didn't drive the ball well today.  I only hit nine fairways -- only hit three fairways on the front.  It is hard today, playing this golf course from the rough.  Especially today, too, it was wet and obviously hasn't been cut.  So tomorrow I will have to drive the ball in play, so as to at least have a chance to go for some pins if the opportunity presents itself.


Q.  Putting today?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Putting was pretty good.  I had to lag many, many times from 40 feet,  50 feet here and there, and it still feels really solid.


Q.  Why was getting in that position (inaudible) --

DAWN COE-JONES:  Pins were too hard.  They were really hard.  Then like yesterday I said I had great numbers.  Today I didn't have very many good numbers, so was in between clubs and consequently I wasn't hitting the ball solid because I was taking more club and grip go down; then not hitting it because there I  just wasn't comfortable with it.  So it was totally a different day today.


Q.  You have been playing with Laura Davies.  What do you see in her game?

DAWN COE-JONES:  She hits it far.  I don't know if anybody has seen, but she can hit it pretty far.  (laughter).


Q.  Also putting pretty well?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Laura has -- she has got wonderful touch and imagination around the greens.  I don't know if you have seen her hit some of these little 5-wood shots around the greens, but she does have incredibly good touch and sometimes people who hit the ball far, they don't get enough credit for that and Laura, you know, she has got the complete game when she is on.


Q.  In terms of coping with that sort of stuff being Canadian and being glommed up, how do you feel about that, more and more people are on you -- (inaudible)

DAWN COE-JONES:  Who is glomming on me?  I am going to go out tomorrow and if there is lots more people, that is wonderful. I hope there are a lot of people out there tomorrow.  It is not going to change unless they take the ropes down and let everybody in on the fairway then it might change, but--


Q.  You know this country, how people will be reading the papers tonight and tomorrow looking at that and all of a sudden you will be -- people have been following you but now you are the focus....

DAWN COE-JONES:  There is still a lot of golf left.  Like I said, you can only put so many people on the other side of the ropes and I don't see them.  I am just going to remain focused and do what I have been doing and look to my friends and my brother for support when I need a little right on or whatever and as far as the other people, I am not going to pay much attention to it. Hopefully I will make lots of putts and make them really scream really loud.


Q.  I was thinking as well as the people who aren't here too, the TV audience (inaudible) --

DAWN COE-JONES:  Oh, talking about across the whole of Canada?


Q.  Yes.

DAWN COE-JONES:  Oh!


Q.  You have been one of the Canadians here; now you are the bigger Canadian (inaudible)--

DAWN COE-JONES:  I am still a professional golfer.  I am trying to win the golf tournament tomorrow, if I was from Russia or from Canada, you know, doesn't make any difference.  I don't know how many people will be watching on TV.  Doesn't make any difference to me.  It is not going to change my approach to what I am going to do tomorrow.


Q.  Seeing Laura Davies how far she does hit the ball, you play your own game, I know.  On average, when she is hitting driver off the par 5s how far behind are you and --

DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, I mean, I don't know.  I could be anywhere from 20 to 70.  I mean, it was better today so obviously you are not getting the roll, but, yeah, Laura can hit it 50, 60  yards by me no problem.


Q.  Juli Inkster seems to think the par 5s will be the key tomorrow.

DAWN COE-JONES:  Well, yeah, I think Laura hit iron into three or four of them today.


Q.  She hit 3-iron into 3 from 230.

DAWN COE-JONES:  Yeah, she hit a really good shot too if I recall.  I have to agree with Juli, there is five par 5s, yeah. Especially Laura leading the tournament, I mean, with hitting iron into three of them, at least today, she has got a slight advantage, no doubt about it.


Q.  When Lorie Kane is in contention in the final round she wears something with like maple leaf or red, are you planning something like that?

DAWN COE-JONES:  She has abandoned that idea.  She is not wearing red and white on Sunday anymore.  I asked her.  I did, I saw her, I said:  What, no more red and white?  She said, no, not doing that anymore.  I said:  Okay, orange and white, that is good.  Will I do anything?  I don't know, I will have to see what is clean in the suitcase, pull it out, get the iron; give it a lick and promise and I am on my way.  I am not that superstitious.  I have been out here now 16 years and I realize that eating the same breakfast, driving the same way, going in the same bathroom stall everyday, doesn't amount to anything.  So I can tell you I won't be in spandex, probably won't be in shorts, I will just pick whatever and go with it.


Q.  Can't discount the significance of this being the du Maurier, being Canadian, coming toward the end of your career; it is an important tournament for you?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Sure, every week is important.  But this week is special for obvious reasons.  You know, what more can we say about it?


Q.  Will that affect the way you play tomorrow?

DAWN COE-JONES:  I still have to, you know, hit fairways and greens and do all that.  I am certainly going to be trying just as hard as the other 71 players that are playing tomorrow.  I am just going to do my very best.  I put this guy to sleep.  Want me to tell you a joke?  He was sleeping.  That is all right.  My husband has fallen asleep on me too.


Q.  On the golf course?

DAWN COE-JONES:  Enough.  Enough.  He is not here to defend himself.  So we can't go any further with that.  Thank you all.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT