NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Goga Bitadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you summarize how your experience has been so far tonight?
GOGA BITADZE: This is real exciting for me.  This is my dream.  So I can't really explain how I feel right now.  This is really amazing for me.  I feel really good.
Q. What do you know about Indiana and what do you feel like you can bring to the team from the get-go?
GOGA BITADZE: I know a lot about them.  I watched them in the playoffs, too.  I really like Victor Oladipo.  I think I can bring a lot of stuff into their game.  Stretch the floor.  Help them do a lot of good stuff for the team offensively, defensively.  Be competitive, bring a lot of positive energy and be productive on both ends of the floor.
Q. Playing overseas, a lot of fans might not have seen your game.  How would you describe your style of play?  How do you like to play?
GOGA BITADZE: I like to play hard, be really competitive on the floor, bring a lot of positive energy for the team.  And be productive on both ends of the floor.  Be able to compete and try to win every single game.
Q. A lot of the prospects from the States are looking at overseas pro careers at an early age.  Based on your previous pro experiences, what advice would you give to the kids who chose overseas experiences over NCAA?
GOGA BITADZE: They have to play tougher, be tougher, because there are grown men.  It's a grown men's league.  There are no kids over there.  There is all grown men.  They got to be tough every single game, every single day, trying to work hard, outwork other guys, veterans, other pro players who are older and stronger than them.  They need to work hard and be tough on the floor.
Q. As a kid, did you have a favorite player growing up?  Now that you're in your rookie season, is there a favorite city you would like to visit?
GOGA BITADZE: Yeah, to visit, first of all, Indiana.
Growing up, I had lot of favorite players.  I can't really count them right now.  I had a lot of them.  One of them was KG, Kevin Garnett, because I like how he competed, how tough he was on the floor.
Q. When pick 18 came, you heard your name called, what emotions were going through you?  Who is the first person you thanked, hugged?
GOGA BITADZE: I was shaking, literally.  I was nervous.  But this dream came true.  I'm really honored that I'm here.  I'm going to focus on basketball, hard work.  This is for my family definitely back in Georgia right now.  They're watching.  This is for them.  They came to my mind, the whole process.  I was doing it for them.  This is for them.
Q. Is there one or two favorite quotes that you kept as a motivation throughout the process of chasing this hoop dream?
GOGA BITADZE: Winners never quit, quitters never win.  That's it.  That's my quote I think.  It's really good for me.  I go out there and watch this quote every day.  It is in my mind.  I try to never quit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT