NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 18, 2016
Bismack Biyombo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you have to do to be at the rim more often when they're driving, say if you guys are running them off the line a little bit, but if you're not active in there to help, they're getting easy layups.  What do you have to do differently?  
BISMACK BIYOMBO: Well, we made adjustments, and we've just got to get out there and execute it.  That's just the bottom line.  Like I said yesterday, this adjustment we're going to have to make and find another way to play tomorrow.   
 Q.  How is it you always come back in Game 2?  
BISMACK BIYOMBO: I mean, we've done that before.  We always responded well to scenarios and situations like that when we play that way.  But obviously we're going to have to play our game.  We beat them before playing our game, so it's just an adjustment that we made, and it didn't work.  That's just part of the process.  We are going to learn from it, and we'll make the adjustment and be prepared for tomorrow.  Of course they are playing good basketball, but with that being said, we have been playing good basketball, too, and that's what got us here.   
We've prepared ourselves differently for what we have done, and we're ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Playing in a series like this (inaudible)?  
BISMACK BIYOMBO: It's good.  It's fun.  It's fun.  But at the same time, you know, the most important thing is to find a way how to help my team.  Yes, it's physical, but I think they shot quite a high percentage, and that's just on us, especially defensively after looking at film, learning from our mistakes.  We made a lot of mistakes last night defensively, especially in the paint.  We wanted to take away the three, but the twos were pretty much lay-ups.  Got to find a better way to protect the rim, and we have to play our game.  That's just the bottom line.   
We're going to find a way to put up a fight.  We have done it before.  This is not the first time.   
 Q.  How important is it -- you specifically as a physical player, even the game last night that didn't go the way you guys wanted, to send that message the way you did at various points in the second and third quarter that you're not going to back down physically?  
BISMACK BIYOMBO: I just played the way I believe in, and I played for my teammates.  That's just the bottom line.  We're going to play hard no matter what, and we're going to continue to play hard.  We're always going to put up a fight.  That's just the bottom line, even if the game is not going our way.  But with that being said, tomorrow is a new day for us.  Yesterday is the past.  We learn from it, and we'll get better.   
We have to find a way to play at a high level.  We have to play intense.  That's just simple as that.  There is no other way around it.  We have to play hard every position, offensively, defensively, and take care of business.   
 Q.  Was fatigue a factor for you guys?  
BISMACK BIYOMBO: No.  No.  Not at all.  Not at all.  I don't think that that should be out there as an excuse.  It's been a long season, yes, a lot of people are banged up.  Everybody in the league is banged up right now.  That should not be out there as an excuse.  It's just that they played at a higher pace than we expected.  They played better, and our game plan wasn't probably well-executed from us as players.  Like I said, we all learn from it.  It's a learning process as a player.  We'll get better and we'll move on to the next one.  This happened fast, and you have to be ready for the next game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT