NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Bismack Biyombo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BISMACK BIYOMBO (No. 7)
  SACRAMENTO KINGS 
  
  Q. Bismack, talk about there's many good basketball players that have come out of the Congo recently, including Serge Ibaka. So talk about what have you learned from those guys? Have they given you advice on how to get acclimated to the NBA?   
 BISMACK BIYOMBO: It was motivation watching those guys play in the NBA. Ibaka was in Spain playing over there. I don't know, Ibaka played for three or four years.   
 So when I first came to Spain, I was so excited, and I wanted to push myself every day, try to be in the same situation.   
  
  Q. A lot of reports out that this pick is going to get traded and you're going to Charlotte; are you ready to be a Bob cat?  
 BISMACK BIYOMBO: Yesterday I have a practice in Charlotte. That was my last practice. Before that, Michael Jordan says that he was so excited to meet me. He heard a lot of stuff about me.   
 When I get to Charlotte, I meet him in person and we had a good conversation, and also, you know, they were waiting for the time if I might get to 9.   
 And then, you know, some stuff happened, and they picked me up 7. Just enjoy.   
  
  Q. There seems to be some confusion as to whether there's a buyout problem with your Spanish team. Are you going to be able to play in the NBA next season?  
 BISMACK BIYOMBO: Yeah, I'm going to play in the NBA next season. I'll a free agent right now, you know, after I leave the team, going to the Hoop Summitt, they didn't want to let me go. There was something happened with the team, and we break the contract, so I'm a free agent and next year I'm going to be in the NBA.   
  
  Q. How closely did you watch the NBA this season, knowing you were coming here, and whose games did you watch the closest? Was it the people at your position?   
 BISMACK BIYOMBO: I watched a lot of games about the NBA, but I have no people I can compare my game to them. People might say that I'm looking like some players, but it's not that way. I'm looking myself and trying to be me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT