IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1995
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had Wayne on the ropes 5-3 and up a break in the second and then -- is that
horribly disappointing for you to lose it?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Believe me, it is. I am very disappointed with the way that I lost
the match. I felt I had the match in my hands. I was serving for the match and I mean, it
is very difficult. I feel very bad now because, for me, the World Championships is almost
over. I had almost -- I have almost no chance to qualify for the semifinals.

Q. You say you don't have, you know, that if you win in two sets against Becker you are
in the semifinals?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: First of all, Pete has to beat Wayne tomorrow. I think the way
Wayne is playing, for Pete, it will be very difficult. I am sure it will be a very
interesting match tomorrow, but if that happens, for sure, I am going to try to play 300%
that I can, the match against Becker on Friday. 

Q. You had a lot of your motivation on the court today?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I had a lot, yeah. I knew -- I knew that today's match will cost a
lot. Because there was a chance for me to beat Wayne and to qualify for the semifinal. And
I felt that I played really well 'til 5-4 in the second set, but maybe because of that
pressure, you know, I lost that service game at 5-4 and I kind of lost my concentration. I
felt so frustrated after that and I think that will cost -- that was the point because I
lost the match.

Q. Were you impressed by the situation because you are for the first time at ATP
Finals?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It is no question ATP final is something special. Everybody wants
to do the best they can. And coming here, I felt like -- I felt also that way. I knew that
I have to-- I have to play my best against those seven best players in the world for this
year. So... And I guess I show everybody that I can play good tennis so I mean, it is
diappointing to me to be out of the tournament, yes.

Q. You have had two violation codes; is it important for you?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, I wanted to win that match so bad and just because I didn't
-- I knew I have to win, that is why I couldn't take away my emotions and for me, it was
very difficult to keep that pressure inside of myself, so I kind of explode by throwing
the racket, by throwing the ball out of the court.

Q. What do you think was your biggest fault today?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: My biggest fault... I was doing everything right 'til 5-4 in the
second set and I remember that game I didn't have any first serve in the court and I think
that was the mistake. If I would have done once or twice, first serve in that game, I am
sure the match would be over.

Q. Your games seemed to be similar to Wayne's except you were banging the ball so much
harder through 5-3; then all of a sudden it turned. Why, though?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: When Wayne broke me at 5-4 and I am sure he felt that he got back
to the match and it is no questions that Wayne is physically stronger than me, so that is
why the third set was so easy. I felt that I had no power to compete with Wayne in the
third set. And he was on top of me in the third set.

Q. What do you mean physically stronger? You mean he is more fit in general? 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: In general, I think he is more fit than me.

Q. Because he is also the kind of guy who really hits some incredible shots; he can be
pretty streaky; I guess you have to be aware of him that if you let him back in, he is
capable of anything, right?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: For sure. If you give him the chance, one chance to those players
who is in the top 10, you are in danger. That is what happened to me. I give Wayne one
chance to get back to the match and he used it right away. And that -- that cost me a lot.

Q. Did you hear the crowd turn on you at all or -- in a way it was like Goran last year
--

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes, yes.

Q. When he was --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes, I definitely heard it.

Q. It seemed to me that it was because of your griping and so forth which you talked
about. Did that affect your play then?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. To be honest, no. I am not hearing anything when I am playing.
I am just trying to stay focused all the match and I am not reacting to the crowd at all. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT