VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1994
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is it already very boring for you to come to the press?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Not really.  I am really interested to speak with you guys. 
 

Q.  What is it in your game that you think that you have got over -- this is the third time you have beaten him.  Why do you cause him particular problems; do you think?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I don't know.  Maybe I am the -- I think Michael maybe doesn't respect me like a player, that is why.  He doesn't think that I am good enough to beat him, but, you know, I beat him three times.  I have no comments about that. 
 

Q.  How does this win compare with your other wins against him.  Was this easier or harder?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Well, this time was, I think, same as other two matches.  I was trying to do my best, and I think I did everything as I can. 
 

Q.  You lost three first rounds matches before coming in here.  Has that much to do with your shoulder, or is it all right right now?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No, no, because last time I played like seven months ago on clay court; it is really difficult because, you know, I did good results on hard and Supreme.  And when I came to Estoril to play my first round match, you know, I didn't feel that comfortable. When I lost my second time, first round in Barcelona - actually I cannot pronounce the name of that guy who I lose to - but I really lost my confidence, you know. But now, especially when I beat Andre in the first round, I start to feel more comfortable on clay. 
 

Q.  Andre Medvedev said earlier today that as youngsters age 12, 13, 14, you were much more talented than he was, but he thought he worked harder, and that now you were working hard.  Do you think that is why you are now achieving success, put some hard work with your talent?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yeah, this is the -- this is the truth.  I was maybe talented than Andre when I was 12, 13, but he was really hard worker.  That is why he improve much faster than me.  He is already third years on Tour.  I am only second, but, you know, if I keep working hard as I am doing right now, everything is possible. 
 

Q.  Medvedev said that you will be in the Top 10 by the end of the year.  Stich said he wasn't sure. Did you set yourself any goals at all?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yeah, I told you guys before that I want to stay top 50 by the end of the years; that is my goal for this year.  But everybody, you know, everybody tell me that I am Top 10 players at the end of the year.  I think it is not true.  I am not really good enough for Top 10 this year, but in the future, we will see. 
 

Q.  You just beat Stich.  You have extended Sampras to five sets.  You beat Agassi.  Yet, you don't think you are good enough for top 10; why?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No, I don't think. 
 

Q.  Why?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Because I am the second year on the Tour. And can you show me any example who was second year on the Tour and then improved to Top 10? 
 

Q.  Medvedev.
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  He is the only one.  I cannot be second Medvedev.  
 

Q.  You played great tennis on hardcourt in Australia.  We saw that.  We have seen you play great tennis in the great winds here on clay.  Can you do the same on grass?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I never played -- actually, I never been in London, but, you know, I want to just to try.  Maybe it is going to be same as good, like on hard court or whatever, Supreme court, but depends on the weather. 
 

Q.  Which has been the biggest satisfaction of your life until now on the tennis court?  I mean, playing Davis Cup; beating Stich; playing well with Sampras?  Do you have an example.  You remember, one particular --
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Actually, I cannot.  I cannot remember. 
 

Q.  You have enjoyed them all; have you?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yes. 
 

Q.  How do you feel having beaten Stich to having beaten Agassi?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Really tough questions because it is something special for me to beat Andre and something special for me to beat Michael also.  I cannot compare it -- both guys really are great players.  I cannot say anything about that. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT