US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  I suppose you must be pretty pleased with your game.  Two tough five-setters.  Pretty difficult player first round. 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  You know, obviously with the results I'm quite satisfied.  You know, to get through fourth round US Open, it's obviously a good accomplishment.  But I think my game still wishes to be a little bit better if I want to be really in contention to win the US Open.  I believe I can improve a little bit.  We shall see in the next match.

Q.  What do you think you have to improve?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Probably my concentration because, you know, all the three matches I had, I always play poorly in the beginning.  You know, you give the lead to your opponent, you know, one set or two sets, it's very difficult to come back.  I was quite fortunate to do that.  But towards the closing stages in the tournament, I don't have to do that.  The guys are getting better.  You know, you give them small opportunity, they will take it.  You know, like I said, if I want to be, you know, right there with the best guys, I have to play the best. 

Q.  What do you feel to play against Arnaud Clement once more?  You played him in Australia. 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yeah, I lost really three matches which I should have one.  Hopefully I can get revenge here.  But it won't be easy.  He's also have played a few competitive matches.  You know, today I'm sure he played quite extraordinary against Moya.  I haven't seen him because we played at the same time.  But, you know, I'm not going to expect anything but, you know, tough and difficult match. 

Q.  And if you compare your form now with the one you had in Australia, would you say you're on the same level?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I would say it's pretty similar.  You know, to me I need really small boost to pick up my game.  You know, if it happens in the next match against Clement, I believe I can pick up the best game what I can in the next match.  You know, if I do play my best game, it's not many guys who are here who can beat me.  Hopefully, you know, I will pick it up.  You know, I'm sure important factor would be the confidence.  If I go out, you know, with a lot of self-confidence, I believe in myself. 

Q.  People talk about you as one of the favorites. 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  That's good.

Q.  How does it feel?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  It feels great.  I'm just doing what I've been doing past nine years on the tour.  Slowly coming towards the closing stages the tournament.  I just always like to be in that position.  The less attention from the media I get, obviously the less pressure I have.  Unfortunately, I said, you know, 2001 hasn't been, you know, exciting year for me.  But, you know, if I look back through my career, it always goes, you know, up and down, up and down.  You know, I'm just, like I said, happy to win those three matches at the moment.  We shall see what happen perhaps on Tuesday. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT