WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2001
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  It was pretty comfortable towards the end.  After the first set, did you feel at all the match was possibly getting away from you, that you were in danger at any point?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No, not really.  I guess the rain interruption in the beginning of the match I think had some factor on my performance in first set.  I think I was quite a bit nervous at that stage because he did play probably, you know, far above his standard, especially in the first set.  But then, you know, I did settle down.  You know, when you're playing a best-of-five set match, surprises is very rarely happening.  That's the way I felt.  If I would have come to normal routine, like I always have, sure, his chances wouldn't be that big.  I've proven that next three sets.  
 
Q.  At this level it comes down often to belief.  Did you get the feeling that maybe he didn't quite believe in himself?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I don't think so.  It is a factor which is playing big part in the result of the match, no questions about it.  But, you know, on top of that, you have to look on your ability to play.  Over the years I have proven that I belong to the Top 10, no matter what kind of surfaces we're playing on.  Arvind, you know, he hadn't had much success besides his results only that he made in England, Wimbledon or Queen's Club, those type of tournaments.  You do expect sometimes shocking results, but it's not the way to be today that, you know, that kind of results would be happening today in the match.  You know, I do see my opportunity very big, especially this tournament.  You know, my career fading away from me.  I'm 27 years old.  It's about time for me to make a big, big statement in this tournament.  
 
Q.  Two days ago when you expressed your distaste for Court 1.  You might be playing a Brit the next day, they might have said, "Why don't we put him on Court 1."
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  To be honest, I wish, probably for Arvind, he's not a natural serve-and-volley player, and I think that Court 1 was especially made for his style of the game.  Who knows if they would have put us on the Court 1, could have been upset.  But instead they chose to put us on Court 2 where I felt today there was a big difference to Court 1 because the ball stays low compared to Court 1, and you do get opportunity to serve and volley both serves. 
 
Q.  Kenneth Carlsen or Canas. 
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Interesting.  
 
Q.  Can you break them down?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Obviously I want to avoid Carlsen because lefties always bring troubles, especially on this surface.  I have belief in myself.  If I do play up to my standard, which I always do, who knows. 
 
Q.  In the last set you were playing some really good stuff.  How do you feel your game is actually at the moment?  Is there more to come?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I'm expecting it, yes, in the next upcoming matches.  You know, like you said, the standard which I showed, especially in the fourth set, was very, very high, although Arvind was quite down on himself having won the first set, felt like he had chances.  You know, you do expect, especially when you're playing on the grass, aggressive style of play from your opponent.  I think, you know, by deciding basically to serve and stay back, to construct the point from the baseline, he got me off balance a little bit.  I'm on the state of mind where I know that my opponent will serve and volley both serves, you know, and I know exactly what I have to do.  But when opponents are deciding to mix it up or even stay back, you know, construct the points from the baseline, you do get a little bit off balance.  That's why the first set was quite tight.  But then, you know, I adjust my game to that style of play.  And basically from that point on was no troubles. 
 
Q.  What can you tell me about the young Russian Stoliarov?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Besides he was born on the same hometown as me, very talented.  His size doesn't give much confidence.  Very short.  Doesn't have big game.  But, you know, he does have feel around the court. 
 
Q.  Is he going to be one of those players that's going to take a couple years?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  He's 24 years old. 
 
Q.  Is he?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yeah.  He's not that young.  
 
Q.  Arvind was criticised in the papers this morning by David Lloyd, the former British cup captain. 
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I read that. 
 
Q.  He said he wasn't fit enough.  What are your thoughts on that?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  It is a big part, especially these days in the men's game.  You got to be physically very, very strong.  I don't know how you really can get cramps while playing on the grass court.  I don't think it ever happens to the top players.  That's what makes difference. 
 
Q.  But he seemed to be tired in that last set?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Absolutely.  No matter what kind of surface you're playing on, you have a five-set match, obviously it takes big, big energy out of your body.  You know you have to come out in two days' time and perform, have even better performance.  Those guys, sometimes they have really big trouble to come back and perform at such a high standard of play back to back.  
 
Q.  What would you say the size of the gulf is in terms of ability and fitness between someone like yourself and Arvind?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  You know, I would lean towards more physical ability playing a big, big role these days than, for example, your technical ability.  
 
Q.  I know you've been occasionally calling Larry, but have you talked to him during the tournament seeking advice on opponents?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  As far as I know, he's surfing in Hawaii at the moment. 
 
Q.  He has a cell phone with him. 
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Unfortunately, I don't know the number.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT