TMS - LISBON
December 1, 2000
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Yevgeny. 


Q.  There were times when it seemed you were going to make it.  It was a tight match.  Did you feel you could make it?  When did you start to feel that somehow you were going to fail? 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  You know, up until the last moment, I didn't thought I was going to lose the match, to be honest.  You know, unfortunately, things like that happen where you don't anticipate the results.  Obviously, the results which is not satisfying outcoming.  Like I said, it's one of those times where you playing good but, you know, suddenly the things are not going your way in the crucial points of the match. 


Q.  The result of yesterday left you a little bit nervous for today?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  If I was nervous? 


Q.  Yes. 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Not at all. 


Q.  Were you bothered by the magnitude between Kuerten and the spectators?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No, it didn't bother me at all because, you know, I've been in the situation many, many times where, you know, as soon as I stepped on the court, nobody likes me.  It has nothing to do, you know, particularly the atmosphere of the match as we had today, had nothing to do with the results.  I repeat it again.  I was in control.  I thought I was playing well.  Few loose points and net balls were going against me.  That was the reason I lost. 


Q.  You said that people didn't like you.  Would you qualify the Portuguese audience as a bad one?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I don't say it's a bad one.  It's pretty logical that they are supporting of Brazilians because that's the language they speak.  Unfortunately for me, you know, they like him here.  So it would have been the same situation if we would have played in Moscow.  Not one soul would have support him.  I guess I have to deal with it. 


Q.  Was the three-minute injury time a factor in this match?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No, not at all.  It had nothing to do.  You know, obviously he was injured.  He was taking his time.  It looked like it had some effect, because then right away I lost my service game. 

I'm sure it didn't bother me that he was taking, you know, a three-minute injury time-out. 


Q.  Seems like you were playing in a different pace today, in a little hurry, very fast between points. 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  That's not true. That's not true.  Yesterday I was playing a lot faster than today.  You know, that's how I always play.  You know, I always play the same pace.  You know, I don't think I was rushing too much, not at all, no. 


Q.  Apparently it was an unfair result because you looked much stronger than Guga.  Up until the end, I was sure you were going to make it.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I thought so, too.  I thought so, too.  When I had the break at 3-1, I never had a single doubt that I was going to win the match, up until the last of the match.  I thought I was dictating the game.  Things were going like I wanted to have.  But, you know, tennis, it's a sport, a very competitive sport.  Unfortunately, if especially in the crucial points, crucial stages in the match, there are circumstances that aren't in your favor, you are obviously going to lose the match.  That's, I think, what happened today. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT