US OPEN
September 8, 1999
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 USTA: Questions for Yevgeny.  
 
Q. How crucial were the returns on his second serves?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know, I guess nothing much you can do about on the first serve.
I mean, Richard serves 49 aces. You're just hoping and praying for the second serve. You
know, I felt like first two sets I was able to do that. But then, you know, I was starting
to feel a little bit tired. That's why the next two sets went pretty easy, 6-3, 6-1. But
before the final set, I just try to regroup and focus basically for 30 minutes more, just
try to hang on and pray for something good might happen. To be honest, I felt like, you
know, it wasn't going to be much opportunities to break Richard's serve in the decisive
set. I was hoping I could hold on till the tiebreaker and take my chances there. 
 
Q. Is this among one of the toughest victories of your career?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Probably, yeah. I feel like that match stands together with
probably the matches I've played in a Grand Slam finals. I mean, 7-6 in the fifth set, in
the quarters of US Open, you know, it's a big effort to beat a player like Richard. Means
a lot, definitely. 
 
Q. How does it feel to face his serve?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: When I was fresh, I was able to read it perfect. When I was fresh,
it was perfect. We started the match during the daylight. It was pretty important. But
then, like I said, I won the first two sets, starting to feel a little bit tired. Give
Richard a little bit freedom, then he started to play unbelievable, especially on his
serves. 130 miles per hour, 135. I would never thought he was going to do that after two
and a half hours of playing. He seems to pick up that far. Like I said, I was trying to
hang on till the breaker in the fifth. I said, I wasn't going to have any more chances to
break his serve. 
 
Q. His service percentage on second serve was 36%. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Once you have the opportunity to return the second serve,
definitely goes not as hard as his first one. You kind of hoping, you know, that he was
going to give you the chances on the second serve. I also realized that once he hit his
second serve, I put him so much under pressure, so he had to force sometimes. I don't know
how many double-faults he made, but also I think a pretty big number. He also knew if I
had a chance to return his second serve, he would be facing some difficulties. 
 
Q. You lost the previous three matches against him. You lost twice on hard court. Did
you make any adjustments in your tactics?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Not as probably you would think. We play big number of times
against each other. The game wasn't like we didn't know what to expect from each other. I
know Richard going to bomb first serve as hard as he could. My strategy was just to try to
hang on and pray for something good happens. You know, honestly, I didn't know how I break
him in the first set. When I got broken at 3-All in the first set. When I got the break
back at 5-4, I don't know how I was able to do that. Like I said, you praying something
good that can happen. He double-fault there, missed a volley at the net, one point,
somehow to sneak into the match. 
 
Q. The only thing that one can say that might have come easily in this match were the
first two tiebreakers. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I mean, it's hard for me to answer that question. The second
tiebreaker, it wasn't as easy as probably the first one. Richard was up I think 3-1 in
that breaker. He had his chances to win that set.  
 
Q. Having prevailed in the first two tiebreakers, though, did you have a sense after
the fourth that, "If I can get to a fifth set tiebreaker, I have a psychological
edge"? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. I wasn't thinking about psychological edge. I was thinking just
to get to that lottery, if you can say that; praying for one double-fault or perhaps one
missed volley, like I said. In the meantime, to hold your serve in that breaker. That's
what I successfully did. I won the first point in the fifth tiebreaker. Then I was able to
play a couple good shots off the backhand side. Richard give me the chance to return the
second serve. That's what I think was the key to win that breaker, you know, to get the
lead.  
 
Q. Even at 6-2, he comes back to 6-5. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I was pretty nervous at that stage. If you can look at the replay
probably, I was so nervous, I was ready to serve like right after I got the balls. But
then the crowd got so out of control that they almost forced me to take my time. I think
it was help me. I took a deep breath. I don't know how I made that ace, but it was
wonderful. 
 
Q. How did you feel then afterwards?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I feel incredible. To be honest, I didn't think I was going to make
it after Richard came back to 6-5. 6-2, missed the easy forehand up the line. In the
meantime, Richard play a couple of good serves, first two serves aces. Nothing much you
can do about it. Basically you in a situation all or nothing. You got to win the point or
you lose the match. It was wonderful feeling to have that ace on the match point. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) 6-All, you might lose it?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Always comes back to mind when you having four straight match
points in a row. For some weird reason, you lose the first three. Here we go, your chance,
or you win the match or you lose the match. That's how I felt. I knew basically it's all
the year that I was working on was basically on that point. Believe me, nice feeling now
to get through that match. 
 
Q. What do you think of the atmosphere?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: First of all, I was quite a bit shocked that they move our match
from the center court to the Armstrong Stadium. You know, I was hanging in the locker room
since 11 o'clock in the morning, kind of waiting for the match on the center court. For
some weird reason, they move our match to the Armstrong. But I'm not going to complain.
They got their own deals, the USA Network, USTA, whatever it is. The atmosphere was great.
I didn't think it was going to be as excited as it was. 
 
Q. Do you find that you feed off the electricity with the New York crowd?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It's like a paradox. One minute they like you; the next minute they
hate you for no reason whatsoever. You know, today was just wonderful. I know what fans
really wanted to see. They wanted to see a breaker in the fifth set. They all stood up
before we started to play the breaker. It was kind of nice. 
 
Q. Do you think it will be nice if you and Andre face each other on center court?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I'm sure it's going to be lightening. The fans going to go
ape-shit. Having the No. 2 and No. 3 seeds in the semifinal, unfortunately Pete was unable
to compete in the tournament, but it's going to be wonderful because that match going to
be important for both of us.  
 
Q. Do you view that match as essentially a match to determine who will be No. 1?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think so, yes. I think so. 
 
Q. Could you explain?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: We both playing as well as probably we played in all our careers.
We down to basically last two matches in a Grand Slam in the US Open, which is obviously
important tournament for both of us. You know, Andre likes to win the Slam in front of his
home crowd. I'd like to do it for many other different reasons. I just want to do it
because I want to be No. 1 in the world at the end of the year. Simple as that.  
 
Q. Do you think it would be fair to say if one of you wins The Open here, that that
person is the best player?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Without a question, for the year, yes. Without a question. 
 
Q. How would you handicap a perspective match against Andre at this point, you against
him, tactics-wise?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It's not going to be, I should say, any different tactics compared
to the matches that we play before. It's going to be big-hitting groundstrokes from the
baseline. Whoever's going to be mentally tough will win. I've got Andre's number; he's got
my number. We play a big number of times. But like I said, it's important tournament for
both of us. We never played in this stage in a Grand Slam, in a semifinal, although I did
beat Andre once in the quarterfinals of the French in '95. He probably looking for that
revenge.  
 
Q. When you've had success against him, is it a case of you've done something
extraordinarily well?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. I think the key was, if I look back to those matches that I
had success against Andre, the serve was working extremely well. That's what I think I'm
going to need in the match if I play Andre on Saturday. 
 
Q. You used the term "mentally tough." What's happened that you've become so
mentally tough now when apparently you weren't quite as mentally tough when you were
losing all those matches in the first round?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It has to do something with you guys, particularly in that period
of time when I was losing so many matches. You put me so much under pressure that I wasn't
able to handle it, you know, criticizing me for being No. 1 player in the world and losing
so many straight matches. You know, like I was telling before, I'm the kind of player who
likes to compete every single week. I wouldn't mind taking criticism even when I'm losing
so many matches in a row. That's the way I am. That's what probably I'm going to stay like
that for the rest of my career. 
 
Q. Do you regard yourself as a better player than last year?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It's hard to answer the question. You know, I've had my bad times
last year and I've had my good times in the meantime last year, too. The only difference
probably that I'm older than last year. It definitely has to do with probably being number
of matches I've played in my career, with the experience, with the tough situation,
compared to, for example, last year. Just so many things. Probably physically I'm not as
good as I was before. So many come together that it's hard for me to answer the question
if I'm better last year or if I'm better this year. 
 
Q. As you referred to, you became No. 1 in the world, yet there was so much criticism
of you. How did you handle that within you?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It was not an easy thing for me to handle that, like I said, from
you guys. Every time I was watching any sport news or CNN, they were just basically
embarrassing me. I was losing to Ivan Ljubicic 6-1, 6-2 in the second round of
Monte-Carlo. Losing to Richard Fromberg in the first round of the Prague tournament. Other
players wouldn't even consider playing this tournament. I was strong enough to give myself
a chance to compete with the guys even ranked lower than me, to give myself a chance to
get back to the place where I was, for example, in the beginning of the year. It was quite
amazing for me. I still don't understand how was I able to tough it out like that.  
 
Q. To win here, would it be a complete redemption?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Don't get me wrong, to win here would be so special, to win the
third Grand Slam. I've won twice before, as you know, in French and Australian. To win the
third one, if I accomplish that, it would mean a lot to me. I would think about it perhaps
winning Wimbledon, thinking, "I still have four or five years left to do that."
It would mean a lot.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT