ATP Tour World Championship
November 25, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Are you satisfied with your match tonight? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, pretty much. 
 
Q. Yesterday you were saying that it was still a little weak in the service.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You don't work for ATP anymore or what? 
 
Q. No. I do the Website.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Okay. 
 
Q. You said that you were weak in the service department.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. 
 
Q. How did you feel about that today, because there were a lot of breaks?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. It was different match than the match yesterday. But, you
know, as you said, there was a lot of breaks. I think the only explanation is because we
both returned really well. Like I said, you have no other option but just to go for every
serve, first and second. You got to do both. I mean, that's why everybody saw again a lot
of double-faults, a lot of aces in the meantime. But, you know, hopefully I won't do that
mistake when I play on Friday. 
 
Q. Is Karol very hard to play? When you look at the match stats, it's really even
between you guys in all respects.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: He's definitely not an easy guy to play because, you know, you have
one game plan. You know, that game plan not every time working. You got to change your
mentality completely upside down to go with another game plan. That's basically what
happened. I had one game plan. It was working for four or five games in the first set. All
of a sudden, he starts to play better. Then I had to go with the other game plan.
Sometimes it's not an easy thing to do. But, you know, I'm happy that I didn't show a lot
of frustration when I lost the first set, I kept my composure. Second and third set, it
was pretty solid. 
 
Q. So you're still getting to the final?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, I'm hoping. "Hoping" is the wrong answer for me
right now. I said yesterday I was going to make it. I have to stick with my same answer. I
will make it, yeah. 
 
Q. Just one more to go?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Two more, two more. 
 
Q. Can you give me, what would be the key in the match against Moya?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Moya, I just said on Eurosport, whoever is going to be physically
ready and focused from the beginning will win the match. Our game is pretty similar to
each other. We both like to create the game from the baseline, then look for the good
approach, then finish the point at the net. Like I said, whoever's going to be ready and
solid from the beginning will win the match. 
 
Q. But today you did approach a couple of times to the net.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I lost the point, yeah (laughter). 
 
Q. You won the point at the net.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: In the beginning, I was zero for seven. Seven times I tried to go
to the net, and seven times I lost the point. But hopefully I can turn things all the way
around when I play Moya. You know, it's going to be, like I said, a very interesting
match. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT