EUROCARD OPEN
November 1, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You could make only about fourteen or fifteen points on his serve. Was that a key
factor?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Definitely. Definitely. I think overall this week Richard played
outstanding tennis. He was on the top of his game and definitely deserved to win the
tournament. This is without a doubt.

Q. Do you feel his confidence also off the court? Do you feel that he is a player with
a lot of confidence now?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I did feel that. He knew his serve was working. He was getting a
lot of easy points on his serve and basically he was gambling on the return. It paid off,
you know, if he had one breakpoint first set, although I doublefaulted because I knew I
have to take the risk myself because Richard, he played aggressive and he didn't want to
play any baseline rallies, so he took a gamble and it paid off. He played unbelievable,
extremely well. He covered the net well. I tried everything, make a passing shot; trying
to lob him, but didn't work at all.

Q. Has there been one specific game where you had the idea maybe I can take over now?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Unfortunately not. I tried everything. I tried to serve and volley
a little bit. But I am not the kind of player who serves and volley on this surface every
point. It is not my game. Richard, he understands that very perfectly. On the other hand,
he knows if -- if he would play points from the baseline, he knows he has less chances to
beat me. I think, overall, he dominated me in the match. So that was the bottom line.

Q. In fact, only one game at 5-4 he was serving for the first set --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I had some difficulties to read his serve. His first serve
percentage was very high and I guess if someone serves 180, 190 kilometers an hour, any
time first serve, it is poor, you know, you cannot be able to get the serve back to the
court. If you do so, he is going to have easy - put it that way, to the other side of the
court. It is difficult to play against someone who is hot and serves big as Richard.

Q. Is he in the best shape you have ever seen him play?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: He always plays good here no matter what. This is probably his
tournament. He won twice, and twice he played in the finals. I don't know, he likes the
Stuttgart -- he likes the surface, probably, I don't know. But something is really suit
him this week.

Q. But you played him seven times.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. Is this his best performance you think?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: He beat me also pretty easy in Toronto this year. So last two times
we played, he really dominated me. He played only one game, which is serve and volley
every time and keep the point as short as possible. But I was not in that particular time,
I was not in the best of my shape, so it is really hard for me to answer the question if
Richard -- he is definitely on top of his game, this is without a doubt.

Q. Do you think a guy with his potential should be higher in the ranking than he is
now?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: As you take statistics, he had so much trouble with injury,
particularly in the end of the year. For example, last year in Paris he had also chance to
qualify for Hannover and he came up with injury. And Richard is the kind of player who
likes to take some time off and then, for example, here he didn't play last week and he
came up strong and winning the tournament. Also he win a tournament on clay which no one
would expect before so, I mean, it is hard to answer. If he would have been higher ranking
if he -- he definitely would be ranked high if he played consistent, but important thing
is consistency.

Q. What about yourself, hasn't been the greatest of years for you? Are you encouraged
by being in the Finals and the Race to Hannover?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It definitely helps. I still think that I could theoretically
qualify, for example, go into the final again and next week in Bercy and Moscow. So I
still think about it. But like I said, if I don't make it, no big deal. I just want to
forget what happened this year because I know deep inside that I didn't deserve to be in
the Top-10. Let's get ready for the next year 1999.

Q. Going to try and stay fit for the Australian Open?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I definitely will try to stay out of injury, that is for sure.

Q. What sort of things will you be avoiding, skating?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You never know. You might -- I might come up with some stupid
things which is skiing accident or firework accident, I don't know. But hopefully like I
said, I will stay out of trouble.

Q. Will you try some horse riding maybe?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. No horse riding, no. No. Definitely not.

Q. Have you named your child yet?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. Olesja.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT