EUROCARD OPEN
October 31, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. During the whole week everybody was talking about the fight to No. 1 between
Sampras, Rafter and Rios. Nobody took care of you, of course, do you like to be in the
shadow?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, that is probably the best position I would wish for. This is
the first time I am doing an interview this week, so it is a great position to be in. I
wouldn't mind just keep winning the matches and don't do any interview, perfect.

Q. How do you feel?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I feel okay. I feel happy, of course, being in the final and
probably that was the best thing that could happen to me this week. Fortunately, I had a
walkover yesterday over Marcelo and that probably helps me today because I was fresh. I
was eager. I knew I had a chance to win over Jonas. I took the chance which God has given
me, so that is important.

Q. Tennis-wise you feel you are at your top?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. I still feel like I am playing maybe 50% of my potential what I
can play. Like I said before, this year has been a disaster for me. It hasn't been any big
matches, any big tournaments; before I am very bad in the Grand Slam. What I want to do, I
just want to forget about 1998. Although, it has been a happy year for me because my
daughter was born just one week ago. But tennis-wise, I just want to forget - just get
ready for the new year.

Q. It has been a disaster, but you have good chance now to go to Hannover; gives you
some ambition?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I don't want you guys to talk about it although, I am thinking
myself in the back of my mind about it. But realistically, I don't think I can perform
well in three weeks in a row which is here, Bercy and Moscow. I can - hopefully, I can win
tomorrow. But then chances to play well in Bercy are very low because, you know, as the
statistics show, I wasn't so consistent this year. I was winning a tournament; then I had
five early losses in the first round. Who knows. But, of course, it doesn't -- don't mean
that I don't want to play in Hannover. Of course, I would like to play if I make it. But
if you don't know, big deal.

Q. When you say you want to forget about this year, are you eager to strike strong next
year?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. Do you have any specific goals in mind?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. Anything that you --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. Just like always, win as many matches, win as many
tournaments, that is basically the bottom line. What I want to do next year So I know deep
inside that I didn't put enough effort to be, for example, Top-10 because I didn't
practice enough. I was playing and spending a lot of time away from the court. That is
logical. That is why I am not really upset with myself. That is what happened to me this
year. But next year, I would like to get back.

Q. Congratulations on the birth of your daughter.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Thank you.

Q. Did this also distract you a little bit during this year, the idea that you were
becoming a father was a problem of concentration?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No, not at all because I have a very wonderful wife. She said: I
will take care of everything, just do your job. And, she is also happy when I am winning
the matches, winning the tournament. She rather stay home and not be away and winning the
matches winning the tournament, so...

Q. So she helps you, but you must, in your mind --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I was thinking about it a little bit. But like I said, it didn't
bother me at all. Although my wife was pregnant, but I still wanted to win, wanted to
play.

Q. What is the name of the baby?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Alesja.

Q. Are you already looking forward to the moment maybe when she is three years of age,
when she will see you winning matches?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It is still long way to go.

Q. Can you imagine?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I don't want to rush the time. If it comes to that point, that is
fine. I am sure it will come to that point. Hopefully, you know, when I will be 27, I
still be in the top, so she can see her father playing good tournaments, winning the
matches, winning tournaments.

Q. Sometimes it is not too bad to have a bad year, to rebound for the year after, don't
you think - don't you take it in a positive way this way?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I definitely want to take advantage of that, although, I have a
little bit point in the beginning of the year. But I had very bad spring which is clay
court season. Normally '96 and 1997, I had a very good year, winning the French Open, of
course, it was probably the best moment of my career. I definitely would like to take
advantage. I didn't play Australian Open last year, had an injury. So if I do well in the
beginning of the year, I think -- I think I really have a chance to be on the top again.

Q. Do you have any other reason why you didn't play that well this year?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I told you. I didn't put enough effort on the tennis court. That is
the reason.

Q. What were you doing instead?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Just enjoying myself, enjoying family life, that is it.

Q. Are you going to play as many tournaments as you used to play in the previous years
next year? 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I always says in the end every year that I will cut my doubles
schedule, but I always keep doing the same. I don't know, probably I will do the same
again. My body still feels -- still can take a lot of matches although I do get sometimes
tired, but hopefully before the Grand Slam and before important tournament, I will take it
a little bit easier.

Q. Are you interested in this battle for the No. 1 spot by the end of the year?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think that was -- it is over. Obvious already that Pete is going
to finish No. 1.

Q. It is obvious for you?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It is obvious. I knew that long time. Marcelo had his opportunity
this week, but unfortunately he got injured. Patrick, honestly, I don't think he is going
to perform well in Bercy. I might be wrong, but that is my personal opinion. Pete is going
to again probably play well in Bercy and play well in Hannover which he always does, so he
is going to finish No. 1. That is obvious.

Q. What about since you know everything, do you know something about yourself in the
future with the coach, do you know if you are going to hire a new coach and who it is
going to be?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I have one big candidate for next year, so hopefully he will agree
to work with me.

Q. It's a secret?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I just want to keep it quiet for a little while.

Q. I am available in case.
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT