US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Would you say it was an off day for you? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Excuse me? 
 
Q. Would you say it was an off day?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Like in which circumstances? 
 
Q. I mean, the way you played.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: The way I played? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I mean, I'm not going to criticize myself now right in front of you
in the press conference. Whatever I did, I did, it's already passed. Unfortunately, I
lost. Life goes on. It's nothing much I can tell you about it. 
 
Q. What was the difference? You beat him four times out of five before that.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: The one thing I can tell you, that I was having so much difficulty
to hold my serve, especially on one side. The sun was really bothering me. Unfortunately,
you know, I just let go second set, which is -- I shouldn't have done that. From that
point on, the match turned completely the other way around. 
 
Q. Why did it get out of your control?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Excuse me? 
 
Q. Why do you think it got out of your control?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I don't know why. You know, I wish I know the answer. You know, for
sure, if I would get that much back, especially in that situation where I won the first
set, for sure I would never have done that mistake. It's easy to talk after the match.
But, you know, my fault I lost the match. I'm not going to blame on anybody but me. 
 
Q. The next tournament you play is in Switzerland?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, I'm be playing two, three weeks in Basel. 
 
Q. What did you know from Switzerland?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: A lot of things, a lot of things. 
 
Q. Can you explain something?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I'm not going to do it. Let's talk about the match and then I'm out
of here. I don't want to talk about it right now. I'm sorry, don't get me wrong. 
 
Q. Yevgeny, you've had some bad performances in the last little while.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: That's right. 
 
Q. Do you feel a little sorry for the people that come?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I definitely -- I definitely regret it for the things I've done in
the past, you know. I mean, I should have taken advantage from the situation that I had,
especially here this week, honestly. But I don't know why and how it happen. Like I said,
I'm very disappointed with my performance, especially today. The way that I played those
three matches before I was pretty happy. But, you know, I just cannot explain. Maybe, you
know, it was too much pressure on me, expecting myself to win, to do well. The draw was
quite open on my side. You know, just I haven't had such a situation in a long time.
That's why I kind of didn't know how to handle it. 
 
Q. Last year you were hurt, you lost. You said, "Next year starting in January,
the Australian Open, everything is going to go great."
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Things again went so wrong for me in the beginning of the year. I
just don't know. I just don't know the explanation. Hopefully I will do some things
prevent myself from those kind of mistakes. But, you know, that's life. 
 
Q. Do you feel a little bit like you have a very big talent, and right now it's not
being used? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know, I'm already too tired to talk about the talent. The
talent is one thing; the winning the Grand Slam is another thing. The guy who has the
talent, they probably never win the Grand Slam. Good example, Goran, he was three times in
the final. Okay, I was fortunate enough to win at least one Grand Slam, and I'm proud of
it. But, you know, like I said, talent is one thing; winning the match, winning the big
tournaments is another thing. Okay, if you combine those things together, you great
player. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT