US OPEN
September 6, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That's more like it. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: That's right. That's right. 
 
Q. You said two days ago, "I need a match, something to break me out of
this."
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. Could this be it?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Perhaps. You know, honestly, I'm looking much more for something a
lot bigger than that. Hopefully, it will be the next one against Krajicek. 
 
Q. Things happened today on the court, the way you hit the ball, that was different,
that made you feel more encouraged?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: To be honest, I was impressed with myself, you know, that I'm still
capable to do what I was doing today. Like I said, if you could go on the court with same
attitude, every time, I'd be more than happy. But, unfortunately, it doesn't happen every
time. 
 
Q. Is there anybody pushing you out there, behind you, saying, "You can do better
than this? "
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No one can do it but me. I know that. I don't know, just every time
I go, it's up to me, however I'm going to feel before the match, it will be the same story
on the court. If I feel right, I'm going to go, try to win it. But, you know, most of the
last times when I was going on the court, it felt like I didn't care at all. That's why
there was some matches where I was giving up really early in the early stages of the
match. But those three matches really helped me out to go with different attitude than
before. I'm eager to win and I want to win. That's the bottom line. 
 
Q. Tell me about your previous matches with Richard. I'm assuming Richard is going to
win.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think my record against him is pretty even. I played him eight
times. I'm not sure. I might be wrong. Four and four. Last two times he beat me, once on
clay, once on hard court a few weeks ago in Toronto. 
 
Q. He's not going to let you have long rallies.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: The bottom line is that I have to dictate the game if I really want
to do well. But it wasn't going to be easy. The way that Richard is playing lately, I'm
sure everyone will think that he's the favorite. But, you know, I'll try. I'll give it a
shot. 
 
Q. You can probably beat him from the baseline more consistently. Service returning is
going to be a big key for you.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: That's right. On Tuesday probably the key will be how I'm going to
serve. If I'll put high percentage of first serves, I like my chances. But once I'll be
hitting some second serves, I don't think I have many chances. But, like I said, I'll be
focused. I'll be eager to win. 
 
Q. Today you don't hit 50 percent of your first serves; you won most of them.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: That's the only concern that I have right now at this moment. But
hopefully tomorrow I'll have a day off, I'll be working on that aspect, you know, going on
Tuesday, it will be more helpful than the last three matches. 
 
Q. You say your concern is raising the percentage of first serves you get into play?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT