PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 22, 1998
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You looked a little tired out there today.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, in fact I am tired.

Q. Long few weeks?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, I would think so. Toronto, Cincinnati and here, yeah just,
you know, everything came together, a lot of matches, a lot of type on the courts and I
knew sooner or later it would happen. One day I will feel really, really tired that I
could not go through.

Q. Better now than later?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, it is definitely better, not to feel that way at the US Open,
no questions about it.

Q. You said the other day that you were feeling a little ill. Were you still feeling
ill or just tired?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No, just tired. Whole body feels really tired.

Q. Were you trying to get the points over? You started to chip and charge on the second
serve.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, I was trying to, you know, to make the points a lot shorter,
so I could concentrate on one and two shots maximum on each point, but unfortunately it
didn't work that way, plus Goran served unbelievably well after first game in the first
match, but since that point he was playing really well.

Q. Why do you think he has got your number; beaten you several times in a row?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know --

Q. Contrast in styles or --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: If you can look at the statistics all the time -- all those times
that we played against each other it was very close matches. Although I beat him two times
and he beat me a lot more, probably seven or eight times, but I feel like every time I
play him I still have a shot at beating him. I think all the time we go on the court it is
50/50 chance, so it could go either way. But like I said, today I was tired and couldn't
do much about it.

Q. Did that show up in your serve?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Is is main factor, once my body started, I am struggling with my
serve, on this level you cannot only play on the baseline without the serve. You'd need a
strong weapon.

Q. Do you give any thought to cutting back on the number of matches, numbers of
tournaments you play?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. No. I still going to do the things what I was doing all those
years before.

Q. Feel the benefits of playing a lot outbeats the fatigue factor?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know, that is probably first time that I felt that bad, all
those professional years that I was on the Tour. But no, that is what tennis is all about,
once you feel tired, next day you feel like you are ready to go, to compete again. You
just never know what can happen.

Q. He had his shoulder worked on before the match. Is that something you notice and can
take advantage of?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. No. Who knows. After that, even though he struggled in the
first game, but then from that point on, seems to me he never -- he never had any shoulder
problem even before.

Q. He said he had to take a little off his serve, did it seem like that?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: It seemed like he was serving like in a normal day, aces, one after
another. Seems to me shoulder didn't even bother him before the match.

Q. Is the fact that he is lefthanded -- he said one of your best shots in the backhand
crosscourt he said because he is a left-hander it sort of doesn't hurt him that much?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, definitely I always felt like lefthanded plays have advantage
over righthanded especially on the serve. It is so difficult to read the serve,
especially, you know, when you are playing 95% against a player who is righthanded you
sort of expecting the shots, but against left-hander it is difficult. Difficult to read,
difficult to predict, you know, which way he is going to serve, what he is going to do.
Goran is a flashy player. He could come up with some unbelievable shots, but he could have
loss -- made mistakes in the situation where you wouldn't think he would make mistakes.
Today it was one of those days that Goran was playing really well. Even some guys who
watched the match on the side they said, Goran really played well.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT