ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 1997
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Yevgeny, how do you feel after this first match? Obviously you played well?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  It's a good feeling because that's the best start that I had in three years.  You know, I won first match in the tournament.  You know, next two matches I will play with -- I will play with relief; won't have too much pressure, whatever happens.  But overall I think I have a good chance to make it to the semifinals.
  

Q.  Do you like the conditions?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  The conditions are different. Different court to compare with what we had with all the indoor season.  We played on Teraflex.  The surface was a little bit difference; the balls not so high.  But here this week, you have -- we have to get used to the surface.  I'm sure this match helped me.  Tomorrow I will feel the court much better than today.
  

Q.  Were you a little bit anxious maybe for Bjorkman  because he won the tournament in Stockholm?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No.  I felt pretty confident on the court today because I played him twice, I beat him twice.  I knew his game.  You know, on the one hand, I was really, really happy because I had the advantage, I felt like.  Winning in two sets, though those two sets was very close, it could have gone the other way.  But I'm glad I made it the first time through.
  

Q.  For your game, the surface is fast enough?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Basically, you can do anything you want.  You can serve and volley; you can play from the baseline.  That's why we had so many exciting points today in this match.  From the baseline, serve and volley: everything was in the match.  I feel like if I play normal way, like I'm playing right now, you know, it's hard to beat me.
  

Q.  So you could consider going all the way through?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yeah, I consider.  Like I say before, Chang is the high favorite to go through in our group.  Whoever wins this second group will be the second one.  I think now my chances now are 90 percent that I will go through.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT