GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1997
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: First question for Yevgeny.

Q. Was he too good today or what?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, I can tell you I didn't play my best match, but on the other
hand, maybe he didn't let me play my best tennis, because he was too good on his serve.
You know, he was very good off the ground. Just really very, very difficult to check if
his game is on the top or not. Because I wasn't performing my best.

Q. Are you tired?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: A little bit. A little bit, yeah. I was on the road for a long
time. You know, I haven't had any chance to relax and I've been playing all the day
majors. And it was really the fact that, you know, I wasn't too sharp today.

Q. Is this a little more disheartening because you really thought you had a good chance
to win?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. I mean in the beginning, I had one breakpoint. If I would have
make it you know, I was, you know, maybe things start for me a little bit not so
difficult. But, once he held, you know, he never give me really any chance to play my
game, because he was really focusing on one big shot, and every time he was making those
shots it was going in.

Q. I mean you're playing next week at New Haven, and you're looking at the Open --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I mean I definitely feel the ball pretty well. There's no question
about it. It's a matter of physical condition. If -- I certainly would put more focus on
that than anything else. And, you know, I still have three weeks, three weeks to go, and
I'm sure I'll be ready for the Grand Slam.

Q. Are you playing the week before (inaudible.)

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. I'm playing the week before.

Q. Maryland, or?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah.

Q. When you get a chance to play Pete like this, is it especially disappointing not to
have a good match yourself?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, it's a little bit frustrating when you're losing two and two.
It's no matter against which player. Either it's Pete Sampras or the guy who's ranked near
the top hundred; doesn't really matter. But that is the way, you know. You cannot play
your best matches every time you go on the court. Of course have a bad day sometimes.
Especially when you're having really long -- where you have no to chance basically to
recover.

Q. Do you feel tired the minute you got out there?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I felt tired. Like I said I've been playing all the day majors and
Pete, he had one month off, and certainly he was focusing on parts of the game which he
really need to improve. So he just show today that his serve was working one hundred
percent and his grounds strokes were hundred percent. He just dominated.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT