ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1996
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Would you agree that he played a very good match?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yes, he did play very well. 
 

Q.   You, I said.
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  To be honest, I did play well for maybe one and a half set, but when the time came, the crucial moments, he was better player.  He played better points and he deserved to win. 
 

Q.   How will you compare the speed of the surface and the balls as the ones in Paris?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Say it is a little bit faster.  But, the balls are, I think, the same, but when  you are making the serve which is going 205 kilometers per hour, it doesn't make any sense, he is still going to make an ace; that is what makes the difference.  I was all the time under pressure when he was serving and basically I had only a couple of chances and every time when I had a breakpoint, he was coming with the great serve.  And, at the same time, I was unable to keep my serve and, you know, just as I say, when the time came to the most important points, Boris concentrated 100% and he deserved to win. 
 
Q.   Why were you not able to keep yourself?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  First of all, I think that is -- he is a better indoor player than me.  And, he proved that by winning so many tournaments in indoor.  And, he has much more experience than me, how to play in those critical points and he was too good.  That was his first match in the World Championships and he wanted to win.  But, at the same time, I wanted to do the same, but, you know, he was the better player today. 
 

Q.   Looking at the world ranking --
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  But, looking at the statistics, when we play indoor -- 
 

Q.   Okay.  All right.
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  I mean, if the World Championship would have been on clay, I am sure it would have been a different story.  
 

Q.   You remember the color of the surface here?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  Yes. 
 

Q.   What is the message of the new outfit?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  It was -- I am sure it looks very unusual.  But, what can I do? 
 

Q.   You will not become a Swedish player now?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  No.  Even if yellow is the Swedish color, but, you know, I still feel like I am Russian. 
 

Q.   Boris said the atmosphere in the arena was first class; it was very fair and warm.  He was a German playing in Germany.  What do you think about the atmosphere?
 
YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV:  If we would have played in Moscow, I am sure it would have been the same story, all the Russian players would have been behind me.  All the crowd which was 15,000 people, they are supporting Boris because he is the defending champion.  And, he is the only player competing in the World Championships.  That is why he had so much support from the crowd.  It helps him to beat me today, to motivate a lot. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT