PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 15, 1996
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You played him five times, all on clay.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. 
 
Q. This is the first time on hardcourt. Much of a difference?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. Difference was I think my personal opinion I'm a better
hardcourt player than claycourter. I just show it by beating him pretty easy 1 and 4. 
 
Q. You weren't happy with the way you played on the first match. Said your
concentration was the only thing working. Today obviously better. What did you do?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Basically I didn't do something different. The difference was that
I had yesterday a day off. I was really focusing on my practice, you know. I had three
hours practice, was particularly working on my baseline game. I think today's worked
perfectly. I was pretty happy with my -- you know, groundstrokes, my backhand worked well,
my forehand worked well. I moved pretty well. You know, I was pleased. I am pleased with
the way I played today. 
 
Q. Do you prefer having a day off to practice or do you prefer now playing? You have
another match today, you play tomorrow.
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think, you know, doubles, which is -- is going to help me. I will
have time to serve much more and to return some balls, that I can keep myself in the
match. 
 
Q. What do you do you when you're serving in doubles besides try to hold serve and win
the doubles?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: What I will do? My concentration will stay in the match. That I'm
sure is going to help me. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you know, I'd like to keep my
body all the time in the match. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think much more mentally, you know. 
 
Q. Is that why you play so much tennis, I mean the last two years, more than anybody on
the Tour? You just need that to focus?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. I feel I do need it to keep my concentration, to keep my
confidence, to be focused, to stay focused every day. 
 
Q. Yevgeny, can you talk more about playing doubles with Daniel Vacek, why that has
worked so well for both of you folks?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, I think our games fit to each other pretty well. We
understand each other on the court, plus we have a kind of different game. Daniel is very
aggressive player. He's got a huge serve, perfect volley. I'm the kind of player who likes
to be on the baseline. I prefer to stay on the baseline more than being aggressive. That
combination really fit to each other. I think that's why we won the French Open. 
 
Q. Talk a little bit about that. When you won both singles and doubles at the French,
almost 20 years since anybody had done that, what did that mean to your career?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I just proved to myself that, you know, I do feel physically
strong, that I can win both. I cannot only win singles, but I can also win doubles, you
know. 13 matches overall in those two weeks. I just proved that I'm strong enough to do
that. 
 
Q. Must have been fun?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, it was fun. 
 
Q. After winning the French more confidence for the Open in a couple weeks?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes, I do feel that. Plus, you know, Pete is not on the top of his
game. Andre got GQ yesterday, so I'm sure he's not in a good mood. The other guys not in
the best shape. I'm sure this year's Open will be very, very interesting. Nobody is
dominating the game now. It's like, for example, last year Andre was dominating his game.
He won like 26 matches in a row, hot favorite. This year I don't see anybody who can stay. 
 
Q. Is that good for the game?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think so, yeah, because nobody knows who can win. Good for the
spectators, I think good for the TV. You know, it just makes the tournaments much more,
much more interesting. 
 
Q. You wouldn't mind dominating it yourself?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, that's another point, you know. 
 
Q. Are you on top of your game?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Not at the moment, but hopefully when the US Open starts, I'll be
on the top. I'll be what I want to be, you know. 
 
Q. What kind of mind set do have you have to be successful going into the US Open?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Everybody knows that's the last Grand Slam tournament of the year.
That tournament is really important to me because if I do well there, I might reach the
highest ranking point of my career, so I can be No. 1. That's what I'm aiming for right
now. I'll put everything what I have now to that tournament. That's what keeps me, you
know, focused. 
 
Q. Where did your interest in tennis come from?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, that's a long story, very long story. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: My family is really, you know -- I was born in a sports family.
That's why, you know, I'm a good athlete. I can talk about my family a little bit. 
 
Q. If you're not at the top of your game, can you still win here this week and what do
you need to do to get to the top of your game?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I'm sure I will be on the top of my game, not tomorrow. If I do win
tomorrow, it's going to come Saturday, Sunday. When you're practicing hard, sooner or
later it will come. 
 
Q. What do you need to improve to get there?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I just need to hit some more balls. I'm physically strong. I think
it's going to take some time to feel the ground strokes. I'm still missing little bit
small on my game.  
 
Q. (Inaudible) special place you like to go, go in the city when you've been here?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think this is my fifth trip to New Haven. I do like the
atmosphere here. Especially the tournament is well organized, close to New York City. The
weather is not, for example, like Indy. It's nice during the day, cool at night. It really
fits into my schedule. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. To be honest, I've never been. I didn't have a chance to go
sight-seeing. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes, and practice. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT