GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you think it was experience down the stretch?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think so, yeah, because when he got to the critical part of the
match he just seemed to lose his concentration. And at that stage, I think, I am much more
experience than him maybe because I was longer on the Tour than him, but he has got a very
bright future if he continues to play such tennis as he played now.

Q. Do you sense that during the match that he lost it a little bit?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, when he broke me for the first time at 2-1 and then like he
hold again, it was 4-1 and at that stage maybe he didn't believe that he can beat me, but
I was glad that I stayed cool. I was thinking that still, you know, I am still in the
match and if I would have played a couple of good points, I might come back into the match
and that is what happened. He played a couple of loose points. I played some good shots.

Q. Did the weather affect you at all?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: In the first set, yes. It was really hot. In the beginning of the
match. But then I felt like, you know, that critical -- I felt that critical stage and
then I felt like I could play much more longer than in the beginning.

Q. Look like rain might have interrupted. You didn't rush it, but was that thought
going through your mind saying you got to get it over with?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No, I didn't. I just -- I was concentrating. I didn't look at the,
you know, at the weather. I was just concentrating on those points. I didn't rush myself
too much.

Q. Is this the kind of match that a year or two ago you get down a break that late that
(Inaudible.)

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I happy that I got through because if I would have lost that match
today then, you know, I might lose my confidence, but now tomorrow I might play Andre,
which is, for sure, going to help me. He is now, I think, -- again he came back to the
game again, so he is playing now as good as he can, so hopefully I play him tomorrow and I
am looking really to a good match.

Q. Do you still think that as you were saying a couple of weeks ago that after playing
well on the hard courts you can still, if you do well at the Open, you think you can still
come here to No. 1 --

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes. 

Q. After two matches now you feel the same way?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: As I said, I got here only on Saturday. And those three days, those
first three days I didn't felt great, to be honest with you. And as I was saying before,
you know, you need the time to adapt to the weather, to the courts, to the atmosphere, and
now, after five days, I think I got back on track again. So hopefully, you know, I am not
playing as good as I can at the moment, but hopefully in three week's time when the Open
starts I will be at the best as I can.

Q. When he was serving at 5-3, did you make any changes in your approach?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. I was -- I felt like I could lose the match, but, you know, I
was trying to stay cool, basically it will help me. I was holding my tactic during the
match.

Q. Is a scare like this maybe good to get your focus back?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I think so because if you are down in a match and if you are
concentrating 100%, everything might happen in the match and that is what happened. I was
staying cool. I was staying focused and I got my chance.

Q. You were talking about being (Inaudible.) Getting windy out there. The clouds were
moving in. Did you hear the thunder? 

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah.

Q. Did you see the lightning?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. Did you think we shouldn't be out here?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, I felt like if it is going to rain, it is going to rain; we
are going to stoop. As I said, I was not rushing myself too much. If we would suspend, the
score was 5-2 doesn't matter to me.

Q. At least you were aware of all of that?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. If you do play Andre tomorrow, what is your history with him?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I beat him three times. We played four times. I beat him three, so
-- I think we know each other pretty well.

Q. What is the most recent?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: French Open 1995 quarterfinal.
GREG SHARKO: Anything else?

Q. Do you remember being in a position similar to what Chris was in?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes.

Q. Where you can close out a match?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yes, believe me. I lost many matches like that, critical, critical
matches. If I would have convert all those matches, in 1994 I would be -- I finished the
that year 11. If I would have converted, I would be in the top five, believe me.

Q. What is it that helps you convert those chances?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Practice. Lots of matches. Winning tournaments. I am sure I am not
the same person that I was two years ago. And I am sure he will not the same as he was
today, so he wouldn't do the same mistakes twice, three times. I am sure he will learn
from it.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT