VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Ryan Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 35, Virginia Tech - 28   
 Q.  Obviously, Coach Fuente said it started with your ability to protect the football and make good decisions. What did you see today? How much was bad decision-making, great plays by them? What did you see on your end?  
RYAN WILLIS: I need to take care of the ball better. There was a couple reads that I can make better. Had some tough looks here and there. First one, they showed us a little three, tried to hit a seam, and the outside linebacker made a good play. He walled him, and I thought he was going to fall off and didn't, and he made a good play.   
Hat's off to Boston College. They're a good team. We're just going to get better next week. We're going to watch the film and look for things to improve on.   
 Q.  The one, I think it was -- you threw it to Patterson, I think. Did you see -- did you think Grimsley was coming open across the field? Just kind of take us through that interception too.  
RYAN WILLIS: Yeah, we had a little double post action, and they went to cover two. I lost sight of Deshawn's safety. I thought he cut on the inside post, and he went outside. It's my fault. I'll do better next week.   
 Q.  You guys had to burn a time-out in the second half. What happened there?  
RYAN WILLIS: We got a little play call mixed up.   
 Q.  So called one play audible and then people --  
RYAN WILLIS: No.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about the tight end room. Caleb Smith, in particular. What does he bring, and what have you seen from him in practice?  
RYAN WILLIS: Yeah, I'm proud of Caleb. I'm really, really proud. He just got put on scholarship. That kid brings his lunch pail every day, and he works. He's earned that starting job, and I look forward to seeing how he grows.   
 Q.  You've obviously seen Mitchell a lot also. How versatile and important is that position with what you're trying to do offensively?  
RYAN WILLIS: It's very important. It lets us get into a little bigger personnel and makes it tough on defense.   
 Q.  Do you take any positives in a game like this, or is it easier to dwell on the negatives and overlook some of the positives?  
RYAN WILLIS: Yeah, you have to look at the positives. There's a lot we can get better at, and there's a lot we can eliminate. We can eliminate mistakes. This team has so much potential, and I really just want to see us live up to it.   
 Q.  In terms of the mindset and the demeanor, just one game, it's the opening game, but because it's a conference game, you have to be more cognizant of lifting your teammates up, and what is the mood going forward?  
RYAN WILLIS: We need to turn the page. It's done and over with. We've got Old Dominion next week coming into our house, home opener for us, and we're going to get it done. Good week of practice. We're all going to hit the film room and put the best product on the field that we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT