NHL STADIUM SERIES: CAPITALS VS MAPLE LEAFS
March 3, 2018
Alex Ovechkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Capittals - 5, Maple Leafs - 2
MODERATOR: Questions for Alex.
Q. Alex, how did the atmosphere tonight compare to previous outdoor games?  I think this was your third.
ALEX OVECHKIN: Yeah, every outdoor game, like I say, is unbelievable.  Like right before we get on the bus, lots of fans, lots of intensity and you get into it right away.
Q. Seemed like you and Kuznetsov and Backstrom were ready from the jump to perform, and you did, starting with that first period.  Did you feel like you had a little more energy tonight and put on a show out there?
ALEX OVECHKIN: I think we did, like the power play helped us a lot to get into the game.  We shoot the puck more than our opponents and we scored two big goals.  And when you get the lead, you just feel it right away, and it helps a lot.
Q. This is one of the team's best performances in recent weeks given the team's current struggles.  Is this a game you can build on before the road trip?
ALEX OVECHKIN: Yeah, obviously the next road trip is going to be huge for us.  We need the points.  We need to collect the points.  I said a couple of days ago it doesn't matter if it's two or one.  We have to guard the points and move forward.  Obviously tonight was a huge one.  And we'll take it and we'll move forward.
Q. You said it was going to be hard to get to 600 but you got your 40th goal.  That's nine times for you.  What does it mean to get that consistency back?  Nine times you've done that and not many guys have.
ALEX OVECHKIN: I would say that it's my teammates, they did a great job finding me over there.  I just have to do my job to put a puck in and it's working and -- I just have to put the puck in and do my job.
Q. Does that number mean anything to you?
ALEX OVECHKIN: 40 is nice, but 50 is better.  So still have time to do that.  But again I have to focus, I have to keep playing, easy chances and it will come.
MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT