NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Alex Ovechkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Ted Lindsay Award 

 Q. Bittersweet moment for you, you get one trophy but not the other? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Yeah, I have I think most hard trophy to get and the players vote, so I'm very happy. But I feel like it's okay.

 Q. Which one means more to you? One is voted on by the media, one's by the players? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: I think by the players. Every player think that by the players is the most important thing. You play against the guys, and when they vote for you, it's the most important thing. 
 So I'm happy I get most hardest trophy in hockey, so.

 Q. What do we expect from Alex Ovechkin and the Washington Capitals next year? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Well, I don't want to say lots of things what we're going to do, but I hope we're going to be better. 

 Q. Did you talk to Jose at all? He told us today he's not going back to the Capitals next year. This might be the last chance to talk to him. 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Oh, no, I think we're going to see him on a different team. But I think it's better experience to play with Jose. He's an unbelievable player, unbelievable teammate, and great guy. I'm very happy to meet him. He's very, very good. 

 Q. What do you say to Mike Green? He's been disappointed two years in a row and he's kind of an emotional guy?
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Yeah, it's life. I was cheering for him all the time, but it's hard for him. 

 Q. Alex, Henrik Sedin said you and Sid are kind of the faces of the NHL. Is it good for the game to have you back like that? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Yeah, it's good for the game. And for the league it's a step forward, so it's always nice to take the trophy, but next year's going to be different, so... 

 Q. Are you throwing the gauntlet down? Next year being a different year? Are you challenging yourself? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: No, I'm not challenging myself. I just said next year's going to be a different year. You never know what's going to happen. 

 Q. I couldn't hear your acceptance speech. Did you say something about your brother? Did you say you were dedicating this to your brother or something like that? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: No. 

 Q. You didn't? 
 ALEX OVECHKIN: Maybe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT