BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 30, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Well done. Congratulations. You made a great Christmas present to your friend Petra. How do you react to that? Did she call you already? Congratulate? Sent a message? What? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA: We met in the locker room and she was really happy and I'm happy for her obviously.
She said she might buy me some beers.

Q. Only? Not champagne?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: After Fed Cup we can celebrate.

Q. Okay. Did you expect to play so well? Did you think that she was a little tense? Apparently when a player has to win maybe just one set they don't perform that well. I mean, do you have this feeling or not? This is a strange format. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, I was just like fighting for myself to get a positive end of the season, because I think I was playing pretty well last couple matches but didn't get the win.
So I was really pumped today to go out there and fight. I think I played great. I pressured her. I was just converting everything. I served really well. 
I'm really happy that I finished so strong. 

Q. There was a big clap in the Czech quarter in our press room when you made the match point. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA: That's great to know. 

Q. Obviously yesterday it was unfortunate with Bethanie's injury. Did that also like fuel you even more to try and finish the season on a high note?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: It was very disappointing for us to not be able to fight for the spot in the semifinals. I hope Bethanie recovers well and that we will still get chance in the future. 
For myself, yeah, it was sad that I lost my singles and then also the doubles, so I was really pumped today to fight and I gave all to win. 

Q. What does it mean to you to be able to finish your season, first win since New Haven I think, maybe? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I'm sorry? 

Q. First win since New Haven?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah.

Q. So how does it feel to kind of cap things off on a positive note?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, it feels great because, yes, I was very sad because it's not easy coming back after such a long time and after such a tough sickness.
So I'm just happy to be playing back strong, great tennis, and finish the season well. We still have Fed Cup, so I'm pumped for that. 
Yeah, then it goes again, new season.

Q. When you stepped on the court did you know that you had to win in straight sets so Petra would go through, or you weren't aware of the scenario?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I mean, yeah, like someone was talking there about it so I kind of knew, but I wasn't really thinking about that.
I was just‑‑ I knew I have to play strong to win.

Q. Your level this week has been good and it's been consistent over the three matches. So I'm wondering, after all the abdominal thing and the bacterial infection, does it give you some comfort in knowing you still got it, you can still hit that level?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, exactly. When I was coming back after the sickness I was very weak. I was struggling physically and it was always like, Do I last for the full match or I don't? 
Then playing here singles and doubles obviously took a lot of energy out of me. I lost like in Moscow first round and here those two matches, so that's hard mentally to still keep being positive. This was huge for me today, and I'm really happy about that and pumped for the next season. 

Q. Have you spoken to Bethanie about doubles next season and have you decided...
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think we will continue. I think we are doing pretty well and we are having a lot of fun, so I think we will continue. 

Q. How difficult is it playing doubles and singles? I mean, like Bethanie probably wants you to do really well in the singles, but also be in your best form in the doubles. How do you get this balance? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA: It's sometimes not easy, because like for example this year at Roland Garros basically whole two weeks I didn't have one day off. It's a lot of hours on court. You just have to try to find the right balance to recover and everything. 
Sometimes it's not easy decision to play the doubles, but I love to play doubles with Bethanie. I have to knock, so far my body was holding on and I was able to do both competitions. I hope it will continue like that in the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT