BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 28, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/L. Safarova
      7‑5, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. You started to put together like a comeback in the second set. What were you doing right in the first three games and what happened after that that allowed her to come back in the set?   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, well, it was a tough match. I mean, Petra played well. And I kind of got the momentum there in the second set, but she just played a really good return games and started pressuring me.   
    Then it just turn against me again.   
   
 Q. Do you remember the first time that you hit with Petra? I know she was quite young. Long time ago.   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I think it was in Prostejov. She might have been like 14 or something, so a while ago.  
   
 Q. Do you remember what your impressions were about her back then and specifically her game?   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, not really because she was so young. It was big age difference at that point, because when you are 14 and like me, much older, it's a big gap. But she was always good fighter and player.  
   
 Q. Then with Fed Cup looming, how pleased are you with how well you have been playing your singles matches? Results aside, but the level and how you've been able to physically recover between matches.  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, it wasn't easy, or it isn't easy, because I didn't have much time after my sickness to get back to fitness level.  
    It's a lot of matches going on here, which I'm really happy about, but also I'm getting a bit tired. So far I had‑‑ I mean, I'm really sad to be losing both of my singles, but the level wasn't bad. I was playing pretty good.   
    So I just try to be positive, and sooner or later it will change for better.   
   
 Q. You're playing your first finals at age 28, and if I'm not wrong, it took 41 Grand Slams before you got your first final this year. Talk about what it's like to persevere through the setbacks and injuries and keeping the belief that your moment will come?  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I think that's the toughest in the sport, because you have to remain positive and you do everything for it every day. You train so hard. You give it all your free time and you give up a lot to be professional athlete.  
    Then when it's not going well and you are injured and you cannot compete, those are the toughest moments to come through. When you get those wins and‑‑ I mean, I still remember when I was standing with my trophy there in Paris. I think that that's what you work for and that's the reward.  
    So it's not easy. It's like up and down like a rollercoaster. Life is like that. Sometimes you're up and sometimes you're down. Sport is just much faster. Can change from couple days being really great to couple days being really down.   
    You just to have keep fighting and still have your dreams and goals there and slowly climb the way up.  
   
 Q. Your matches with Petra are usually close, but you've never beaten her.   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: I know.  
   
 Q. Why do you think that is? Does the record come into your mind when you step on the court?  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Not really. I try not think about that. Every time I play her I always try to be concentrate and fight in the match as much as I can.   
    Of course the score isn't really positive, but she seems like she's always better in the endings there.   
   
 Q. Obviously you've got Fed Cup coming as well. Talk a little bit about how you now sort of build yourself up to play with Petra as opposed to opposite her.   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, I prefer playing with Petra. We always had a lot of fun through Fed Cup weeks. We are a great team, which we show with our results in last few years.   
    I'm excited about that. It will be nice to play in Prague, at home, in front of our crowd. We have sold out the arena already, so I'm sure it will be amazing.  
    Just really excited to go.  
   
 Q. What kind of things do you do as a team together?  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: We do all sorts. We have every day team dinners, and of course we have practices together. We have fun in the locker room. We always in the evening hang out together at our doctor's room and just chat. Someone has a treatment and all the others are there with them.  
    So it's just a really nice week. Like all activities what we do we do together.   
   
 Q. On this Czech thing, there are so many of you doing so well at the moment ‑ you and Petra; Andrea and Lucie in the doubles; and I think Pliskova nearly qualified here‑‑ what is the secret to the Czech success and why so many of you are so good all at the same time?   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: We're just so good. (Laughter.) I mean, we have long‑‑ like tennis and Czech Republic and Czechoslovakia back in the days we had huge tradition. We had great players starting like Martina, and even like guys, Kodes and all those players. Seems like we know how to play tennis.  
    Yeah, it's just amazing to see how well we do as such a little country. I think we have a good system. We have two big centers, east and west part of Czech Republic where like the best of every age get opportunity to practice.  
    Tennis is quite expensive sport, so not all families can afford it. We have good system and giving chance, like I was given a chance as well.   
    Yeah, we are good fighters as well. (Smiling.)   
   
 Q. Couple years ago I think after you guys won the Fed Cup final there was that "Call Me Maybe" video that you and Andrea did.   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yes.  
   
 Q. Has been there been a discussion about what may be a celebratory song that might get played?  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Not so far. Not so far. But I mean, it always pops up something funny we do. We will see if we think of something.  
    It has to be authentic. It cannot be planned. Planned things never work out.   
   
 Q. What are your plans after the Fed Cup and building up for the Australian Open in Melbourne?  
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, I will have some rest a little bit and then I will start my preparation for the new season with Rob, with my coach.  
    Yeah, I mean, I'm actually looking forward to rest and start to get my fitness back to 100% and hopefully come out strong in January.  
    I'm playing Hopman Cup as the first event in Australia, and then following probably Sydney, Melbourne. Yes, this is my program.   
   
 Q. Can I ask you, can sound like an intimate question, but it's not. Flavia Pennetta, when she split up with Carlos Moya, she had one year and a half terrible, and then she started reacting, reacting, and she did very well in the last years. I was wondering if you went through the same sort of process. You're doing much better now after two years or three years you broke up with Tomas than before. Do you think there is some sort of analogy that someone becomes more a fighter when you have some personal problems?   
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: I don't think so. I mean, at least me, when I'm happy in my personal life and everything is going well, I'm also usually playing well.   
    So I wouldn't associate it because I think that my road up on the rankings was very gradually, so it wasn't like I would split and I would do great or something like that. I wouldn't think that there is any association to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT