BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 26, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/L. Safarova
      6‑3, 7‑6

    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Can you describe for us the situation after Roland Garros your memories about Garbine in Roland Garros and the Garbine that you see today, the difference that you have, the experience between Roland Garros and today? 
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think, I mean, it was a good match today. She was serving very well and pressuring me. Was going for her shots. I think the difference maybe a lot in self‑confidence. Even in those key moments she remained very strong. 

Q. You seemed to have a slow start, but then the second set you did better. How do you think she turned around the second set like that? What did you think made the difference?
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: It was just about couple points. We fought about each point. And difference, she just really went for it. 
    I think the key of today's match was that my first serve wasn't working so well as hers. So that was the advantage. Because then she used my second serve and was right way pressuring me and just made her point. 

Q. How do you feel now? You had all your health problems and some difficult moments to recover, and someone thought that maybe you couldn't make it to these Finals, and then you did it. So how is it now? Even if you lost, are you more confident, more sure of yourself, or still worried about what you went through and something like that? I would like to know. 
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: No, I feel okay. Of course I'm sad that I lost, but I think I gave my best today. Especially second set we had some really long and great rallies there.
    It wasn't like she would‑‑ had an easy match against me. It was a good fight. So I feel like I'm slowly back in my game, but of course you need the wins. 
    So I will keep positive and keep fighting in the next matches. 
    But I feel physically okay. (Smiling.)

Q. At the present situation, you feel that the Garbine has like much room to improve? Like right now she's No.4 in the world. You can see her going higher, maybe top 3?
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: We will see. Time will show. Definitely she's a young very, very great player. She has the potential to be there if she keeps doing the same. 

Q. It's your first time in the Finals, so can you just talk about the experience in general. Are you able to, despite the result, enjoy your first match out there? 
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: I do enjoy, yeah. I mean, it's pleasure to be here. Even though I lost, I really fought and gave my best there today. Nothing more I can do.
    Yeah, I mean, I'm still excited for my next matches. We have doubles tomorrow. I'm really happy we won our first doubles. 
    So there is a lot of positive things going on. I also enjoy Singapore. The hotel is amazing and they take great care about us. I'm just really happy to be here. 

Q. Did you take a swim in the pool upstairs?
    LUCIE SAFAROVA: I haven't had a chance because I been playing doubles, singles, tomorrow doubles again. I will make it there one day for sure.
    It's very tempting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT