CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 28, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/L. Tsurenko
  6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. You mentioned getting back to basics. What did you do in the second set to do that?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think I started to rush a little bit. I was just not really concentrate in that moment. She just took opportunity and started to pressuring me.   
So the whole momentum started to shift and suddenly instead of me being the one who is coming and taking over, she was the one.   
'Back to basic' meant to calm down, take my time, start again, start to play aggressive from the first point, start to play my game.   
   
 Q. Are you feeling very good about your game right now with the run that you're on?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I mean, it's great to be in the finals. I'm really happy about that. I had some great wins here. Excited for tomorrow's finals, then obviously as quick as possible get to New York and start the Open.   
   
 Q. This is your first time back here since 2012.   
LUCIE SAFAROVA: It's been a while, yeah.   
   
 Q. What kept you away and what made you decide to come back this year?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Usually I was playing one tournament before Toronto. I was playing Washington, Toronto, Cincinnati. Then to play New Haven and US Open, it's such a long stretch. In the past I took the week to kind of have a break, recover, go for the Open.   
This year I started in Toronto, and I got a little sick there, I lost. So I felt like I need some extra matches. That's why I asked Anne for the wild card. That's how it happened.   
I really like this tournament. It was just my scheduling that didn't really fit to play it. I have, as well, a sister Upstate New York, so I always kind of went there to see my family. That's why I haven't played for few years now.   
   
 Q. A sister, you said?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yes.  
   
 Q. Whereabouts?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Newburgh.   
   
 Q. How many members of your family were here today?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Actually my sister left to Czech Republic. It was just her husband's father. My sister's husband is coming with him for the finals tomorrow. Obviously there were some friends in the player's box. It was full and nice. It was great support.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about your potential opponents in the final.   
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Both of them are great players. Obviously it's going to be a tough finals match, which it should be.   
I don't know. We will see who's going to win. I think it will be an interesting match. Yeah, I've played with both of them quite a few times, so I know what to expect.   
   
 Q. Do you go into every tournament expecting to win, or sometimes are you just thinking to yourself, Okay, I need to get into a few matches? Did you expect to go on this type of run?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: You never go to a tournament that you don't want to win the trophy.   
But obviously you have to take it step by step. That's what I'm doing. I never look ahead in the draw. I always just look the opponent that I have next round.   
The competition is really strong. So you got to be each match there, each match strong. It's not always easy to do.   
I came to this tournament expecting to get more matches. Obviously being in the finals is amazing.   
   
 Q. Will you watch tonight's match?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I'm going to watch few games, yes. I don't know if the whole thing. I might leave it to my coach (laughter).   
It's good to see some, but also to get away from tennis after a match.   
   
 Q. Has your success in doubles this year helped you in singles or has it been the other way around?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think it helped me a lot because I didn't start really well at the Open, at the Australian Open. I lost a really tough three‑setter against this Shvedova. I was really down at that point because I've done such hard work in the off‑season. Obviously you expect to get some good results. I lost first round. I was like, Oh, my God, this season start so bad.   
Then suddenly we won the Australian Open doubles and everything started to switch. It's been the best season in my life. It's how quickly things can change.   
Yeah, I just really appreciate it. We have so much fun with Bethanie. I really enjoy doubles with her. We are doing amazing. That's also great.   
I think sometimes, like in Paris, when you play full two weeks both, well, it's great, but it's also very exhausting. So as long as the body can take it, it's good. But it's not always easy to make decisions because obviously the singles is still a little bit bigger preference. Also the doubles, like, I enjoy it and it's great.   
So, yeah, it's not easy to schedule it. But I think it helped me a lot also to work on my game. I would always continue that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT