CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 27, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/D. Cibulkova
  6‑7, 6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. That seemed like a real grinder out there.   
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Oh, yeah, it was a big battle. It was a great match. We fight for each point. It was, like, up and down.   
Obviously I was 4‑Love up in the first set. I was very disappointed to lose that. But I kept fighting. Really happy to get a win because I have negative‑‑ well, I lost to her last four times I think.   
   
 Q. Does she pose a lot of problems for players because she's like a backboard?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, she brings so many balls back and she's a big fighter. She also plays fast. So unless you really are sharp and right away there, and serve well, she's definitely dangerous for anyone.   
   
 Q. When you got to the end, what was your feeling?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I was like, Yes, finally (laughter). Really happy.   
   
 Q. Were you sharp today then?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I think so. I mean, as I said, we had long points, some really fast rallies. It was just about few points.   
But really happy to get the win like that.   
   
 Q. Are you mentally tougher now? Is that why you can stay in there with her and just get better each time, finally break through and win today?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, yeah, I can say so because you got to be tough and you got to stay in the rallies, play your game, play aggressive, be patient, just wait for the right moments to take it.   
I'm really, really pleased with the performance today.   
   
 Q. What do you know about playing tomorrow?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I haven't played her for quite a long time. I think I won the last time we played, but that's already so long ago.   
Yeah, she seems like she has a good season, playing consistent. I haven't really talked about it with my coach or anything, so we will do that probably tonight or tomorrow.   
   
 Q. What's the deal with the colored fingernails, the red?   
LUCIE SAFAROVA: The red? Just cool. It's just different (laughter).   
   
 Q. Did the French Open just give you an awful lot of confidence for this year? I know you struggled a little bit right after that, but you said that was coming down from the clouds.   
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I played fourth round at the Wimbledon, so that's good result. Obviously I had a tough loss against CoCo, but it was two tiebreakers.   
I think I just keep my game really at high level throughout the year, which is very important. It shows that I'm right there with the best players, which gives you a lot of confidence.   
Obviously to reach first finals of a Grand Slam, it gives you a lot of confidence and also puts you in a different position, now being in the top 10. It's a new challenge. So I like it, yeah.   
   
 Q. Is it confidence that put you into the top 10?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think it's everything together. You can have the confidence, but if you don't have the game, with confidence you cannot do much.   
It's to have the game still at the high level and have the confidence, that is what is keeping you right there.  
   
 Q. Have you stepped your game up just a little bit this year?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I think so. I strike the ball very well. My game is to be the aggressive player there. I'm not really the one who is running around and putting balls.   
For that game, you got to have the confidence. Once you're lacking that, it's a matter of being this much wide instead of in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT