ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/M. Sharapova
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Maria was in here.   She said you have improved so much.   You're more consistent than maybe few years ago, playing so fast.   Have you got this feeling in the last couple of three years you really improved again and... 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yes, I think so.   I think huge step was last year, reaching semifinals at Wimbledon, fourth round here.   I think we have been working well on my game with my coach, and, yeah, more consistent.
Also more patient a little bit and going for right shots in the right moments.   So I'm happy with my game.

Q.   You had to be very consistent mentally, very strong.   Did you doubt?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   We played with Maria last two times really long battles.   I remember that it was really close, and I almost beat her in Stuttgart.   But I always lost. 
And yesterday I was like really pumped and really ready and just wanted to take this match.   And I was excited also to be there.   It was a beautiful day, beautiful day to play.   I was just trying to concentrate each point because she's a big fighter and I know how she can come back well from any situation.

Q.   Beating the world No. 2, taking out a defending champion, you're probably going to be in the top 10 making your first quarterfinal.   Many things.   How are you able to take this all in but without getting too excited, because you still have a match?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.   I actually didn't know about it before the match.   And, yeah, it's just really exciting and happy as probably not many times in my life. 
But, yeah, tomorrow is another day, another opponent, and I hope I will play again so well, go out there, play my game, and try to win this.

Q.   In the first part of both sets you seemed to hit your forehand really well.   You hit your forehand well throughout the match, but you did a lot of rallies where you went crosscourt, crosscourt, and sometimes you stuck in a short angle to her backhand.   You did that more than usual.   Was that part of your game plan or did it just come right then, right there?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it was working so I kept using it. 
She knows my game quite well, and she was expecting me to go more down the line, so that's why I switched it sometimes to the short angle. 

Q.   As you said, you used the short angle from your forehand quite often today, which is very efficient.   Could you talk advantage of being lefty, especially on this clay court?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, yeah, you have got to use it (laughter). It's a different rotation, and players usually don't like it, so I was taking advantage of the forehand side.   Obviously keeping serving strong and, yeah, just going for it today. 

Q.   You have already big wins in Grand Slams and big disappointments like Li Na in Melbourne.   Was it always easy to believe you could beat these players?   You could go quarters, semis?   We keep saying you have a lot of potential and a lot of talent.   Is it really easy to still keep going?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.   Well, I haven't reached my dream yet, and that's what you kind of work for and follow.   Yeah, I was many times very close, but it didn't happen.   Didn't turn out to my side.   So I was just like keep working hard and waiting for those moments.
Today when there was few or there were a couple of match points before, and I was just still believing that I can do it, so that's what happened.   It's very exciting. 

Q.   When the top seeds in your half of the draw are going out, do you notice what's happening like in the other matches, or are you just focused on what's happening for your next match?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I never look ahead, so I just concentrate on really the match that is upcoming.   It seems like maybe the top seeds are gone, but the competition in women's tennis is really strong. 
I think that every opponent you face you just have to really be there 100% and concentrate and just try your best, and that's what I'm going to do tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT