AEGON CLASSIC
June 23, 2017
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. SAFAROVA/D. Gavrilova   
6-7, 6-3, 7-6   
 Q.  Do you ever wake up one day and think I'd just love to get through straight sets nice and easy or do you just yearn to play from match point behind?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I mean I don't enjoy going from match point down, but it's been just happening lately.  But I was very pleased after my match against Osaka that it was an hour and ten minutes.   
 Q.  Could you tell us how the leg is feeling?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I mean I strained it a little bit, but I will get a good treatment.  I pulled out of doubles, and I will get a good treatment and I hope I will be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Right now it's looking like it could well be you and Petra.  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on that matchup because it's not always been particularly favorable.  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah, I mean, first of all, it's amazing how she's coming back, and after what happened, how quickly she was able to return to play competition.  And she's been playing great on grass, and obviously we've had a lot of matches against each other, and I'm still waiting for a victory.  But I mean for me so far, great round on grass courts.  I'm enjoying.  Today was unbelievable match.  And I hope I can be out there 100 percent tomorrow.   
 Q.  And could you tell us a bit about your coaching setup at the moment?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I stopped with my coach after Roland-Garros, after Paris.  And I don't have a coach now.  And it's just my friend, who is actually a professional table tennis player here, and my boyfriend.   
 Q.  How does table tennis and tennis tennis work?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: She has an off season now.  Their season finished.  And so she's on holidays basically.  And we've been friends since Olympics in London.  And so I said, I don't have a coach, do you want to come.  And she was like, yeah, sure.  So that's how it happened.   
 Q.  And grass isn't Czechs normally play I think on clay maybe and hard court?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah.  We have one grass court in one city, but not even a good one.  Yeah, it's not really our surface, but I think because in summers we play on clay, growing up as a kid I was playing on clay in summer.  And winter is basically anywhere where indoors is.  And it's very fast surfaces sometimes.  So you get used to play with any surface basically.  And grass is very fast surface, so it's a little bit similar in that way.   
 Q.  Because a lot of Czechs seem to have a lot of success on grass.  
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Yeah.  Seems like, yeah.  But we also are big hitters and good servers, so that helps the grass court game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT