DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/V. Williams
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She says you always give her a hard time. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   She did?   I'm trying to.   That's what you have to do, no? 
Yeah, it was a really good match.   Today I felt really well on the court, and I was firing the ball, serving really well.   I'm happy with my performance.

Q.   Yesterday you played almost three hours. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, and then the doubles. 

Q.   Then doubles.   And today in this heat.   How do you explain... 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, yeah, I did good treatment session in the evening, whatever, physios, and, yeah, it can happen like that.   That's what you are trained for, to last more days, such long performances.
I actually didn't feel that bad today.   I obviously felt pretty good.   I will do the same today to be ready for tomorrow.

Q.   What do you think you do in particular that bothers her?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I think it's the pressuring and put the pressure right away from the first point, and my lefty serve into her body and mixing the lefty serve with the really flat and fast serves.   That seems, gives her a little trouble.

Q.   This is your first quarterfinal in Dubai. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.

Q.   She had like 16 consecutive wins here.   When you step on the court, does that play in your mind at all?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   No.   If it would, I wouldn't feel comfortable.
So I was just going out there to play point by point and to enjoy, to be there and to play such a nice center court.
The crowd was nice.   My family is here.   I was just trying my best to get the win.

Q.   I didn't get to see your whole match yesterday.   Were there any match points against you?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Against me?   No.   But she was serving at 6‑7, 6‑5 for the match.   That's tennis.   Sometimes you have to turn around the match and then it goes better.   It's always fighting.

Q.   Does that give you extra confidence when you win a tiring match like that?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I think so.   It gives you like extra confidence that you're strong enough to go even through matches that you seem to be losing.   So it always helps you for the future matches.

Q.   You have either Ana Ivanovic next or Karolina Pliskova.   Can you talk about both of those players? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, with Ana we have played already quite a few matches.   I think I won ‑‑

Q.   A lot of them. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I'm leading in that one.   But she's a great player.   She improved a lot lately and is always tough opponent.   She's playing very fast, serving well.
And Karo, we just played recently in Antwerp.   It's never nice to play a friend and teammate from Czech, but it is what it is.   It's a match and I will go there, and it's a new challenge for me and I will try to win.

Q.   Winning a Grand Slam doubles last month, does that really boost your confidence for singles?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   It helps you a lot, because I think no matter what Grand Slam title, it's a Grand Slam title.
I was really excited that I finally have my first one.   It was a lot of fun actually with Bethanie, because when you're alone there I'm sure it's amazing, but when you are two there you actually can right away share the happiness, and we were really excited.
It gave me a lot of confidence and motivation also to do well in doubles and singles in the future tournaments.   So, yes, it helps you a lot.

Q.   Karolina obviously served your country well in Fed Cup in Quebec.   First time out she won her matches. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, she did really well.

Q.   Did you talk to her at all in Antwerp about that experience?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Of course we talked.   We messaged when they were there because it was freezing cold there.

Q.   I was there. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Oh, yeah.   We messaged and then we talked in Antwerp how it was.   I think we have a lot of young Czech players coming up, so a new generation. 
We are strong in tennis as a country, so I hope that flow will continue.   It will inspire more and more young kids.

Q.   Is it your plan to play in the semis or you don't know yet?   Fed Cup?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Oh, well, we will see.   The captain has to do nominations.   I think I would play if it's in Czech at home, so of course I would join the team.

Q.   I think I saw a match against Serena earlier in the year where you ran her really close.   Obviously you beat Venus here.   What is it about the Williams sisters which... 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I actually never beat Serena yet, but I was really close.

Q.   You were close. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Last time.

Q.   Last time out.   What is it about them that seemingly brings the best out in you, would you say?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's always ‑‑well, first of all, they are long‑time great players.   They have a lot of Grand Slam titles behind them.   So it's always a great challenge to play them. 
Yeah, I think I play really fast and I have a good game to give them trouble.   That's what I'm trying. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT