APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2015
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/L. Safarova
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How was it out there for you today?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   It was tough conditions because of the wind and then the rain on and off.   So it was a bit tiring, but it was same for both.

Q.   How did you keep yourself mentally alert during all these kind of on and off periods?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Try to stay concentrated and do your best each of the time that you get to play. 

Q.   You've had a lot of success against Sam lately; was there anything noticeably different about her today?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I think she was playing really well today.   She was going for her shots and serving very strong.
So, yeah, she deserved to win.

Q.   Having a long match like that, even though you lost, is it good preparation for next week?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, well I had three good matches in Perth and now we had a good match here with Sam.   That's what you're looking to get at the start of the season.
So the main goal is Australian Open for me now.   I'm looking forward for that. 

Q.   Talking about going from Perth to Sydney, what was it like going from the hot, humid weather to the cold, rainy, and windy conditions here?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, it's very different here to there.   You just to have adjust.   It's what we do throughout the year.
It's not easy, especially today, because the rain was like on and off.   That's the worst for the tennis players.   Yeah, it is what it is.   You got to be ready.

Q.   (No microphone.)
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, I was struggling with my serve today a lot, and the wind didn't help me to find the timing there.   But overall I think it was a good match. 

Q.   You've had a great sort of well‑documented coaching relationship with Rob Steckley.   What is it about that that's helping you a lot at this stage of your career?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's the third year or third season we are starting together.   I think he help me a lot improve my tennis. 
Most important, we have fun out there, which is great, which is what it should be.   It's not easy to travel every week.   He's not only my coach but also my friend, so that makes it easier on the tour.   We just like to improve, but also the fun there. 

Q.   You also made a really funny video with him recently. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   The last one?   (Smiling.)

Q.   It's gone viral.   Something to do with hashtag glitch. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, well, because everyone keeps doing this serious video about preparation, how they're working hard.   Everyone is working hard.   But like how they are ready at the end. 
So we just made fun of it and we just did the opposite way.   We start really strong but end up completely weak.   It was just a funny video.

Q.   How do you adapt to the heat change?   You're from such a colder climate, and last year in Melbourne was unbelievably hot.   What have you done in some of your off‑season to prepare you for the heat?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, last two seasons I was going to Florida for my preparation, which I never done before because I always want to be home.   That's one step more to be ready for Australia with the warm conditions.
Yeah, first days you struggle because the change is huge for the body.   But you adjust slowly.   I don't think it's healthy for anyone, even for Aussie players, in over 40 degrees.   It's tough for any athlete.

Q.   What do you think it will take to get you into the top 10 this year?   I know that's a big goal of yours. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, I want to take it step by step.   I did hard work in off‑season and I had a great season last year, so I want to continue on that.   It just has to clinic everything together.
So I will do my best to reach my dream. 

Q.   You had four really close matches, extremely close matches, and you lost today.   How does that prepare you for the Australian Open?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   No, I think I'm holding my performance high because I'm playing with those great players either winning or ‑‑ I mean, I owe beat Pennetta; I beat Genie in Perth; lost close to Serena; I lost today close to Sam.
So I'm just trying to get my tennis best at the Open, so I hope I get there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT