APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 7, 2014
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You started 3‑Love down in the first set.   You came back and won it 6‑4.   What was the turnaround for you in the opening set and on through the match?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, Caroline started really well and was going for the shots and just making playing very a lot of winners.   I was just hanging in there and trying to be quicker and more get into the play and to be the first one who's taking over and putting pressure.  
So I caught it, then won my first serve at 3‑0 down and got into the play.   There was one side with the wind which was a little bit easier then to put pressure.   Was overall a very, very good two sets.   
   
 Q.   There has been a huge raft of upsets in the women's draws.   What are your thoughts on that?   Does that help you going forward?   
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, I just look for my next opponent and take it step by step.   I'm not like watching‑‑ of course I'm watching the other players, how it's going, but not really particularly like that.   
I think it's just showing that woman tennis is very even right now and the level is high and there are upsets, which is normal.  
It's a great competition.   
   
 Q.   What level do you think your own play is at at the moment?   Are you playing as well as you can or close?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I'm happy with my game today or the performance now herein Sydney.   It's the start of the season, so I'm really happy to start that well.  
Yeah, looking forward to keep it up.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You play Petra next.   I imagine you know each other's games very well.   
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   What do you expect from that match?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's always hard to play a friend and person who I basically know since she was like 14.   We are from the same club and we used to practice together a lot.  
So it's not nice to play a friend obviously, but it's work.   It's a match.   Everyone wants to win.   
So I'm going to try to go there and win the match tomorrow.   Obviously it's not nice to play a friend.   
   
 Q.   Did you see her match today?   
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I haven't, no.   
It was very fast, too.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT