NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/L. Safarova
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Petra was talking last night about how you are good friends and it would be difficult to play you.   What was it like for you?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, we see us almost every day, all the tournaments.   Obviously Czech, so we are good friends.   It's always tough to have a friend/opponent.   You don't want to cheer up yourself when you have a friend opposite you.   So it's difficult.   
But I think we handle it quite well.   She was playing very well tonight.   She was serving amazing.   So she deserved it.   Yeah, I wish her good luck.   
   
 Q.   You know her game well.   You had a hard time stopping it.   What was the hardest thing she was doing tonight?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   As I said, she was serving amazing.   She's a big hitter.   She broke me always once in the set, and that's enough.   
When she's on, I think she's top player.   This evening she played very well, as she can.   So it was difficult to stop it anyhow.   
   
 Q.   How important was the first break you had?   
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, there was little chance for me.   Then I little bit struggled with my serve.   She broke me back.   She was playing very solid until the end already.   So that was the only chance for me to kind of turn it.   
   
 Q.   She was injured at the beginning of the year.   Is she playing pretty well right now?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, that's what I said already.   
   
 Q.   What do you think it was that gave you trouble on your own serve tonight?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, well, of course it was from the daylight to the evening, so it was changing little bit.   Also her, she's going for 100% to the return, so it makes pressure on you, especially on my second serve because I know her and I know how she's returning.   
I was trying to put a good second serve.   But then you, of course, make some mistakes.   I did few double‑fault.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT