ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2012
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/L. Safarova
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What happened?   
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   What happened, yeah.   Well, of course like closing match is always a little bit nervous moment.   I was thinking that because she did quite a lot of mistakes in the games before, so I just didn't put enough pressure.   She used that situation to turn it over, and then she was serving very well, just started to play much better until that moment, and it just slipped away.  
   
 Q.   That's six times in a row you've lost to her.   Is she a particularly difficult opponent for you?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, she's playing very fast and flat.   For me, it's tough because she's like taking my time away.   Well, it's for everyone it's tough then.  
She just knows how to play me.   Through the match she did quite a lot of mistakes, so it was looking like I could make it.   But then unfortunately not enough.  
   
 Q.   It's your first time in the semis here at Rogers Cup.   I believe the results this week move you into the top 20 now.   Is there any kind of consolation in where your game is at right now?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, yeah.   I had a great week here.   My performance in all the matches I think was very high.   I'm happy about that.   Of course I'm very disappointed about today because it was so close, but that's tennis.   
Until the last point is finished, it still can change.   I will try to forget this one and keep it up, and I have Cincinnati right away next week, try to improve it there and take some experience from this match and make it not happen next time.  
   
 Q.   Is there a particular moment where you felt like the tables were turned?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   It was the game at 5‑1.   My serve went so quickly, she was really going for it, and I lost it like very quickly.   Then she served well the other game.   Then suddenly it was just about one break, and I was a little bit against the wind and she was pushing me well.   
I just didn't put enough pressure.   I should have gone for more, to risk more.   She was making, until that moment, quite a lot of mistakes.   I was thinking she might do the same.   I was just, you know, letting the ball in play.   
But against a top‑10 player, I should have gone for really for my like hardest and try to go for winners, not wait for her mistakes.  
That's what she's great at, and that's why she's also top‑10 player, because she's just going for it in every situation.   Even when it was looking that it's on my way, she was still hanging there and she was not giving up.  
It was the moment that I will next time remember and try to, even if I should make the mistakes and lose the match, I would have better feeling that I was going for it.   
Now I was waiting for her mistakes, which was probably the wrong decision.  
   
 Q.   From the moment you were up 5‑1, did you feel that all those games, the six games that you lost after that, that you were waiting, or were there some moments ‑‑ because there were times you tried to go for it but you made mistakes, right?  
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.   Then of course then after I started to lose it, I was trying to go for more, but then she was already playing very well.   She was not missing and was pushing me.   It was already too late.   
Yes, suddenly when I was willing to go for it, when it was 5‑All or that situation, I did mistakes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT