DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2012
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/P. Martic
  6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did it go today? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   It was very tough conditions because of the wind, but, yeah, I was trying to just stick with my tactic and don't get upset about the conditions. 
It went good. 

Q.   Do you feel you're one of those players who can play better or know you have not realized your potential as a player? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, you always try to get better, improve on things you are not as good.   That's what is moving you forward, the possibility to get better.

Q.   How excited are you about Fed Cup? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   It's great.   We are a great team.   We have always fun.   When we won it, it was amazing.   We were so happy.   And also for the country it was a big thing for us.
We are again in semis this year, which is amazing.   I think we all like to play it.

Q.   Chances? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Always good chances. 

Q.   You think you can do it?   You have the team? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, we play at home.   Of course the team is tough.   It's semifinals, but it's open.

Q.   You had a good week last week, good wins.   Next match is against one of the top seeds.   Does it give you confidence that last week you beat someone like Wozniacki? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah.   It always helps you to win against great players.   I'm just trying to continue playing well here and looking forward to play Sam tomorrow. 

Q.   How can you hurt her tomorrow?   She's a very aggressive player, a lot of power. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I think the backhand side is weaker on the forehand side.   I'm lefty, so I will try to open the court with my forehand side and push her out to the backhand. 
She's a big server, so try to put as much returns as possible and use the rotation, especially to her backhand as well.

Q.   You're the kind of player that on any given day it's very difficult to say that you're going to lose because you can beat a lot of top players.   You have the game.   What do you think you need to do to be more consistent and do it on a more regular basis?   Do you feel you're close to doing it?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's always‑‑ you have to be healthy, you have to also have a little bit of luck, and to be able to have constant game.
In the past I played some great matches, but then I played also some very bad matches.   That's what should not happen for the top players.   So that's what I'm working on, to be more constant and be a little bit more patient on the court.
I hope I will get there soon. 

Q.   Can you tell me, the swing in the middle‑east, Doha and Dubai, do you enjoy coming here?   How significant is it for you, these two tournaments?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's both of the tournament, Doha and Dubai, are very well‑organized, very luxury, I would say.   For the players it's always nice to come here.
Yeah, I think both of the tournament are in the very high level with the others.   That's always nice for us players to play such events.

Q.   Just going back to back Fed Cup, obviously your opponents are Italy, I believe.   What do you make of the Italian team?   They won back‑to‑back Fed Cups. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, I think it's a team that the players also enjoying to play together and having this team spirit, which is very important in Fed Cup.   So it's a very tough team, because usually at the Fed Cup they always play their best.
But it's our turn now.   It's at home.   We chose the surface.   It was very tough to play them on clay at home.   Now it's our turn.   Now it's our home and our advantage, and I hope we will use it.

Q.   On a hunch, what surface do you reckon you would play on?   Hard? 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, I would assume it will be a hard court because they are best on clay, but I don't want to say anything yet because it's not decided.

Q.   Fair enough.   Just going on back on the strength ever Czech tennis at the moment, Petra and Tomas won Hopman Cup not too long ago.   It's good that the national tennis is going so well at the moment, both...
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, we have a lot players in top 50 and obviously now also top 10 players, so that's great for the country.   We are such a small country and having so many players, so I would say we have good conditions for the juniors and good support from the home, from the Association, and maybe that's the key. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT