QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 15, 2012
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/C. Wozniacki
  4‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you think worked well for you today in the match?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   I think I was a little bit impatient in the first set, and then I came together and was very good keeping the ball in play and pushing her to her forehand.
Then when I got the chance, I was killing the ball.   So I think that was a good tactic for me, which worked.

Q.   How have you done in the past with her?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Past? 

Q.   In past matches. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, past matches against Caroline, you mean? 
We played last year in Copenhagen, and she played ‑‑again, it was very tough match and I lost in two sets, and I beat her in Stuttgart on clay in two sets. 
Yeah, of course when you go to play her, you know that she's a big fighter, giving everything back, each ball from each position.
So you have to be very constant in the game, being able to choose the right moments when to attack.

Q.   Do you sense when you're on the court with her that she's lost maybe a little of that confidence?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, always it's good to have a match in bag winning on the tournament because each tournament is a little bit different, different surface and everything around.
So, yes, maybe that's a little bit question for her.   I think we had a good tennis today, and I didn't feel like she was maybe doing easy mistakes or something.   I think we played both well.   It was very close.

Q.   Compare it to when you played, though, her game.   Do you think like the players are figuring her out a little bit more and frustrating her?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, it's always like this:   When you are top player, every player who comes to play you has nothing to lose.   So of course they play their best, and we watch each other and we know what is a little bit weaker, weaknesses and strengths of the player, and we try to apply the tactics in the matches.
So I wouldn't say that it's only her.   I would say in general. 

Q.   I think you played well today.   I'm suggesting that the players have kind of figured out what tactics work against her well. 
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Yeah, probably. 

Q.   Where do you think that she was vulnerable today that caused you to win the match?
LUCIE SAFAROVA:   Well, as I said, I was trying to be aggressive into her forehand, which is a little bit weaker side, I think.   And being patient.   When I got a little bit weaker ball, trying to attack it and staying tough in the game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT