PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 9, 2007
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions for Lucie.   
  
  Q.  You've had matches this year against Serena.  You've had two against Vaidisova.  You've had matches against Mauresmo, Petrova.  Was that match you just played as difficult as any you played this year?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, it was difficult for me, because I was injured after Paris, and it was the first match that I played on tournament after the injury.  It's always the first round of a big event, it's always a little bit nervous, so you don't know what to expect.  You are not so used to the court.  And so it's always stuff.   
  
  Q.  What sort of injury did you have after Paris?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  I had shoulder injury.   
  
  Q.  Which shoulder?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Left shoulder.   
  
  Q.  But you're left-handed; right?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How did it feel today?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, it was fine.  It was not bothering me.   
  
  Q.  Congratulations on your run in Paris.  What kind of confidence do you get from these wins, especially from Justine in the semi finals, this wins?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Yeah, of course, a lot of confidence.  With every of those matches, I was feeling better and better on the court.  So it was very, very important for me.   
  
  Q.  What would you say of all the top 10 players you've beaten this year, there's been a few, which is your best victory of the top 10 players you've beaten?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Yeah, well, every of the top 10 players are playing great, so every of the winning was different because they are playing different game.  But I had a great match against Mauresmo in Australian Open and against Hennin in Paris.   
 This, I really happy that I won it.   
  
  Q.  I think the point could be made that in that tournament in Paris, when you defeated Vaidisova, Kuznetsova, and Hennin in consecutive matches, I would argue that that's the best run of any woman in the world this year.  Would you agree?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, it's nice to hear.  I hope that I will just continue to play good and be healthy on the court and I will do my best there.   
  
  Q.  What kind of chance do you give yourself to win this tournament?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Yeah, I don't know.  It's tough tournament.  A lot of good players here.  So I'm not looking so far in front of me.  I'm looking to my next match and we will see.   
  
  Q.  I notice that the fellow who's been identified as your boyfriend was watching you play today.  Is that -- do you like that or would you prefer he go someplace else?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, I like it.  It's always support there and it's -- it's good to have him there because I know that he understands how I feel exactly on the court because he's playing, as well.   
 So, yeah, it's always nice to have him there.   
  
  Q.  So after matches he will help you analyze your game and maybe suggest some improvements?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Not that much.  Maybe a little bit we are talking about it.  But not too much.  We are just relaxing after too much tennis.   
  
  Q.  What are your goals for this year since now you're like -- you've beaten good top 10 players, and what do you expect for the rest of the year for yourself?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, I will see.  I mean, I want to be each year better.  So last year, I was finishing in top 50.  So I would like to be better this year and I don't want to give me goals that will over stress, stress me.  So, yeah, I will see where I could get this year.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT