AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2007
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference between the two of you today?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, she was serving very well.  I know that it will be a tough match against her because she's playing similar game:  Very fast and very flat.   
 So yeah, I knew that if I would like to win I have to really good serving.  And yeah, so that was the difference.  She was having service so well and I wasn't able to like, yeah -- she was hitting the returns and she was more aggressive today.   
  
  Q.  That was your best performance in a Grand Slam.  What has that done for your confidence, and where do you think you have to improve to go to the next level?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  That's right, I'm very happy with this tournament.  I got a lot of experience and confident.  And for me it's just that I have to work harder.  That I have to improve my game, my serve, try to play better and better.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that Nicole can win the tournament?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  I think that -- my favorite is Clijsters.  But yeah, Maria is playing very well, Nicole as well.  But I think Nicole has a big chance to be in the final.   
  
  Q.  What in particular about Clijsters makes her your pick?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  I think she can play everything.  She's serving well, moving well, playing aggressive as well.  I think she's in good form now.   
  
  Q.  Anything in particular you think Nicole needs to lift a little bit to really challenge?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, yeah, it's tough to say.  I am not a tennis coach.   
  
  Q.  Serena is losing the first set at the moment, but if she were to get through and meet Nicole - you played Serena recently.  How do you think they match up?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Yeah.  I don't know, Serena a like getting the confident.  She didn't play long and she's getting with every match better.  So I don't know, but still Nicole is in the shape and she has a lot of matches behind her.  She won tough matches.  I mean, it's semifinal.  It will be a tough match.   
  
  Q.  Nicole has never played Serena before and you have recently.  Would you speak to her about that?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  If she would like for me to advice I can talk to her.  It's up to her.   
  
  Q.  What advice would you give?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Well, yeah, it's secret.  No, I don't know.  It's hard to play Serena.  If she's serving well, yeah, but I think that Nicole has just one type of game, which is very aggressive tennis.   
 So it's tough to like say her now play this, this, this.  I think she just has her game and she can beat with her game everybody.   
  
  Q.  Quarterfinal appearance, how does this set you up for the year in terms of confidence?   
 LUCIE SAFAROVA:  Of course it's helping me and I'm looking forward to next tournaments which are indoor tournaments in Europe.  I will still work hard and try to be better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT