DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
October 1, 2016
Bethanie Mattek-Sands
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATTEK-SANDS - SAFAROVA/Mirza - Strycova
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (Question regarding how the tournament went and how it feels to win.)
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think we had an amazing match today.  We came out strong from the beginning.  We returned great, served great, took their time away.  That was the right strategy.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Yeah, I think our opponents maybe were a little bit tired.  Barbora played a lot of matches here, more than all of us combined.  I thought she was moving great and playing great for how many matches she played.
Sania, I've played her before.  We've played her a couple times.  She's one of my best friends.  I know how she plays.  I know she's always moving to rip that forehand and rip the ball hard.  I think I went into this match ready for that.
We went over our game plan and we just upped our game.  So whether our opponents played well or didn't play well, we were going to stick to our game.
But I think, like Lucie said, we just took away their time and that's what we did.
Q. Congratulations on qualifying for Singapore.  How much was Singapore on your mind this week?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, we didn't really look at the rankings.  We knew we are close.
Q. You didn't know going into it that if you won...
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: No.  We knew we were going to be close if we won.  But it's something that we weren't really in contention until before US Open.  We were pretty far from it.
But it's amazing to make it again.  Singapore obviously is the best of the best.  Yeah, but we literally just found out right after the match.
Q. In terms of the race to Singapore, it's pretty interesting on the doubles side because of Hingis and Mirza, all the other teams chasing.  Is it a discussion amongst you guys at all?
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I don't think, no.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I think everyone kind of knows where they are in the race.  But you still got to go out and win matches.  There's still a couple more tournaments left in the year.  There's obviously Beijing, get a lot of points.  There's still tournaments like Moscow that count right before Singapore.
So, you know, I think it's on everybody's mind.
Q. 11-match winning streak now from the US Open through here.  Does that have any impact whatsoever in terms of confidence or is it just a new tournament, new week?
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Like yesterday or even the day before, we already got the Beijing order of play that's drawn up.  We got emails for visas for Hong Kong, Moscow.  This morning she got the email for visas for Australia.
LUCIE SAFAROVA: I think we just enjoyed.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Yeah.
LUCIE SAFAROVA: 11 matches, that's just amazing (indiscernible).
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: We've had a lot of fun on and off the court.  I mean, warmups have been fun.  I feel like there's so much more to it than just kind of counting the wins.  That's what I think helps everyone.  It's something that tennis does have a big schedule, but we find a lot of time to enjoy the moment and enjoy the wins.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT