NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Esther Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Less birdies today and a couple more bogeys compared to yesterday, but still a great round.  How do you feel about today?
 ESTHER LEE:   I definitely was hitting good approach shots.  My putting, I didn't make as many as I did yesterday.  There were definitely a lot of like 10-foot area range that I missed today.
 That's golf.  One day you make them, the next day you might not.
 Q. And you had a really good first round.  After, on the back nine, a couple of the holes, was that due to the weather delay at all?
 ESTHER LEE:   I don't really think so.  I just -- once the wind started picking up I kind of got indecisive on club choices and I wasn't really committed to the clubs I was hitting, so definitely had some miss-shots there.
 I mean, the course after the delay didn't really seem that much different.  Maybe the greens were a little bit slower, but the wind definitely picked up a lot.
 Q. And the weather tonight might be if not a little worse.  What are you thinking about tomorrow in terms of how you'll approach it mentally if the conditions are completely drastic?
 ESTHER LEE:   I mean, if we get as much rain as they're saying the course will be really soft tomorrow.  Definitely have to change up a little bit how you approach your tee shots off the tee.
 If it's soft your ball is not going to roll out, so the lines and angles might be a little bit different.  So I mean, I'll have to see tomorrow to see how much different it is and just adjust accordingly.
 Q. How does it feel to be playing so well?  You're a rookie this year.  How does that feel, especially with this crazy 2020?
 ESTHER LEE:   It definitely feels nice.  I've had a rough start to the year, but my parents are just like, Keep pushing.  Just stay with it.
 I was discouraged because I wasn't playing the golf that I knew I could play and I was definitely playing a lot worse than I expected to.  Because 2020 circumstances you're kind of stuck at home and you don't really see all your friends.  You kind of get sad a little bit.
 No, having my brother here with me this week, it's just -- he keeps me in a good mood, so...
 Q. Yeah.  And lastly, you just mentioned your parents and your brother is caddying for you.  How much does family mean to you and do you think you'll keep your brother on the bag in the future?
 ESTHER LEE:   Family, I mean, for me personally because of golf, our family has been really close.  My parents would take us to practice and all that stuff.  I'm really close with my parents.
 I mean, having my brother on the bag, I really enjoy it.  I think we work well together.  I would love to have him on the bag for the rest of the year if he wants to.
 He is getting his Class A on the PGA, so if he can get the time off of work then I would love to have him for the rest of the season.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT