NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Esther Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Looks like you started the day with a bogey, but then you were able to turn it around.
ESTHER LEE:   Yeah, I mean, hit a good tee shot off my 1st hole, and then I hit a terrible second shot and I almost went OB; I was probably like two feet from OB and I just didn't get the up and down.  But, I mean, my brother is on the bag this week, so he's just like, Shake it off.
And then hit a couple good shots coming into the next few holes and just got a good rhythm going.  So, yeah.
Q. What was the highlight out there for you today?
ESTHER LEE:   The highlight out there for me today was -- oh, wow.  I mean, it was just a really comfortable round.  On 8, so my 17th hole, I made probably like a 40-footer for birdie downhill.  That was probably the longest putt I made today.
I definitely left some out there.  I was hitting the ball really well.  My approach shots were really good today.  So feels good.
Q. Good.  Has your brother caddied for you before?
ESTHER LEE:   He has.  So last year when I played Symetra he came out to a few.  Off the golf course we argue a lot, but on the course it seems to work really well.
Q. Is that just a comfort --
ESTHER LEE:   Yeah, just comfortable.  We started playing golf together at the same time and he looks -- I work on my swing with him so he knows everything there is to know, so...
Q. Can I ask what his name is?
ESTHER LEE:   John.
Q. J-o-h-n?
ESTHER LEE:   J-o-h-n, yeah.
Q. Okay, good.  It hasn't been a typical rookie season for you.
ESTHER LEE:   No.
Q. What has this year, COVID-19 aside, been like you for you on the golf course?
ESTHER LEE:   I mean, it's definitely been a struggle to get any type of consistency.  I'm from California, and they didn't open up the courses until May, so like since Australia ended all I did was just be at home and just take swings whenever I could.
So it's been hard to find a rhythm for tournament golf.  I've definitely struggled the first few back, and it's nice that when everyone was in Scotland for two weeks I was just at home and just kind of took a breather.  Just kind of reexamined everything and seems to be working well so far.
Q. Yeah.  How much confidence does that give you heading into the weekend just putting a really solid round together?
ESTHER LEE:   I mean, it definitely makes me feel comfortable to have a little bit of cushion from the cut line and all that.  So only focus I'll have tomorrow is just hitting good shots and making putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT