U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Esther Lee
Brittany Fan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First tell me on 18 on your approach shot, what was your yardage and what did you hit there?  
ESTHER LEE: I had 146 and I hit a punch 6-iron.   
 Q.  What happened on 17?  
ESTHER LEE: 17, Brittany hit it right and I hit it left, and we didn't particularly hit our second shots very well, and we put ourselves in a tough situation for par, and unfortunately we missed, and Dawn hit a really good approach shot into the green, so they took advantage of our mistakes.   
 Q.  You guys got off to a nice lead early, but they battled you the whole way.  Is that kind of what you expected knowing their backgrounds?  
BRITTANY FAN: For sure.  I've played with Meghan before maybe four, five years ago in a match play tournament.  It was the Jones/Doherty, and I do remember I had quite a bit of a lead, but she was fighting her way back.  You always assume that your opponent is going to play well on every shot.   
 Q.  Were you impressed by how well they played against you?  This is a field kind of dominated by younger players.  
ESTHER LEE: I think we're considered old compared to the rest of the field, but no, it's always nice to see Mid-Ams playing the way that they do because then it just -- it's fun.  It's a good competition.  We don't want every match to be easy.   
 Q.  Do you think it's beneficial for your first one, you played all 18 holes in your first match play round?  Do you think that's beneficial you got to play the whole course?  
BRITTANY FAN: Sure.  We weren't as sharp today, so just not making as many putts, struggling on a few approach shots.   
 Q.  Then what's your mindset tonight and going into tomorrow potentially double round day?  What's your plan?  
ESTHER LEE: Don't lose focus.  The 36-hole days I think the mental aspect is the hardest, being 100 percent focused for all 36 holes, no matter if you play 36 or not.   
BRITTANY FAN: Same.  Just play my own game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT