PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2018
Tara VanDerveer
Kiana Williams
Brittany McPhee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon - 77, Stanford - 57   
TARA VANDERVEER: First I want to congratulate Oregon.  I thought they played a great game tonight.  Sabrina had a fantastic game.  Really, she was unguardable.   
Our team, I'm really proud of our team and how far we've come.  To be in the championship game with, I think, our team has worked really hard to get here.  I'm really proud of everything that we've accomplished.   
Looking forward, I think this type of game can be very motivating and encouraging to people to really get in the gym and work harder.  But I think it boiled down to we turned it over too much.  We didn't do a good enough job rebounding.  We were outrebounded.  We just put them at the free-throw line.  Just kind of like in every category, whether it was field goal percentage, turnovers, we were beaten in every single thing for the most part that we were doing against them.   
They have a lot of balance.  They go inside, they go outside.  They had five different people hit threes.  So it was a tough night.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said that they're the ultimate challenge, largely because of that balance and all the various different ways you were right about that.  But were they more with Bando back in the lineup than you thought that they would be?  
TARA VANDERVEER: Well, she stretches things for you, but it was the Ionescu show today.  I think she's a competitor.  Last time we played them, beating them up there was a great accomplishment, and it was a Brittany McPhee show.  Britt really torched them, and then today Sabrina torched us.   
Again, different people for them contributed, but she was really orchestrating everything out there.  They did a really good job in their pick-and-rolls.  She made long, long threes.   
But I think our team battled.  We started out well and congratulations to Ki being named All-Tournament.  I thought Britt got it going early for us, but our defense let us down and our rebounding and, again, our turnovers.   
 Q.  Kiana, their zone seemed to be paying special attention to you.  You did get three threes, but how tough was it for you to get your shot in this game?  
KIANA WILLIAMS: It was extremely tough.  I just felt like they always had a person wherever I was in the area I was, and they were really long.  I thought we could have done a better job moving the ball, making them rotate quicker.  But, yeah, they're really long, so it was tough trying to get my shot off over someone that's taller than me.   
 Q.  Britt, how tough was it for you in this tournament?  Your health probably wasn't as good as it probably might have been, but how tough was it for you to get your shots in this game, and how tough is that back here in Seattle having that happen?  
BRITTANY McPHEE: Yeah, it was tough this tournament, but, I mean, we're just going to take what we struggled with this weekend and move forward and prepare for it going into the next tournament and hopefully we won't struggle then.   
 Q.  Kiana, did you feel like you guys were a little rattled by the zone and inability to get good shots?  There was a stretch there where there were some turnovers and it looked like it might have rattled you a little bit?  
KIANA WILLIAMS: I don't think we were rattled.  I think we were forcing things that weren't there.  Like my turnover to Alanna when she wasn't looking at me.  I think we were just forcing things.  Zone wasn't really like pressure, pressure; it was just that they're so long and they cover up a lot of space with their length.   
 Q.  Given the start of the season that you've had, it was a tough start.  But then you're playing well at the end of the regular season and you're here in the championship game.  What are the silver linings you can see as far as your team and having a freshman on the All Pac-12 Tournament team?  
TARA VANDERVEER: I think Kiana had a great tournament.  It was great to get Maya Dodson some good minutes out there.  I thought she did a good job for us.  So I think that some of our young players, I mean, Oregon has a young team too.  But we have come a long way.  We did really start kind of in the hole with having Britt hurt and the losses.  But I feel like our team has been very resilient, very determined.  We've worked very hard.  Quite honestly, we lost to a better team today.  They are a very skilled offensive team.   
We, as coaches and players, have to just really get back to the drawing board and be dedicated to work harder to improve our team and do the things that will help us be successful.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT