NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Pascal Siakam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What would you say to international players who want to make the NBA?
PASCAL SIAKAM: Just continue to work hard. I think the game is going global and every part of the world is playing basketball. There are a lot of opportunities. Continue to work hard and hopefully you'll get a chance.
Q. Any advice that you got from Kobe on or off the court? What's the first thing that comes to mind?
PASCAL SIAKAM: I didn't really know Kobe personally. But I think he did a "Detail" on me during the playoffs, and it was something that I really watched. All the little pointers that he gave me about my game is something I'm going to take. It's definitely going to stay with me for the rest of my life. Just his impact and everything that he's done for the game of basketball is incredible. He's a legend.
We continue to keep our thoughts and prayers with the families involved. We can just continue to honor him on the court.
Q. You're an NBA champion, and now you're an All-Star. What's the next thing for you?
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think there's always a next thing. For me, obviously, winning is the most important thing for me. So winning a championship or how many championships I can win, that's always my goal. And then continue to get better. Get an MVP or whatever. There are a lot of things on the table that I can accomplish. There are no limits.
Q. On the new Basketball Africa League (BAL):
PASCAL SIAKAM: Yeah, I think it's incredible for Africa. It's definitely the next step. It's something that we as a continent should be proud of, and it shows that the world is recognizing our talent. That league is going to be a big thing for us. We have to continue to bring that awareness to the game and make sure that we pay it forward.
Q. Is there anyone that you are keeping your eye on?
PASCAL SIAKAM: Not really. I don't have anybody in particular. But I can see the talent level is rising, and guys are really getting better and better. You can see now it's about young kids coming in that have skills and can actually shoot and play and do different things that before wasn't really a thing. It just shows how the continent is growing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT