NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 24, 2019
Pascal Siakam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Talk about what this means to you on your journey from Camaroon to the NBA.   
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think it means everything, just being from where I'm from, and I know a lot of kids can just look at this and can have some type of inspiration and believe that it's possible.   
I'm just happy that I'm a part of such an amazing event today and being able to win this, not only for me, my family, but kind of giving hope to all the African kids out there.   
 Q.  Pascal, when you look back on this season, Most Improved Player, NBA Champion, what's going to stand out to you most about the season?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I mean, I think I'm a team guy for sure, and I think there is nothing better than being an NBA Champion.  That's the top of the top, and I can't really describe the excitement and how amazing it is to be able to be a champion.   
So I think that's definitely the best thing that I've accomplished this year.   
 Q.  This award comes from the development during the regular season, but we saw what you can do in the playoffs.  I wonder, looking ahead where do you feel like your ceiling is?  How far can you take this developmentally?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: There are definitely no ceilings.  I don't feel no limits at all.  I feel like it's only the beginning for me and there is so much more to come.  I'm just excited about the future and the possibility to even get better and better from this, and knowing that it's only been three years.  I'm in the league for three years and there is so much more growth and things that I can improve on.  And it's definitely who I am as a person, always being able to improve and get better, so I don't think I'm going to stop now.   
 Q.  Pascal, I was wondering, obviously you guys have had the last week or so to celebrate.  Does it feel like with free agency coming up that this stuff gets rushed along and maybe you aren't able to enjoy it as long as you want to?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think I've kind of had my enjoyment, that last week after the Finals was wild and crazy and amazing at the same time.  But I think that's something -- it stays with you for the rest of your life.  I think having a moment like that, a season like we did and with the incredible teammates that I had and the whole journey, I don't think it's something you can rush. I don't care if we start into next season, obviously we're going to have bigger goals and achieve bigger things but winning a championship is something you carry with you for the rest of your life.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT