NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 12, 2019
Pascal Siakam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you describe what makes Kawhi such a beast and also describe his strength physically?
PASCAL SIAKAM: Describe it?  I don't know how to describe it, but he's a beast like you said. There's not really much to say.  I think just him out there every single night, the way he does it is incredible to watch.  Just happy he's on your team.  He's a guy that you want to go out there every single night to fight with.
Q. Do you see that same mode in him in practice, or do you just see it on game day?
PASCAL SIAKAM: Yes.  It would be hard to see that in practice because I don't know how hard we practice.  But yeah, in terms of his game, being out there on the floor, it's amazing to see.
Q. Have you learned anything about his approach to pressure?
PASCAL SIAKAM: I'm trying.  I'm trying to learn from him.  It's incredible how he is always kind of calm and cool and collected every single time out there.  It doesn't matter when.  He's able to do it every single night.  It's pretty amazing to watch and something that you hope you can learn from.
Q. You've talked about having to kind of slow yourself down sometimes because you are so fast.  What have you found about playing under this pressure as the series goes on with a championship on the line?
PASCAL SIAKAM: For me, it's fact that I've never really been at this level.  Every day, just out there experiencing it and going out there and playing is fun.  It's not like I feel like, Oh, my God.  I mean, maybe the first game you kind of have that, Oh, my God, I'm here.  But now it's like, You're here.  There's no more of that, and you just try to go out there and do the best that you can to help your team win.
Q. How are you feeling?  You've come so far and you're this close.
PASCAL SIAKAM: How am I feeling?  I'm feeling great.  I'm feeling good.  I'm feeling like I'm on the highest stage and a lot of people dream to be at this level.  To be able to play still, it's an amazing feeling just being here and having the chance to compete for a championship.
Q. You were competing for a WAC championship three years ago in Vegas, when that shot went over you.  Take me through what this moment means three years later, four quarters away from being a NBA champion.
PASCAL SIAKAM: I don't think I think about that moment again.  That was in college and I don't know, you just reminded me.  I had forgotten about it.  But I think that it just means when you see from being in the WAC tournament to now and being here today, it's amazing.  It just shows how far I've come.  I'm happy to be at this level and having the chance to compete and maybe win a championship.
Q. Have you been able to enjoy it at all or is it all business?
PASCAL SIAKAM: No, no.  I've been cool.  I have my family most of the time around and just having fun.  Enjoying family time.  That's mostly what I've been doing, from learning and watching film to just having a good time with my family.
Q. You were so close in the last game.  How do you bounce back from that?
PASCAL SIAKAM: Next game.  That's just something that we have learned from all our series.  It went from losing the first game against Orlando to being down 2-0 against Milwaukee.  We have been through a lot of things.  I think for us, we know what's ahead.  I think that as a team we just kind of know how to turn the page and focus on the next thing.  Now we have an opportunity.  We didn't win the last game, but we have another opportunity to win one game.  I think that's what we think about.
Q. How do you feel about your three-point shot?  What you do think of the looks you're getting and the defense they're playing on you?
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think I'm getting decent looks.  I'm getting open looks.  I haven't been able to make them, but I think I'm getting the shots that I want to most of the time.  I've just got to be able to knock them down and continue being aggressive and finding ways to be effective.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT