NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 9, 2019
Pascal Siakam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Knowing what's on the line, does the mental approach to tomorrow's game change from any other game?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: No.  It's an NBA Finals game and it feels like Game 1.  So that's kind of the mentality that we have going out there and just giving everything we got.  Obviously we know what's at stake, but because it's the NBA Finals and I think the best thing is just to not get ahead of ourselves and just continue to work the game and we can't cheat the game.   
 Q.  How have you guys been able to block out the emotions in the moment, especially the big moments you guys have had in this building, especially given the way you've played?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: Well, I think just having each other's back is a big thing, we know that it's a big deal and we know that it means a lot to the country and the whole organization, but I think what helped us is just staying together and understanding our goal and just focusing on the game.  The rest you can't control that.  We got to focus on the game, we got to be able to win the game, we got to do everything right to be able to win.   
And every win that we had this far, we put a lot of work into it and we have really a lot of good possessions, and that's kind of how we got to think.  We can't think about the big picture of everything, so that's what we're going to try to do every time we're out there on the floor.   
 Q.  What was it like seeing all those Raptors fans in the stands in Oakland and hearing them?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: It was crazy.  I think, I feel like it's kind of weird to say that, I feel like I'm used to it a little bit just because they have always been there everywhere we went, like it didn't matter where we were at, I mean Raptor fans were everywhere and I think that's what makes them so special, just knowing the support that they give us and it doesn't matter where, like we always feel like we're at home.   
 Q.  Everybody talks about how tough close-out games are.  But you closed out the last two series at home, so what's it take to close out the champs tomorrow?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: It's going to take that, all the things that it took us to win every single game that we had.  It's going to be a battle, it's going to be hard, but at the same time if we stay together and do everything we're supposed to do, we have a chance.  We have a good chance to put ourself in a position to win.  So that's what we have to do, we have to prepare and be ready to go out there and give everything we got.   
 Q.  They call you Spicy P and I've always wondered, where did that name come from?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I don't know, exactly, but I think I kind of said it one time, I just like that a move was spicy, and they kind of said Spicy P, I guess they took it there.  But, yeah, it's all fun.  The fans love it, so.   
 Q.  On staying in touch with former Raptors like DeMar DeRozan, Delon Wright and CJ Miles.  
PASCAL SIAKAM: Yeah, for sure, definitely part of what we created and that blueprint, and just being able to be that foundation of what Toronto basketball is about and obviously outside that have we always kept in contact.  We're always really good friends and I'm sure that they're happy to see us at this level right now. I talk to Delon most of the time and CJ, and all of them.  So I think the connection is always there and at the end of the day beyond basketball we are friends.   
 Q.  What's the biggest thing you've taken from Kawhi in the year you've been around him?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: For me the biggest thing, and I mean, if you don't want to talk about the basketball part, just how great he is, I guess.  I think just the way he's been able to handle situations, like I know we always talk about it and it seems cliché, but he is just kind of even-keeled, and he's always the same person.  No matter if you're winning or losing or whatever the case might be, he always has that, just that swag, that everything is going to be okay.  You can always see in his eyes that at any given time he can kind of take over.   
 Q.  You guys have taken on that personality?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: For sure.  That's why you have a leader like him and having guys like Kyle and Danny that's been there that know what it takes, so that's definitely a blessing for us being able to learn from those guys and kind of embrace that part of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT