NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 1, 2019
Pascal Siakam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys had the advantage in transition in Game 1. How big a factor will that be in this series?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: Definitely it's something that we try to do.  We have the opportunity to be in transition and we definitely are a team that likes to run in transition, so that's definitely something good for us.   
 Q.  Did you believe coming into this series that the Warriors' defense was going to be a better matchup specifically for you than the Bucks series?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: No, I never -- I don't think like that.  I just go out there.  I think, I always felt like every time I'm out there I can always use -- I mean, when you play with a guy like Kawhi, you know he's going to get attention and you're going to have opportunities, and I think for me I didn't really think of specific matchups.  I just think about going out there and whatever matchup is out there, just using whatever I can to my abilities, and try to find a way to score and impact the game.   
 Q.  What it is about your guys' half-court defense that is just so good, so dominant?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I mean, I think we can definitely get better, we can definitely get a lot better, but I think for the most part having guys that can do different things on the floor and also Kawhi, Marc, guys that have been Defensive Player of the Year, guys that understand, they have a high IQ and definitely can change on the fly, having those type of guys definitely help.  Kyle, Fred, the list goes on and on, guys that can definitely lock up, and when we all buy into wanting to get stops, it gets interesting.   
 Q.  What would be the biggest challenge that you would have faced to date in order to close at least the home-court advantage?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: Well, I think that obviously they're going to come out with more pop and energy.  After losing Game 1, we definitely expect them to have a lot more.  So definitely have to -- I think we have to be ourselves, continue to play our game, obviously we made some little mistakes on defense that we thought that we could correct on our own, and just continue to be ourselves and try to go out and do what we did better, and whatever energy that comes our way, we have to have better energy.   
 Q.  This city is on a high after winning Game 1.  I'm sure you've seen some of the videos on social media how fans are reacting.  How do you guys stay locked in and focused for Game 2?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think that we know it's a series and I think having guys that have been through it and know what it's like, and us also being down every single series, I mean, for the most part until now, we know what it takes to win and how important it is to -- if have you a lead, the other team's going to come down, they're going to make adjustments, they're going to come at you.   
So we know that and it's definitely no reason to get carried away, it's one game and we did what we were supposed to do.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on players coming to the NBA from other countries as well as the NBA G League?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think that's what the NBA's about, I think it's about opportunities and guys coming from different places and all coming to compete at this level and the G League's part of that, having guys that really didn't even think that they were going to be here, or they had a different path or a rough path and to go through the G League and find a way to the league.  It's definitely something awesome, and I think for me being, having to go to the G League and play there definitely helped me.   
 Q.  I don't know if you heard about the new pizza that's been named after you, the Spicy P.  Have you heard about this yet?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: No.   
 Q.  You haven't heard about the new pizza named after you?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: No.   
 Q.  You shot 82 percent, Gasol shot 60 percent.  Do you believe that you have to have that type of game in order to win?  
PASCAL SIAKAM: I think we are a really deep team, and I think from any single night guys can show up and guys can definitely step up.  I mean, I don't know exactly how many, what my percentage needs to be for us to win, but I know that if we all come out and have that same energy and mindset to attack and whoever steps up, as long as we win we're good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT