ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 11, 2019
Carly Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Considering the weather, a good week?  
CARLY BOOTH: I mean, I can't complain.  It was a shame to have two bogeys in the last three holes but I had a good week and I'll take my Top-10 for the week.   
 Q.  Always important for to you perform in Scotland and looks like a Top-10 finish, so you've done that.  
CARLY BOOTH: Yeah, I mean, if that's what I was asked to have at the start of this week, where that was the position I was going to finish, I would definitely take it.  Again it would have been really great if I didn't have the two bogeys on the last three holes but I've had a really good week and my game is really coming along.  It's positive going into the next few weeks.   
 Q.  Obviously you haven't picked up the trophy but you are the top-ranking Scot this week, the Douglas Lowe Trophy.  
CARLY BOOTH: See, I love coming back home.   
 Q.  Thoughts on the day?  
CARLY BOOTH: I holed out well.  I think the last hole, it was so wet.  I was trying to just not hit fat.  It was one of those.  I didn't hit a good strike and it went into that right bunker, so that was not great.  Then I actually thought on my second shot, on the par 5, that I would carry that bunker, but I think it was just playing a lot longer than I thought on 16.   
 Q.  Wet sand coming out?  
CARLY BOOTH: Yeah, it's just quite hard.  I've not really been in bunkers apart from one yesterday.  Same bunker, actually.  But then today, the end of the day when it's wet, sand is always a bit harder and you just want to make sure -- it's one of those.  You have to be so perfect with your shots.  It is what it is.   
 Q.  Given a good performance in an LPGA-sanctioned event, that must you give you a massive confidence boost?  
CARLY BOOTH: I can't complain with 10-under for the week when you've been playing in weather like this, Top-10 finish.  But if I'm lucky enough to have an invite to play, and to finish Top-10, I should be very happy.   
 Q.  How were you ranked as far as this week?  I know you've won this before.  
CARLY BOOTH: Yeah, but it's different from when I won it.  It was only a smaller field, no cut, or I think 80 players.  It's a big difference when you're playing against some of the best in the world.  The standard is so much higher.  And you know, I didn't perform last week just purely putting and this week, I went back to the putter I was originally using and it worked better today.  Apart from that, tee-to-green, I just kind of found my rhythm and I was hitting it really good generally the whole week.  Like I said, I can't complain too much.   
 Q.  51 holes without a bogey.  
CARLY BOOTH: Yeah, like I said, I can't pick out too many negatives.  I made a really great up-and-down on 11 today and I think that was a really good momentum booster for me.  So like you say, I've maybe saved some, missed some opportunities, too, but all in all, I'm quite happy with how I'm playing.   
 Q.  You said earlier in the week, Solheim Cup still in the agenda going forward?  
CARLY BOOTH: Always.  It's always going to be a goal to represent Europe in the Solheim Cup.   
 Q.  What's your next?  
CARLY BOOTH: I'm meant to be flying tomorrow to Belfast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT