RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2013
Carly Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   We have Carly Booth with us here this morning.   Thank you very much for coming in.   As you probably all know, Carly qualified here late the other night in a playoff, having also come through the pre‑qualifying, she is, in fact, only one of two players this week to have made it all the way, so congratulations.   You landed late but it must be great to be in the tournament.  
CARLY BOOTH:   Yeah, it's great to be here, especially St. Andrews and Scotland and very happy I managed to qualify and really looking forward to this week.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Over the years you've played a lot of golf here, I know the Curtis Cup, St Rule Trophy, a course you like.  
CARLY BOOTH:   I love it.   Such a great golf course and great‑‑ it's the widest golf course hole you'll ever play and it's the most nervous shot you'll ever hit.   But I've played this course many times.   We had the Curtis Cup here in 2008, and I played a number of St Rule Trophy events.   
Yeah, it's a great golf course and it's great to be back playing here and looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   What good memories do you have of this course?   Obviously the Curtis Cup was a good one, but what other memories do you have of this golf course?   
CARLY BOOTH:   The very last time I played here, I came second in St Rule, so that was good.   I think one of the first times playing there at this golf course, I actually shot 7‑under, so that was a good first memory.   
I have lot of good memories to take from this, and obviously I think the tees are not much different to how we played at Curtis Cup, so I have experience from that.   
As an amateur, I think most of our tournaments, like St.   Rule, were pretty far forward, so it does play a lot differently.   
   
 Q.   I remember the Curtis Cup, you weren't very well for most of the week, was that correct?   
CARLY BOOTH:   Yeah, I was ill for three days in bed, so I only managed to do one of the four practise days.   But I was fine; I managed to get through it for the tournament, so again, you know, with the Curtis Cup, it was my first one, and I was just so excited and so happy to be there.   
I think that part of that, just my illness that week, just kind of went right through it and just kept going hard, and wanted to play and wanted to play every match.   I didn't want to seem like I was not fit and well to play.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your qualifying experience?   How long did you have to wait for the playoff and how did you cope with that?  
CARLY BOOTH:   I teed off at 9.50, finished ten to 3.00, and had to wait from then until about 6.30, quarter to 7.00.   I think about quarter to 7.00 was about the time I teed off and played the 10th hole, the first one.   There was 12 of us, so we went off and I guess three of us made birdies on the first hole.   So that was it for me.   
   
 Q.   A celebrated and revealing photo shoot recently; did you think long and hard before doing that, and what kind of assurances did you get about it?   
CARLY BOOTH:   The ESPN Magazine?   Actually I got asked roughly this time last year during the British at Royal Liverpool.   It did take me a while to decide if it was something I wanted to do or not.   
Then I looked into it more and saw the type of athletes that had already done it and how well they actually do it, and I thought it was actually a great honour to be asked.   Then I guess I decided that, yeah, why not, something different, and then not long before I came out, I realised that Gary Player was doing it, which I thought was really great.  
   
 Q.   Have you had any negative reaction from fellow players‑‑ glamourising the sport, where competitors want to be judged as sports women?   
CARLY BOOTH:   Negative feedback?   
   
 Q.   Any negative feedback?   
CARLY BOOTH:   Not to my face, but I don't know, I think everyone found it pretty positive overall.   I was given a lot of comments about how great it was and they liked the picture.   Obviously just have to take it all in a positive way.   
   
 Q.   Most importantly, what did your dad think?   
CARLY BOOTH:   Well, he's like, oh, I didn't realize you had another tattoo.   (Laughter) I think the one on my foot was the one I've had the longest, and obviously for a long time, I was not going anywhere without socks on in the house.   And I think he saw it a few times and said, what's that on your foot?   I'm like, it's a sticker, and I'm sure he believed that for about two years.   
   
 Q.   The playoff situation, you've done well in a lot of playoff situations, haven't you?   Can you just go through a couple of others?   
CARLY BOOTH:   My first LET win last year was a playoff, made birdie.   Then also my win at the Swiss Open last year, that was four holes, I had three birdies and then an eagle to win.   And then also‑‑ yeah, on Monday.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Have you ever lost a playoff?   
CARLY BOOTH:   I remember losing one at the British Under 18 when it was in Ireland in 2006, I lost on the 20th hole.   I can't think of what other ones I may have lost.  
   
 Q.   You're only one of only two Scotts in the field, any theory on why there's only two of you this year and perhaps not more?  
CARLY BOOTH:   I was surprised when I realised it was only two of us, but I think there was a lot of us in final qualifying that didn't manage to get through.   So it's a shame that there's not more, but it's pretty cool to be one of two here playing this week.   
   
 Q.   Apologies for asking, the that too that's not on your foot, the new one, can you tell us what the message is?  
CARLY BOOTH:   It's not that new but the one you obviously see in the photos:   "It's not in the stars to hold our destiny, but in ourselves."   It's Shakespeare.   
   
 Q.   Was that your idea or did someone suggest it?   
CARLY BOOTH:   It was mine.   I found it.   
   
 Q.   The U.S. Women's Open recently, was that a good experience coming in here‑‑  
CARLY BOOTH:   Yeah, it was a great experience.   The nerves definitely got the best of me in the first nine holes.   But at least with the British Open, I had my first experience last year at Royal Liverpool, so I at least experienced this tournament once before.   But I definitely think it's going to make me stronger this week than going into the U.S. Open.   
   
 Q.   In view of your continuing success from when you first went down to play with Sandy Lyle at Forest of Arden a number of years ago, when you were 11, I wondered if your very good friend from Comrie, a guy called Gerard Butler, has made any comment on photographs and your continued success?  
CARLY BOOTH:   I haven't heard from him, no.   
   
 Q.   You haven't heard from him?   
CARLY BOOTH:   No.   
   
 Q.   That's got giving me a story for the local paper‑‑  
CARLY BOOTH:   Sorry.   I don't have a story for you there.   
   
 Q.   Any desires to play on the LPGA Tour?  
CARLY BOOTH:   Definitely.   One day that's my goal to be out there.  
   
 Q.   Do you plan ongoing to Q‑School in December?   
CARLY BOOTH:   I'm not sure about this year, but most likely next year.   
   
 Q.   I think last time we spoke, you were struggling a bit for form, what have you been doing with Sandy to correct that, and also, can you use this tournament and what happened in qualifying as a springboard for this season?  
CARLY BOOTH:   I think for me, it's just building a confidence back up and working on clarity mostly with my golf game and focusing on targets and really just trusting my golf swing.   It's not changed at all since last year, so there's in reason to not be doing as good as last year.   
So just working on clarity and really believing that I'm good enough to be here and that I can score really low and just play positively, so that's what I'm going to try and do this week.   
   
 Q.   Paula Creamer once had to discard a pair of earrings because they were tangling with her hair in her backswing, will you be wearing those to play in?  
CARLY BOOTH:   Most likely.  
   
 Q.   And have you worn them before?   
CARLY BOOTH:   Many times.     
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much.   Good luck this week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT