BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2013
Rafael Bejarano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Goldencents was your winner of the $1 Million Breeders' Cup Dirt Mile, and we have Rafael Bejarano with us, instrumental in this win, just gunning it from the 12 hole.   One, was that the strategy all along?   
RAFAEL BEJARANO:   Well, you know, I knew in my horse.   He was prepared a lot to be in the lead.   We tried to work it out to come from behind a little bit, so we're doing both.   
But when I see my horse, he broke so good from the gate.   I tried to send him right away and put him in the lead.   But the first turn, I feel like number 6 tried to put pressure on me too, so I just wanted to make sure I got cleared a little bit and letting go a little bit in the first turn and make sure I get clear and coming into the rail.   
So finally when I'm from the 5, I get to the lead, and tried to get a little breather and holding a little bit.   When I saw the pressure was coming again by the 3, I just let him go.   I knew he was going to show me a big kick, because he's been training for that, and he's been doing awesome.  
   
 Q.   You know the track is playing towards speed.   How much did that enter into your mind how you wanted to ride him here?   
RAFAEL BEJARANO:   Yeah, that's why it was one of my options to send him right away from the gate.   So I was hoping before the break, breaking very good and send him to the lead right away, so they can take advantage a little bit of the track.   But everything was great.   I had a good trip, and I had a little pressure in the first turn, but it wasn't that bad.  
   
 Q.   How bad is the kickback on the track right now?   
RAFAEL BEJARANO:   He kicked really hard.   The track when you come from behind.   So I didn't see too many horses come from behind today.   That's why the track is‑‑ the speed was good so far, so that's why the first three horses they're always finishing.   
THE MODERATOR:   That question was about the kickback for anybody that missed that upstairs.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT