ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2021
Gina Conti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Wake Forest 82, North Carolina 71
 Q. When UNC made their run in the third quarter and grabbed the lead briefly, what was the key to kind of righting the ship and gaining control again?
 GINA CONTI:   Yeah, I would just say that this game is about runs so they're going to get their runs but we're just going to have bigger runs coming back.  Our team locked into we need to get some stops on defense, come together, and that's what we did.  We came together and said we need to get a stop right here, then we can make our run.
 Q. How much did you consciously kind of step it up in that sequence at the end of the third quarter because I think you had like two baskets, three free throws, a couple of steals and an assist.  Did you kind of consciously try to take charge there?
 GINA CONTI:   No, you know, I just think our team, we found energy within each other and just making plays off each other, and I knew my team needed me to step it up on defense as well as everyone.  I just tried to help make those plays and then help get my teammates the ball so they could be successful and help our team be successful.
 Q. You and Ivana were really big on the free-throw line at the end of the game going -- really you only missed one free-throw shot for the entire game as a team.  How big was that down the stretch to get those shots off the line?
 GINA CONTI:   Yeah, Coach just kept emphasizing we need ball in the paint.  They started to play zone and we needed to get paint touches in order to kick it out, and we attacked, and we just played more aggressive and then they fouled us so then we had to knock down our free throws.
 Q. How confident are you guys you'll be in the NCAAs now?
 GINA CONTI:   Our team is very confident.  We believed in ourselves from the start when no one believed in us, but we fueled our own fire and we know we can do it, so don't count us out.
 Q. How special was Jewel's performance for you guys tonight?
 GINA CONTI:   Jewel was amazing.  She stepped up all year.  She's a big-time player so we got her the ball.  She was hot, kept making plays and so we got her the ball, found her and she knocked it down like she always does.
 Q. When you have a teammate that's that hot that early, how much does that help the confidence and give you a springboard to get this thing going?
 GINA CONTI:   Yeah, for sure.  It definitely helps with just running offense.  Helps you with what plays to call, when to call them and just keep moving the ball.  She was drawing a lot of defensive attention which was opening up the inside, as well.  We got her the ball and she knocked them down, so that was very helpful.
 Q. Gina, when UNC started to grab the momentum at the beginning of the third quarter did you guys ever have any concern about being able to make it back or were you guys just going full fire?
 GINA CONTI:   No, you know, our team, Coach kept emphasizing the transition defense, we need to get back.  It was just really communication, locking in on defense, playing off each other.  I thought we were really big.  And our two when we went zone or we went man, we were really long, we were active, we were talking like crazy.  Our team just kind of came together and it was like a force field I felt like we had.  You could feel the energy within each other.
 Q. Obviously you face the Cardinals tomorrow.  They're a team that you played to the very end and probably feel like you should have grabbed a victory earlier this season.  What's the key to preparing for them and how can you make the final outcome a little bit different?
 GINA CONTI:   Yeah, Louisville, obviously they're a great team.  I think our team, we've just got to play together.  We're going to watch film tonight, watch the scout film and all that and really lock in.  But you know, the outcome didn't end how we wanted it last time, but that's what March is about, so I'm excited for tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT