TMS - ROME
May 8, 2001
Harel Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How do you feel about this victory? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, it's obviously my best win so far in my career. Today I played against my idol, one of my idols, which is not easy. Playing against my idol, it's difficult. But I had to put it aside, and I think I did a pretty good job.  
 
Q. Did you know it would be difficult, it would be a difficult tournament coming for you? Or did you hope, still, that you would be able to advance forward in this tournament? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, every tournament is difficult at this level, every match is difficult. So you just have to look at every match at a time and then do your best and hope for the best.  
 
Q. You said it was your best match, and you said it was important because maybe you succeeded against one of your idols in tennis. Did this give you more stamina, or I mean, how did you prepare for this match? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, it's not easy to prepare to this -- for this match, but, you know, as a professional tennis player I have to be prepared to put aside all those things and concentrate on what I have to do on the match, and then I think I did pretty well. I didn't get the emotions effect on the match, and I think I handled the third set, particularly, very good.  
 
Q. Tell us something about you, about the way you approach tennis and which are your goals, your aims, your dreams? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: You want me to start from the beginning when I was a child playing? It's going to be long. (Laughter.) I've been playing tennis for 15 years now. But I mean, I grew up in Israel and I've played most of my life in Israel until I started traveling with age maybe 14, Juniors tournament. And then my biggest breakthrough was in Toronto last year in the Masters Series, which I reached the finals, which was a big jump for me. I mean, first time to get in the Top 100, and I play major -- in other big tournaments and get used to the big -- to this level, which I think I am still getting used to it, which is not easy. But I think I'm doing it pretty well. I mean, the first year usually after the breakthrough is not easy. It's a very difficult year, but I just hope to concentrate on what I have to do and I hope to do it in the future as well.  
 
Q. Could you please tell us also something more about your background. Is it more difficult in Israel to become a tennis player than somewhere else? Are you able to obtain services, (inaudible) things like that, or no? And were you inspired by Mansdorf, Perkins? Have you met one of those guys, Glickstein? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, growing up in Israel is not easy, especially when you have to serve in the Army when you're 18. It's mandatory to serve for three years. So -- and this is a very crucial time of the career, from 18 to 21. But I was lucky with the Army, I served in a base close to my house, and I had a very good relationship with my commanders, which let me travel a lot throughout the year which is the most important thing, playing tournaments at this age. And I had some support from the Federation until last year. I mean, it's not a big support, but it's something. I mean, my parents also had to put a lot of money in to invest in me. And what was the second part of the question? I forgot.  
 
Q. If you were inspired by Glickstein, Perkins, you met them? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Of course I was inspired, especially by Mansdorf, which is now the Davis Cup captain. He was the biggest tennis player in Israel ever, he reached No. 8 in the world. He's still, I think, all the players in Israel has a lot of respect for him.  
 
Q. Would you rate your backhand as your best stroke? It was Mansdorf's. 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Mansdorf's backhand was obviously his best shot. I think my backhand most of the time is, you know. Some days it changes, but most of the time it's the most consistent shot in my game.  
 
Q. Sampras talked about the fact that you were mixing it up. Was that your plan coming into the match, to mix it up and keep him off guard? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, that's usually what I do all the time, trying to mix up my game. Because I can serve and volley, I can stay on the back, and players don't like that. They don't know what to expect from me. So I had -- I had the feeling Sampras is not gonna give the match away; I had to take it. And especially in the last game, I served and volleyed twice and I did it pretty well. And I think especially in the third set I was serving and volleying maybe 20 percent on -- maybe even more on my first serves, which helped me win some of the points and made him think a little bit.  
 
Q. When you mentioned that you left from the Israel Federation, what was that more or less? 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, they helped with the coach a little bit. It wasn't a big help, but it was some help. Most of the money came from my parents. They invested a lot of money in me, although we are not a rich family, but they invested. I hope to give -- I hope to give them back some day.  
 
Q. Do you get a lot of support, especially in Europe? Mansdorf always had a big, huge crowd of Israeli people around. 
 
 HAREL LEVY: Well, there's a big Jewish community in New York and in the States, all around America. So wherever there is a lot of Jews, they are looking for the Israeli players and they're supporting, which is very nice. I like playing with support behind me. It gives me a special feeling.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT