US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Harel Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You seemed to get so excited about winning the second set.  Did that emotion take its toll on you?  What happened out there?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Well, maybe.  I mean, I was trying to push myself, get into the match.  He started very well.  He was playing well during the whole match, not making a lot of mistakes.  I had to push myself, change some things.  I did in the second set, but then he came up with better answers in the third and fourth.  
 
Q.  Did you grow up watching Chang matches?  Were they shown in Israel?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Of course.  Michael is a great player.  I mean, he's been in the finals here a couple of years ago.  He won the French Open.  I remember him winning the French Open like ten years ago, when he was serving from down there (indicating).  I was watching one of the greatest player.  
 
Q.  Did you think of that when you went on the court with him?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Not really.  Not really.  I was trying to focus on what I had to do during the match, on my game plan, just trying to focus on myself, not on him.  
 
Q.  What was that game plan?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Well, the game plan, I think he likes to play fast, so I try to slow down a little bit, play with a little bit more topspin, when I get the short ball, try to come in.  
 
Q.  How popular is the sport back in Israel?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Well, when Mansdorf and Bloom were playing, it was maybe the third most popular sport after soccer and basketball.  Then when they quit and we didn't have a player in the Top 100, I think the popularity went down.  I hope now when I'm in the Top 100, more people are going to be interested in this sport, how the popularity will be. 
 
Q.  Do you know if this match was broadcast live tonight?
 
HAREL LEVY:  I'm not sure.  
 
Q.  It was. 
 
HAREL LEVY:  Maybe.  I'm not sure about that.  It was very late at night.  Maybe they're going to broadcast it.  
 
Q.  Would people stay up to watch you?
 
HAREL LEVY:  I don't know.  Probably some.  A lot of tennis fans.  Maybe some.  For sure my family. 
 
Q.  Do you feel pressure to become the next star for Israel?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Not at all.  I mean, I'm proud to be the next star for Israel.  I always dreamt about being the No.  1 tennis player of Israel, getting into the Top 50.  That's my next goal for the next couple of months or years. 
 
Q.  Did you feel intimidated by Chang?
 
HAREL LEVY:  No.  I think he has a good presence on the court, I mean, as long as being a great player.  I don't think I was intimidated by him.  I think I also had some good presence on the court.  I think the crowds were supporting me even more than him.  This was kind of weird because I'm an Israeli playing in the States and he's an American. 
 
Q.  Why do you think New Yorkers and New York media have embraced you and your story in the last couple days?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Maybe because of the big Jewish community here.  I think that's maybe the only explanation I can give right now.  
 
Q.  Are you disappointed about aspects of your game, like your serve?  You had eight double-faults. 
 
HAREL LEVY:  Some.  There are some aspects that I have to improve of my game, that's for sure.  But for a first appearance in the US Open, I'm not disappointed.  I could have played better, but I think I had a good presence on the court, and I gave him some hard time today. 
 
Q.  What do you like about the US Open?
 
HAREL LEVY:  I like the atmosphere mainly, the crowd really gets into the match, supporting the players.  It's just a great atmosphere to go out there and play, especially when you're playing in one of the stadiums. 
 
Q.  Had you been to New York before this?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Of course.  I've been a couple of times.  I've played the US Open last year and the year before.  I also played Juniors here.  Two years ago, I lost third round of quallies.  Last year I lost first round of quallies. 
 
Q.  Have you gotten a chance to walk around the city or areas that are traditional Jewish areas?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Not really.  When we go, we go to Manhattan to have fun, shopping.  Usually we stay in Long Island with family because there's a lot of Jewish people staying there.  We have a lot of friends there.  I have also family here in New York, have some cousins here. 
 
Q.  Where are you going from here?
 
HAREL LEVY:  I'm going home to rest.  I've been playing.  I didn't take a break for like four months now.  I've been waiting for this break for a long time.  Really tired. 
 
Q.  You said you feel you have some things to improve.  Like what?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Well, my serve, especially.  My forehand.  A little bit the movement around the court.  I didn't think I was moving that well today.  Usually I move better.  Maybe I was a little tired today, playing a lot of matches for the last couple of weeks. 
 
Q.  When did you beat Chang?
 
HAREL LEVY:  It was last year, challenger, in Aptos, California.  
 
Q.  All in all, how do you feel after this?
 
HAREL LEVY:  Tired. 
 
Q.  Disappointed?
 
HAREL LEVY:  A little bit.  A little bit.  I mean, I'm not going to go out, unless I play Sampras, Agassi, some of the big guys, not feel disappointed.  I think I had my chances - not a lot - but I had some chances throughout the match.  I didn't take them.  He took them.  He played the big points better than I did.  I think that was the difference.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT