TMS - CINCINNATI
August 8, 2000
Harel Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Harel.

Q. What was he saying? He didn't shake your hand; you had a conversation?

HAREL LEVY: I mean we were all right. I was saying good shot, and he was saying good
shot to me during the match. Everything was fine. We are good friends. And at the end, he
came to me and he said, "I'm not going to shake my hand -- I'm not going to shake
your hand because of your friend." So I said, "You're not going to shake my
hand?" And then I just walk. And then I didn't wait to hear what he was gonna say. I
mean not -- I think he's -- I mean he's wrong. I mean, nothing to have to do with me. You
know, he wasn't complaining against me. He was complaining about all the spectators
outside. Not shaking hand, I mean first time in my life someone doesn't shake my hand. 

Q. Were they actually your friends? Did you know them, these people?

HAREL LEVY: I know these people, yeah. 

Q. Did you feel slighted by that, that he didn't do that?

HAREL LEVY: About them doing it?

Q. No, by him not shaking your hand. 

HAREL LEVY: Yeah. But nothing to do about it. 

Q. Have you ever seen anything that bizarre before?

HAREL LEVY: No.

Q. You never went back to talk to the crowd?

HAREL LEVY: I heard, but I didn't -- tell me. I didn't hear what he said. 

Q. They booed him and he went back and said, "Please don't boo me, I was just
having problems with his fans." When you say you guys are friends, do you hang out
and stuff?

HAREL LEVY: Not hang out. But we are all right. Not going out with him, but...

Q. Did you see him in the locker room afterwards?

HAREL LEVY: No, I think he left. I think he left. I'm not sure, but I didn't see him. 

Q. All of a sudden, you're exploding on the Tour. You've been around a little bit, but
like last week in Toronto --?

HAREL LEVY: Well, I think every player is exploding one week, then it's like getting
into the top 100 and then probably I'll have some letdowns and have some bad weeks. But, I
mean it's not just like that. I've been working hard for a lot of years on my tennis and
on my physics. And I'm happy. I'm happy I'm playing well. I mean I've been playing well
during this year and had some good results before, not like Toronto, but some good
results. I qualified in the French Open, then I qualified in Wimbledon, went around. So
I've been doing all right. I'm happy Toronto came. I think it was a good time for me. I
mean I'm already 22. I'm still young, but actually I didn't expect it to come in such a
boom, but I'm happy it did. I mean it's a good way to break the top 100.

Q. With that reach of success and you getting to play on center court here, did that
make that whole incident at the end seem a little even that much more of a slight to you?

HAREL LEVY: Well, not really. Not really. 

Q. Embarrassing?

HAREL LEVY: It's a little embarrassing, but...

Q. Have you ever played him before in?

HAREL LEVY: I played him like four years ago in a Satellite in Israel.

Q. Did he act weird then? 

HAREL LEVY: No, I think tomorrow he is going to come and apologize. That's what I
think. I mean but I think he wasn't thinking straight after the match. 

Q. Do you think your fans were being too vocal?

HAREL LEVY: Maybe a little bit. But that's not a reason not to shake hand. 

Q. Did you hear anything in particular that they were saying?

HAREL LEVY: No, it wasn't that bad being on the court. At the end, they were clapping a
little bit. They were getting too enthusiastic about me winning the match. But nothing I
can do about it. 

Q. How many fans do you have here in Cincinnati?

HAREL LEVY: I mean I have some friends here who live here. So they have some friends
and they brought their friends, you know, it's all together. I don't know all the people. 

Q. Is it strange to have a cheering section so far from home?

HAREL LEVY: Well in the States there are a lot of Jewish people and they are always
looking for the Israeli guys, so it's not so strange in the States. We've got a couple of
people who come to you and say, "I heard about you," and before I did well in
Toronto.

Q. You come from a country where they used to have some good players --?

HAREL LEVY: -- They had some good players, right. They were waiting for a top 100
player for six years, since Amos quit. 

Q. How much of a --?

HAREL LEVY: I think that was a big thing in Israel. I heard the media is really going
crazy. I mean announcing on the radio, TV, newspapers, full of pictures. I mean that's
what I heard. But I'm trying to stay calm, you know, relaxed, stay the same as I was
before. Nothing has changed. 

Q. What was the weekend like for you?

HAREL LEVY: In Toronto?

Q. Since Toronto.

HAREL LEVY: Since Toronto, it's only two days. So I've been trying to really prepare
myself for the match today. I didn't have a lot of time. I flew in Sunday night and I
played today, so I just try to take good care of my body because I'm tired, and my body is
tired and just try to give it a little -- I mean a little push, you know, just keep on
going. Use the confidence that I have from last week. 

Q. Do you think you are going to be even more of a hero or have more fans when you go
back home the next time?

HAREL LEVY: Probably, probably. I mean because people were waiting so long for a good
player, I think it will be a big thing in Israel when I go back there.

Q. Have you been paying any attention the last couple of days, the first time a Jewish
man has been -- will run for a really high office here in the U.S.?

HAREL LEVY: About Al Gore's --.

Q. Al Gore's running mate. 

HAREL LEVY: I just heard about it in the papers today. I mean I didn't read it, I just
-- somebody told me or I read it; I don't remember. 

Q. Are you surprised -- ?

HAREL LEVY: There's so many Jewish people, I think you have like more than Israel,
maybe 10 or 15 million Jewish people. I'm not sure how many. So I'm a little surprised,
but not... I don't think it makes such a big difference, I mean, if you're Jewish or
Christian. For me, at least. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT