U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2001
Marty Parkes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARTY PARKES:  Good evening.  We have suspended play for today.  Tomorrow morning players will be able to start hitting balls on the range about 5:45 a.m.  We have a 7 a.m. resumption of play. There are 90 players still on the golf course.  We estimate that that will take the last group, group 52, should be done, hopefully, by about noontime.  And that would give each group a minimum of 30 to 45 minutes before the second round.  At this point, the plan is to resume the second round at 9 a.m., in ten minute intervals, in exactly the same order as what the pairings were supposed to be for tomorrow.  We estimate that will put the last group off at about 5:30 p.m. for the second round.  We hope that they'll be able to complete play to about hole 13, which would mean they would need to come back Saturday morning, finish round two, then we make the cut and proceed from there.  A couple of logistical points.  The buses tomorrow will start dropping off spectators at 6 a.m., an hour before play is due to resume.  And Friday tickets only will be honored tomorrow.  We did have ten hours of play today.  So tomorrow only Friday tickets will be honored at the gate.  I'll be happy to answer any questions that anybody has. 
 
Q.  Could you give us some idea as to what the weather forecast is for the next three days?
 
MARTY PARKES:  I spent a good part of the afternoon up in the weather center here, as you can imagine.  And the forecast is for good weather over the next few days, that's one of the reasons we're optimistic that we'll be able to get completely finished, back on schedule for Sunday's final round. 
 
Q.  What was the official suspension time?
 
MARTY PARKES:  5 p.m. 
 
Q.  Marty, it's 5:30 right now, what was the thinking about not waiting until later or going in and calling it now?  Is there more rain coming or what was the thinking?
 
MARTY PARKES:  Tim Moraghan, our championship agronomist was in that conversation.  He felt they needed a minimum of two hours to get the golf course back in shape.  And given the time of day and what was required, they felt it was better to suspend for today and concentrate -- I can still hear thunder -- hopefully if this weather front moves out, they can get out there and start working on the bunkers, and then go tees to greens to get ready for the resumption of play tomorrow. 
 
Q.  How much water is on the course and what is the biggest problem out there in terms of bunkers, lakes in the fairways, whatever?
 
MARTY PARKES:  Fortunately, when I spoke to Tim he didn't know of any major problems that had occurred.  They're going to check the bunkers first, because they're worried about the greatest build up of water.  But they are optimistic that we won't have big problems.  It would be nice if it will top raining. 
 
Q.  How much rain did we get?
 
MARTY PARKES:  I don't know exactly, but I know it was more than an inch. 
 
Q.  You said play is suspended at 5.  When was it first  delayed, the exact time?
 
MARTY PARKES:  3:39 p.m. 
 
Q.  Was play kind of slow today, and if so, is that taking into account the schedule for tomorrow and so on?
 
MARTY PARKES:  That wasn't a question that came up when I was up in the conversation.  I didn't hear any complaints that play was particularly slow today.  I think they were mostly concerned about what time it was that it was reasonable to resume tomorrow, given what they need to do with the golf course, and to be fair to the players to give them enough time to get warmed up tomorrow morning. 
 
Q.  It was not brought up, slow play?
 
MARTY PARKES:  It was not one of the major issues I heard discussed during the meeting. 
 
Q.  What is the best estimate as to when they think the rain is actually going to stop, what are they telling you?
 
MARTY PARKES:  Some of the meteorologists were hoping it would stop right about 6 p.m. or shortly thereafter.  I noticed that prognosis seems to be going by the boards as we sit here.  They're hoping it will end up early enough that they can work on the golf course tonight.  They do have a lot of lights here, and maybe they can do a lot of work after dark, as well. 
 
Q.  Marty, when weather changes the playability of a golf course is there ever a consideration on subsequent rounds, does it change your approach in terms of set up of the course, hole location, tee placement, all that sort of thing?
 
MARTY PARKES:  Well, immediately we'll resume tomorrow with the same setup, during the remainder of round one.  And I don't really think so at this point, at least for round two, they seem to have their plan set, and I think they're going to stick with that. 
 
Q.  You say play will resume at 7 a.m. and finish about 12 noon.  That's a five-hour period.
 
MARTY PARKES:  That would be the last group.  That's just a rough estimate.  We were doing the math to work on pairings. 
 
Q.  Someone hasn't teed off yet?
 
MARTY PARKES:  No, all groups are on the golf course. 
 
Q.  You're giving five hours?
 
MARTY PARKES:  As I said we're working with estimates, he didn't do a precise number for each group. 
 
Q.  Is there any kind of special drainage under the greens?
 
MARTY PARKES:  Not that I'm aware of, but I'll have to check that question with Tim Moraghan, but I don't believe so. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT