CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2017
Kim Kauffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good playing today:  Seven birdies, zero bogeys.  What was going on out there?  
KIM KAUFFMAN: It was really funny.  I was thinking out there, if I asked me, I think I hit the ball better yesterday, but today I made more putts.  Yesterday I left every putt short and they were a little faster this morning.  You start draining a few long ones and it adds up.   
If you don't make putts, no matter how good you hit it doesn't matter.   
 Q.  I know you've struggling a little bit lately; some missed cuts.  What's clicked this week?  
KIM KAUFFMAN: Yeah, I have.  I put a really stretch, and got to the British and the Scottish and it was way too much.   
Even last week I felt like I hit the ball really great, and then my driver got off.  I was like, So close.  It was so frustrating.   
Yesterday was a little of the same.  I think I was really determined today, and I do play well out here.  I thought, Let's not get technical.  Just go make these birdies.  I've played well out here before and I did that and it worked out really well.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts going into the weekend?  I know still two days.  It's hard to think ahead.  Seems like you have a lot of confidence.  
KIM KAUFFMAN: I do, out here especially.  I think you just have to know you might make a bogey, but you can make a ton of birdies coming in everywhere.   
Just got to keep it in the fairway, get it on the green, and have putts.  These greens roll so good.   
 Q.  How would you sum up the year so far?  
KIM KAUFFMAN: You know what?  I would sum it up that I feel like I've really struggled.  Yet I look at where I'm at (indiscernible) other girls, and I'm not that bad.  I still have all of the Asia events.  I do feel like I struggled.  I really struggled with high irons.   
It's getting there.  It's tough, but I have had a few bright spots that have kind of saved me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT