NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 6, 2011
J.J. Barea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The notion that you guys are not giving Dirk enough help on the offensive side, how do you guys feel about that? Is that how you feel?   
 J.J. BAREA: Yeah, no question. I think first three games we didn't do that. I think if you see the first three rounds, we were doing that. Everybody was helping. That's what got us here. We'll see. We need to provide help more.   
  
  Q. Is it more on you guys or more on what Miami is doing defensively, in your opinion?   
 J.J. BAREA: A little bit of both. You have to give credit to Miami's defense and we have to talk about us. We're not making our shots or whatever the case is.  
  
  Q. How much of the turnovers hurt you guys that led to easy baskets?   
 J.J. BAREA: They're the best team I've ever seen in taking the ball from us and scoring quick. We have to take care of the ball tomorrow and not let them get dunks after dunks in transition.   
  
  Q. How can your bench be more productive? You guys were stellar against the Lakers and against the Thunder. On and on in this series how does the bench step up?   
 J.J. BAREA: We have to stay aggressive and keep shooting. We were doing a great job the first three rounds. A great job. We're having some bad luck tomorrow. Hopefully it will change tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's looks that you normally make? Seems like you and Peja, maybe they're not falling?   
 J.J. BAREA: You have to give credit to Miami. They are doing a great job in defense and stuff like that. We have to make shots.   
  
  Q. The strength of this team, J.J., has always been help from everybody. The strength and equal parts. Do you sense Dirk getting a little frustrated that that hasn't been the case from you guys in this series so far?   
 J.J. BAREA: Maybe a little. He's a great -- he has confidence in us, and he's going to keep pulling for us. And we want to help him. We want to help him. He's doing a great job of being the leader. But we have to step up too.   
   
    
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT