NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
J.J. Barea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   J.J. BAREA: I answer a couple of questions once in a while and keep it going. I'm doing good and the team is doing good, so I'll take it.

 Q. Has life in general changed any for you the last couple weeks?
 J.J. BAREA: No, no, not in general. My family is always going to be my family. I've got a big family and all the fans in Puerto Rico, so just enjoying it.

 Q. Talk about how you've been able to manipulate that pick-and-roll. 
 J.J. BAREA: Coach is putting me in good situations and the big guys are setting good screens. I've got shooters spread out, so it's working out. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 J.J. BAREA: I love it. That's what I live for. I enjoy every second of it. Yesterday I knew I only had one big guy, so if I get by that one big guy I'm clear to the rim. I don't have to deal with Portland, with Camby, stuff like that. I've got to stay aggressive out there and help the team out.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 J.J. BAREA: Our bench is pretty good. If we keep doing what we're doing, everybody, Haywood, that comes off the bench, I think we're going to have a great chance of winning every game.

 Q. Did you expect them to be more physical with you guys in general because you got in the lane at will and got open looks? 
 J.J. BAREA: They've definitely got to make adjustments, maybe pressure the ball a little more maybe, trap it or do whatever. We've just got to be ready and keep doing what we're doing.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 J.J. BAREA: I'm still going to be aggressive and try to play my game. It don't matter really. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 J.J. BAREA: I don't really look at who's guarding me, I just look at who's going to set the screen for me and how I'm going to get to the paint. 

 Q. Your ability to hit the three-point shot it seems has opened up. 
 J.J. BAREA: That was a big part. I got my first three-pointer, and after that they're going to pay attention a little bit, too. That's going to make my drives a little bit easier, so that's big, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT