ROLAND GARROS
October 1, 2020
Ricardas Berankis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/R. Berankis
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What was going on physically there with you and the visit from the trainer and the massage you were having?
RICARDAS BERANKIS:   Yeah, in the beginning of the second set I got really quite a big block in my lower back.  Yeah, I asked trainer to loosen it up a little bit, because basically at one point I just couldn't turn, you know, for any shots.
Yeah, I hoped it will help.  It actually helped for a few minutes, but then as long as you start pushing it again, the block came back.  It's called muscle spasm.  Yeah.
Q. Was that just something that popped up today, or had you been dealing...
RICARDAS BERANKIS:   Yes.  Something what came up today, but the consequences are from I think other place, which is the left groin at the moment.  I have quite a feeling in my left groin for last few weeks, which was improving dramatically, to be honest.  In the first match, it didn't bother me at all.
But I guess also the surface change after US Open hard court, stepping on clay, you know, playing straight to the three-set match two days ago.  Yeah, I think everything added up and, yeah, the consequences were like we saw today.
Q. I wanted to ask you about Novak who you recently faced on the hard court.  I wanted to ask if you could compare how he played then in New York against you versus today, and were there any differences that you picked up on.
RICARDAS BERANKIS:   Well, one of the first things is completely different surface.  You know, hard court, clay court.  So yeah, in New York he was playing I think a little bit more defensive at some point, where with now he was trying to push me more a little bit, step up more than in New York.
Yeah, also it's tough to say for me how it would have been second, third set if I would be completely healthy, but obviously today he was much better.
Q. The weather has been something we have all been noticing and talking about and the rain and the cold and all of that, but when you got out there today there was the sun.  Was it a little surprising to see that?  And was it difficult with I guess because of the way the new roof is there that you had sort of half the court covered in shade and half bathed in the sun?
RICARDAS BERANKIS:   Yeah, it was really nice to see the sun today.  We haven't seen it for last week for sure minimum.
Yeah, it's quite cold, rainy.  But, hey, come on, in this pandemic situation all over the world, I think we are lucky and we should be happy that Grand Slam events, other tournaments are happening for tennis, you know.  So I think there is nothing to be complaining about.
Yeah, with this roof was interesting.  Actually for me was the first time on Chatrier court.  It was interesting and different.  Was at some point a little bit difficult to see from the shade side towards the sun because you would lose the ball a little bit because of the brightness.
But overall, you know, you get adjusted and you just move forward with that.
Q. You have played Novak a few times now.  I'm wondering what advice would you give to a player like his next opponent who is stepping on court for the first time ever and Novak hasn't ever practiced with him, doesn't know what it's like to be there other than maybe watching on TV?  What advice would you say, or what do you think is the most important thing for them to be aware of as they set foot against him?
RICARDAS BERANKIS:   Well, first of all, stepping on the court with such a great, huge player, you know, ATP No. 1, having crazy amount of Grand Slams in his pocket, ATP tournaments, like one of the best ever, the advice would be not to play the results that he has; just to play the player who is on the court today.  Because all of us, we are players, and some days are better; some days are worse.
From my own experience what I can say, the most important is how you can perform during this day.  Not what happened in last 10, 15 years with your opponent, you know.
So, yeah, not to panic.  Play your game.  And see how it goes, you know.
I think that's the most important thing every time you step on the court with any other huge player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT