PHILLIPS 66 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 5, 2014
Bob Bowman
Conor Dwyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CONOR DWYER:   I'm just really excited to be here at Nationals.   We've put in a lot of hard work here in the last ten months, two altitude camps.   We've gotten some really good training in.   Just trying to keep the momentum going from a lot of good racing this year.   Bob's prepared us well, we've tapered, got a lot of good rest, and looking forward to a fun, fast meet in California this week.   So any questions, I'm happy to answer them.  
   
 Q.   I haven't looked at the site sheets yet, but what events are you definitely going to be in?   
CONOR DWYER:   I'm going to be in the 100, 200 Free, 200 IM, and possibly both 400s.   We'll decide day to day, probably both 400s though.  
   
 Q.   Adding anything at Pan Pacs that you're not swimming here or are you going to try it all here?   
BOB BOWMAN:   Maybe.   It depends on how the first couple days ago, and we'll look at the 400s and make a choice.  
   
 Q.   Talk about once you joined North Baltimore early last year, kind of maybe pre‑North Baltimore life and working with Bob at North Baltimore?   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, so I switched over over a year ago from the University of Florida where I got a great education and some great training by Coach Gregg Troy who took me from a decent swimmer to on the U.S. Olympic team, and then I kind of needed a little change from the college town of Gainesville.   Talked to Bob, and we've had a great relationship ever since.   
He has an unbelievable resume.   He's already tweaked a bunch of my strokes, gotten my speed.   To some times I never thought I could do.   Hoping to do the same this year, keep dropping time and keep getting better.  
   
 Q.   Conor, you said last year you were in for the 400 IM this year and would think about it more.   How has your 400 IM been?   What is your plan with that event?   Do you want to swim it?   
CONOR DWYER:   Of course I want to swim it.   I get to swim with Chase who shattered that American record this year at NCAAs.   So I think us two could potentially make the team, and Bob's trained us and gotten us ready for IMs, and the 200 IM with Michael and Ryan back in there, I think it will be a fun race.  
   
 Q.   What is your ceiling in the IMs, do you think?   
CONOR DWYER:   Who knows.  
BOB BOWMAN:   I think he swum really good.   He unshaved 38 in our Christmas meet swimming by himself, and 15 in long course, so he's been swimming pretty well.  
   
 Q.   The 200 free is probably your best event at this point.   Have you been keeping up with Arnel in practice?   
BOB BOWMAN:   Yeah.  
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, I'd say we're keeping up.   We won't race each other this year.   It's kind of nice to have a year off and we'll just train together.   Hopefully we'll get back to racing each other next year.  
   
 Q.   Could you describe a little bit about the atmosphere in North Baltimore and how you adjust to it, what you like about it?   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, it's a pretty easy adjustment when you come in day to day.   You have Bob who has maybe arguably the best resume with Olympic medals in history, and there is, I think he's had 28 sometimes in there at a time at practice.   Schmitty helps it.   She keeps the mood light in my lane day to day, which is awesome.   But it's easy.   Everyone's there.   Well, it's not easy, the training, Bob makes that hard.   But everyone's striving to get on that Olympic podium individually or on a relay, so we all have the same goals so that makes it easy.  
   
 Q.   Is there a swimmer that's impressed you in training that you've noticed from your time there?   
CONOR DWYER:   I think everyone that's been on that international stage has a good day and can light it up so it switches off every day.   
BOB BOWMAN:   And it has bad days, so you can get excited about one thing, and then the next day you're back to Earth.   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah.  
BOB BOWMAN:   I'd say Conor's one of the most consistent on a day‑to‑day basis he's probably been the most consistent person training.   
CONOR DWYER:   I've hit some walls though.  
BOB BOWMAN:   That's true.  
   
 Q.   You've always been a pretty consistent swimmer training?   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, I would say I try to be one of the hardest workers on the team and throughout my career.  
BOB BOWMAN:   He takes good care of himself away from the pool.   He's super good at nutrition and rest and those kind of things.  
   
 Q.   Conor, the 100 Free here is just stacked.   Obviously when you look at it, what's it like having Michael in that event now and how do you look at the overall event coming into this meet?   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, it's a good event to start with.   Like you said, it's a stacked event, a lot of good swimmers in there.   I kind of got a taste of how good Michael was at it in Santa Clara ripping that 48 in season.   So got to be on my A‑game to make that final and hopefully race those guys at night.  
   
 Q.   What's it been like living in Baltimore, just the city?   
CONOR DWYER:   Charm city.   It's the best.   Second to Chicago.  
BOB BOWMAN:   It's not quite Chicago, but, you know.   
CONOR DWYER:   It's up there.   It's a good time.  
BOB BOWMAN:   We do our best.  
   
 Q.   Been to any Orioles games?   
CONOR DWYER:   Yeah, I've been to the Orioles games.   I getting to to Ravens games with Mike and Bob.   Those are a lot of fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT