U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 30, 2012
Bob Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   What it is, it is.   I think he's doing better now.   It's the end of the week.   The one that counts is coming up.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a percentage of where you think he's at to where you think he could be?   
BOB BOWMAN:   Somewhere in the 80s, high 80s, it's too soon to‑‑ we don't know.   
I'm happy with where he is and he seems to be handling the work load well, so I'm happy with that.   
   
 Q.   This is a hypothetical question, but do you think he could have won the 100 Freestyle last night?   
BOB BOWMAN:   He can do a pretty good 100 Free.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about‑‑ (Away from mic.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   It made him feel good.   I don't know if it was a dramatic change but it always helps.   The little things help, yeah, a little confidence.   
   
 Q.   How important is it to win this week?   
BOB BOWMAN:   It's nice, I don't think it's that important.   What's important is to be on the team going to London, that's the most important thing.   It's always nice to practice winning and practice those fine details that help, and that's good, in that aspect.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about Ryan's triple tonight?   
BOB BOWMAN:   It's great.   Michael did that in 2004 and it's hard, super hard.   It's not as hard the night of as it is the next morning, so I'm sure he will be reeling tomorrow!   
   
 Q.   Is Michael different at all this time around in terms of leadership that you've seen?   
BOB BOWMAN:   He is.   Michael‑‑ because he swims so many events‑‑ and Ryan's the same way, they can't really be the rah‑rah team captainish leader, but they lead by example all the time, and I think from that standpoint they give a good example to the youngsters about what they should be doing and how they should handle themselves.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   A little.   A little.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   What's the difference?   The difference is I thought Michael was perfectly prepared for that and I thought he was woefully and inadequately prepared for this one.   Sorry I didn't say that well, we came into this one with one hand tied behind our back.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   He's doing well.   You know I mean?   I think‑‑ the times are not as good, they kind of are, and they kind of aren't, the suits skew it, but I think that's the difference.   I didn't think our preparation was as developed as it could have been.   We know that, so you don't know what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BOB BOWMAN:   Yeah, we worked a lot on having it narrow and not be so wide.   He was swimming like this.   Ryan has done a good job of that, and we took a page out of his book.   That will be a quote for tomorrow, "Phelps copied Ryan Lochte's breaststroke."   We noticed on the video that was the different between the two.   Michael was swimming with his hands wide like this, and we just got him a little more stream lined and it helped.   Okay?   Thanks guys.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT