MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 8, 2001
Toby Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pretty good first at-bat, where you had a bunch of foul balls at the beginning? 
 
TOBY HALL:   You get up there your first time, you've got the jitters, 40-some odd thousand people are there, trying to concentrate.  I was just able to have a good at-bat and stay focused.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about being the loan Devil Ray representative with Greg Vaughn not coming? 
 
TOBY HALL:   It's a great feeling.  Greg and I are from the same city, Sacramento, and it's an honor.  I don't know what happened to him, but... 
 
Q.  Hamstring. 
 
TOBY HALL:   Oh, hamstring.  That's unfortunate, but it's a good feeling.  
 
Q.  Any significance having lived here for a little bit, then coming back and hitting the home run in this game? 
 
TOBY HALL:   I've always grown up and known knowing where I was born and what state; I've been a Mariners fan.  To be able to come here in the new stadium, it was a good feeling.  
 
Q.  So you were born here?  What's your background living in Washington? 
 
TOBY HALL:   It was for only about a year.  I was born here.  My father was in the military and then we moved to California.  That's where I was mainly raised.  
 
Q.  Before the home run, you got that second chance, what were your thoughts at that point?
 
TOBY HALL:   Just making adjustments.  There's little things; it was the same pitch that I had fouled off.  I just tried to stay focused in case he threw it again, to make sure to put a better swing on it.  It's tough, you know.  You've never faced a lot of these  -- I've never faced any of these guys out here.  To make adjustments quickly, that's the main part of games like this.  
 
Q.  How do you think this helps your chances of getting called back up to the Devil Rays? 
 
TOBY HALL:   You can't control the uncontrollable.  My situation is, they give me a Durham Bulls uniform to wear every day and I go about my business that way.  Whatever happens from then on, if they give me a different jersey some other time, then I will do the same thing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT