NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 28, 2001
Ray Bourque
Patrick Roy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How are you able to stay confident and on top of your game?
 
PATRICK ROY:  You always have a moment where you doubt yourself, but to me it has always been trusting myself and my style, make sure that I keep it.  Every time if I am not happy about my play I am going upstairs and watching the video and try to find out.  Usually it's not addicting but it is just to play with more passion and be more moving better around my net.  If I am moving good then I basically know I am always ahead of the shot and I am square and make it a lot tougher on shooters.  Basically, that's what I want to do.  That's the approach I am always trying to take.  If I get beat I hope it is by a great shot.  
 

Q.  How do you keep your focus?
 
PATRICK ROY:  Well, I don't know, somehow I just try to always go back to basics and like I said, if you are satisfied with yourself then I guess you are not going in the right direction.   I always try to think about an objective and try to be satisfied when my objective is done. 
 RAY BOURQUE


Q.  There's so much talk about the Big 3.  Can you comment on the other defensemen?
 
RAY BOURQUE:  Jon Klemm is a very underrated defenseman and Greg de Vries had a great year for us.  He is a guy that in terms of minutes or playing every game last couple of years he has played a lot, but times he sat out the odd game.  This year he has played so well and done such a good job for us.  I think he has really established himself as a solid NHL defensemen and a guy that plays physical, skates really well.  Got a good shot.  Moves the puck; does a lot of good things.  Really has had a good year. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about Martin Skoula and his play for such a young player?
 
RAY BOURQUE:  Skoula is an up-and-coming, great defensemen in this League.  He is a guy that skates well; got a lot of poise, great shot.  Really he has it all in terms of speed and strength and size.  But really has a nice career for himself.  If he goes out there and plays well they will be talking a lot about him. 
 

Q.  Talk about Milan Hejduk.  Are you surprised he is leading the League in scoring?
 
RAY BOURQUE:  Not at all.  I think if you look at the season he is up there in goals, assists, points.  Really talented player.  Really last couple of years been one of the best forwards in the League.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT