NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Ray Bourque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was it fun?

RAY BOURQUE: Mark went four for four there. I couldn't miss one.  I missed the first one, couldn't do anything about it.


Q.  You have been in All-Star games.  Is it more special being here in Boston?

RAY BOURQUE: It was great going out for the introduction, and just having it here is great. Tomorrow night should be a blast.  I am looking forward to it.


Q.  (inaudible)?

RAY BOURQUE: I went to my bread and butter move and just didn't get it up.


Q.  Mark Messier is A pretty popular Ranger here, most popular since Phil Esposito?

RAY BOURQUE: That is not when he was wearing blue and white, he was wearing black and gold.  But yeah, he is huge.  He is having a great year; great player; has a great career, and it showed tonight, four for four and scored a big goal there in the breakaway.


Q.  What is the best part of the weekend; is it  being with the guys and seeing great players?

RAY BOURQUE: Just being with the guys.  And, you know, something like this is fun for me in the past and.  You know, the game tomorrow night, that is probably the most fun you have is going out there and just playing the game and playing with the bunch of talent that is in this room.  Not too often you get the opportunity to play with a bunch of superstars, and it is nice to take advantage of it.


Q.  Talk about strategy.  Do you go look at one and try to do the low ones first or the high ones?

RAY BOURQUE: I hit the low ones first and the first one, the first pass I got, I had to settle the puck down, and it was kind of bouncing on me, and I had to run after the puck a little bit.  And then I just missed that first target, then I hit a couple.  But I like hitting that first target low left; hit the first one down, you just feel you could hit them all.  You miss the first one, you know, knowing that it takes four out of five or four out of four to win, it makes it tough.


Q.  Is that the lousy Penguin passing?

RAY BOURQUE: I just missed a couple of targets, and that was the end of it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT