NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Ray Bourque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (INAUDIBLE.) 
 
RAY BOURQUE: Looking forward to the second half.  Getting better and better.  We have got some people here that make a great hockey team, and we have the -- I think we are getting better.  We need a top notch goalie, I think we got one.  It is just actually going out there and just playing like we can.  If we do that, we will be great. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
RAY BOURQUE: Paul has been a great player, and I have played with him and against him for a lot of years.  So he is a great guy.  And I mean, we kind of, you know, gone down the same path in a lot of ways; both put some good numbers up, and we just want to keep truckin' here.  We are guys that like to play the game and hate to slow down and -- 
 

Q.  Bobby is still the guy talked about?
 
RAY BOURQUE: I think he was the most dominating player ever playing defense.  To dominate like he did, I don't think anybody else will be able to do that.  We are kind of hanging in his coat tails--  
 

Q.  Last question about the Wings.  They are the best regular season team right now.  They weren't tough enough last year to get it done.
 
RAY BOURQUE: I think they were tough enough. They were an excellent hockey team.  I think the experience they went through last year will help them this year.  They are a tough team.  They got strength up and down that lineup.  And when you've got guys like they have guys down the middle, it makes it tough. They aren't lacking. 
 

Q.  Your former teammate, in a game like this --  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
RAY BOURQUE: He has been around a long time, pretty good career for himself.  And I remember playing with him and kind of both come together, kind of came here the same year, he went down to farm team for a few months, pulled back up, and -- he has done well and great that he is here to be recognized what he has accomplished. 
 

Q.  Do you think it is special for him to do it here where he started?
 
RAY BOURQUE: I think it is.  I think you should ask him.  (INAUDIBLE.) 
 

Q.  Some guys you are playing with in this All-Star game were guys who were looking for your  autographs in previous All-Star games.
 
RAY BOURQUE: Stick around long enough and that will happen.  It is great.  Brings you back to when I played my first All-Star game.  I was playing with some of the guys that I just dreamed like being like and idolized for so long.  So for me, just brings me back and brings some really good memories. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
RAY BOURQUE: I remember watching Larry Robinson and watching the Kings for so long, and having the opportunity to play with him in the All-Star game was great 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT