NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 9, 2001
Ray Bourque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Ray, Final seconds ticked away you sort of bent over and you were thinking to yourself.  What were you thinking and what were you thinking when you raced the Cup?
 
RAYMOND BOURQUE: I couldn't breathe the last 30 seconds and it wasn't because I was tired.  I was just -- it was just too much and I was trying to hold off the tears, the emotions.  I was on the ice where we had a faceoff and you know, I had to stay focused.  You wanted to wait, I mean, I only kind of relaxed when there was about 7 or 10 seconds left.  All night long National Anthem was very tough, let it open up for just a second.  I had tears in my eyes and on the bench a few times, you kind of just let your mind drift for a couple of seconds and again you got regroup and just hold it and wait, wait.  Last ten minutes took a long time to run down.  Lifting the Cup, what a feeling.  I just can't describe it.  It was something I don't want to talk about after Game 6 and I won't let him.  I said we are going to have plenty of time if we do get it done, or when we are going to get it done between at the end of the game and when is it going to come out what we are going to do with it.  He just wanted me to go up there and grab it.  He is our leader.  He has been all year.  I said grab it and give it to me.  I will run with it for a little bit.  
 

Q.  Two questions Ray, number one, what you were just talking about the tradition of the captain taking the first turnaround the ice with the Cup, talk about that, what a great gesture that was for just Joe to give it to you to make the first spin?
 
RAYMOND BOURQUE: Joe is unbelievable man.  He knows he has won it before and he has got a great history of the game.  He certainly knows mine.  He wanted me to go up there and grab it, and.  He is just a great leader.  To allow me to grab it, that quick from him, this says it all.  He let led us again tonight along with Patty that a lot  -- first period of Game 6 really can't say enough about this club, coming back from behind 3-2 and all year long we said home ice would be key and we got it done in front of our fans tonight.  It is unbelievable. 
 

Q.  Have you determined whether you are going to come back and defend it?
 
RAYMOND BOURQUE: No, I am going to take a little time here to think about the future and get some rest and the minute I make a decision the hockey world is going to know about it. 
 

Q.  Much of your adult life of course has been spent in Boston.  Bruins haven't won a Cup in 29 years.  What is your message to the people of Boston the Bruins fans who were really pulling for you?
 
RAYMOND BOURQUE: I can't say enough about Boston and you know, starting there all my years at Boston it was just unbelievable.  I got two cracks at it there.  We couldn't get it done.  Really everybody that I played with has a little piece of this.  They certainly know what they mean to me and the fans, I can't thank them enough for their support.  Boston, Montreal, I just keep hearing about you know, so many different stories that about people just pulling for me and it is going to be unbelievable going back there this summer.  
 

Q.  What was your day leading up to this game (inaudible)
 ?
RAYMOND BOURQUE: Got up early this morning, had a good night's sleep, and got here early.  There was some fans out there waiting for us, just practiced in the normal practice day and when we were going home there was a whole lineup right around the corner, I think they were waiting for standing room only seats.  They were just cheering us, every guy was going by with their car.  You can just feel the electricity all day long.  I can't say enough to -- I mean my neighbors through all this, I have had drawings in my driveway, flags along my whole street, there's one fan I had a Jersey banner out and they got toilet paper their whole yard, I mean, the support I got in my street here in Denver, fans were just unbelievable.  This is a great building.  We have got great fans and I am so happy that we were able to bring it home here and win it at home.  We are going to have fun next couple of days.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT