U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Bronson Myers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So tell me about that last hole, what you hit in there.  Looked like you had about four and a half feet for birdie?
BRONSON MYERS: Yeah, so it was a 128 shot in against the wind.  I knew the pin was back, and I really thought he was going to stick it close.  I know he's a good enough short game players he's going to make up and down.  I knew I had to hit it close.
Took choke-up pitching wedge and swung at it and got aggressive, because you can't leave it conservative on the last hole.  You got to win.
Hit it in there, watched it back up, and then standing over the putt I was shaking but got the job done.
I'm pretty happy with the result of today.
Q. Obviously you built a lead and then you saw him come back on you.  What were you thinking during that period?
BRONSON MYERS: Keep doing the same thing.  Don't ever let your game plan change.  My practice round I had a really good game plan.  Just hit the middle of the green, two putt, make pars.
Because this course you're going to make bogeys.  The rough, if you get into the rough you're going to make bogeys.  I knew if I could just keep making pars and play the same way than I would rattle him, and it paid off.
Q. How did you build that lead in the first nine?  What were you doing well?
BRONSON MYERS: I was putting really well.  I don't want to jinx myself, but I haven't made a three-putts the whole tournament.  I've been able to keep it right around the hole and leave myself some easy putts that even if you're nervous over you're going to make two and a half footers most the time.
So, it was a good lead.
Q. Last one:  How exciting is this and where does this rank in your young golf career?
BRONSON MYERS: This is actually at the peak of my golf career.  I had a really strong summer last year.  I moved up to No. 1 in South Carolina.  This is a whole 'nother level.  I'm really honored to be here.  I'm so happy to be here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT