NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
John Madden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you think Belfour leaned on the 2 on 1 -- he seemed not to pay attention to your
shot (inaudible)?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: I wasn't really concerned with what he was doing. When I had missed the
first shot on the 2 on 1, I went back to the bench. I was told that if I get another
chance shoot their again, go a little blocker, because you had him beat this time. I got
real lucky to have the same exact shot twice within about 30 seconds. 
 
Q. Both in college and in your first year here in the pros, been outstanding on the
penalty kill. What does it take to be such a good penalty killer; score so many
shorthanded goals?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: For me I watch a lot of video. I have watched a lot of powerplays and I
find they all do the same thing, you know, from one thing to the next, obviously change it
up a little bit, but the biggest key is try to force them. Don't let them get too much
time. Especially in this League, if you let skilled players handle the puck for a long
time, they are going to make skillful passes; great plays, that is how goals go in. 
 
Q. If you could talk about the -- just the flurry of goals that you guys had in the
third period. You come in trailing 1-0, but it just didn't seem to stop you guys.
 
 JOHN MADDEN: When we went into the intermission before the third period, we were all
real positive and we just said it was a matter of time before we scored some goals. That
is what we were looking to do, trying to get everything on net and we were going to come
at them with everything we had. That was our intention and Sergei Brylin scored a
game-breaking goal. He broke things out at the end for us. Rafalski also scored. That took
a little pressure off us. So I think everybody was on the same page and we felt confident.
We didn't feel that we were going to lose the game. 
 
Q. Scott Stevens described you as a confident, cocky little kid; is that accurate?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: That is pretty much it. 
 
Q. How sweet is it to be like where you are now considering that nobody drafted you?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: Well, it is a great feeling and the Jersey organization I owe a lot to
them for finding me and I think -- I guess I owe thanks to Brendan Morrison who is a
player at the University of Michigan which Jersey came out a lot and watched him play so I
got a little notoriety through him. 
 
Q. You have a couple more days to kind of think about a big game, Game 5. How are you
going to prepare for that?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: I don't know, I was just saying to the guys in the dressing room I don't
know if I am going to be able to sleep the next couple of nights. I wish we were playing
tomorrow so we can get this thing going. By no means is this thing over. We still have to
win a game and when a team is fighting for their lives it is going to be tough to do. But
it is going to be tough to adjust the next three days. 
 
Q. When you took that slash on the wrist early, were you worried that anything was
broken and did it affect anything you did the rest of the game?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: No, well, obviously, it was sore and affected most of my faceoffs. My
stick kept popping out of my hands on the faceoffs. But I didn't -- when he first slashed
me I didn't think anything was broken. I had a little trouble getting feel back in my
hand; getting my grip back, that was about it. 
 
Q. Did you think of passing the second time down on the penalty kill?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: The guys said if I would have took off right away, I would have a
clear-cut break-a-way. I actually thought the guy who was coming over was on my team. Then
when I looked over I was like: He is not on my team. I picked up the pace a little bit and
made more of a streamline to the net, I guess. I thought I was going to pass to him but it
is a good thing I didn't. 
 
Q. You guys came in here with a great road record, best in the Playoffs. Ever in your
wildest dreams did you think you would take two of them in this building?
 
 JOHN MADDEN: We felt we were good enough to get one out of them after winning the first
game. We wanted to get greedy, we wanted two games, that was our intention. I mean, you
don't go in games thinking we got one and that is all we really want to get out of here.
We thought we could get two, and you know, got a little lucky tonight in terms of
basically two minutes of that whole game that Dallas kind of fell asleep and we took
advantage of it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT