WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2005
George Bastl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Getting very excited about the guy that beat you.  Are we right to do so? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, so far yes.  
 
Q.  What were your impressions of him? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  He served well today.  Had a very high percentage of first serves.  Solid from the back.  Yeah, got a pretty good all-around game.  
 
Q.  Did you know much about him before the match today? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No, not really.  
 
Q.  Does that make it difficult at all? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah, pretty much.  I mean, I didn't know much what to expect, so it's always a bit difficult to come into a match and not knowing.  
 
Q.  What are the things that you felt were wrong with your own game today? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, I have to say he played well with his game, so all the credit to him.  With mine, I was unhappy with my serve.  I had very low percentage of first serves, so that made it pretty tough on my own serves.  I was running after the score.  I had to take a bit more risks.  I mean, it didn't go well.  
 
Q.  Andrew Murray's mother said she came and videoed your practice session yesterday to get an idea of what sort of player you're like, to give her son some advice.  She said she was spying on you.  Do you mind that? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, she's allowed to do what she wants.  I mean, good for them.  You know, if it helped, good.  
 
Q.  But you didn't have any sort of similar experience of what Andrew Murray was like? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No, my mother wasn't here to tape his practice (smiling).  Sorry.  
 
Q.  Do you feel fully fit?  Somebody was suggesting maybe you were not, you know, 100% fit. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No, no, I was fit.  No injuries, nothing.  
 
Q.  There have been suggestions that as grass court tennis is played in so few places, over such a short period, that Wimbledon should dig up the grass and replace it with something else.  How would you feel about that? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  To put what surface?  Clay (smiling)?  
 
Q.  Whatever surfaces the players wanted. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No.  I think tennis being all year long, I think it's very good to have -- still have, even if it's very short, grass court season.  I mean, just -- I mean, even the grass court now, it's becoming very, very slow, so it's not much difference from clay courts and hard courts.  It's not such a big advantage for players that like fast surfaces.  But definitely I don't think it would be good to change.  
 
Q.  Did Justin come to you and tell you he wasn't going to be able to play the third-round match? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  In the qualifying?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Then he went on.  Were you surprised when he suddenly quit?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No, he had told me that he had trouble with his back.  
 
Q.  One game and you're in. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah, I didn't complain that day.  It was good for me.  
 
Q.  A good rest. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah, I mean, I guess it worked out pretty well for him.  I saw he won yesterday.  That extra day of rest was beneficial to him.  
 
Q.  Can you explain the difference in your feelings the last time you played on that court and today? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Feeling?  Yeah, if I remember, I was happier last time (smiling).  
 
Q.  Was that the happiest you've ever been on a tennis court that time? 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  On a tennis court?  No, no.  I mean, last time it was pretty special, but it was more like over the time that I appreciate that victory.  But on the moment, was good.  
 
Q.  Andrew Murray plays Stepanek next.  Any views on how he might cope with Stepanek?  He's never played him before. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah, but I think Stepanek is having a very, very good season.  It's going to be a good test for Andy I think.  Stepanek is a very hard player to play against.  Very solid.  He played well at the Queen's.  He likes to play on the grass.  It's going to be another test to see where he stands on the world scene.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT