WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
George Bastl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What is it like?  It's 15-30 in the last game, you're looking across the net at the all-time Wimbledon Champion.  Do you think you're going to do it?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, I looked at him, you know, for over three hours, so (laughter).  I started to know what he looks like.  It really didn't change much at that time.  You know, I still, you know, tried to do the basics  - stay with my game plan, you know, try to finish him off.  
 
Q.  Can you believe what you've just done?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, yeah (laughing). 
 
Q.  For a guy who didn't win a game in the ATP Tour, comes in as a lucky loser, never wins a match on grass... 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  It's a nice story (smiling). 
 
Q.  Did you believe it yourself?  Did you give yourself any chances there?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, yeah, I gave myself chances because, you know, I've been practicing on grass for the last three weeks here in England.  Played a few warm-up tournaments.  You know, I knew coming into this match I had won already three matches, and so my confidence was good.  I knew my game was improving match after match.  You know, I thought I would have some sort of a chance.  
 
Q.  You mentioned your game plan.  What was your game plan?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, I tried to, you know, stay aggressive, stay inside the court.  Whenever I would have an opportunity, try to, you know, put pressure on him and come forward with some heavy, heavy shots. 
 
Q.  Two key points in the break in the fifth set, two great returns:  the forehand down the line, and on breakpoint the return at Pete's feet at the service line.  Can you take us through those points, what you saw on the serve, how you positioned yourself, how much of the ball you got on the racquet?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, you know, Pete varies his serve so well, it's difficult to see any pattern in his serving.  But, you know, the point before, he served a double, so that put us to 30-All.  You know, I was talking myself into if I have a good sight on the ball, just have a good crack at it, like I did for the four sets before.  Really, I haven't changed any way I approached those two points, it was the way I approach the whole match prior to that. 
 
Q.  And on the breakpoint, the one he had to half volley, did you put that ball pretty much where you wanted it?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, I think was a first serve he served.  I'm not sure about that.  And, again, with his type of serving, it's more -- you know, you pretty much try to do what you can do.  So, I mean, it just happened it was in my striking zone, and I had a good swing at it.  
 
Q.  He looked like he was coming back, putting more and more pressure on your serve, but still you kept cool. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  The third and fourth set, beginning of the fifth, his level of serving I think went up quite a bit.  It put more pressure on my serves.  So I felt he was getting more dangerous as the match progressed. 
 
Q.  Do you think you would have beaten the Pete Sampras of two years ago?  At that time he had this aura.  Has both his aura come down and his ability come down?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, I cannot answer this question.  I haven't met him two years ago.  You know, I personally think I've improved in those last two years, so... 
 
Q.  Not whether you played him two years ago, but whether if you played the Pete Sampras a couple years ago.  Does it go around the locker room that Pete Sampras is beatable now whereas two or three years ago everybody thought if you draw him at Wimbledon, you have no chance?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  I think still at Wimbledon it's like he's, you know, favorite tournament.  It's true, he's got this aura about himself.  But, I mean, besides I think losing last year against Federer, I don't know, in the quarterfinals, he still has a pretty good record coming into it.  I mean, I try to put that aside and just, you know, try to deal with, you know, playing against him without all this around it. 
 
Q.  Do you think it helped you playing on Court  2 rather than being on Centre or 1?  How much do you think it helped you?  Did you find the atmosphere less intimidating out there on Court  2?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, it was still  -- I think there were quite a few people watching.  I mean, I felt okay.  I never played on the other courts, so I don't know how it would feel on those courts (smiling). 
 
Q.  Given your family background, how is it that you did not become a hockey player with your brother and dad both being hockey players?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  I played hockey till I was 16, 17.  Yeah, then I just, you know, stopped.  I had to give up one or the other.  Kind of, you know, gave up hockey and played tennis. 
 
Q.  Dick Leach is here this week.  Did he have any advice for you this match?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  I met him a few times, but I congratulated him for his team winning the championship.  But we haven't really spoke about this match or anything in particular.  
 
Q.  Did you see that Pete was reading something during the breaks?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No, I did not.  
 
Q.  Where does this victory rank in your career?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Well, quite up there, you know (smiling). 
 
Q.  Who is the highest ranked player you've beaten before?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  You got me there.  I don't know. 
 
Q.  When were you most nervous?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  You know, the beginning of the match, it's always , you know, you play against Pete.  You know, the first few games were important for me where I could, you know, settle and go into a rhythm and start to get, you know, familiar with the surroundings, the whole atmosphere. 
 
Q.  Did Pete say anything to you at the end?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No.  
 
Q.  Were you aware of Court  2's reputation as the graveyard of champions?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  Yeah.  I heard that when you asked the question to Pete before (smiling). 
 
Q.  You've become part of the lore.  But you didn't know before that?
 
GEORGE BASTL:  No.  I thought the other court, like glasses.  What is that court, Court  1, used to be Court  1?  
 
Q.  18. 
 
GEORGE BASTL:  I thought that was it.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT