NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 9, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is it too soon after the loss to appreciate the trophy? 

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   No.  But I would give that one up to get the other one.  You know, it would have been much better to get the other one.  But I have to give credit to my teammates.  They worked really hard in front of me.  They gave everything this give, and I want to -- I wouldn't get that one without their help.  They were just amazing in front of me.  I have to give them the credit for that one.

Q.  Can you talk about your emotions as the game ended; you were slumped down in the goal for a long time; what went through your mind? 

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   Well, it's tough to lose like that. We gave so much effort to get where we are at, and you never know when the next chance is going to come at you.  So, it's tough.  It was really tough to see them cheer.  You have to give them credit.  They played really well.  They are a really good team and tonight they deserved to win, so you have to give them credit.

Q.  Your team played so well the other night and then you come here tonight and you can't score a goal; was that a testament to the Devils or something to do with your team?

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   A little bit of both.  It seemed like home ice advantage really had something to say in this series.  With all teams winning their games at home.  It   was really loud in here and really loud in Anaheim.  The fans were awesome for both teams.  It was just hard to play in this building.  I think they probably thought that it was tough to play in our building, too.  It's not a question of us not wanting it; it's a question of them playing well.  At the end we just couldn't do it.

Q.  Your coach said anybody who has watched you for the last two years knows that you were not a surprise; that you are this good, but he imagines you have learned a lot in this playoffs.  Can you talk about how you have evolved in the last couple of months? 

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   I've learned a lot in the playoffs.  You learn how aggressive you have to be, how much energy you have to give.  The preparation leading to the playoffs is the key.  You have to make sure you are well prepared before you go into the playoffs, and I thought we did a great job being prepared.  I have never seen a team and the coaching staff making sure that we were that ready, and it makes your game much easier to play once you're prepared like that.  I thought every game we played was to win and that's the way it is.  If you just want to be successful, you just have to keep working harder and harder every night.  I have fun when I work hard.  This is what I like to do. 

Q.  Considering you came from the losing team, are you surprised you won the award and are you surprised that they booed you? 

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   I'm not surprised they booed me.  In New Jersey, they probably wanted their guy winning it and this is very understandable.  There was a lot of cheers, too.  It's just a few fans booing, I guess.  I saw a lot of the Devils players cheering and all that, and that was very nice of them.  Like I said, this is not the one you want and you want the big silver one.  That's the one you are aiming for.  This one is just dressing on the cake or whatever you say  -- icing on the cake. 

Q.  First of all, are you and Marty seemed to have a brief comment there back and forth, what was said, and also, could you tell us about playing a series against Brodeur, a guy who is obviously one of the best in the game?

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   Well, probably the best in the game right now, since Patrick retired.  I think he's probably the one taking over right now at being the best.  I just congratulated him.  I thought that he had a great series and a great playoffs all together.  He's a big part of their team, and he deserves to get what he got tonight.  You know, they worked really hard for it and you've got to give them credit. 

Q.  You had to slay a couple of giants to get to the finals and you still have a very tough conference; will you be sitting here a year from now?

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   Hopefully.  I think the way we are going to approach the season next year, we are going to go with Game 1; it's going to be the biggest game of the year and we'll go from that.  We're just going to try to battle.  You never know what's going to happen, there could be injuries.  You just want to go one game at a time and try to position yourself in the playoffs and then just go from there.  

Q.  You've been through so much of this emotion, the highs and the lows; can you just sum up for us, your thoughts right now, the emotions, the difficulty dealing with this loss?

JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:   Well, I'm pretty sad.  This is obvious.  My main reason to win the Stanley Cup was for my mom tonight.  She's been watching every game at home.  She lives for that, and she's not doing too well right now.  I would have really liked to win that for her.  It was in the back of my mind the whole time.  I'm sure that she'll be up, and it's just part of the game.  Tomorrow is a new day and I'll get up and I'll be happy again.  We're just going to move on. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT