NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 8, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are you nervous, excited, tired?  What are the emotions and feelings right now?

J.S. GIGUERE: Excited would be the feeling that describes my mood right now.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  We couldn't go any further than that.  It's going to be a great game.  It's going to be a really tough battle out there, and I think the team that's going to work the hardest is going to end up with the Cup.  I know for a fact that we're a hard working team.  I'm confident we can do the job.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

J.S. GIGUERE: Because that's the past, and we don't want to live in the past.  They also lost Game  7 and they've won Game  7.  You can't rely on that.  It's all about the present and what's going on and tomorrow.  Whatever happened in the past doesn't count.  It's about what's going to happen tomorrow that's going to count and it's going to dictate what's going to happen.  We're just excited to be part of that, and Game  7 or not, this is just another game, another hockey game.  It's going to be the same thing that every other hockey game we played this year. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

J.S. GIGUERE: I really believe that.  We're not going to change thinking.  We're going to play our game.  This is just a 60-minute game.  It might be more, but it's just the same thing.  The referee is going to drop the puck right off the bat.  Whoever's going to compete the hardest is going to win.  This is no different.  The stakes are greater.  Everybody is going to be excited just to play for that Cup.

Q.  What's the biggest playoff game that you've played in your year, and Game 6 doesn't count?

J.S. GIGUERE: Well, Game 6 counts to me, because it was a big game for me.  Any games I played this year were big games for me, because every game was a new experience, and I live for those new experiences.  I want to get them.  I want to try to get myself a better player, and I want to try to get this team a better team, and I think every game we played in those playoffs made us better players and better team.

Q.  Do you expect tomorrow night to be something resembling the last two games or something more resembling the first four games?

J.S. GIGUERE: I'm not quite sure.  I just know everyone is going to work really hard.  I can't really predict the future.  For me, I'm going to focus on making one save at a time.  Whatever happens, I'm not going to play the scoreboard or time.  I'm just going to focus on doing my job, try to help my team get a win, and if I give my team a chance to win, then we'll see what's going to happen at the end.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

J.S. GIGUERE: Something that went on for their team.  I'm not quite sure what it is.  There is such a thing as home-ice advantage.  Sometimes it can play a part, but we have been a good team on the road this year, and until this series, we were 6 and 1.  We can play on the road.  We can be successful on the road and right now the only thing we need to do is play our game as hard as we can.  I think we were a little bit too tentative the first two games.  We can't play like that.  I think tomorrow we are going to leave it on the table, and everybody is so excited to play that game tomorrow.  We're all just going to come and play so hard, and if we all do that, then, there won't be any regrets.  We're just going to go out there, and we'll see what's going to happen. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT