NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 5, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  J.S., was there a feeling of helplessness out there tonight?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: I mean, obviously it's not our best game defensively.  I thought the puck was bouncing everywhere, and I felt like it was a hot potato, and it seemed like nobody could get control of the puck, myself included.  It was just bouncing everywhere.  We just need to forget about this one and focus on the next game. 
 
Q.  Can something like this shatter your confidence going into game number 6?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Not one bit.  It's one game.  I have been through those situations before.  Tomorrow is a new day, and we're going to focus on the next game.  All in all I made some good saves.  You've just got to take those good saves and keep going forward on those. 
 
Q.  Did the officials make the right call on the Pandolfo goal?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: They went upstairs.  How can you argue with that?  I would imagine they did, just because they went upstairs and they got the replay and all that.  We'll give them the benefit of the doubt on that one. 
 
Q.  Did you have a chat with Mike Leclerc?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Definitely with the skate.  I don't know if he did the kick motion or whatever.  That's up to them to decide.  Obviously they probably did.  They said it was a good goal. 
 
Q.  Did you have to have a chat with Mike after the Gionta goal?  Did he say anything to you?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: We haven't talked about it.  That's an honest mistake.  Obviously Mike is a hard worker.  He's been really good for our team, and he was just trying to get control of the puck.  Like I said, the puck was bouncing a lot tonight for both teams.  It's unfortunate that came and went in our net.  Stuff happens, and it's an honest mistake. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well, we give ourselves a chance to play 6 games.  By playing well and doing what we do, the two games previous to tonight, the next game is going to be very important.  It's going to be a great chance for us.  We're just excited to be part of that.  We're going to forget about this game and show up at the next game. 
 
Q.  J.S., was there just too much traffic in front of you or an off-night for you?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: You just don't count the shots and goals.  This is playoffs right now and stats don't count when it's a team game out there.  I thought, as a team, we weren't as good defensively as we could have been.  We played very well defensively.  Three goals should be enough in the playoffs to win.  The next game, we're all going to have to be better in our own zone, including myself.  It's the way it's going to be. 
 
Q.  No major adjustment?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: No, just do what we do.  That's all we have been doing all year.  That's all we're going to keep doing.  We're not going to change anything, just anything.  The only thing we need to do is do what we do. 
 
Q.  You came in here on an emotional high.  Can you all of a sudden lose the momentum?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Obviously, these guys wanted to bounce back from the last two games, and they needed a good performance for their team, and that's what they did.  They came after us, and we just need to forget about this one, focus on the next games, and make sure we play our game the next game and go after them. 
 
Q.  Do you remember a game that the puck bounced so much?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: It happens once in a while.  You create your bounces.  These guys, they worked really hard tonight.  They threw a lot of pucks at the net and traffic at the net and the pucks bounced their way.  We need to work harder.  I feel as far as a goalie is concerned you create your own luck.  I just need to create my own luck the next game. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT