NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 4, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: We're in it.  We're all part of it.  We're part of the series right now, and we should just be excited to play the next game. 
 
Q.  You seem more comfortable now, you and your teammates?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: I think we are a little bit more comfortable.  I think the first couple of games we just didn't bring our game into the rink.  I don't think guys  -- some of the guys might not feel comfortable playing in the Stanley Cup Finals and all that.  I think we saw in the third and fourth game that if we bring our game and legs to the rink, we'll be able to have a chance to be successful.  That's what we have been doing. 
 
Q.  You received so much attention from the remarks you made the other day.  Was it calculated at all or was it an emotional type of thing at the moment?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: It was emotion.  It was 2-0 for them.  Something needed to be happening.  You can't let them jump all over you like that.  I thought it was a good time to do that.  At the same time, nothing I said was exceptional.  It's just the truth.  We were watching them play instead of playing the game.  If we play our game we're a dangerous team to play against and that's all we can ask. 
 
Q.  How would you bring the emotion from home here on the road to keep this emotional high going for you?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: We have been a good team on the road.  In the playoff before the series we had the best record on the road.  We're confident playing on the road.  We're a team that likes to have some challenge and you never see a fan scoring a goal or getting a big hit.  Tomorrow the only thing we need to do is do what we do. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: It was great to see the owner behind us like that.  I thought this year they made a very good commitment to the team.  They had a lot of heat in the past from fans saying they didn't put enough money into the team and all that.  This year, they did.  They made sure we had a good team.  You've got to give them credit because they're part of the success too. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well it shows you what type of team we are.  We are a team that if we want to win, we need 20 players playing.  That's the way it's been.  We're a deep team.  We get four good lines that can play.  We've got six good defensemen that can play and we've got good goaltending throughout.  It's great to see that.  The addition we made with the trading deadline and during season helped us getting some guys in the third and second line to fill the spots.  It's good to see that. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: It's going to be crazy.  It sold out in the building in Anaheim.  It's always fun to play in front of our fans.  Next game, it's up for grab for both teams.  We've got to go out there and do what we do. 
 
Q.  Talk about Steve Rucchin's Masterton Trophy nomination.
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Yeah, he deserves it.  He came up from a lot of things in the last two years, being injured for a couple years and two injuries that he couldn't have done anything about, the puck hitting him in the face.  There is nobody that deserves it more on our team than him.  He's been working so hard this year and in the playoffs.  He's probably the best player on our team and one of the best players  -- two best players in the league.  He's been great for our team. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well, there is no easy game out there.  Obviously, if we want to win the thing, we need to win one here.  We're only looking at the next game.  Tomorrow is the next game, and we'll see what's going to happen.  We've been a good team on the road this year and in the playoffs on the road.  We're confident we can win some things here.  The only thing we have to do is focus about tomorrow and we'll see what's going to happen after that. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well, yeah, at least we're in it right now.  We're in the series and we're part of it.  Now it's two teams battling for the thing.  It's not just one thing having a free wheel to the thing.  It's good to be part of it.  We're all excited for tomorrow night's game.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT