NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

J.S. GIGUERE: We're a young team and, in general, Steve's got a lot of experience.  I think that maybe that's what we needed a little more, guys who could play in the third line and would add some experience.  I think that was a great addition to our team.  Obviously, everything he's done since he got with us, shows it.  He scored a lot of big goals for us.  He shows a lot of enthusiasm in the room and always finds a way to make everybody laugh with his one-liners.

Q.  Was there anything that hit and you guys knew right then and there this was right?

J.S. GIGUERE: As soon as he came in, he started scoring big goals.  We thought that's a great addition.  It hasn't stopped.  Every day he either says something funny in the room that makes everybody relaxed or goes out there and scores a big goal.  He's been a great addition for us.

Q.  Coming back here a second time, do you sense a different comfort level or composure amongst you guys?

J.S. GIGUERE: I think we know what it takes to be successful.  If we do what we do, we have a chance to be successful.  That's all we can ask.  Tomorrow we should come  -- Thursday we should come in and do what we do, go after them and see what happens.

Q.  How do you think you've evolved through the first two games and the last two games?

J.S. GIGUERE: The same as the team.  I thought our team gave them too much respect.  I gave them too much respect.  You can't win if you do that to your opponent.  You obviously need to give them respect because they're the best from the East, but we're the best from the West and we deserve to be in the match-up against them.  You've just got to play your game if you want to have a chance to win.  I think that's what we have been doing.

Q.  What does it mean to you to say best of 3 wins the Cup?

J.S. GIGUERE: It's exciting.  Every game is going to be very important, the biggest game of the year for both teams.  It's going to be a great chance for us.  We're all looking forward to it.

Q.  When you say give them too much respect, what do you mean?

J.S. GIGUERE: Well, if you give them too much respect, you're kind of too careful on the ice.  You don't want to make mistakes.  And by not wanting to make mistakes, you do make mistakes, and you don't play with a lot of emotion.  Too careful and  you don't want to do that against a team like they have and that's not how we have been successful all year.  We have been successful all year going after the opponent, going after them and keep working and working and being relentless all the time.  That's not what we did in the first two games.

Q.  Both games you felt that was the case?

J.S. GIGUERE: Right.  The only way you're going to create scoring chances and all that is by being relentless, going after them, doing what we did all year.  At least if we do what we do, then we have a chance to win.

Q.  Are you glad to have an extra day between these games or would you rather play tomorrow night?

J.S. GIGUERE: Either way.  Both teams are in the same scenario.  If we're glad, they're glad, if we're not they're not.  It doesn't make a difference.  At the end, everybody is going to show up on Thursday and be excited about the game.  We're all going to be ready to play.

Q.  I wondered if it might give them a little break in the sense that they got to regroup now and have a couple days to do it?

J.S. GIGUERE: Well at this time of the year a lot of it is mental.  It's the Stanley Cup Finals.  There is three games left in a season if you're tired.  There is not such a thing as fatigue.  Everybody I think finds a way to push through the fatigue.  It doesn't make a difference at the end. 

Q.  Is there a sense that you guys had a big hill to climb to almost get back to square one?

J.S. GIGUERE: Well, not really.  It's all about one game at a time.  When we're down 2-0, we're not looking at winning the next two.  We've got to try to win the next game.  After that, we've got to see what happens.  Now our focus is on the next game.  We don't look at it like that.  The first team to get to four wins.  As long as you're not there, everybody is able to win.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT