NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 30, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Paul, after the last game, I know you kept saying that you guys just have to keep playing your game.  But it would seem that after the first two games it's not working.  Is there something different than whatever it is in terms of playing your game?

PAUL KARIYA: No, because we haven't played our game.  That was my point.  We haven't played the style of game and done the things that have made it successful in the playoffs so far. 

Q.  Which begs the follow-up, why haven't you played your game and why in particular do you think you have had such trouble getting shots on goal?

PAUL KARIYA: You have to give credit to the Devils.  They're a very good defensive team.  If you look at their record in past playoffs, they do a good job of keeping shots down in general.  You don't see too many 30-shot games against New Jersey.  So part of the credit goes there.  Part of it is just we haven't managed the puck and taken care of the puck when we've got it.  It's hard to generate shots and create offense when you're chasing the puck all day.  In spurts we have gotten some offensive opportunities, but not in any prolonged time where you're getting some quality scoring chance.

Q.  Paul, a lot of the guys talked about being frustrated.  How was the mood and morale in coming back today?

PAUL KARIYA: We're a lot better today.  I think we got some sleep last night and got a chance to reflect and we realize where we're at, which is, they won their two home games and now we're back at home in Anaheim and we have to take care of business here. 

Q.  Paul, what's been your impression of Marty Brodeur through the first two games.  Has it changed?

PAUL KARIYA: We haven't seen him too much, because we haven't had any shots.  Hopefully I can answer that question better the next game.  Seriously, he's a great goaltender and when we have got some shots against him, he's been there to make the saves.  He's what everyone expects from him.  He moves the puck well, makes big saves and he does the job for them.

Q.  Paul, what about playing at home.  This place is going to be rocking tomorrow night.  Do you feed off that energy?

PAUL KARIYA: It will be great.  I never experienced the Pond anywhere near this loud in my time here.

Q.  Do you think it will help having the last line change?

PAUL KARIYA: Well, yeah, definitely at home, you can do some different things with line match-ups and with last change and especially in the offensive zone, we can hopefully get some better opportunities and mix things up.

Q.  Paul, the idea has been floated around that you guys spend time during the layoff reading your own press clips and that you started to believe that you were better than maybe you were.  I'm not saying I agree with it.  I'm just asking the question.

PAUL KARIYA: That's not the case.  And should know that being around the guys, we're a great group of guys that are very humble and respectful.  There is no question that we have respect for New Jersey and we realize that they're a great hockey club and we're going to have to play a lot better to beat them.  That's definitely not a factor.

Q.  Paul, when you're down 3-0 in the game, do you have to make a statement that you're mad and not going to take it as opposed to letting the clock tick down?  Do you still not have to show "we're mad, we're embarrassed we're not going to put up with this?"

PAUL KARIYA: The most important thing is the numbers on the scoreboard.  If we start a fight at the end of the game or whatever, that may prove that we're frustrated.  The bottom line is that's not the type of team we are and that's not why we have had success so far.  We are disappointed and we are mad that we have played that way, but sending guys out at the end of the game to mix things up, I don't know whether that proves anything.

Q.  How frustrated are you guys right now offensively?

PAUL KARIYA: We're not pleased.  Obviously, to go to Jersey and not get a goal is not a good feeling to have, but more so than the actual production, just not generating chances.  A lot that I've said for the last three days is not specifically in the offensive zone but how well we handle the puck in our zone. We're turning the puck over in the neutral zone.  You can't score goals or create shots when you don't have the puck in the offensive zone.  When we have cycled it we've gotten scoring opportunities but we haven't done that for a long enough time to produce any goals.

Q.  How much of that do you think is your guys needing to work harder or the job they're doing against you?

PAUL KARIYA: It's a combination.  We know in those games we have broken them down and we moved it well.  We just have to do it for longer periods.  This is the playoffs.  It's not easy to score offensively.  You don't see any 7-5 games out here.  We have to start capitalizing on our opportunities and one of the biggest things is eliminating their chances.

Q.  Paul, you've said that you guys have not played the way you can.  Do you worry that if this continues people will say they were a fluke, they're just like Carolina was last year, they were completely overmatched?

PAUL KARIYA: That's looking way too far ahead.  I'm concerned right now about the way we play tomorrow and how we play tomorrow.  That's as far as I'll go with that.

J.S. GIGUERE:  We're not a fluke.  We're the most improved team in the NHL since the beginning of the season.  Since Christmas we are one of the best teams in the league.  We've beat Detroit, Dallas and Minnesota by doing what we do, not by luck.  We're a team that deserves to be here.  This is our series right now.  This is about us and them, not about the Devils.  It's about the Mighty Ducks against the Devils.  We deserve to be here.  We need to come to the rink with some emotion.

Q.  Is there anything about New Jersey's speed or depth that makes them a tougher match-up for this particular team?

PAUL KARIYA: No, if you look at all the teams we played, they're all good defensive teams that have a lot of depth.  I don't think you can make the playoffs now if you don't have those qualities.  Every team has its own style.  It's just been a question of not executing on our part and not doing the things that give us success.

Q.  J.S., it seems to me when they score a goal on you they're doing a lot of talking to you.  I don't know if that's taunting.  Did you notice that?

PAUL KARIYA: I haven't noticed.  They're happy when they score, obviously, and they scream, but they play with some emotion, but they haven't been saying anything.  Or if they did, I don't pay attention anyways.

Q.  One for each of you.  Paul, you have been here for a while.  What does the Ducks being in the Final do for hockey in this area?  And for J.S., in your mind, what's difference in your play now than the first three rounds?

PAUL KARIYA: It's great for our organization and team to have turned this thing around so drastically in the span of a year.  We've all worked hard to get to this point, and we're going to enjoy the experience.  I think it will do a lot for hockey in this area.  My first four years here you couldn't buy a ticket to the games, and I would sure like to see that back here.

J.S. GIGUERE:  I don't know, it's a good question.  Obviously the first three series I felt pretty good.  I still feel pretty good.  We've just got to bring more emotion.  They're not a better team than we are.  They're not up here and we're down here.  We're right there with them.  We are definitely able to play against these guys and beat them.  Everybody has to play.  Come in tomorrow and play their game.

Q.  In past series, especially when you played Dallas, you made a point of saying they were a more physical team than you, so you didn't want to play physical for physical.  In this series, they have been much more physical than you.  Do you feel at this point that you need to start being more physical with them?

PAUL KARIYA: Well, again, part of it -- I sound redundant here -- if you don't handle the puck through the neutral zone and put the puck in the right places, you don't got the hits.  They're managing the puck through the neutral zone with speed, but we don't have the puck, and we're not putting it in a position for us to get those hits.  If we start doing that, and we have done that when we have had the opportunity, we have made contact, we have to do more of that.  Part of the problem is not putting them in a position where we can be physical.

Q.  J.S., you were in a zone the first three rounds.  Do you think the layoff cooled you off a little bit?

J.S. GIGUERE:  Not at all.  I think there is no such thing as being in a zone.  It's something you work for your entire life.  Once it's time to bring it on, you have to bring it on.  We have been working at this all year long.  I'm part of this team.  Being in a zone would almost mean being lucky or not being at the right place.  We're at the right place.  I'm at the right place.  I feel comfortable playing at the playoffs.  Everybody does.  We're not in a zone.  We're able to be here and we're enjoying it.  We've got to keep doing the same thing.

Q.  Paul, you keep talking about doing a better job in the neutral zone and getting the puck in the right spots.  What do you have to do differently to achieve that at this point?

PAUL KARIYA: It's making plays and being that more poised with the puck.  They are obviously a trapping team, and if you pass the puck into their trap, your forwards can't make plays.  You can't move the puck down the boards.  You have to  -- through the neutral zone, you have to draw people and move it to the other side and attack up the other side.  They force you to make two or three good passes to get in the zone.  We're not making one good pass, so we're not getting anywhere in their neutral zone.

Q.  J.S., you sound kind of defensive about where you are right now.  Do you think your teammates share that emotion?

J.S. GIGUERE:  I would say so.  I would be very disappointed if not everybody shows up with lots of emotion tomorrow.  We've worked hard all year just to be here.  We should enjoy the moment but come in with emotion.  I think that's what's been lacking.  That's unacceptable.  We have to play for the moment.  When is the next time that it's going to happen to us?  We don't know.  We've got to live in the present.  Right now, we deserve to be here and we've got to play with emotion.

Q.  Why do you think their emotion has been lacking?

J.S. GIGUERE:  I don't know.  It's a good question, obviously.  Maybe we think we don't deserve to win.  This is not true.  We deserve to win.  We have to allow ourself to be successful, and like I said, we have been working at this all year.  There is no reason why we shouldn't want to keep  -- there is only 5 games left.  Let's go at it and see what's going to happen.  There is nothing else we can do.  Bring your A game.  Do what you have to do.  Make sure you bring it. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT