NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 29, 2003
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  J.S., if you guys were frustrated after Game  1, what's the feeling after Game 2?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: They out-worked us.  There is no excuse.  I'm frustrated with myself.  I've got to be better.  I've got to work better, allow myself to compete harder, and there is no excuse right now.  We've got to lay it all on the line. 
 
Q.  By the same token, you have to put the puck on the net?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well, this is not  -- I can do nothing about that.  My job is to make some saves, try to help my team win, and try to put our team in the position that we're going to be able to win at the end.  Whatever else happens, I can't control.  Obviously, we would like to have more shots and do what they do.  Nothing was very complicated on their goal.  They shot the puck from the point.  They got traffic at the net.  The puck went to their stick and they scored.  Nothing is very complicated but it works. 
 
Q.  It seems like it's gone from bad to worse for your club.
 
J.S. GIGUERE: We're not competing as hard as they are competing.  We're all about competing.  We're not a team that is overly skilled.  Our game is all about working hard, try to out-work the other team. 
 
Q.  If that's the case, are they that much better than you?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Not better than us, but out-working us.  The harder you're going to work, the better you are going to be. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: No, this is nothing I'm not used to.  I faced those kinds of challenges before in the past with a lot of traffic in front, and this is part of my job.  I've got the tools to face that.  They're making a lot of traffic in front and I have to compete harder, trying to make some saves. 
 
Q.  How surprised are you that it's like this?  Your back is against the wall.  Where do you stand?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: They're a good team.  Obviously they work hard.  It's just disappointing that we're not working as hard as we could.  This is all over with right now.  What's important is the next game.  We can't look at it like it's 2-0.  We have to go out there the next game and play and do what we have to do and try to give us a chance to win. 
 
Q.  Is there a way to explain why they out-worked you, especially tonight?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Beats me.  I don't know.  That's why I'm mad at myself.  There is no way I can get out-worked by those guys.  I have to out-work those guys. 
 
Q.  What's the mood in the locker room?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Well, we're confident that we can do the job.  We all know that we're a good team.  We deserve to be there.  We all know that we've just got to work harder.  Everybody has got to bring their A game, bring their hat to work or whatever and come to work and do what we do. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Obviously they have a good team.  They've got three good lines.  They've got experience, great goaltender, and we're not going to have a chance to win if we don't work.  Right now, they have been out working us.  We have to do what we have to do. 
 
Q.  How about going home, how big will that be for you?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Obviously first period is going to be a key.  We need to start establishing a game and we should all be excited about the next game.  There is no excuses.  We're not tired.  We have lots of rest, so we've got to play and do what we have to do. 
 
Q.  Did you hear the taunts, Marty is better?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: I don't hear that, no. 
 
Q.  Did you break your stick in frustration after that third goal?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: I was just mad at myself.  I've got to be better  -- I've got to allow myself to be better and compete harder.  If I compete harder I'm going to be better. 
 
Q.  Do you guys play a team like them in your conference that you feel is close to what they resemble?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: The Dallas Stars are very similar to those guys, and Minnesota are the same kind of team, they play very well defensively, good goaltender.  They've got lines that can score.  What they throw at us is nothing unusual.  We've faced that in the past.  We know what we have to do.  The only thing we have to do is play our game and do it as good as we can and then we will have a chance. 
 
Q.  Could you have done anything differently?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: The first two goals, they did good.  They got the puck at the point, shoot the puck, traffic at the net.  There is not much more I can do.  I've just got to be on top of my crease to make that first save.  When the puck is bouncing, it's just a good play by them.  They do what they have to do. 
 
Q.  You're basically mad at yourself?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Yeah, basically in the third period we're down 2-0, the next goal is very important.  If we score, it's 2-1.  If they score, it's 3-0.  It changed the whole game.  I've got to make sure I keep competing and pushing myself and stick with my game plan, and I was just frustrated that I wasn't involved on that play a little bit better. 
 
Q.  They feel the key to getting you has been the traffic in front of the net.  Do you think that's a fair statement?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: It's the key to get to any goalie.  The more you put traffic in the net, the harder it is for the goalie.  It's been like this for 75 years.  I mean, if we want to have any kind of success against Marty, knowing how good he is, we need to put traffic in front of him.  Nothing fancy, exactly what they did, and we might have a chance to score. 
 
Q.  On the first goal, that puck never got through to you, did it?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: No, it hit the defenseman in front of the net, then went right to their guys' sticks. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Yes and no.  It's not what he did.  It's what I did that mattered on that play. 
 
Q.  Thomas was saying that some of you guys may be overwhelmed; is that possible?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: Might be.  We have no reason to be.  It's not any different than the last round, and it's a hockey game.  What matters is how you play on the ice.  The rest has absolutely nothing to do with the game.  I don't think anybody is distracted by anything. 
 
Q.  When was the last time you were this frustrated?
 
J.S. GIGUERE: I'm not frustrated.  I'm frustrated with myself.  I wish that I would compete a little bit harder.  I'm not frustrated.  I know we're capable of winning.  I know we're capable of playing better.  We're ail looking forward to the next game.  It's going to be exciting.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT