NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DUCKS v RED WINGS
May 15, 2007
Jean-Sebastien Giguere
Scott Niedermayer
Rob Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Scott, what happened?   
 SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  Probably lots of things.  The first 10 minutes, first little bit, I thought we were going, thought we had good fortune going, controlling the puck, getting the shots.  Then after that, they showed us how to play.   
  
  Q.  After a game like this, do you forget about it?  Is this a tape you look at a couple of times?   
 SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  I'm sure there's going to be pretty easy pickings for the video to find things we can do better.  Too many penalties.  We weren't playing our structure the way we wanted to play.  They played well.  We played poorly.  It's simple.   
  
  Q.  What's the difference between what happened in Game 2 and what happened tonight?   
 SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  I don't know, if you play enough, I guess it's going to happen.   
 Disappointing conference final.  Pretty big game coming home here.  Needless to say, we're pretty upset, pretty disappointed.   
    
  Q.  Talk about what happened out there.   
 ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I mean, they controlled the game, controlled the puck.  They out-battled us in a lot of areas.  You know, we got to get back to our game, which is forechecking and controlling the puck down low.  Yeah, that's what we have to do.   
  
  Q.  Did you see the shift at all in the first period?  Looked like the first maybe 10 minutes or so you had your game going.  Did you see at all the shift in the game?   
 ROB NIEDERMAYER:  No.  You know, I thought we came out pretty good.  You know, we just took some penalties.  I think, you know, gave them chances on the power play.  It's tough to regroup.  We're a team that needs to sort of roll our four lines.  That kills our momentum, too.   
  
  Q.  Why the lack of discipline?   
 ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I don't know.  I think we just got to get back to moving our legs and skating out there.  I think, you know, when you sit back and watch that club, I mean, they're going to control the game with the passing.  That's what we did tonight.   
    
  Q.  What happened in the first period?   
 JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:  I thought we came out fairly good and then, you know, they scored a couple of goals, just kind of took our legs away.  As a team, it was a disappointing effort tonight.  You know, it's time to move on, focus on the next game.   
  
  Q.  We're so used to see you being so good, especially in this building.  Does this shake your confidence at all?   
 JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:  Not at all.  I think we spent a lot of time this year building a foundation as a team.  The foundation is very strong, both individually and as a team.  We just got to go back to that.   
 It's very simple.  Tonight wasn't our game.  You know, it's the first one to four wins, not the first one to two wins.  We're just going to have to dig down and work better next game.   
  
  Q.  What do you have to do in Game 4 more than anything else to turn this thing around?   
 JEAN-SEBASTIEN GIGUERE:  Just play Ducks hockey.  We got to come out in the first 10 minutes shooting the puck, hitting, trying to score the first goal.  When we play Ducks hockey, you know, we're usually successful.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT