NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 4, 2003
Chipper Jones
Russ Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Russ, talk about taking the ball again after three days' rest, and how that affected you?
 
RUSS ORTIZ: I didn't think it would be that big of deal.  I did it earlier in the season.  Everything went well, so I knew if the time ever came that, I would be able to do it no problem.  They asked me today if I was ready to throw and will I be ready, and I said, yeah. 
 
Q.  What was the reaction of your teammates after the base running mistake?  Did they tease you good-heartedly or did you feel extra responsibility to make up for it?
 
RUSS ORTIZ: They didn't say much.  They said, hey, way to get on base.  They kind of patted me on the back.  I think at that point in time it wasn't necessary to get too upset and feel like we just  -- or I feel like I just blew a big opportunity to score.  It was a mistake on my part and they left it at that. 
 
Q.  Did you go out there with an idea today  -- what would have been successful for you?  What was going through your mind?
 
RUSS ORTIZ: The only thing is winning the ballgame.  We had to win this game.  I was trying to give the best effort I can and feel like we're going to win the ballgame.  That's all I did.  I wish I would have gone longer, but that's just a personal thing as a starter, but at the same time, I mean, these guys came in and did a great job.  So,  the main thing was to win the ballgame. 
 
 
Q.  The way you guys came back and won this game today, how much momentum is that with you going back home?
 
RUSS ORTIZ:  I've got to believe there is some momentum going into tomorrow.  I've never seen, this being my first year, any lack of confidence, any lack of a momentum shift the other way.  So, we knew that we had to come out and win the ballgame whatever it took.  We did that, so we're going in tomorrow.  I think we'll do the exact same thing. 
 
Q.  Chipper, with the way things have gone for you, did you sort of take some more responsibility on yourself today?
 
CHIPPER JONES:  Well, losing Gary Sheffield, that's a big blow to anybody's offense.  He's been the main guy right there.  Not to have him right there in the middle, I knew at some point in the course of the game, I knew I was going to come in in an essentially game-deciding situation.  I think I had a couple at-bats today where I didn't see 98 on the black.  These guys have been so incredible through the first four games, not giving you much to hit, and today I got a couple pitches out over the plate that I could do something with. 
 
Q.  Chipper, talking about 98 on the black, again you get Kerry Wood tomorrow night.  What kind of adjustments do you have to make?
 
CHIPPER JONES: Maybe do a little more praying tonight.  I heard your question about momentum earlier, and when you've got him on the mound, surely you think momentum is not going to go your way.  We feel comfortable in our own ballpark and hopefully we will make some more adjustments.  We've got to put the ball in play more.  When you make contact, good things can happen.  On the flip side, he strikes out 12, 13, 14 of us, I would say, he's giving his team a chance to win.  That's going to be the main thing.  I think basically take the approach we took against Zambrano. 
 
 
Q.  What was your approach with the inning with Karros?  What was that sequence with Karros?
 
RUSS ORTIZ: I mean, the whole thing is trying to get ahead and make your pitches and make them swing at your pitches.  That's it.  It was one of those things where the whole mindframe of that inning is to go out and do your job.  Unfortunately I didn't do the first two hitters, but I did everything I could.  I felt great out there, but I just didn't do what I was supposed to do, but the guy who came in did a great job.  
 
 
Q.  Your second homerun was the victory.  After the way the first homerun went, did you go for it the second time?
 
CHIPPER JONES: I was just trying to hit the ball hard to be honest with you.  He threw the first two pitches way outside, and I didn't know if maybe they were trying to pitch around me or what, and they had the meeting out there on the mound, and he got the 3-2, and he shook and shook and shook, and I was like what could he possibly be wanting to throw that Damian wasn't calling.  I thought a fast ball in.  Out of his hand I saw the ball up and out over the plate.  I didn't put a powerful swing on it, but I hit it. 
 
Q.  Chipper, about that homerun, both Dusty and Bobby said they weren't sure it was going to be gone.  Did you think it would be gone and the same for Sammy's?
 
CHIPPER JONES: Actually when he made contact, my heart jumped into my throat.  There is so many things you think about.  Obviously a great postseason game for myself; and wouldn't the roof come off this place if Sammy hit a homer.  With mine, all I know, especially in this park, I've learned that over nine years playing here, you never know, and all you can do is go out and hit the ball solid.  I know off the bat I hit the ball solid.  The timing was there.  It was hit off the fat part of the bat, but I've hit a lot of balls in this park that I thought I got that haven't gone. 
 
Q.  Chipper, how strong is your offense (inaudible)?
 
CHIPPER JONES: Anybody who thinks we're going to go out and throw out 10 to 15 hits a game is crazy.  I invite anybody to stand away from these guys and try to be successful.  It's a very difficult thing to do.  We have had 10 plus hits in two out of the four games.  Kerry Wood and Prior pretty much shut us down.  Hopefully we can make some adjustments.  It was kind of a feeling of desperation today in the clubhouse before the game.  We knew it was basically winning this game or taking a vacation alone and it would have been a rough winter for us.  We staved it off one more day and now we've got to solve the riddle that is Kerry Wood. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
CHIPPER JONES: I love it.  That's where I feel most comfortable.  I'm not a number 4 hitter.  Never seen myself as a number 4 hitter, but I'm a real expensive bodyguard for Gary Sheffield.  Teams pitch to him with me behind him.  So, that makes our team better.  Any chance I hit in the 3 hole, all those guys cherish moving up one spot in the lineup and want to make the most of it.  Certainly if Gary is ready to play tomorrow, you'll see me back in the cleanup spot. 
 
Q.  You said some pretty high praise about the Cub pitching staff.  Does it compare to any great pitching staffs you recall in your major league career?
 
CHIPPER JONES: This is the best pitching staff I've seen top to bottom to be honest with you.  They have unbelievable sliders.  Some of them have splits and changeups.  As a hitter, you can cover two pitches.  You can cover a fast ball and a changeup or a sinker and a slider, but when you've got to expand to the pitcher's repertoire of four pitches that makes it very difficult on a hitter.  I would say the one team it probably compares to is one of ours from back in the early to mid '90s when Maddux was in his heyday, and Smoltz was going strong.  That would be the only staff I can remember.  
 

End of FastScripts . 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT