MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Chipper Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Chipper, how satisfying was that to come up with a performance like you had in front
of your home-town crowd?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: It was awesome. I mean it's every little boy's dream. I've said it so
many times this week, it's not often that a player gets to play on his home field in an
All-Star Game, much less start. To go out there and hit a home run, you know, it was just
awesome. I can't explain it. It was something I'll never forget. 
 
Q. Over the regular season, there have been lots of home runs hit, and different guys
have different opinions. Why do you think there are so many home runs hit?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: Watered-down pitching. I think the expansion has given jobs to a lot of
guys that normally wouldn't be in the league. And guys like Big Mac and Griffey and Sammy,
they're going to expose young guys' weaknesses. And if they make a mistake, they're more
liable to make a mistake than a veteran pitcher, a guy that's established. If they make a
mistake, they make them pay ultimately. 
 
Q. Do you mind when these guys are 10-9, 17-15?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: You're talking to a guy who's played on a pitching-oriented baseball
team, you know. So I would much rather have a 3-2, 4-3 game, with one or two homers, as
opposed to the 10-9 slugfest. Usually when we get into slugfests like that, we're on the
losing end of it. 
 
Q. How relaxed were you tonight, and did you feel like you really had to come out and
show the home crowd something?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: I was pretty relaxed. The home run contest was a lot more nerve-wracking
than the game. I mean, when you're out there playing the game, that's your domain. That's
where I feel most comfortable. I felt really relaxed. It's here in my home ballpark. I hit
well here. I got some pitches to hit and didn't miss them. But as far as impressing the
crowd, you always want to impress the crowd when you're playing at home or Seattle, you
know. But it makes it extra special that it was here. 
 
Q. Aside from individual pride in your own performance, all of your teammates are
having great nights, too. Does that kind of enhance things? Do you guys come as a team? Do
you think of it that way at all?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: Yeah. You know, as a whole, I mean you hear questions all week long
about people questioning Bobby's picks and what not, and there's not a guy out there
tonight wearing a Braves uniform that doesn't deserve to be on that ballclub. You know, it
just further backs our manager and his picks that, you know, all three of the position
players got hits. One pitcher that pitched went three-up three-down; and I'm sure if
Maddux would have been in there, he would probably have done the same thing. So it's
extremely gratifying to back our manager. 
 
Q. You play a number of games a year -- you're a professional ball player. But do you
get nervous for a game like this one?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: I have gotten nervous in the past. And to be honest with you, probably
for the four or five minutes before my first at-bat, you know, there are some jitters. But
once you see that first pitch, and it's you and him out there, and that chess match has
begun, the last thing on your mind is, "This is an All-Star Game," or, you know,
"I got to do this to impress the crowd." It's, like I said earlier, it's my
domain. 
 
Q. Chipper, have the Braves made you an offer? Have you come around with that at all?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: I knew that question was coming some time. (Laughing.) I'd rather not
comment on it, to be honest with you. It's a long way off, and I'm under contract right
now. I'm going to play out this existing contract, and when the season's over, then I'm
sure the offers will be passed back and forth, and we'll get it taken care of. 
 
Q. Will you consider leaving?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: Has crossed my mind, yeah. I think anybody who wants to take advantage
of a free-agency opportunity, it crosses everybody's mind. You wonder what's out there. 
 
Q. How did it feel last year not to be in the All-Star Game?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: It's disappointing, you know, but I don't envy an All-Star manager's
position. There are going to be people snubbed that should be on that ballclub. The only
way you can take care of -- even if you expand the rosters, there's still going to be
three or four guys that are going to be snubbed. You know, do I hold any grudges? No. It's
a tough job, and the manager last year elected to take somebody else; that's fine. I don't
have any problems with that. I went fishing for three days down in Florida and had a great
time. 
 
Q. How could you top winning the MVP?
 
 CHIPPER JONES: I don't know. Win a World Series and an MVP. I don't know. (Laughing.)
It was an awfully special year last year from about the midway point on; and we got to
another World Series, I got to experience that again. You never know when your last one's
going to be. So hopefully, you know, we're in the lead right now. Hopefully, we can stay
there for 75 more games and give ourselves another opportunity to get there. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT