OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Nick Collison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you just talk about coming into this off-season for the first time without Kevin, and what are your expectations of what you want to see from this squad?
NICK COLLISON: Well, we have a lot of new faces.  It's definitely a different feel.  I think I'd answer honestly that I'm not sure exactly, you know what it's going to be like, because there is so much change.  I know that we're still a very talented team.  I know that we got really good players.
I think we have one of the best in the league with Russell who is becoming a big time leader for us, but I think for us, it's going to be like it always has, it's going to be about coming in and doing the work each day and then figuring out the best way for us to play and how we can win games and build towards the end of the season and try to be the best we can be at the end of the season.
Q. Have you seen a difference in Russ in his leadership changes?
NICK COLLISON: Well, he's had a natural progression from the time he's gotten here.  Over the years he's really embraced being more of a leader and then really a lot of his attention is how are the other guys doing and how is the team doing.  I expect that to continue and we've only been here a few days but he's got a great mind-set right now, great attitude, he's ready to go.  He's trying to help the guys and be a leader.
Q. With Kevin gone, there's going to be new responsibilities on Russell on offense and defense.  How does the team need to help him to make things easy for him?
NICK COLLISON: I think we have to be able to play in a way that's not just relying on him to do everything and create every single shot, whether it's him making the shot or making the play for another guy.  I think it will start with the pace we play at and trying to get easy shots and then being able to flow right into offense and be really able to execute and create shots in the offensive end.
And then on the defensive end, I think, you know, losing Kevin, losing some scoring, we are going to have to be really solid there every night.  Our level of play has to be solid to be very consistent to where every night defensively we're making it hard for teams to score.
Q. Defensively, you guys are at least going to have a different identity this year.  Where do you see you guys going defensively this year from just a stylistic point, how do you think things are going to look different?
NICK COLLISON: Well, we've got different personnel for sure but I think the main tenets of the defense stay the same.  It's being able to guard the ball, being able to help.  Being able to pick-and-roll, guard, post up, those type of things and we have to get really good at those things and be really solid and have five guys on the court and really aware and communicating where they are supposed to be.  We are capable of being a really good defensive team but you're right, not having Serge and Kevin, it's going to be a lot different so we have to figure out a way to keep teams from getting good shots.
Q. Last year I asked Steven halfway through the season of his progressions of coming defensive captain.  He said he wasn't there yet.  Throughout the playoffs and through this off-season, what have you seen from Steven to think that he's on his way to being a defensive captain?
NICK COLLISON: I think he's feeling more and more comfortable on the court and recognizes things on the court.  I think that's a big part of it is for you to be able to be a really big time communicator on the defensive end, you have to be really sure of what you're seeing and be able to get it out of your mouth to other players and a lot of times if you're unsure, it's really hard to communicate to the other guys.  I think with him, the more he plays, the more that he feels comfortable in being able to recognize things, he's communicating more and more.  I think last year, the playoffs were great for him.  He got to play in a lot of situations and really is confident in what he's doing out there.  He's not second guessing himself.  He's still a really young guy, relatively inexperienced guy.  He's played a lot but he's only one of our most experienced guys but he's only been in the league three years.  I think this is his fourth year.  I just think he's going to get better and better as time goes on in that area.
Q. Last season of your contract, do you feel like this is your last season?
NICK COLLISON: I'm not sure.  I think I've learned enough to know that you don't really know how you're going to feel in a year, and my mindset is really I'm just happy to be back.  I'm happy to be with the guys.  I'm going to try to stay healthy and stay ready to play.  It's an unknown for me on what my role is going to be.  That's kind of the way it goes.  But I think I want to be ready and prove I can still play, and then when the season is over, I'll see how I feel and go from there.
Q. Just personally, are you going to miss having Kevin around, do you think?
NICK COLLISON: Yeah, Kevin was a teammate of mine for a long time, a friend, a guy I really enjoyed playing with.
You know, like all my other teammates that have moved on, I'm always going to appreciate their time here.
Playing with Kevin was great for all of us, and we had a lot of success.  So definitely going to miss having him around, and you know, obviously chose to do something else.
And for us, it stays the same.  The goal stays the same for us.  We're going to try to put out a really good basketball team and get better and go from there.
Q. Do you communicate with him?
NICK COLLISON: I haven't talked to him much.  I talked to him throughout his decision-making process and he sent a nice text the day that he decided to go to Golden State.  I haven't talked to him much since.
Q. What are your initial thoughts on Sabonis and do you see any attributes that you're looking forward to being kind of the mentor as the veteran player?
NICK COLLISON: Yeah, I've only been here a week but he seems really eager to learn.  I think he's got a really good mind-set, especially for a young guy.  He's got a good feel for how to play the game, especially for a young guy.  And they really rave a lot about just his approach and seriousness -- he has a seriousness and work ethic a lot of young guys don't necessarily have yet.  So I'm looking forward to trying to help him out.  He's going to be playing, probably doing a lot of the same things I've done for a long time.  So I'll do my best to help him out when I can.
Q. When you see what's happening this week in Charlotte, what's happening in Tulsa with Terence Crutcher, how does that make you feel about what's going on right now?
NICK COLLISON: It's heartbreaking.  It's really hard to turn on the TV and see these things happening and seeing so many people so frustrated, angry, sad, scared.  You know, I think the big thing that I would like for everyone to do is to just listen to each other, listen to -- these people are experiencing something that maybe we don't all experience; but to listen to them and try to do our best to find solutions and make it better.  I think I support people who are protesting in their own way and I support people who are trying to make things better.  I guess that's my take on it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT