ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 29, 2016
Stevie Tu'ikolovatu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Gerontology, what is that your degree you're studying right now?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: The study of the elderly.   
 Q.  Have you always been into that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I have, but I never really knew what it was called or officially called.  When I found out what it was, that's what I wanted to go into.   
 Q.  When you were making your decision to come to USC, what were some of your expectations, and were they realities when you got here?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Expectation was to be able to play right away.  To help the team in any way I can, and to get to a big game like this.  The reality was all of it happened, and I'm glad I made the move.   
 Q.  I talked to a couple players yesterday, and they said after that 1-3 start, you were a big voice they looked to.  What would you say was the big thing that got them on track right now?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: To try to help them stay positive, and know that 1-3 is not the end of our season, and just letting them know that just if we stuck together trying to be more tighter, then we'd win games, and that's exactly what happened.   
 Q.  What are some of the things that you think you bring to the team?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Maturity, work ethic, and I would say a warrior's mentality.   
 Q.  Have you noticed them take on that warrior's mentality?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, big time.  Especially just not wanting to sub out on those long drives, not backing down from any O-line when they have a lot of players on them.  Just stuff like that.   
 Q.  Have you talked to them about that mentality?  What was one of those conversations like when you were trying to teach it?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: There wasn't really any.  There was no conversation.  It would just be on the field when we're all dead tired, just looking at each other, like, hey, dude, we've got to go man.  And they're like, all right.   
 Q.  Where has this team come from, specifically the defensive line?  The struggles you had early on, the injuries, et cetera, and now you're playing in the Rose Bowl.  What are some of the things that you're most proud of within this group?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Proud of our accomplishment as a whole team, and being able to get off the field and watch our offense put on an act for us.  That's what we like the most.  I think that's our biggest accomplishment was the whole team goal got reached.   
 Q.  When the coaches say that you are the biggest impact player on this team that's turned this thing from 1-3 to where you are now, how does that resonate with you?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, it's just I feel blessed, man.  I feel that when you put your trust in God, then great things happen like that.  It's an honor to be recognized as one of those players.  But I don't think it's just me.  I know it's everybody else.  I was just a little piece of it.   
 Q.  Then lastly, how do you think the players look at you?  You're older, right, you're married, you're a fifth-year transfer, you haven't been here for a long time and they see you work and operate daily?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Some of them see me as a mentor.  A couple of the players have come up and asked me advice, I don't know if it's because I'm older or what, but I'd be telling them I'm the same as them, but they still come to me for advice, what they should do in this time of their life.  Or they tell me -- like just I had a specific player that came up and asked that he wanted to -- he felt too selfish and he was trying to figure out how to change his ways, just little stuff like that.  It's weird.   
 Q.  How do you hope that you're remembered?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: As a player, I helped the team and put the team before myself.   
 Q.  On that note, what do you say to some of the younger guys when they kind of look at this as their first year and they're already in the Rose Bowl and you've had to go through so much to get here?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I tell them, don't be surprised.  Expect more of it, and act like you've been there before.   
 Q.  How special of a moment is this for you after going through everything and being as old as you are and making the transfer and all that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, man, this tops it off.  There is no other game I'd rather play in.  I just have no regrets, man.   
 Q.  Do you start to look into agents and stuff at this point?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I've talked to a couple.  Nothing really too serious.  I'm trying to focus on the game.  After the game I'll start digging more into that and figure it out.   
 Q.  I know you've talked to K.U. and talked to Clay, and coincidentally they all think you have a future in the league.  Do you have a sense of where you stood before this year and maybe afterwards?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I hope I'm one of those guys that gets to go play, but I just feel like after this year, my opportunity grew and my chances of playing at the next level are greater than it was before.  And that's mainly because of the success we've had as a team and the reputation that the school has.   
 Q.  McSorley is a slippery guy.  How do you have time to deal with him?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Put extra grip on our gloves.  I don't know.  He is a slippery guy, and we'll probably have to tackle him with more than one guy to be successful.   
 Q.  Does he remind you of any of the quarterbacks you've had to play with this year?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: He reminds me of the quarterback at Utah, Troy Williams, and Jalen Hurts from Alabama, so those are the guys he reminds me of.  Really they can pass the ball, and they can run it.   
 Q.  Does he remind you of your quarterback in some ways, McSorley?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, big time.  I forgot to say Sam.  Yeah, him and Sam are pretty identical.  Sam's dangerous in the run and the pass, and so is their guy.   
 Q.  Are there things that you see from Sam in practice that will help you defend McSorley, do you think?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.  Being able to balance the rush and trying to not let them escape the pocket.   
 Q.  These two teams are connected in so many ways.  Obviously, you're the two hottest teams in the nation right now.  But you're also connected for what both programs went through off the field.  Do you think about that; that this game is more than just the on-field stuff?  It's what your programs went through off the field to get here?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: To be honest, I don't know anything about that.  I just got here, so I just know a little bit about what happened here and what happened there.  But I kind of feel it with both of the programs, how they both have a chip on their shoulders.  Everybody is just anxious to get on the field.   
 Q.  You saw your old Utah guys last night.  Did that get you into the bowl spirit there at the end of the game?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, I wish they blew them out more.  But they won by two points.   
 Q.  Did you watch it?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Coach Helton talked about how you guys are really willing to embrace the fact that you started 1-3 because of the way it's led you to where you are now.  Why do you think that is and where does that mindset come from when you guys started 1-3?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I think we wouldn't be where we're at right now if we didn't start 1-3.  We kind of -- I've heard a lot about we should have saved Alabama for the last game, but I think we had to go through that so we could figure out who we were and know what we had to change.  It was just, we wouldn't be here if we weren't 1-3 in the beginning.   
 Q.  You guys probably play two dominant quarters and two shaky ones, is that one of the things you think about playing for?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, Utah was probably the turnaround game for us, because we felt like we played our hearts out in that game, and still in the end we ended up short.  That was an emotional game for every single player and coach when we got in the locker room.  And we just knew we didn't want to lose anymore.   
 Q.  Is that when you guys had that meeting that I know a lot of guys talked about, that kind of turned the season around?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, it was actually the next day on Sunday.  So we flew back to L.A., and we got together Sunday morning, and we just basically told each other, man, we've got to stick together.  We got tired of that losing feeling, and we didn't want it anymore.   
 Q.  Being in this position and playing in the Rose Bowl against Penn State, obviously you can see they've gone head-to-head a couple times, being in this position now, what's it mean to you?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I feel like I never thought in a million years I would have the chance to play in the Rose Bowl, and especially against Penn State, because that's a classic match-up in the Rose Bowl, is Penn State-USC.   
I'm excited.  My family's excited, the whole team's excited, everyone's just ready to perform.   
 Q.  What are some things about Penn State that stands out when you watch them on film?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: How fast they are, how fast the running back is, how fast the quarterback is.  They have a physical O-line, and their receivers are pretty good.  Reminds us of our receivers.   
 Q.  Aside from Alabama, do you think they're the best team you've played this season?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, I think so.  I think we don't have time to think about what's after the game or anything, because they just might come and blow the top off.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to tonight and the Beef Bowl?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: What is that?   
 Q.  That's when the two teams from the Rose Bowl, they take them to Lawry's?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, yeah, dude.  That's my favorite part, man.  Any part where you eat is my favorite part.   
 Q.  How much do you think you're going to take down?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, I can't take down too much.  I'm thinking of taking some and saving it for after the game.  Hopefully it's still good, but I'm trying not to eat a lot because I don't want to be too slow on Monday.   
 Q.  There's a lot of events going on before the game.  Is it hard to do events and go to practice and do all that stuff at the same time?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It was after Disneyland, because I didn't know Disneyland was that big, so there was a lot of walking.  We woke up the next day super sore.   
In terms of being focused, I don't think it takes too much focus away from practice and stuff, especially because we're here at home.  We just go to the facility, and we lock in over there.  When we leave there, then it's play time.   
 Q.  All season Coach Helton has kind of mentioned you as the calming and mature presence in the locker room and the film room and everything.  Is that a role that you embrace or even realize you're bringing to the room?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I've heard the same.  I kind of embraced it, but not really took it on as a calling or something.  But I just kind of do what I can and lead where I can lead and just help out.   
 Q.  Is there anyone in particular you kind of formed a bond with on the team in your first year here?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, Rasheem Green, the D-tackle right next to me.  I think we formed a bond because there's no one else to be closer with than the guy that's closest to you fighting next to you.   
 Q.  How have you seen him improve as the year has gone on?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: He doesn't back down from anybody, and he's not afraid to go against the best linemen from the other team.  He just has that fighting spirit all the time.   
 Q.  He's helped them block a few kicks this year too?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, he did that on his own.  He's an athlete.  He did that on his own.  He has a bright future.   
 Q.  Tell us what you see from this Penn State offensive line?  What kind of physical threats do they bring?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Oh, they're really physical.  They remind me of Notre Dame and Alabama's O-line, especially the center.  I'm sorry, I forgot his name, No. 72.  He's a really physical guy.  I'm just excited to play.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts when you heard SC was going to the Rose Bowl?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It didn't feel real until we checked into the hotel a couple days ago, and I'm just feeling more excited.  I'm trying to not be too excited before the game, just going and doing my job.   
 Q.  You guys played Alabama and Washington and they're playing on Saturday.  What are you going to be looking at as that game unfolds?  What do you think is going to decide it?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I think they're two really good teams, and Alabama's a really, really good team.  I think it will be exciting watching the game because we played both teams.  I got to back the Pac, man.  I've got to back the Pac.  I'm going for UW on this one.   
 Q.  It sounds like the heart over the head?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: The head is somewhere else, but I've got to back the Pac, man.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I wasn't able to get invited to The Senior Bowl, so I committed to the East-West Shrine Game.   
 Q.  How do you think this year at USC has helped you for the next level?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It kind of was a polishing stage for me in terms of technique, using my hands and getting off blocks.  But I've learned from my coach, Coach K.U., the importance of getting off blocks and making plays and preparing for the next level.   
 Q.  What kind of impact has Kenechi Udeze have with you?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: We have a funny relationship.  Our whole room does, but he has the kind of mentality that when it's time to play, you play hard.  When it's time to work, you work hard.  He's been kind of an older brother, mentor for all of us, and taught us there is more to football than we thought there was.   
 Q.  You said funny?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, we have a lot of different personalities in the room.  It would be hard -- you have to actually be in the room to see what I'm talking about.  But we have different guys from different backgrounds, and we make fun of each other all the time.  And Coach K.U. gets made fun of too, and it's funny all around.   
 Q.  He's a younger guy, he played in the NFL, that sort of thing?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, we try to learn as much as we can from him, because we try to pick his brain all the time in meetings, because we know he sees a lot of stuff we don't see.  So we try to learn from what he knows because we're trying to get to where he got.  He was a first-round draft pick, and he played for a couple years and wasn't able to finish.  Unfortunately, wasn't able to finish.  But he reached the goals we all have, and we tried to pick his brain apart.   
 Q.  He played in the Rose Bowl.  He's one of the guys on staff that's played in a Rose Bowl.  Has he talked to you or shared any stories about is that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: A little bit.  Not too much.  He wants us to focus on this game.  But we've seen some film when they played Michigan and they played in the Rose Bowl, and he was a bad man.   
 Q.  So he showed you guys that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: No, we watched it ourselves.  We watched it ourselves.  We wanted to coach him up and tell him where his mistakes were because he does that to us all the time.   
 Q.  When you look at Penn State on film, what impresses you the most?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Their center, their running back, and the quarterback.  I really -- they're National Football League guys in my opinion, and just how fast their receivers are and how fast the quarterback gets out of the pocket and runs.   
 Q.  This is an offensive line that had so many injuries over the year, and four or five of their starters were gone.  How impressed have you been that this offensive line has been as effective as it has been with such a hodgepodge roster?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: When you watch film, it doesn't look like they have any injuries.  Everybody looks like they're a starter.  So I think that's a sign of a mature room that they have with their O-line, and great coaching because they have true freshmen playing that don't look like true freshmen.   
 Q.  And they have a great running back.  Saquon Barkley is kind of the heart and soul of what they do offensively.  How important is it for you guys to stop the run early?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: That's probably the most important thing, one of the keys to the game.  It's going to be a hard time trying to stop them, because we all know what kind of runner he is.  We've got to tackle him with two, three, four of our guys to get him down.  Hopefully we can do a good job with that.   
 Q.  The second half, this team seems to just click.  They're wheeling and dealing, throwing the ball.  How much in the back of your mind is it that no lead is really safe against this team?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I feel like I know what you're talking about, I've seen it on film.  We've just got to come out, stay high energy in the second half and play even harder in the second half just so we don't lose a lead if we have it.   
 Q.  You watch the game last night?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  What did you think?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: My boys won, but I wish they blew them out more.  It was kind of a hard game to watch because I wanted more for them.  I just wish they won by more.   
 Q.  That's it, huh?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.  I wish it was like 35-0 or something.   
 Q.  Penn State says that Indiana's a team that looks a lot like SC offensively.  When you were watching that game yesterday, did you see it at all?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: To be honest, I didn't.  I feel like our offense is more explosive.  There were a couple plays that Indiana would run yesterday that I've never seen before.  I hope we're not the same as Indiana, because I want to win (laughing).   
 Q.  Going up against your offense every day, do you think that helps you going up against Penn State because so many players and other people have said that they're so similar with McSorley and Darnold and everything?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, we're able to get a realistic look because of how similar they look and the physicality of our O-line compared to their O-line.  They have a really good O-line, so it's just preparing us for Monday.   
 Q.  During the course of the season, how much Big Ten football do you have a chance to watch?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I've watched it a little bit, not too much.  I like to watch football when I know somebody who is playing.  If I don't know anybody who is playing, I don't really watch it.  But I watched Michigan.  My little brother has some of his friends on there, so I watched Michigan a little bit.  Other than that -- I played Michigan last year.   
 Q.  When the game was announced and you found out you were playing Penn State, what did you know about those guys before you looked at film and studied?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I remember watching them when I was small, when I was a little kid, and I really liked their uniforms, how plain it looked and just how nice it is.  It looked super crisp.   
 Q.  But nothing about the squad?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I tell you, I didn't really pay attention.   
 Q.  When you look at a game like this and that promo video that SC put out, you said you were staying up on the internet, looking up Rose Bowl stuff, what are you looking up and how excited are you for that game?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I was looking up highlights from the last time they were in the Rose Bowl.  Because my wife, she went to a UCLA game this year, and it wasn't -- there were a lot of empty seats.  And she was wondering if that's how the Rose Bowl was going to be.  And I was like, no, let me show you.  Let me show you what the Rose Bowl is.   
So I showed her and I was just watching highlights from that, highlights from last year, the years before when Oregon was there.  Just excited for the game, man.   
 Q.  Penn State has a really athletic center.  Is he similar to anything you've seen at all this year?  Is he a little bit different?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: He reminds me of the center I played against when I was at Utah, J.J. Dielman.  J.J.'s a really, really athletic O-lineman.  Him and the center for Penn State are pretty similar.   
 Q.  When you were transferring, the two reasons, gerontology and the chance to get into the NFL, how realistic was the NFL when you transferred?  What was the priority there?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It was a big priority, because it was a goal that I've always had, and transferring here made it a bigger reality.   
 Q.  At what point were you comfortable that you made the right decision?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: As soon as I moved here or as soon as I got my permission of contact and was accepted here, then I kind of knew I had it in my own hands, my future in my own hands.  No regrets ever since, man.   
 Q.  Was that even while you were kind of moving around and living in a car a little bit?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: No, no regrets.  That's probably the best part since I was here, because my wife and I, we got to learn a lot about ourselves and grow with each other.   
 Q.  But I'm saying you thought like before, like right when you got permission to contact, that was like right before you came out here you knew you made the right decision?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, I knew it.   
 Q.  How does your wife like living in L.A.?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: She loves it.  She actually wants to move back when careers are done and everything, she wants to live back here.  I want to live in Hawaii, but...   
 Q.  Who doesn't.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is the goal to still after football open up a gerontology?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, that goal is still alive and well.  That's a dream of mine to always work with the elderly, and we're going to make it happen.   
 Q.  How much do you enjoy this whole pre-bowl activities, this whole lineup they have for you, everything going into it?  Or are you just ready to play football?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: That's what I told my wife.  I just want to hurry up and play the game already.  That's what we're here for.  The activities are pretty fun.  I specifically like the activities where you eat.  I'm a big eater.   
 Q.  So you're going to love the Beef Bowl tonight.  How much have you heard about this meal tonight?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I haven't heard much.  I just heard from my coaches that it's pretty good.  I've seen pictures of it, so I'm excited for that.   
 Q.  Are you going to eat as much as you can, or are you going to hold back a little, stay light?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I've got to hold back.  As much as I'm dying to eat as much as I can, I've got to hold back.   
 Q.  Has Clay Helton told you to hold back tonight?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: He hasn't told us, but we want to win this game, so we have to control ourselves.   
 Q.  I saw Penn State eat a lot last night, so would it be helpful to eat a little lighter and let them eat all of it?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I say they need to enjoy it as much as they can, because they're from across the country, so you might as well while you're here in California.   
 Q.  Enjoy it, for sure.  How nice is it that you have a 30-minute bus ride to Pasadena, and you get to be around familiar territory?  They're on the other side of the country.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It's an advantage for us being here in L.A. in the first place, having our facilities here, our training room, our doctors everything.  We don't have to do anything.  We're just living in a hotel, so it's a big advantage for us.   
 Q.  What is unique about this team compared to other teams you may have played for in the past?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: This team defines the definition of fight on and never quitting and knowing that the only way we're going to win is if we stick together.   
 Q.  You guys dug out of that 1-3 hole, and you had a dark September.  What do you attribute that to and then going and winning nine straight?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: We attribute that to everybody loving each other and having a great leader in Coach Clay Helton.  He basically -- I watched him through the season, and he was the type of coach that was more of a father figure than a coach.  I remember at Utah all he told us was that he loved us and that if we stick together, we're going to win ballgames.  Then ever since that, that's exactly what happened.   
 Q.  What does that mean to you as a player to hear a coach be a second dad to you and tell you he loves you?  So many football coaches would never be like that.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It was kind of weird, to tell you the truth.  It was weird because I've never experienced that.  I had experienced disappointment kind of lectures from coaches and be like, hey, we need to work on this and this and this.  But he knew what we had, and he believed the whole time when nobody else did.  And it made us want to play for him more.   
 Q.  Do you look at this team as a family, because I've heard that word thrown around so much that you guys just have this unique bond?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, it's funny because everybody has their own little personalities, and we know what everybody is insecure about, so we tease each other all the time.   
 Q.  It's a fun group it seem like.  Can you describe the joy and fun you have out there?  It's literally like college football to a T that you guys play.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: It feels like a party every Saturday.  We know who we are going against, and we know what plays they're going to run, so we try to see who is going to stop it first.  It's just a fun time.  We have more fun on the field than anything, so that's why we're excited for this game.   
 Q.  Penn State is so hyped up, and a lot of that comes from that offense.  What that's surprised you most about them when you watch that film?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: From watching their film, I'm surprised at the holes their offensive line opens up and how fast their running back hits them.  It's just a blink of an eye and he's gone, so that's what's surprising.  And their quarterback, he's a crazy athlete, and we've just got to contain him.   
 Q.  Speaking of our quarterback, Sam Darnold, what's surprised you most about him?  He's just totally taken over and just been so successful for you guys.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: What surprised me about Sam is he's a natural leader.  He's a red-shirt freshman.  Nobody expects a red-shirt freshman to do what he does, but he embraces the role, and he's really good under pressure.  So the more pressure there is, the more confident he is, and that's what surprises me.   
 Q.  What are your expectations of the Rose Bowl?  Do you have a expectation of what that will be like for you?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I've been looking up old Rose Bowls when USC was there.  I feel like it's going to be exactly like that.  If it is, it's a dream come true.   
 Q.  When the game over, will you still be training and stuff like that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I have some ideas, but nothing really set in stone yet.   
 Q.  Are you practicing in one of those bowl games?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, I've signed up for the East-West Shrine Game.   
 Q.  Oh, yeah, when does that get settled?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: When does it happen?   
 Q.  When did you decide?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Like a week ago, yeah, I think a week ago.   
 Q.  What was that process like?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: They sent me an invitation letter and I forgot to sign up for it, so they kept calling, calling, calling.  I was like, oh, shoot.  So me and my wife just signed up for it.  You do it online and everything.   
 Q.  Were you hoping to play in the Senior Bowl?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I was, I was.  But I'll get what I can, man.  I'm not really a picky guy.  I feel like it's not what game you get chosen to, but how you play in the game you get chosen to.   
 Q.  Is that in Tampa?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, it's in Tampa.   
 Q.  Is it like a week of practice, or how is it structured?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, it shows like a week of practice.  There are like team activities and stuff.  It's like basically another bowl game.   
 Q.  But a bunch of scouts are there watching practices and stuff like that?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah, that's probably the biggest difference, just playing with other players from different teams.  I'm excited to learn about how other programs are.   
 Q.  Justin Davis is going.  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I didn't know.  I know T-Mac is going.  Our tight end, he's going.  Justin Davis is going.   
 Q.  That's all you know right now?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.  That's all I know.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: Yeah.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: When our defensive linemen make plays.  When we are greedy with all the tackles and sacks and taking them away from the linebackers.   
 Q.  Talked to a bunch of your teammates.  When you showed up, they thought it was somebody's dad, but they said:  Then we saw him play.  What did you hope you got done the first day you showed up in pads and practices for USC?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I wanted to set a statement.  I wanted to let everybody know that I'm not here to play; I'm here to do my job and benefit the team.   
 Q.  In your final snap, as you've imagined it, how was it at the Rose Bowl as your career ends?  
STEVIE TU'IKOLOVATU: I think it will be crazy.  I never thought this day would come, when the time would be done.  It will be emotional, for sure, but I'm just trying to give it all I've got, man.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT