ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 25, 2015
Javed Ahmadi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Obviously a very close game against Sri  Lanka.  What kind of confidence has that given the team looking ahead to tomorrow's game against Scotland?  JAVED AHMADI: Sri  Lanka, yes.  The last six months we were practicing for that, playing against full member.  So hopefully we are ready   the last games are very good for us, and also we are looking forward for this against Scotland, and also we try our best, and inshallah, we do best.   Q.  The results between yourselves and Scotland have been up and down a bit.  Last time they had a big win against you.  What do you put that down to, and what did you learn from that match?  JAVED AHMADI: Yeah, we are looking for to win that match, but hopefully   we lose that game, and we learned a lot of things from that game, and hopefully we are doing good against Scotland.  Also one of the ICC associate members and they're doing good in this tournament, as well, so we try our best and look forward.   Q.  I guess one of the keys for you guys is your bowling, your three guys at the top, when they get passionate.  They put in a really good performance the other day.  Is that a key for you guys, how those three perform at the top?  JAVED AHMADI: Yes.  This is very good for us, and especially you know that our   especially our bowling, this is one of the good bowling in tournament, and also they bowl very well, I'm talking about Hamid, and they get 50 wickets in ODIs, and this is quickest for Afghanistan in any, I think, oneday side.  So we are looking forward, inshallah, to do our best.   Q.  What are you expecting from the conditions?  Obviously you played here Sunday.  Might be a bit cooler tomorrow.  Are you expecting similar conditions from the pitch?  JAVED AHMADI: Yeah, this condition is very struggling, especially for batsmen and start.  So hopefully when we start against Sri  Lanka, so we hopefully start well against Scotland, as well.   Q.  Could you tell us if there's lots of interest back at home?  Are they following very closely what's happening in the World Cup?  Do you have much contact with people back at home?  JAVED AHMADI: Yes, everyone hopes that we will beat full member in this World Cup, and we try our best, so hopefully the full member also very strong sides, and we are also practicing more and more for that, so inshallah, we can do that.   Q.  What's the situation as far as injuries are concerned?  Is everyone fit for tomorrow, because in that game the other day there were players who were going down injured and a few seemed to be struggling.  Anyone who's definitely ruled out tomorrow?  JAVED AHMADI: Yes, we have one serious injury from Mirwais Ashraf, so maybe it's very serious, so I think hopefully   there is one serious injury about Mirwais Ashraf, and maybe he's not playing tomorrow.   Q.  He's not going to play tomorrow?  JAVED AHMADI: Yeah.   Q.  Everybody else is okay?  JAVED AHMADI: Yeah, everyone is okay now.   Q.  How important is a good result in tomorrow's match for your team, given the tough schedule ahead?  JAVED AHMADI: Yes, very important for us, especially because both sides are associate member, and we beat   hopefully beat Scotland strongly, so looking forward, and this is very good because we're showing our country, as well, so everyone look forward and everyone look for win.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT