WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 10, 2009
Bobby Abreu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Have you ever been involved in an inning like that, that four-homer outburst?
 BOBBY ABREU: Been involved? Well, I guess when I was in Philadelphia, I was involved with three homers, I think. Me, Pat Burrell, and Jim Thome. But that was something that I can remember. 
 But being four homers? I don't think so.

 Q. It's something special, obviously. 
 BOBBY ABREU: It is. Especially in this kind of competition. You know, you're just looking to win the games, but you never expect something happen like how it happened tonight. You know, four homers in one inning, you know. 
 And it's something good. It's something that all the fans are going to enjoy, you know. And we're like a team that we just enjoy the most.

 Q. How has extra preparation made the difference for you guys so far this time around?
 BOBBY ABREU: Well, the last Classic, we had a lot of problems. We don't really hit, you know. And our pitchers, they're doing such a good job, but we don't hit. And this one, we're doing pretty good. We score a lot of runs every game. I believe it's like five or six per game, which is good. 
 And in these short competitions, you need to score. You need to help your pitchers. They're don't just go over there and try to dominate the game. When we score runs, they feel more comfortable on the mound, so anything can happen.

 Q. Is that just extra work in the off-season, extra hitting in the cage?
 BOBBY ABREU: Of course. Of course. I mean, the whole thing start when you get to preparations early, you know. Past December, we have a new year together. Not the whole team together, but everyone have a new year. After that, everybody start workout, you know, to get ready for this Classic. And we don't want to happen what's happened the first one.

 Q. Miguel hadn't shown it till today, but today he really showed what he is capable of?
 BOBBY ABREU: Yeah. Miguel is getting better right now. I mean, the last couple games, first two games, he was swinging the bat a little, I would say, too aggressive. So that's why today he was more patient at the plate. He spread the ball to the middle, the other way, and a couple to left-center. So it was good. He got pretty good contact. 
 So that's what we need so far. So now in the second round, he's going to be more patient at the plate and he's going to help the team lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT