AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
John Valentin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Interesting series for you so far, huh?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: Well, I've been busy, so, you know, you get ground balls, you try to
make the plays. It's part of the game. 
 
Q. Did you feel as though after the error, obviously offensively, you wanted to atone
for that?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: That's not my mentality, it's just to try and hit the ball hard
somewhere, get a good strike to hit and hopefully I get a hit. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the range of emotions that you felt going from hitting the home
run to the error and then hitting the double?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: Well, when you play this game, you try to be at an even keel all the
time. When you're out on defense, you play defense. When you're at the plate, you know,
you try to hit the ball hard, try not to go through that roller coaster of, you know, when
you make a mistake, now it's time that I have to, you know, atone for that mistake. It's
just -- that's the way it happened tonight. 
 
Q. Do you believe momentum has shifted now?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: It's hard to say. They're a really good team. They're going to come out
and try to win tomorrow. We have to try to do the same. They're very talented; they have a
very good line-up. Good pitching. We just got to go at it one more time. 
 
Q. You are an emotional guy, this whole thing of being even keel not withstanding, it
had to be very emotional for you after you rounded the bases after you hit the home run.
What was on your mind at that juncture?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: It was a 2-2 game. So obviously, I was pretty happy I hit a home run. 
 
Q. Can you just talk for a minute about maybe the lift that Ramon gave pitching almost
six innings and what that meant for the club?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: It was a pretty big lift. You know, he hasn't pitched a whole lot this
year. He's been hurt, coming off arm surgery. They decided to use him in the rotation in
the playoffs, and he pitched very big. I mean he gave us a chance to win. 
 
Q. Count goes to three and two the last time up, bases loaded. You stepped out of the
batter's box. What's going through your mind right there?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: Well, I was basically trying to get -- tell myself to get a pitch that
was up in the zone. Previous to that, that moment right there, he threw me a pitch that
was low that I hit foul. Then I just told myself to get something up in the zone a little
bit higher, and hit it hard somewhere. And he ended up throwing me a strike and I hit it
down the line. 
 
Q. Fast ball?
 
 JOHN VALENTIN: I believe it was a fastball. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT