PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
ZACH JOHNSON: That's my strength and it was not my strength this week.  Very frustrating.
Q. Had you felt that last week?  Was it not quite there?
ZACH JOHNSON: It wasn't quite there last week, specifically early on Thursday and Friday.  Yeah, I don't know.  I got to go back to the drawing board, but it wasn't very good.  Very frustrated with it.  You can kind of figure it out when you're missing it one direction, but when you're missing it both directions, it's difficult.
Q. Seemed like every time you missed it, too, the lie wasn't the best or you were in a bunker.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I didn't get a break.  I had the worst lie I could possibly have on 9.
Q. Does that happen sometimes?
ZACH JOHNSON: It's golf.
Q. You hit it straight and --
ZACH JOHNSON: It's golf.  Some guys chip in, some guys get bounces, that's how you win golf tournaments.  You kind of create your own luck in that regard, but sometimes you don't.
Q. That great start, were you feeling like --
ZACH JOHNSON: I felt great about the day.  And I felt good about yesterday too.  So feelings don't necessarily matter sometimes.  I tried to eliminate expectations and just play.
Actually, I putted pretty good the last two days, if I'm going to find something positive.  And even the ones I missed, I hit some good putts.  Couple misreads, which is going to happen.  But for the most part, my speed was good and I hit good putts.
Q. When you get in situations where you're not hitting the fairways like you're used to, I know you've had that happen before, do you go back and start over, start the process again?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm not going to stray away or try to play off my driver, because, especially on a golf course of this magnitude, I can't do that.  And I hit some good ones today, but I just hit some that cost me.
Q. Even like the drive on 5, it's right there, it's running in the fairway, and it just --
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that was a bad one.  That was 15 yards left of my target line, 20 yards.
Q. You weren't hitting your target lines at all today?
ZACH JOHNSON: A couple.  I did on 4.  I did a couple early on, on that side.  And then certainly on 6 and 8, I did.  So that's the extreme out here.  Typically, when I miss it, it's barely and my barely was a little bit more than barely, I would say as a whole, which is frustrating.  I mean, I have to rely on my driver to score.  I mean, my iron play out of the fairway is very good.  I'm not used to hitting out of the rough and it's -- I don't have a steep golf swing, so it makes it even harder.
Q. Is it even more frustrating, the fact that it's a Major and there's only four of them a year?
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, sure.  I mean, I was frustrated with my driver last week.  It's not any different this week.  The frustrations.  It doesn't matter where I play.
Q. When you played before then, you hit it extremely well.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I did.  I hit it good, yeah.  And for whatever reason, it just, it just hasn't been there.
Q. What do you do now?  Do you take next week off?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I got next week off.
Q. Are you sticking around in the Midwest?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm going to go work out.  I play early Friday and I'm going to go work out and that kind of thing.  Hang out with some family.  And then I've got an event I've got to be in in Minneapolis on Monday, so -- Monday, Tuesday.
Q. Chicago is Tuesday night?
ZACH JOHNSON: Tuesday night.
Q. How much do these playoffs matter to you?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, they matter a great deal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT