PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You seemed to have difficulty off the tee?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I had difficulty every tee.  I actually putted pretty good.  There were some putts I missed, but I did pretty good.  That will be the only positives I can come up with today.   
 Q.  Any explanations or theories?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I can't think of anything off the top of my head.  I can make excuses for lack of preparation, the wind or whatever.  We didn't have this strong of wind on the practice rounds, but that should be irrelevant.   
There was a lot of struggling with my ball-striking off the tee, in particular.  There were some good irons, some substantial amount of mistakes that I can recall, about four or five mental mistakes I can easily recall.  That's frustrating.   
 Q.  The par-3 on the back nine, 12, you came up significantly short, did you miss club that?  
ZACH JOHNSON: It wasn't short, it was right.  That one really stands out, just terribly terrible.   
 Q.  Talk about driving, but that's usually such a strength for you.  No. 9, you birdied?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes, and that's the sign of a good golf course.   
 Q.  You had a lot of rounds that you didn't like, and you were able to bounce back.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes.  I've just got to play tomorrow.  The cut is irrelevant.  The more I focus on the cut, usually the worst -- the more I focus on the outcome, rather than shot making -- yeah, so my focus tomorrow will just be hitting good shots.  It's not as if I can't do it; I've just got to do it.   
 Q.  Is it hard getting from the high of highs that you had three or four weeks ago, returning to duty?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No.  You mean returning to work?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ZACH JOHNSON: No, if anything, it's probably a comfort zone.  For the most part, inside the ropes is a very comfortable place.   
 Q.  Was it comfortable today with all the team and all the people and all the noise?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes, I had expectations and, if anything, they were right with them.  The fans were terrific, a lot of positives.   
 Q.  It didn't seem like there were any outbursts?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No.  That's also -- when you have that many people following a group, there's not -- there could be movement, but you don't see it.  Nothing bothered me or affected me, I didn't notice anything that I could think of.   
 Q.  You make the birdie on 9, you turn it back to even.  10, the short par-4 and you drive it in the bunker.  And 11, you run through the green.  Did you feel like if you could have gotten a birdie or two --  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I think so.  Turning at even par after that first five or six holes, whatever it was, was pretty good.  At that point I know I missed a putt on 8, but it was 15 feet.   
10 is a birdie hole, and 11 is clearly a birdie hole.  I was thinking 3-iron, and I just hit the 4, hit it short and let it run off.  It basically flew.  I had 219 to the front and there was no chance I'm hitting a 5-iron.  But it was a 5-iron.   
 Q.  When you birdied 6, it ran almost to the green?  
ZACH JOHNSON: If you would have asked me where I should have landed that shot, I would put it in about a two-foot radius.  I got a round of applause.  My guess is based on where I hit that -- based on what the fans were seeing there, they were seeing wedges stay in the green.  It landed two paces on, and it almost went down.   
A couple of those greens it stops, a couple it just ricochets.   
 Q.  When you play early tomorrow, will you go out and pound balls?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I can't, not right now, it's not worth it.  It's more a matter of execution than fundamentals.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT