WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ZACH JOHNSON: I got it to 1-under coming in, and hit a really bad shot on 17.  But the first nine holes, I mean, I know I doubled nine, but I'm 2-under going through nine, and I feel like I could have been 3-over.  All said and done, that's probably about what I deserve.Q. It's tough to only find one more birdie after that start.  You birdied the first two, and then there was only one more the rest of the day.ZACH JOHNSON: I had some chances.  I had some wedges.  I had a lot of wedges.  Didn't execute properly.  Didn't hit them where I should have.  I missed some putts.  I had a couple of 8- to 12-footers that I didn't capitalize on. But I hit two good wedges on 1 and 2 that left me essentially tap-ins.  I've got to hone my wedges in and my driver.  I did not hit a driver on the fairway until my 10th tee.  So that's pretty good considering that's where I need to -- that's usually my strength. The only fairway I hit on the front nine was a 3-wood on 1.Q. Is there a difference coming off a -- pardon my math -- three-week break --ZACH JOHNSON: Two.Q. -- that you take during the year anyway.  Two-week break.  Coming off a break, is there any difference when you just had a break versus when you're coming off a major?ZACH JOHNSON: Is there a what, though?Q. You take breaks all the time, I guess, and then you just come back again.  Is it any different when you're coming back from a major?ZACH JOHNSON: There can be that so-called rust and that kind of thing.  But, if anything, I feel fresh and ready to go.  That's kind of the way I see it. I think two-week breaks during the middle of the season -- I guess we're toward the end of the season.  I enjoy them.  It's hard to get a lot of rest in one week personally.  And then after a major like that, then there's even more stuff going on, there's more obligations and/or opportunities. So all in all for me, two weeks, I could have gone three, and I'd have been fine too.  I think I've got a good formula for coming back, whether it's a one, two, three, four-week break.  I usually take a lot off in that January/February range too.  I just enjoy that.Q. Was there any fear of not being able to bounce back?ZACH JOHNSON: I'm sorry.  I can't hear you guys.Q. Given what you accomplished, is there any fear of difficulty coming back?ZACH JOHNSON: No, not at all.  If anything, I was pretty confident coming back overall, especially with the putter.  I mean, I felt great. I think we're playing a golf course that's in perfect condition right now, almost extreme condition, but it's ideal condition.  It requires your full attention on every shot. Two weeks off or even just being a little bit off, you're going to see it.  I think that's what I experienced today.  For the most part, I probably could have got it in under par, truth be told. I might have got a few breaks on the front, and the back side, I played pretty steady with the exception of one hole.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT