JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  No surprise here.  Another round in the 60s for you at TPC Deere Run.  How have you been able to keep it in gear through 36?  ZACH JOHNSON: You know, I mean, just getting the ball in the fairway, first of all.  That's always been crucial for me anywhere. I have to go back and think about it, but I'm not so sure I missed a fairway today, which is always a bonus and a positive.  I gave might opportunities and kept my ball below the hole for the most part. Made a few; missed a few.  Really only hit one errant shot that cost me a bogey.  I made another bogey and I felt like I hit four good shots and tapped in for a five. That's what's going to happen in 72 holes.  Take the good with the bad.  I had my chances today.  I just didn't get it in the low, low number, but I can't be too upset.  I'm pretty content.   Q.  After bogeying the 18th, your 9th hole of the day, what do you say to yourself?  ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, that was my bad swing, that second shot.  It was a good number, too.  Was 7-iron, and I actually hit a pretty good chip.  Landed it where I wanted it to; obviously misjudged it. But I just told myself, Keep doing what you're doing.  Hit fairways, hit greens, you're going to see some putts drop.  Low and behold, I 2-putted for birdie on 2, but I made a few and actually hit some other good putts that didn't go in and made some good 3- and 4-footers for par. I'm not displeased with anything.  I just got to make sure I keep doing what I'm doing off the tee, and I think some putts will drop.   Q.  I know it's a broken record, but another round in the 60s.  It's a record you would like it keep, I assume.  ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, you would assume that at some point that's going to stop.  At the same time, I'm not in any hurry for it to stop. Yeah, it was good.  I mean, today was probably as solid as yesterday, if not more as far as my ball striking went.  I mean, I made a sand shot yesterday.  That obviously helps the scorecard. I felt like everything was pretty good.  I had one errant shot on 18 that cost me.  The 14th, blind second shot, I mean, I was posing.  I hit four good shots there and tapped in for a five.  It's going to happen.  In 72 holes, at some point that's going to happen. I regrouped and righted the ship to an extent.  I feel good.  Everything feels solid.  I just got to keep hitting the fairways.  I don't know if I missed a fairway.  I would have to really...   Q.  You haven't missed one in either round.  ZACH JOHNSON: No, I missed one on 1 yesterday.   Q.  Well, they gave you credit for making it.  ZACH JOHNSON: That's awfully kind.  You just have to tell my dad ShotLink is not 100% accurate.   Q.  Between that and all the greens you've hit in regulation, that's why you're shooting 60.  ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that's what you got to do.  First order of business is getting the ball in the fairway, around the green depending on the hole, and I like the tee shots here.  You got to hit it both directions, I feel. I hit it solid.  The best tee shot I hit today was on my last hole.  That's certainly what I'm going to cling to.  Hit a good second shot in there and misjudged the wind a little bit. All in all, just a lot of positives.  Just trying to remain - that darn word - patient.  But it's out there today.  Your approach shot is pretty much stopping right where you hit it, so you can get at it.   Q.  You're not any stranger to this, but like it always is at Deere Run on a Friday.  A lot of people.  Crowded as always.  ZACH JOHNSON: No, not at all.  Every now and again you can see one maybe separate depending on the week or the conditions. But for the most part, this golf course just bunches.  It'll be bunched tomorrow and probably be bunched on Sunday. Yeah, makes for a great tournament certainly and bit of drama and entertainment, and it's certainly highly competitive.   Q.  Gives you a few extra holes to...  ZACH JOHNSON: Occasionally there are a few extra holes, which is bonus golf for those fans.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT