TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Best round so far of the week, 6-under.  How was it so out there?ZACH JOHNSON: It was good.  It was solid from the start.  Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens.  I had ample opportunities.  When I was kind of fighting it, I managed to scramble one in there.  So really solid.  I hope I can (Indiscernible), especially around the green.  I hit good putts and they'd go in, so that's always nice.Q. You finished by birdieing three of the last four holes and you birdied the last two.  How much confidence does that give you going into tomorrow?ZACH JOHNSON: That's good.  That's the momentum you want.  I bogeyed my last hole yesterday, and that's always bitter.  Yeah, I feel good.  I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  The guys that are out in front right now (Indiscernible).  Maybe the wind will pick up.  That would be a shame.  It's out there for the taking though.  So my guess is I'll be whatever, five, six shots back probably, much like I was going into today.  But you never know.  I'll keep playing solid and we'll see what happens.Q. We could get a lot of rain overnight and tomorrow morning, should potentially soften up the golf course.  Do you think that will help you?ZACH JOHNSON: You know, not necessarily.  Usually when the fairways are firm it plays into my advantage in getting rolls.  It becomes more imperative to hit them, one, and two, they're a little harder to hit.  So if it's softer, it's not going to be exactly ideal.  At the same time I've played well when it's dry and wet here.Q. You join that group at 11-under par.  One of the loudest cheers we've heard so far came from 18 when you drained that 16-footer.  That's a nice way to end.ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that leaves a good taste.  Bogeyed my last hole yesterday which is never pleasant.  Got the momentum birdieing 17 and 18, so hopefully I can carry that into Sunday.Q. Ball striking very important here, as is making putts.  If you're not the longest hitter, you're not really at a disadvantage on this course.ZACH JOHNSON: No, you're not.  Especially when there is some release in the fairway, especially when you get that tumble.  Right now we're getting that to a degree.  It's not really windy, but we haven't seen much rain lately.  As a result, the fairways are perfect, the greens are perfect, and the overcast kept them somewhat soft.  But for the most part, you've got to control your ball off the tee, and that's always nice.  If we get some rain, it will be a totally (Indiscernible).Q. You know how to win here on the PGA TOUR.  If conditions do soften up for you, what is going to be the key to get it done tomorrow?ZACH JOHNSON: Much the same.  Obviously wet rough is worse than a wet fairway.  So I'm going to try to get that ball on the fairway and from there hopefully pick it apart and be aggressive when I have that opportunity, and I'd like to see that ball falling more often.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT