TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Zach, how did it go out there?  How would you describe that round?ZACH JOHNSON: Kind of one of those, ah.  Tougher wind today, certainly more velocity and a completely different direction, so that made things interesting.  But I had my chances.  I actually didn't putt that bad.  I didn't hit it great.  I didn't hit it poorly.  So to shoot even par, that's about what I deserve.  Really bad bogey on my last hole.Q. On paper this course seems to match up with your game really, really well.  How comfortable do you feel out on this golf course?  You've played it a bunch of times?ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel comfortable around here.  Throughout the years I've had some decent finishes.  But it's one of those I feel like I should step up here and shoot really low.  The respect factor just hasn't been there.  I don't know, the last two or three years, but it's certainly come back.Q. As you head into the weekend, is there something you've figured out?  Something in particular you'll be working on?ZACH JOHNSON: No, much of the same.  I mean, for me, it's just being solid with my putter, certainly.  Give myself a lot of opportunities and getting that ball on the fairway.  It's pretty boring golf, but it's usually what works.Q. You were right there for a while looking good.ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, not a good finish.  I mean, a really poor bogey on the last hole for me, which is frustrating.  I mean, there were a lot of positives out there today.  I just didn't execute my last holes the way I would have intended to or wanted to.  As a result, my scorecard comes out even par.Q. What were those positives that you take?ZACH JOHNSON: I made the turn well.  I birdied the first hole, which is my tenth, and had opportunities for the next so-many-odd holes and just didn't capitalize.  But I mean, I made a good save on 8.  I guess that's one positive in there too.  I never really took myself completely out of it.  Technically I'm still not out of it, but it's going to be a long, hard stretch here now.Q. Does it make it any different for the golfer when you realize there is weather coming in for the weekend?ZACH JOHNSON: No, I mean, because I've played when it's supposed to be perfect on the weekend and it's terrible, and I've played when it's supposed to be terrible and it's perfect.  You know, it could be perfect, and it could be -- it just doesn't matter.  We've seen it all.Q. How about the wind today?  How much trouble was that?ZACH JOHNSON: It was difficult.  It was different.  Different direction, higher velocity, for sure.  It feels like it's calming down now for the afternoon, so that's great.  But, you know, that's the way it goes sometimes.Q. A completely different wind today from yesterday.  Was that a little tricky out there?ZACH JOHNSON: I thought it was.  Certainly a higher velocity.  There was more of it.  Completely different wind today.  About 180 ° different.  All that being said, there are a lot of criss-cross holes, and the ones that were downwind yesterday were into the wind today and vice versa.  You can still manage.  It's still out there, but it's a little more different today.Q. The golden triangle is 16, 17.  Just talk us through this hole, 171 yards.  What did you hit today?ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it was playing I think 176 technically or there about.  Once again yesterday was into the wind.  I had a punch 6 and today I was between an 8 and a 9.  So I punched an 8, and left it below the hole 8 to 9 feet and capitalized on that one.Q. What are the danger areas here?  Where don't you want to miss?ZACH JOHNSON: Obviously, short is not good.  That's the water.  But that would be a really, really bad shot.  You do not want to be long on this hole.  Anything back on those there, you're going to be on the downhill lie hitting uphill to a downhill pin.  I mean, you're essentially making four at best.  You have to get pretty lucky or have a miraculous shot to even have a chance at 3.  Anywhere in this quadrant you're short of the pin, 25 feet, it's really not a bad shot.Q. This isn't a long golf course.  Only 6900 yards.  Seems like it's right up your alley.  You have to hit a lot of wedges.  That's one of the strengths of your game.ZACH JOHNSON: I feel like it is.  I've had some good weeks here in the past.  Occasional top 10, top 5 what have you.  But as of late, I've struggled.  I think it's probably just a respect factor.  Maybe a little too aggressive on certain pins and you just get a little off and it grabs you.  I feel like I can do some work here if my wedges are on and certainly if I'm putting decent.Q. Keep the ball in play, and you'll be at the top of the leaderboard.ZACH JOHNSON: Thanks.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT