THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ZACH JOHNSON: You're going to hit good shots and still struggle to make pars occasionally, and when I did that, my short game was really good.  I mean, I think I made about, whatever that was on 9, about a six-footer for par on 9, maybe five to seven feet.  Other than that, I don't think I had more than two feet for par the whole day.  A lot of good opportunities, a couple putts.  I know I missed about a seven-and-a-half-footer somewhere and about another 10-footer another hole, but for the most part, it was just really solid.  I kept the golf course in front of me for the most part.Q. How did conditions change from yesterday to today?ZACH JOHNSON: I thought the greens were a lot better, but that seems pretty obvious.  They're always true, but they were -- they weren't nearly as bouncy, and just seemed like if you got the ball on line, if you read it properly, it was going to go in.  Other than that, yesterday afternoon on my back nine, I mean, it was windy.  I hit a bad drive on 14 and a wedge.  I've never hit wedge into that hole in my entire life, and just a little wedge.  I had 150-something hole and tried to hit it 125.  Today I smashed one and I'm trying to rip an 8-iron.  There was just more wind yesterday, especially on that back side.  All that being said, there was still a lot of teeth.  18 is 18, 17 is 17.  There was just some good holes. Once you think -- for example, on 9, I hit a really good drive, and I got a good number to lay up.  It's into the wind, I can't get there, and I'm struggling to make a par on a par-5.  I think that's the beauty and the subtleties of Pete Dye and what he did here.  Once you think you have it, it's going to chew you up a little bit.Q. Is it the conditions or will it be the golf course when you play tomorrow which will clearly be in the afternoon that will determine when you're aggressive and when you're patient?ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I think it's a mixture of the two.  I mean, the par-5s, if you're lucky you can get after them.  I can get to with the exception of probably 9, with this wind, if it's a similar wind.  With the exception of 9 I can get home on all of them, even hit irons into a couple. You know, it's conservative aggressiveness, and I think patience is required regardless of what hole and regardless of the situation.Q. Three years in a row, 13-under has won here.ZACH JOHNSON: Okay.Q. Can somebody get there, or would you take 13?ZACH JOHNSON: If you give it to me now, I'd love to sit back and relax.Q. With all the eagles that have been made on 16 in this tournament, is it kind of surprising that not one of them has rolled in for a two?ZACH JOHNSON: No.  That 2 is luck.  You've got to hit a good shot, granted, but you're talking about a hole-out from -- unless you're Dustin Johnson, over 200 yards.  So no.Q. But 200 yards could be a short iron for some of these guys.ZACH JOHNSON: I understand, but I mean, the moment you feel like, oh, man, I'm going to sick this to three feet and tap in for a 3 is the moment you're struggling to make a par.  No, and that green is not exactly flat.  There's a lot of -- well, there's a tier and then there's also some subtle breaks, both on the left and on the right side.  No, you're never in it.  You're never -- a 2 is -- everything has got to go -- it's like a hole-in-one, obviously.Q. What did you hit in there, into 16?ZACH JOHNSON: I was in between a 4-iron and a 5-iron.  I should have hit 5, I hit 4.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT