VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 24, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'll go ahead and get started, Zach Johnson, thanks for joining us a few minutes at the Valero Texas Open.   Obviously a tournament fond to you with two victories here‑‑ not here, here, but in the event.   Good finish last year, top 10 here last year.   Talk about that.   
Rewinding a few days, you just couldn't be outdone with double eagle on Saturday at one of your own.   Just some comments on that shot, your finish at Bay Hill last week, and we'll segue right into Valero Texas Open.  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean last week was interesting, to say the least.   I was kind of on the outside looking in on Friday.   Managed to make a couple of birdies the last three holes on the back nine to make the cut on the number.   And I had a good day on Saturday, pretty clean par that day, four birdies, shot 4‑under.  
And then Sunday was a roller coaster, fitting for Orlando, I guess.   Certainly way more positives, but it was a day of capitalizing on opportunities and missed opportunities.   I don't really know how to describe it.   It was a day I've never had.   It could have been really, really, really low, really low.   But, you know, you make a shot from 200 whatever, I don't know what it was, 210, that obviously changes things a little bit.  
I was it was certainly a nice feat.   I'm excited about this week.   Good memories, as Doug said.   Last year, included.   And obviously just the tournament, that's what the Valero Texas Open is all about.   
DOUG MILNE:   You've got more than this history, here, you've got Texas, won three times in Texas, four times.  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Four times, I think.   
DOUG MILNE:   Is what does it say about Texas.   
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know what the rationale is, there, other than I'm comfortable with the golf courses.   That's really what it boils down to.   I mean Colonial is one of the‑‑ one that doesn't change much.   There's been some minor changes here and there.   
But you've got to hit it straight.   You've got to rely on your putter, and I like that.   And then obviously this tournament has changed venues, but I like what this golf course demands.   Not totally different than the previous.   This one is certainly very difficult.   I think it's a ball‑striker's course, where you've got to just keep the ball in front of you, keep the course in front of you, if that makes any sense, where you can't force the issue here.   
Hitting it well last year and not putting great, still climbing into the top 10, I don't know where I finished T 8, T 5, I don't recall.   But, you know, I do remember it being one that I hit it really good for four days and that was enough to sustain at least the finish.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you won a couple of times at La Cantera, what's the major difference between this venue and that?   This one is a little bit longer, obviously.   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, there's a lot of differences.   First and foremost, yeah‑‑ that was a lot hillier, La Cantera has a lot more undulations, both tee to green and‑‑ well, I don't know‑‑ the greens are probably just as equal as far as undulations go.   But tee to green a lot more slope at La Cantera, but significantly shorter.  
And I think the similarities would be you've got to control your golf ball.   You know when you play lath that you've got to shoot low numbers.   That's what it's always been about.   I want to say at one time it had the lowest 72 hole number at one time I want to say.   Correct me in I'm wrong on that.   But I think I'm right.   
DOUG MILNE:   Yes.   
ZACH JOHNSON:   I think it was Tommy Armour, correct me if I'm wrong on that, too.   This is one where, you know, I don't think 10‑under won it last year.   So that's the biggest difference.   It's just the fact that it's going to blow here in this area.   And the wind is going to be an element that you've got to combat.   I think this course is just a little bit more challenging.  
DOUG MILNE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT