U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In the afternoon conditions, how good was that round today?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean -- the wind wasn't exactly -- pretty much the same as it's been the last two days, I think.  The temperature started to drop, the ball wouldn't go quite as far.  I think based on that the course is starting to firm up a little bit, especially the greens, it's pretty good.
I felt in control.  So I hit good shots.  I probably left a couple out there, but I probably saved a few, too, so it probably evened out in that regard.  I think anything around par to under par today, especially in the afternoon, is pretty good.
Q. Can you talk about the up-and-down on 9, finishing?
ZACH JOHNSON: Sure.  I hit a good second shot, just went about six inches over the green into some thick stuff.  And rather than using the face of the golf club, I used a portion of the golf club that's not meant to be hit on my third shot, and I evidently had the touch of -- well, you can come up with that one -- and shanked it down there to about nine feet and played about two feet of break and made it.  Looked like a four the whole way.
Q. At that point you're thinking what?
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I mean, I felt like I escaped.  I hit a good second shot.  Six paces short of the pin and just barely went long.  I didn't hit a very good tee shot, but I hit a really good second shot.  I'm just trying to get off the 9th hole with a 4, clearly, and tip my cap and say shank you, shank you very much.
Q. What do you think about the setup?
ZACH JOHNSON: Setup of the golf course?
Q. Yes.
ZACH JOHNSON: It's fantastic.  Whatever they're doing it's great.  You play quality golf you get rewarded.  The greens are some of the best poa I've ever putted on.  So whatever the greenskeeper is doing there it's very comment abdominal.  The fairways are tight but they're fair.  It's not -- I don't think they overdid it there by any means and the rough is penal, which is exactly what you expect.  So they're letting Pebble be Pebble.  She's quite beautiful.
Q. What is your mentality heading into the next couple of days?
ZACH JOHNSON: For me it's going to be much the same.  I've got to play that boring kind of cliche golf.  I've got to hit a lot of fairways.  I've got it hit a lot of greens and when I don't, obviously you miss it the proper direction, miss it in the proper area, and hopefully keep my putter going to some degree.  Especially if you're going to climb the board.  The course changes, especially if we don't get any rain.  It's pretty much expected, right?  I think we had -- I don't even know if you call that rain today, it was kind of a fog.  But it's starting to firm up.  So my guess is in the afternoons, both Saturday and Sunday it will be just that.  I think you can make a move if you're in that 1-over to 1-under, even 2-over, shoot, I don't know what the cut is going to be, but it's beside the point.  You can make a move.  You get off to a good start tomorrow morning and the course is manageable from a wind standpoint, that's what it's all about is making that Saturday move.  But I think this is as good as I've ever seen this championship.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT