U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2014
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You just tossed the ball away.  Some fan got it?ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, they were fighting for it.
Q. All the details on the ace?ZACH JOHNSON: This is one of those weeks.  I mean because of the way these greens are situated -- even if you're in the middle of the fairway and you're a twosome or threesome, if you can club off of them it's a huge advantage.  If I would have had the honor there, I would have hit an 8-iron and I would have been short or off the green or in the trap.  I hit a great iron, along the same line, and it landed -- it was five yards short of the green.  So I just held a 7-iron, tried to hit a high, high 7-iron, an easy 7-iron.  I think 167 hole, 168 hole -- 168, probably playing 166, one of those where it landed essentially kind of to the left and stopped.  First one in competition.
Q. Really?  How many overall?ZACH JOHNSON: Three.
Q. First in competition?ZACH JOHNSON: First in competition.
Q. So how does that cap the week?ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean it makes a pretty sour to average week a little sweeter, right?  Especially on Father's Day.
Q. When you hit it did you think it had a chance?ZACH JOHNSON: When I hit it I thought it had a chance.  Based on where the pin is you have to err long, and so I was expecting it to land past the pin and release two or three, and roll down there to 15 foot.  But like I said, it played a lot longer than we anticipated, because he hit an 8-iron perfect.  He's a half a club, maybe a quarter of a club longer than I am, and he was not in a good position.
Q. Did you know you were trending on social media with that ace?  And your reaction?ZACH JOHNSON: That's why I play golf, for social media.  And that comes with the territory.  I'm in a Major, I'm assuming it's a pretty good deal.  My caddie actually made a wager with somebody, bet a hundred bucks that no one would make a hole-in-one this week.  The way he looks at it, that might have made him a hundred, anyway.
Q. Peter Jacobsen aced one in '05.  He was playing with Kenny Perry.  And you were playing with JP?ZACH JOHNSON: JP is a good luck charm.  He made a 4-iron yesterday, and darn near made a 9-iron on the same hole today.  And he was like this.  He almost made back-to-back twos on 14.
Q. How about the other 17 holes?ZACH JOHNSON: Really good.  My short game was brutal today.  Terrible.  The longest putt I made was for par on 16, about six feet.  By far the longest putt I made.  Hit it great.  Tee-to-green was awesome.  Pitch shots, long putts and short putts, those 8 to 15-footers that you have to make, I made none.  Zero.  With that being said, I think it was a good week, it just wasn't a great week.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT