THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2014
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Why don't you think you've played here more often? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   For my own weeks so it's been one of those weeks where it just doesn't fit.   I've always thought Tampa would be good for my game.   Not saying it isn't because I think I can play well there but I've never played well there and the weeks I've played decent, I feel like I've finished25th,   never a Top‑10, I don't think. 
   Maybe an occasional missed the cut.   Not to knock that place, but I think this is better.   I think the fairways here are more of a premium.   Yeah, I don't know why I haven't come back, pretty foolish.   And I'm not saying that I'm going to play great here every year, but I think if my game is sharp, I think I can put up some good results. 

Q.   Can you talk about the start on 11? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Again?   I'm just teasing.   I missed, I missed, I missed, I missed, I make. 

Q.   As good a wedge player, was that a shock to the system?
ZACH JOHNSON:   184 yards to the hole, so I thought it was more down off the right, but we misjudged the wind.   I had 7 out, went to a 6 and still hit it in the water.   Didn't hit it that bad of a shot.   I hit it right of my target but I hit it really solid, and you know, it's a tough hole.   It's a tough second shot. 
But I had no excuse other than the fact that I miss clubbed twice and probably was overaggressive on the second one.   After you hit one in there, you have to get it on the green.   That's just asinine. 

Q.   As I walked over here, you were talking about how you like to persevere.   Is that the definition of that, getting out of that?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Sure.   I like patient, perseverant‑‑

Q.   Perseverance‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON:   Whatever, I have persevering weeks, too. 

Q.   You like to persevere. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   It was a day where it could have gone the other way, quick.   But I was really‑‑ felt great about my game going in. 
So it was just a matter of hitting a few solid shots.   I made about a 20‑footer on 13, you know, and I know that's only one putt, but after missing one on 12, I thought you know, what I hit it bad‑‑ making that putt, getting back to 3‑over was kind of big.   That was good. 
And after that, I don't think I missed a green.   I didn't miss a green in regulation.   I might have missed maybe one or two fairways but hit my driver great, hit everything good.

Q.   Tiger was pretty complimentary about how you turned it around.   Did you guys talk at all during the round? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   No, after we got done, Pepsi and certainly Keegan and Tiger both said that was‑‑ I would have said the same thing to somebody else.   I understand that.   When the ball went in the hole on 9, I had to sit back and reflect because at that point you're still trying to   ‑‑ missed a 10‑footer on 8 which I wasn't too happy about.   I was still going, still trying to play.   Once that went in, that felt pretty good. 
I had to sit back and reflect and think about exactly where I was and how I got to where I got to.

Q.   Anything in particular Keegan said to you?
ZACH JOHNSON:   He just said it was impressive.   Pepsi was very‑‑ evidently he was impressed.   He said a lot but he was very kind. 

Q.   You have to be really proud of yourself to putt up a quad early in the round and fight back to post 3‑under?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, no one ever likes that quad word, right.   I feel good about it.   I feel great about how I righted the ship.   I feel good about my approach after that.   Frankly approach wasn't any different this week or after that bad hole.   It was the same thing I've been doing forever. 
That's the only way I know how to do it.   These conditions weren't that difficult.   I think even the wind probably subsided towards the end of the day, and fortunately I was able to make a few putts, hit some solid shots and get back under par.

Q.   Tiger said he had a difficult time reading the greens.   I always think you have a huge advantage‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON:   I feel like I'm pretty good with slopes.   I read putts with my feet.   Obviously you read with your eyes, but I feel like I'm an athletic putter, but I can add a little wit of inside into the grain and we are a pretty good tandem in that regard.   Growing up in the north, there's not much grain.   If it is grain, it's because the bent is not mowed properly.   Having Damon on the bag is an advantage.   It's something he grew up on and he grew up reading grain.   I don't need everything, he only helped with a break once or twice but when it comes to the grain, he's the man. 
This is only my second tournament here, and I only remembered four or five holes till this week.   Absent‑minded, really in the moment.   That's all right.   Took my time, got to the green. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT