MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you want to start on 13, what happened with the ‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that was a good one there. That's a first. I thought I had done it all but now I know I've done it all. Shoot, they got that? 
(Laughter.)
ZACH JOHNSON: I didn't know? Oh. Well maybe it's a fine. Well, I mean I was, I was caught off guard. I actually hit a really good tee shot after that, so I think I recovered nicely. Even when I tried to slice it, I still hook it. That's kind of the joke of the group. I mean, toe push into the tee marker and then, you know, it was a nice little four foot draw it turned out. So, yeah.

Q. You were all over the internet. 
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm sure. 

Q. You never done that before?
ZACH JOHNSON: I can't think of a time I've done it. I mean, not on purpose. I mean, maybe I tried to do it. I don't think I could do it again if I even tried. Yeah. 

Q. You looked like you didn't know what to do when it happened. 
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I knew what to do. It's all about intent. Clearly I did not intend to do that. 

Q. What did Kuch and Poulter say?
ZACH JOHNSON: You would have to ask them. I mean it was a, I'm going to ‑‑ it was a daze.

Q. The down side of this you had to do it in front of Kuch, so is he ever going to let you forget that?
ZACH JOHNSON: He doesn't let me forget many things, so. But, hey, you get what you deserve. 

Q. You recovered to get the birdie though. 
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I made a nice recovery. So I think I technically made a six, right? Net four. So it worked out well.

Q. You looked like you walked over to the ball and then stopped and then turned around to ask kind of‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I, I was, I turned around ‑‑ it was only because I have never done that. I mean I know the rules. Even if you do that on the putting green it's not a penalty, so you know, if you're taking a practice stroke and you toe it, you're fine, so.

Q. (No Microphone.)
ZACH JOHNSON: Potentially. The tee marker? Yeah. Potentially. Potentially. We'll never know. We can try to replicate that again but we'll just never know. 

Q. How did you get into the pattern of taking a practice swing so close to the ball?
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't think I do. I mean this is the first time I've done it. So maybe I do. My head wasn't even looking down, so it was one of those where I just wasn't paying attention to what was going on, so, I don't know if there's a habit there or just routine or what. 

Q. On a different note, how do you assess the challenge of the second shot at 5, especially on a day like today where it looked like it was playing pretty long?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it's difficult. Wet, difficult, and, I mean, we're used to hitting 6, 7s and 8s in there, instead of 4s and 3s and maybe an occasional 5. So just very difficult. Now fair, fair but difficult.

Q. Is that a situation where you're trying to hit a certain part of the fairway to get an angle?
ZACH JOHNSON: No, get the ball in the fairway. The fairway ain't exactly that big either, so get the ball in the fairway, give yourself a chance.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT