THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Ernie Els
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great playing, maybe just some comments about the day today. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Today was probably as solid as I've played all week.   Fairways, a lot of greens.   I don't know if I missed maybe one green, a lot of opportunities.   Made a couple, missed a couple.   Just never took the pressure off, which I think is key in match play.   He gave me some, too.   So I felt like I won some and I felt like I was given some.   But I feel great with the victory because he's a phenomenal player, and 25 years old; he's going to be playing in multiple Presidents Cups. 

Q.   Being able to finish your match last night and win and not having to get up at 5:00 or whatever time, did that help? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah, no doubt.   I think so.   I was tired when I woke up, but it's a tiring week.   So it's what you expect.   I mean, all in all, these weeks are just long, and then you compound that with the saturation of the rain, even longer for the grounds crew and volunteers and those here at Muirfield. 
I felt yesterday was key getting done and resting. 

Q.   One heck of a putt you made at 16. 
ERNIE ELS:   Thank you very much.   I found something in my putting and I was nowhere when the week started, playing with Brendon, started to find something, and started getting more and more comfortable.   You know, just played really nicely today against Steve. 

Q.   A really good match, you two traded birdies back and forth for a while, trading wins; you had like five wins in a row without a halve. 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, a couple of birdies made there.   We were hitting some really good shots, quality shots.   Steve hit it to a give on 8 and I hit it to a give on 10 and 11‑‑ we made a lot of birdies.   It was really a fun match, obviously for fun for me than for Steve but a great game. 
It's been tough with the weather.   It was so perfect Tuesday when we got here, and just got worse and worse.   Every day was just worse.   These guys are just playing unbelievable.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT