THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ZACH JOHNSON:   I was in pain, and obviously, you know, I was frequenting the throne, so I felt horrible, and the thoughts that were going through my head were, I'd rather not even say.   But it's amazing, it's just a 24‑hour bug.   My body's not normal, but it's really close.   When I landed here, I was like, okay, I'm ready to go play.   And I want to go play today but I think I'm going to hold off and probably play 18 holes tomorrow instead. 
But yeah, it's amazing how quickly your body can recover from something like that. 

Q.   When did it start?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Sunday when I was packing at 9:30 PM.

Q.   Did you think you were not going to be able to play in this? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   That was one of the thoughts, absolutely.   You think of the worse and the that would be the worst‑case scenario right there.   I was literally quarantined in my bedroom, couldn't see my kids, and obviously my wife didn't sleep next to me.   So it was a pretty‑‑ I slept great, though.   That's the nice thing, I had to get some meds.   Slept for at least 16 and a half hours, Sunday to Monday.   I essentially turned the TV on at like 4:30 PM on Monday and was starting to get some food in me by that point, too.   So, feeling good.

Q.   When did you make the decision that you couldn't come yesterday? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   It was yesterday morning, I was talking to my wife for about five minutes is all it took.   We were supposed to fly up with the Kuchars and the Loves on a noon flight.   I was just, there's no way.   I could have got on the plane and I could have got here but then I'm subject them to something that I don't know what it is.

Q.   And get them sick‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON:   And five with the wives. 

Q.   But you feel good? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   I feel fine.   Not 100 percent but I am really close, and the sickness is gone.   Now it's just the energy and getting my body and the aches‑‑ laying in bed for 20 hours, my back hurts right now, but I'll be fine.   I've got my physio guy here and I'm better now than what I was three hours ago.   It's just going to take a little bit of time.   Keep hydrating.   And the Hawks won. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT