BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Zach, you go through rain delays a lot, but when it's the final round and you're in contention, to not hit a tee shot and sit around and wait all day, what is that like for you?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, it really stinks.   It's not foreign.   I mean, we are used to and accustomed to delays.   We're accustomed to sitting in a locker room watching football and trying to figure out when should we go warm up, when should we eat our next meal, trying to figure out do I need to get a hotel reservation for tonight, do I need to change my flights.   All those scenarios are popping up.   Just something you roll with. 
I mean, if you want to call me in contention, I don't know, I still have 18 holes to play, but it's a good problem to have.   That's the way I look at it. 
I would have liked to at least hit a golf shot, warmed up a little bit, but I thought about it even, when the rain stopped, ceased for a period, but I never did get out.   It didn't look like it was that pleasant.

Q.   This is going to alter the schedule for you and a lot of players as you move towards Atlanta.   Is that an awkward thing for you guys? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, I mean, tomorrow was a day off.   I mean, it was a day to kind of rest up, see some friends, get some laundry done, that sort of thing.   But I'll roll with it.   I mean, the nice thing is that Atlanta, we've all seen it.   It's really good.   It's really difficult.   It hasn't changed.   But yeah, I mean, there's a slight altering of schedule.   You have to just roll with it. 
There's not a winner in all of this.   If anything I feel really bad for the fans.   I certainly feel bad for the WGA and BMW because it's such a great championship up until this point.   I'm not saying this is going to hinder what's going on this week, however, it is Sunday.   You want to see a great climactic finish on Sunday, and we're going to see it on Monday now.

Q.   Let's talk about the final round Monday.   This golf course is going to be soft.   Does that put you in more of an attack mode as you try to chase the lead? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know.   I'm going to have to get a feel for a course early on and see exactly what kind of a plan I can have.   There's only so much you can do.   I mean, the ball yesterday was rolling so much off the tee shots, rolling a lot as it was landing on the greens.   Completely different today and completely different tomorrow.   So therefore maybe a little bit more aggressive, but yet you've still got to pay attention to how the golf course is playing.   I mean, this course can bite you if you get too aggressive.   It's just one of those things you've got to roll with it and hopefully get the speed of the greens down early. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT