DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did it feel different?   Did it feel more like a match play today?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   No.   It really didn't even‑‑ I thought about it when I got the pairing.   And I might have thought about it early in the round.   I truly didn't even think about it.   And then I made that putt on 9.   I didn't know what the point situation was, between he and I.   Actually I thought he was at 8.   I thought he jumped to 8th last week.  
But I guess you've got to go into it and just play.   And I stayed in my process.   I stayed just playing and hitting shots.   I had a good day today.   I missed some short putts, but I made some long putts.   It was an odd day.  
   
 Q.   Emotions (inaudible.)  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, I hope I'm on next week.  
   
 Q.   I'm pretty sure you are are.   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, I'm not going to get too ahead of myself.  
The emotions of it?   I'm actually honored, if it does come.   Absolutely honored.   And I don't like to be a proud‑filled man, the last two and a half, three months I've turned my game around.   I've played consistent golf.   I had a hiccup on Friday, bogeyed my last three out of four holes.   And outside of that I don't even know.   I don't know what I've done.   Just a lot of solid, solid golf.   And I think it just reaffirms what I'm doing.   It reaffirms that I have a great team.   Great leadership.   Trust.   I trust in the Lord in everything I do.   
   
 Q.   I know you were worried about going to your brother's wedding and missing the Barclays.   But everything worked out?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hope it works out.   It worked out twofold.   I mean he showed up and said "I do."   That would have been rough if I showed up there and something would have happened.   But it was an absolutely awesome family weekend.   And a terrific wedding.   Those guys did a great job with everything.   
Yeah, I mean I would have liked to have played last week, no doubt about it.   It's a Barclays event, great sponsor.   It's the playoffs.   Great event.   But my brother's wedding only happens once‑‑ better only happen once.   And I'm not going to miss it.   He's my brother.   So it wasn't much of a choice.  
   
 Q.   You didn't play that last nine as though it were a Presidents Cup qualifier for the ten spot?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   My perspective going into it‑‑ I was playing with Webb, but he told me he was 9‑‑ I don't know if he told me‑‑ I didn't know where everybody stood, but as far as where we were.   But my perspective on it was we were tied for 50 something coming into today‑‑ I don't know‑‑ I'm thinking, we can't get to the dollar amount.   It's going to separate us.   At least that's what it felt like.   I didn't know the point differential between us.  
   
 Q.   The point you made at 9 was the difference.   You needed to make 27 thousand.   You were 22 thousand‑‑ the putt you made at 9 put you over the hump?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   If that's the case, I wish there were a way we could somehow be tied for 10th.   Just because‑‑ I want Webb on the team.   I know how he plays.   I know how‑‑ they don't lose matches, the other guy's got to win.   The problem is, it's a very, very good problem, whoever Freddie and Davis, Jay, are looking at, they can't pick a wrong guy.   It just got a lot harder with guys playing well, specifically the young kid that has been on the top of the leaderboard it seems like every week for the last two or three months.   Granted I've been there, but he beat me.   Except for the majors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT