WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Zach, another very solid round out there today.   How did you find the conditions here in the second round as opposed to the first?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Very similar, very, very similar.   We had overcast so you could be -- you're in the fairway, you could certainly be somewhat aggressive and you know the ball didn't release much in the fairway so it was kind of point and stop but the greens were pure.   
   
 Q.   Are you getting the most out of your rounds that you've expected the first two days?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Not particularly.   I'm trying to remain patient and hopefully I'll get most out of my rounds on the weekend.   I've started off great the last two days.   I was 3-under through six holes today and 4-under through five yesterday.   I've had opportunities.   I just haven't executed when I needed to.  
   
 Q.   So you think that a really low one might be out there on the weekend for you?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   I certainly hope so.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your first two rounds as you head into the weekend?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Great starts and pretty average, poor finishes.   Lot of opportunities, just not capitalizing I guess is what I would say.   You know, but it's -- this is only my second time playing here.   
I got to get used to the golf course and it's hard to make putts.   If you're -- if you land it one yard one way or one yard the other way it's a birdie or potential bogey and that's the beauty of this track.  
   
 Q.   Rain is in the forecast for Saturday and Sunday as we move forward into the weekend.   You say you're still learning this golf course but generally how would rain affect this golf course, especially the fast greens?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Certainly help with our release with our irons into the greens, the minimal release.   It will be -- there's no point in shooting because they are firm and they are bermuda but the difficulty will be minimal roll in the fairway, potential mud balls.   
You know, common bermuda fairway it's great when it's dry but when it gets wet it's not the easiest to hit out of.   So, you're going to have to be patient with mud balls, be patient with maybe a little more club potentially and take advantage of the opportunities when you have them.  
   
 Q.   Finally, you're not going to be playing next week at The Barclays because you're going to be attending your brother's wedding.   
Did you point out to him the PGA TOUR schedule that there is a bye week after the Deutsche Bank?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know how to answer that question.   Yeah.   Here is the thing:   It's one week, it's just golf.   It's my brother's wedding.   It's my brother.   I'm the best man of the better men, therefore I'm going to be there and I love them both.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT