PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Where the ball lands is where it stops? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   No.   I mean, you hope you don't get mud. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ZACH JOHNSON:   It's good.   I mean, I shot even.   I probably‑‑ I shot 1‑under yesterday.   I probably played as good today if not better. 
You know, when I hit a really good drive on 17 and a really good 3‑wood and I can't get home in two shots, you know it's playing hard.   The setup the last few holes was a bit sketchy, if I want to be honest.   But it is a major championship and it was raining sideways and windy.   So it was difficult. 
17 and 18 are difficult with no wind, let alone rain.   The day was way more positive than negative.

Q.   What about your putter? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   My speed today‑‑ yesterday was up‑and‑down.   There was times when it was good and times when it was poor.   Today was really good.   I didn't 3‑putt and I rarely had more than a 2‑ or 3‑footer at all to 2‑putt.   So I felt really good with my putting.

Q.   What about your position coming down the stretch?   You had some pretty doable?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I had eight feet behind the hole on 8.   The rough is going to be thick and long because they are not going to be able to mow it because of saturation in the fairways.   We're never going to get (inaudible) from here on out.   The wind is supposed to be minimal at best. 
My guess is there is going to be substantial mud balls, maybe a lot of complaining.   So errant shots because of mud. 
So it's going to be a game of patience, going to be a game of patience, making a few putts hopefully and, you know, just seeing where we can come on the board. 
When you have conditions like this where you can fire at the pins and stop them, you feel like you are going to be a little aggressive on your approach shots.

Q.   Your iron play?
ZACH JOHNSON:   My iron play is good.

Q.   Going into the weekend, how important is it going to be to land on the greens in the right spot?
ZACH JOHNSON:   It's important every week.   When the greens are holding like this, like I said, you have got to be more aggressive perhaps.   The ball stops right where you hit it, even a 4‑iron is stopping. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT