THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ZACH JOHNSON:   I played really, really well early, and even in the middle, I played fine.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I mean, my first bogey of the day, I hit two really good shots.   I don't know how it ended up being that short, misjudged the wind or the lie or something.   But had a good bogey on 7.   
I really hit two bad shots, and I escaped with one of them, and then I escaped with a bogey with the other.   But for the most part, I hit two poor shots that cost me a couple of shots.  
   
 Q.   On the first, did the green kick up?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know.   It must have.   I had 205 yards to the hole, and I was kind of thinking you can't go long.   So I was thinking maybe I should just hit a five, but it was kind of a cut‑shot play, so I hit a low‑cut four.   I hit it really good.   I don't know if it was the intermediate cut that made it spin more, if it was a gust, or a combination of the two, but, no excuse.   I hit two good shots, and I hit a poor chip and average putt.  
   
 Q.   Zach, where are you mentally?   You made a nice run.   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I had opportunities out there.   I'm a little frustrated with the lack of, I guess you'd say, execution with the opportunities, specifically on a couple of the par‑5s, 11 and 2 in particular and I missed a couple putts.   I missed one on the back and then the one on 2 certainly kind of chaps you a little bit.   
But it was not‑‑ as the day went on, it got harder.   The greens got more firm, firmer, more firm, whatever, firmier.   7 was just poor.   I was trying to pick up the pace a little bit.   We were a little behind.   Once again, no excuse.   But I tried to pick up the pace, and I probably rushed the tee shot and obviously I paid the price.  
   
 Q.   The par‑5s, you said 2 and 11, is it because of the scoring that it added pressure to cash in there?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, I don't know if it's added pressure to cash in.   It's just I put myself in a place to cash in.   It's not like you step up there and feel like you've got to make a 4.   But both holes, I hit a good tee shot on 11 and a good 3‑wood.   I hit a good sand shot that released more than I anticipated and missed about a 12‑footer.   Then on 2, I didn't hit a very good tee shot, but I hit a great second shot.   Hit a good pitch and left it on the proper side and lipped it out.   
I hit a good putt, lipped it out, probably misread it a little bit, but then I saved one on, so it kind of evens out.   I had my chances, and I feel good about the weekend.   I feel really good about going into the weekend and certainly trying to make a move.  
   
 Q.   Follow‑up on (Indiscernible)?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know if I was doing anything, but I've got to keep doing what I'm doing.   To be perfectly honest with you, I'm saving some shots.   I'm hitting some shots close.   My wedges, the more I can get a wedge in my hand, the better.   My wedges have been great.   
I had a really difficult one on 9.   I had a downhill lie, downwind to a tucked pin.   That was probably the only wedge I didn't hit within 15 feet.   I mean, I'm hitting them nice.   
You do have to take advantage of the par‑5s.   If you hit the ball on the fairway, you have to take advantage of the par‑5s.   I think the pace of the putts is a premium too.   I might do some work now and we'll see where we can go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT