THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Zach, if you could just talk a little bit about the round today, seven birdies, one bogey. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, it was a good day.   I got off to a good start.   You can always say you left some out there.   Probably should have birdied 2, that kind of stuff, but a couple of those par‑5s I didn't birdie.   But for the most part it was solid.   I put the ball in the fairway for the most part and made a few putts.   I hit my wedges close.   This is one of those courses where I can hit drivers or 3‑woods when guys are hitting 3‑woods or 3‑irons off the tee in particular, and we can still have the same club into the hole. 
I like that about this Pete Dye course.   This one has always suited my eye.

Q.   Patience today, that's always the key?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Absolutely, you're right, it is always the key.   I think any given week on the PGA TOUR, patience is a premium, especially on a course like this.   I made a birdie early, the first hole, and then it took me a while to get it going again, but I finally hit some good shots and made a couple nice putts, both for birdie and par. 
And then coming down the stretch, birdieing 16 and 17 is very nice luxury. 

Q.   When you look at the scoreboard, when you walk to the first tee or even after two holes and you go, geez, somebody is shooting 9‑under today?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I didn't see the board until must have been 17, 18‑‑ 17 I think it was, and I saw‑‑ it doesn't overly surprise me.   There's a 9 out there just because of the conditions.   If you got the ball in the fairway you could be aggressive.   The greens are receptive and they're pure.   Hat's off to the grounds crew after last week.

Q.   How important was it to post a good score today to get off to a good start?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, it's important.   It's important any week.   I don't necessarily base my Thursday on shooting a really low number.   I would say if anything it's based on how I'm striking it, if I'm hitting my lines, and my process and that sort of thing, and that was good.   There was a couple tee shots I'm just not that comfortable with, and I stuck to it and hit some solid shots.
That's really all you can ask for out here is continually staying in that rhythm and that process and hitting good shots.   But making a few putts and shooting 6‑under, you're never going to complain. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT