MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How long was the round?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know what the time was, but it was long.   I know it took us an hour and 20 minutes until our tee shot on 4.   It was a long day.

Q.   Could you see how some guys get penalized today.   You heard about the penalty on the kid. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   I didn't hear about it. 

Q.   They called a stroke on the Chinese kid. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Really?   A penalty shot even?   Yeah, I mean, it's just blustery, it's hard.   That's very unfortunate.   That's just, I mean that comes with experience there.   That stinks.   I feel bad for him.

Q.   It looks like he's going to make the cut. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Is he?   What's he at? 

Q.   He's at 4. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah, that will make the cut.   Well, I say that, but ‑‑ no one's going to get to 7, I don't think.   You never know though. 

Q.   How was it?
ZACH JOHNSON:   It was rough.   Just couldn't get anything going.   I hit some solid shots.   I had some opportunities there, especially on the back nine to ‑‑ I missed some short putts and didn't feel great with my putter in my hands.   Didn't feel that bad with my ball striking.   It really wasn't that bad. 
But I had some chances.   I hit some really good shots coming in.   17 and 18.   I hit two great drives and two good second shots and if I flight my ball five yards short of where I hit it on 18 or five yards past it, it's going back to the hole.   It just landed in the hot spot, right in the flat spot and you know, a yard from the hole.   Six inches from the hole.   So. 

Q.   How mentally demanding is a day like this here?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, this place is always mentally demanding.   But when you add wind into it ‑‑ but that's what Augusta is.   You expect, I expect it to be like this.   This is how I remember it.   Watching on television and experiencing it over my I guess nine years now.   So this is exactly what I anticipated.   It's just blustery and commitment is a big issue. 

Q.   On 13, what was the thought process there and just were you surprised with the way the shot ended up?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I chunked it.   I didn't even, I mean I barely, I don't even know if I hit the ball.   I was in between a 4‑iron and a 3‑iron and I played it safe, I hit the 3‑iron, 3‑iron hybrid, whatever you want to call it.   Just to make sure, but that was a duck.   I duffed it.   I think it bounced in the water. 
So, no I wasn't really surprised.   I was surprised at how poorly I hit it.   It's always 20/20 after the fact.   That hurt.   That was a one shot, maybe potentially, one and a half to two‑shot swing right there.   And then I missed about a 3‑footer for birdie on the previous hole.   So those two holes hurt.   I could have got it back close to even par and been right in the middle of it.   But it's unfortunate.

Q.   You can't see what goes on on 12 from the gallery, but was that a lip out?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, a 360.   Came right back at me. 

Q.   On a day like this where does your experience pay off the most?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I think with patience.   Patience and commitment.   I mean, you're going to hit ‑‑ on a day like this, you're going to hit really good shots that don't turn out great.   And then, but if you're committed, you know, some of your good shots are going to be good.   So I think that, I think that's the big thing.   You expect ‑‑ it's how you deal with the good shots that turn out bad and bad shots always turn out bad.   So the good shots that turn out bad and good shots that turn out good.   It's how you deal with that and I think your expectations. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah, I'm always learning.   I don't think I'm ever ceasing to quit learning or know it all.   I feel like when you have difficult conditions like this, you're always storing some things and retaining some of the experience.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT