HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 18, 2013
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round today. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   It was one of those days where I felt really good going into it and I really like this golf course, the greens are just spectacular. 
So just a matter of staying patient out here.   Because those greens are so good, if you get it going.   Unfortunately like, you can make a lot of putts, but if you miss a few you start searching.   I missed a few early and then remained patient, and fortunately I got a couple to drop and then they started all going in, so it was nice.

Q.   Talk to me about that front nine.   The birdie, eagle, birdie streak there. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   That was good.   I missed an opportunity on 1, missed an opportunity on 3 that were really close.   And fortunately, I made the one on 4 and that kind of kick started it. 
Hit a good shot in there and made about a 10-footer. 
And hit about a 12-footer for eagle on 5, I guess it was, and responded with a nice putt on 6 as well.   So I just kind of pulled it together.

Q.   What were you hitting tee to green on the eagle?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I hit a driver and 3-wood to about 12 feet. 

Q.   You're three strokes off.   Do you kind of like your standing?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, yeah, I mean, this is a tournament where you got to go low, so you know that going into it.   But, yeah, it's only Friday, as they say.   And so hopefully another good solid round tomorrow will put me in a place where I can make a move on Sunday.

Q.   How would you rate your early season form here, I can't remember if you played both events?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I did, I played both Hyundai and Sony.   Actually hit it really good there.   I didn't putt very well. 
And then Sony I was really quite ill, I didn't play in the pro-am and barely got finished, barely played on Thursday and Friday.   I missed the cut by a shot and I putted terrible. 
So I feel like my ball striking is really coming along nicely and I'm staying patient, like I said.   And so hopefully the putts will continue to drop.

Q.   Are you over the illness?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, yeah.   It was a stomach bug.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT