JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Regarding the British. )
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm excited, very, very excited.  But I was excited coming into this week, too.  I mean, it was probably evident maybe the last couple days.  I think, if anything, I might have got a little too in front of myself Thursday, Friday as far as just outcome, scorecard thoughts.  Maybe forced it a little bit.
And if anything, I should be thankful that I made the cut.  I mean, I don't know what I made, probably a five- six-footer on 18 to make the cut.
Tell you what, Friday afternoon there was a part of me that was okay missing the cut.  It was so painfully hot and humid.  But now you know you have an opportunity on the weekend to move up the board.
Today I felt like I played just like I did yesterday.  Probably just made a couple more putts.  I'll say a couple more saves.  I played really good yesterday; I just didn't score as well with all the delays.
Q. What do you think of Michael Kim at 25-under?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think it's absolutely 100% fantastic.  I'm a huge fan and a friend.  I consider myself a friend.  He would probably say mentor or older guy.
But, yeah, we've got, well, two individuals on the same team.  Our management is the same and then our physio, Dr. Troy, we see, too.  So I see him a lot, and I try to encourage him.
He's had some struggles and shouldn't, because he's really, really, really, really, really good.  I've played him in practice rounds.  What you're seeing is just everything culminating for the better.
I'm not suggesting he's going to win, but he looks like he's in control.  It's exciting to watch, because he is really good, and he's a great kid.
Yeah, well, I mean, and just talking about the year, I mean, he's had some -- he should be very consistent, you know, in the sense -- I'm not going to say he should be like me, but he shouldn't miss many cuts.  He should be in contention numerous times because his putting stroke is great and his golf swing is tremendous.
I think he changed coaches as of late, but I'm not certain on that.  I don't know the specifics.  We just exchange texts occasionally just to kind of stay in touch.
He helps me with my foundation event.  That's a day and a half out of his time that isn't necessary.  I'm just a big fan.
Q. How disappointing is it knowing you weren't going to be in contention, especially now with the way you played coming back the last two days?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, if there is any disappointment, that's it.  I am one that is trying to always -- miss the cut by five, miss the cut by one, made the cut by a shot, I am trying to find the positives.  I'm going to learn.  One, two, I mean, there are so many positives right now in the way I was able to perform in these conditions.
I typically think this golf course, when it gets firm and fast like it was Thursday/Friday, it was starting to get firm and fast, is better for me.  So when it's wet like this and I can still score, I mean, that's a good thing.  I'm encouraged.
Obviously I'm going to a part of the world where it's going to be 120% different than this, a 180-degree change.  My game works over there, but it doesn't necessarily mean it's going to show up on the scorecard.  I got to go out and plot my way around.
Q. Do you think this weather was a testimony to your play today?  You said it was dreadful on Friday and today was a little bit cooler.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean the overcast today was what was nice.  Friday I don't know if I got dehydrated or what, but I was not myself.
Again, that being said, it was like that for everybody Friday afternoon and obviously there were some low scores.  I've just had issues with heat in the past.  It's not an excuse; it's just the facts.
You know, but I still managed to, whatever, make a couple birdies, two or three birdies coming in, make the cut, and it kind of led into the weekend.
Q. The week that you've had, I mean, it starts in Cedar Rapids, and I'm sure that that's hectic.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes.
Q. Does the week you have make it hard?
ZACH JOHNSON: Depends on your definition of hard.  It's probably a little bit of chaos with a little bit of excitement with a little bit of stress with a little bit of sheer joy, too.  I mean, it's kind of all that in one, you know?
I wouldn't change one in ingredient or one second of it.  There is a reason why our event is Sunday/Monday of this week leading into it, because it's very, very convenient.  Just works out really well for all parties.
So, yeah, I guess it could be.  It's difficult to a degree.  I'm fine.  I've done it before and I'll do it again.  I don't know where it was -- when our event was 2012.  I don't think it was the Monday before.  I could be mistaken.  I think it was the Monday of Akron that year.
Q. Are you able to sleep on that plane and get off the plane and it's, Here we go?
ZACH JOHNSON: I have absolutely no issues sleeping anywhere, so yes.  I've got my routine when I get there.  I'll get there, get to the house, unpack, rest a little bit, maybe grab something to eat, shower, ideally do a moderate workout to get the blood going, go out to the golf course, and at that point, whether it's hit balls, putt, play a few holes, I'm not sure yet.
Q. You brought up the World Cup.  Not going to tell you who won.  Who would you want to win and why?
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't know.
Q. No choice?
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I just like soccer.  No bias there.
Q. (Regarding crowd support.)
ZACH JOHNSON: Crowd support is tremendous each and every week.  I mean, every year I come here it's outrageous.  It's not nice outside right now and they're still here.  That's a testament to certainly this community, but also to John Deere and what they've done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT