THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ZACH JOHNSON:   He's a great, great coach but even a better person.

Q.   What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Same.   Quality shots.   That's really all you can do here.   You can hit‑‑ mis‑hit shots here.   I feel it's one of those tournaments where you hit bad shots, usually a bad result.   You hit good shots, you can get some good results.   You can hit good shots and have bad results.   So the point is the more solid you can hit the shot, the better the result can be. 
I'm not trying to be too philosophical here.   But my point is a quality shot can turn into pars and eliminating doubles.   With conditions like this, obviously an occasional birdie.
So my whole philosophy this week is avoiding those fairway bunkers and hitting solid shots, because I'm putting fine. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:   Extremely annoyed.   Yeah, I made a good bogey on 3 with a poor tee shot.   Really the only bad tee shot I hit on the back nine was the approach shot.   It was an awkward stance, but that's being petty.   It was not that bad.   It was a terrible second shot and obviously an even worse chip.   Quite frankly it was quite an easy bogey where I put myself.   That was a bit annoying when you've got a 7‑iron in the fairway.   I should be 20, 25 feet.   But I hit a lot of shots and got up and down a few times.   And I'm not going to dwell on the last up‑and‑down on 18. 

Q.   What were your emotions getting on the plane Monday morning?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I wasn't too amped up about it.   I knew I had a lot of work to do this week.   For the most part there's a lot of momentum coming from last week.   But I've forgotten about it.   I don't think there's any reason to get too caught up in it.   This is another championship and there's no reason why I can't play well here.   Obviously I played well here, but it's just one day.   I'm going to grab those positive feelings I had last week.   But for the most part a new week, completely different elements, completely different golf course, and the beauty of it is solid shots over there in 95‑degree weather and solid shots in 60‑degree weather, they end up being very similar, the ball just doesn't go quite as far.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's great.   Ernie and Darren, I played with them numerous times.   I enjoyed playing with both of them.   Obviously they're both champions in their own right.   They're fun to play with.   They've got great rhythm and great tempo.   It's easy to be with them. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, I guess any Open Championship.   They're pot bunkers, I don't think they're any different than any pot bunker.   The sand might be a little bit heavier, almost kind of muddier.   But that has a lot to do with the fact that we've had moist conditions.   They're very fair.
Greenside you can get it up around the hole for the most part.   There's none that are too treacherous.   There's a couple you have to avoid, but for the most part you can get it out of the trap and on to the green.   Now on the fairway, not so much.   Now there's only a couple on the fairway off the tee that you can maybe even go at the green.
17, Bobby Jones bunker, but other than that I don't see many bunkers you can get at. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, you have the sod terracing, you know, obviously the lip is usually greenside, so that's a big lip.   I was curious if I took a practice swing on the way through, I knew that wasn't a penalty, that's through the green.   I was wondering if I hit the one on the way back, the lip on my backswing, if that would be a penalty.   Unfortunately it's the same, meaning it's just through the green.   The only hazard part is the actual sand.   You can't touch the sand.   So our practice swing going back hitting the lip or going through hitting the lip is no penalty.   I knew it was no penalty on the actual shot.   But if I hit turf or maybe some turf fell on the sand, was that a penalty.   That was my question.   I was pretty proud of myself actually thinking of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT