U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible).  
I don't know if there's one aspect that's more challenging than the next.   It's tough off the tee.   It's tough on your approach shots.   Club selection is very difficult.   Judging the wind is not easy.   And then obviously the greens are fast and firm.  
   
 Q.   Did you see a huge difference between practice rounds and today on the greens?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   I thought they were a little bit faster.   Every other pin was three paces to the left or right, which is a bit extreme.   The wind has been west pretty much all week.   It came from the south.   I don't know if that made that much of a difference.  
   
 Q.   I was thinking more the club selection?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   In the club selection it can change your approach, but I don't think the wind was any harder today as far as difficulty or strength.  
   
 Q.   What makes it so different from the other Open venues?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't see it being any different than any other Open venue.   It's hard.   
   
 Q.   Maybe the fairways, maybe you don't see that many fairways sloped that way?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's built on a hill, outside of the obvious.   Fairways are difficult to hit, any Open it's difficult to hit the fairways.   This is nothing different.   And the rough is penal.   And the greens are firm and fast.   To me it's pretty stereotypical USGA event.  
   
 Q.   You can get back in if you get a good number tomorrow?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I don't feel like I'm playing that bad.   I shot 77, but I don't feel like I'm playing that bad.   I didn't play great today.   Yeah, but just a couple of errant shots that cost me my day.   And I think that's really what it boils down to.   A couple of missed putts, but my speed was terrible with my putter, either short or long.   
Fortunately, I made a couple of nice four to six footers for par.   Heck, I made one for double.   Just didn't have it today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT