MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q   (Inaudible) at the end there, 16 and 17, but disappointed on 18?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, yeah.   I mean, I had a putt at it.   I mean, I didn't think I could keep it short or on the high side of the hole based on where I'd ‑‑ based on what I looked at when I went out there and walked.   So that was a little frustrating.   Nonetheless, I knew I had to miss my second shot left.   I had a little bit of mud on the ball.   You know, I put myself in a difficult situation, but that was the proper situation.   It was a great sand shot and a 20‑something made putt.   I just didn't make the putt.   I misread it.   I hit it right where I was looking.  
   
 Q.   A rebound after two double bogeys, how do you fight back from that?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   From the two doubles?   Yeah, that was frustrating.   I think you just persevere and be patient.   This course will do it to you.   I hit a bad shot on 11, my second shot.   There is no doubt about that.   That was a terrible, terrible golf swing.   
9 was unfortunate.   I hit a pretty good drive and I was on a severe down slope.   Trying to hit it high in the air, you just ‑‑ I must have misclubed.   I actually was think about a different club, but I would have been short of the track if I hit the one I was thinking about hitting.   Misjudged the wind, misjudged the club, and I paid the price there with the 6.   
Then I gave myself some chances.   I had a couple of opportunities to make some birdies and got one to go in on 16 and obviously a nice pitch‑in on 17  
   
 Q.   Which club was the proper shot on the second shot on 9?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   I hit 6 iron and it landed probably three yards, four yards in the lip of the bunker and just stayed right there and probably should have hit a 5.   I mean, it's hard to get your trajectory when you are hitting it like this trying to hit it uphill.   I mis‑hit it and ‑‑ I hit it a little then.   I didn't pure it, but it's just a difficult shot.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   How old was she?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Four months.   He.  
   
 Q.   He, sorry.   Can you sort of relate what it was like to prepare for a major tournament?  
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well, there is adjustment there certainly just from a time standpoint, budgeting your time properly.   John than really can't ‑‑ I mean, this is his third child.   I mean, he knows what he's doing.   He's been there before.   It's not any secret to him as to what is going on.   
Now, Bubba is a little bit different.   His first and I'm sure there is a little bit of adjustment there.   I don't know if Angie and the baby are traveling yet.   I doubt it.   I know the adoption process went really, really well.   I'm just ecstatic for them.   That's the best thing I've ever experienced.   
   
 Q.   What is the biggest adjustment?   Is it time management?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Time management, yeah, absolutely.   That and just continuing to manager your priorities, I think.  
   
 Q.   How much do the weather conditions with the swirling wind and how cold it was?   Does 7, 8 and 9 remind you of the two rounds in '07 when it was cold back then?   
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, it seemed like it got colder from the range through the first nine or ten holes.   It was continuing to drop in temperature.   There were certainly some reminders.   That year, though, was so firm and fast and the greens were rock hard.   So totally different conditions on the surface.   But the temperatures were ‑‑ I don't know what the ‑‑ it was probably in the 50s when we were playing the front nine.   Now it's probably pushing 70.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT