HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2012
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You get things going yesterday, everything's moving along, and then of course the winds come.   Really kind of breaks the momentum.   Was it hard to get up this morning and find it again?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Well it was just, I hadn't played in 50 degree temperatures, I guess that's probably the big difference.   But there's no wind, it wasn't that difficult.   It's not easy getting up at 4:30, 5 o'clock, but yeah, we're used to it.   I mean delays are a part of the PGA TOUR, certainly a part of golf, and you just roll with it. 
I mean, it stinks for us, but it's really, really tough for the volunteers, certainly for the maintenance staff and everybody.   There's no, it's just, there's ‑‑ no one's a winner in it, but we make the best of it and you just continue to go forward.

Q.   The weather's a whole lot better this morning than it was late yesterday afternoon.   How bad was it out there?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I never experienced anything like that.   13th hole I had a hit a good tee shot, we were talking I was the last to hit, we said 4‑iron.   By the time it was my turn to hit I don't think I could have teed up a driver and got it there.   So that's being, that's a very valid statement. 
So I've never seen wind that fierce, that fast, that quick.   I don't know what the gusts were, but they had to be up there.

Q.   You got to be right where you want to be though. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, I left a bunch out there, but I made a few putts and it probably evens out in the end, I don't know how you look at it.   But I feel good, I like where I'm at and one more round. 

Q.   If I had all the strokes that you guys left out there, even when you were shooting 65s I think I could lead this tournament. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Part of it just feels like you should.   There's a lot of holes that you can take advantage of and you just feel like you should be taking advantage of them, even though you might not.   But you still got to get it done.   You still got to hit good shots and make putts.

Q.   Were you ready to roar to start this season off?   Had you done what you wanted to do in the off season or did you find something?
ZACH JOHNSON:   I had a lot of rest, I had a lot of preparation time, I had a lot of, I guess you would say re‑evaluating time, and, yeah, my team, we got a good game plan I think and so far it's been the right thing as far as my approach and hopefully we can continue it on.

Q.   You didn't make the Presidents Cup team this last year, I made a list of guys who have been on a Presidents Cup or a Ryder Cup team in the last two or three years, it's a pretty long list of guys who have been there who probably had to watch that and said, hey, I want to do that again.   Is that the goal for this year?
ZACH JOHNSON:   Exactly.   I missed the Ryder Cup somewhere in between there and I missed this Presidents Cup.   And any time you've been associated with that, I feel like I played in four or five of them, whatever it is, you want to be in them.   You do. 
But at the same time, I was watching, I'm going to be on my couch watching that.   That's our team.   So I thought they played great and hopefully I can get my game on the right track and make Captain Davis' team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT