WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2011
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  August 6, 2011


Quotes From:

ZACH JOHNSON

 Q. Wonderful 64 today on your scorecard. You make the golf course look easy today. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: I don't know about that. I put myself in good positions and made some putts today, a couple nice saves that kept my momentum going. 
 You know, I felt like I played really good on Thursday and Friday, just the score didn't show. It was nice to see it come together today.

 Q. The leaders are currently at 11, may change a little bit but you're still in the hunt?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, the course is playing minimal wind, pretty receptive, so I expect the leaders to push off maybe a couple more shots. But you never know. I've put myself in position for an outside chance tomorrow, and I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Is it a good test for next week's event?
 ZACH JOHNSON: It's a good test any week. I think Akron, Firestone Country Club, is probably one of the most consistently consistent courses we play every year. Maybe a couple shots easier, a couple shots harder, but it's always in really good condition, it's always tough. It magnifies your weaknesses. If you're off, it'll show. If you're on, you can put a number up. The course feels like a major championship style course, because you've got to hit quality shots. It'll be a good prep for next week. 

 Q. Did you have a spot in the round that was kind of key?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I think it was. The only really bad shot I hit was on 8 tee box, bad tee shot, and then I still had a chance to get it up around the green, and I hit a good shot, just was in the rough, bad lie, flubbed that one, then I made about a 15-footer for bogey on 8. That was my only bogey. But that was the big -- just kept things going. I got off to a good start, and that got me from 3 to 2, I think. 
 Made a good par on 9, and then kept things going. I think I one-putted five or six greens on the back nine, so obviously I putted well. 

 Q. Was there something that came together on the back nine, just the putting?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, it's been like this the whole -- I've been playing well, I just haven't put it together. I made more putts, hit a couple close. I hit it pretty close on 11, like four or five feet, and I lipped out on 13, and I made a good par on 14. I made a 20-footer, made a bomb on 17, hit it pretty close on 16.

 Q. McIlroy lists this in his top three. Would you agree?
 ZACH JOHNSON: I don't dislike it, let's put it that way. It's one of those places I feel like if we had the PGA Championship or the U.S. Open had an issue with the golf course, say, three weeks prior, you could just come here. It would be an emergency U.S. Open. This place can be ready in a matter of days. If you think about it, the membership has got three to pick from. This place is kind of a hidden gem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT