JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2011
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Zach, good run. When you made the birdie at 10 did you think, yeah, something good might happen here?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, no. I mean I wasn't -- you're supposed to birdie 10 when you have a -- well, I should have hit a 7-iron. 6-iron in your hand; right? I mean, no, I was just staying the course and trying to hit quality shots, trying to make quality putts.

 Q. But I mean tournament wise, did you think, hey, I got --
 ZACH JOHNSON: No.

 Q. Because nobody was really doing it?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, I never thought I was in contention, to be honest with you. But I mean I was trying to make birdies. I mean you have to try to make birdies out here. I shouldn't say trying. I was trying to give myself opportunities to make birdies, and fortunately I got some putts to go in.

 Q. You gave yourself a bunch of chances, almost made an eagle at 17. I know that made things exciting. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that would have been nice. It would have capped the week. I had the one on 18, too, but yeah, all in all a good week.

 Q. How great is it to hear what you get to hear walking up to 18 or walking off 18?
 ZACH JOHNSON: It's awesome. I mean it's awesome. It's been like that since day one. This is my tenth JDC, I guess and I've had it every year. I mean it's tremendous. They're battling the heat just like I am. It's pretty impressive. 

 Q. Is your game as ready as you want it to be to head over seas?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. I feel good. You know, I'm striking it fine, putting it fine, so I just gotta stay the course, and you know, not get too ahead of myself. I feel like my time's coming. It's just a matter of putting everything together for one week.

 Q. Thanks for your time, good luck. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. I mean you all witnessed it. If I would have made some putts earlier on in the week, it could have been a much different story. 
 Today, I would even say -- probably the last few holes yesterday, too, I started to feel like the putter was setting in properly and hitting some good putts, and fortunately it led into today. I putted pretty good today. I mean I left some out there, but I think today probably evens itself out.

 Q. And I'm sure you and Kyle are thinking about Brad today?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean Mark Wilson as well. There's a number of us that are friends, tight with Brad, and you know, she had a long life. She was 83, I think. And you know, the fortunate side is that Brad got to spend about a week with her last week. So he's down in Florida now. So it's rough. I mean I feel for him. He's one of my best buddies and any time something like that happens, you certainly -- you know you feel bad about it.

 Q. Do you feel good about this week?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Absolutely. Yeah. I mean if you're going to weigh positives and negatives, there's extremely way more positives than negatives. 
 You know, I'm comfortable with the golf course, and I like, especially when it's in these type of conditions, a little firm, fat. You gotta hit solid shots. And yeah, I mean I'm never content with where my game is, but I'm certainly happy the way I managed my game. I mean this is a week where I could have given up, my putter was so pitiful. And you know, I've stayed true to it and tried to persevere, and I was very frustrated Thursday, Friday.

 Q. The tournament's not over yet. Kyle Stanley's got a chance to win this. That would be cool for your little event in Cedar Rapids, wouldn't it?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Actually, that would be great. I mean that's what it's all about now; right? I mean I just think Kyle's a great kid. The more he gets opportunities, gets in contention, the better off he'll be. He's a great talent. You're talking about at one time the best amateur in the nation, Ben Hogan Award winner, et cetera, et cetera. Hits it hard, putts it good. Looks like he's got Bobby on the bag now. They're a good tandem, and this doesn't surprise me at all. Plus he's got Stricker right behind him. There's no telling what's going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT