JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2011
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Made a few putts today, but not too good out there.
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. I mean it seems like it was pretty consistent. I mean nothing to get too out of whack. I mean gave myself a number of opportunities today, I mean a lot of great opportunities. 
 Had a couple just mental lapses out there, specifically on the back nine, but all in all I played solid again. I'm driving it good, striking solid, hitting putts for the most part on line. I might have pushed or pulled one of them, but you know, not bad. It's getting there.

 Q. You said the other day that Stricker is a machine, he's playing like a machine. Trying to get a big read here.
 ZACH JOHNSON: I don't think anybody's surprised.

 Q. What is it about him that doesn't surprise you? Why are you not surprised with what he's doing today?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, he's mentally very tough, obviously. He never gets too ahead of himself. He puts the ball in play. His game's very similar to mine as far as we're not going to overpower any golf course and rely on our wedges and rely on our putting. And my guess is that he's probably putting a little bit better than I am this week. He possibly is hitting it a little bit better, but I feel like I'm striking it nice. 
 He's just -- there's not any weaknesses in his golf game, both fundamentally, I think, and physically and mentally. So he's top whatever in the world for a reason.

 Q. Can you imagine owning a golf course the way he does here?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. Elmcrest Country Club. I own that. (Laughs). Well, I mean I don't know. It's impressive. It's very impressive. I mean to do is once -- twice in a row is pretty good, but three -- is this going to be three.

 Q. This will be three. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Whatever. Potentially three. Is very impressive. We've seen it done a number of times on TOUR. It's not like it's that out of the ordinary; right? Specifically Tiger, but he is out of the ordinary. Yeah, it fits him. He's a Midwest guy, same type of grass, that same type of feel as Madison, I would assume, where he lives. So it's very, very impressive. I don't think it's overly shocking.

 Q. Do you bother to glance at the scoreboard today or?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No. I might have glanced at it a couple times out there. But it's irrelevant. Now I can think about it and think of the 75 putts I missed and that might put me in contention more, but if I have a good round tomorrow -- it's gotta be really good, but you never know.

 Q. You've been hitting a lot of fairways all week, but 12 seemed to be -- both of you guys went off to the right.
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. It's a tough hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT