TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2011
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk a little bit about the progression of things out there.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. I mean I played well, didn't make any big mistakes, gave myself a lot of opportunities. I didn't make any like long putts or anything. I just put myself in a good place to make birdies. Well, I guess I made, what, a 15-footer on 8? That was pretty long.   
 Three-putted number 11 from like 25 feet. Other than that, and I hit one bad shot on 4 that cost me. So I just kept the golf course in front of me and really played solid.  
  
  Q. You know, since you had the back-to-back missed cuts a few weeks ago your results have been better since, couple of Top 10s in there. What's changed from the early part of the season until now?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I've done some reevaluating. I mean I think being in this business you have to keep evaluating, but you also gotta keep it in perspective and not get too high over the highs, too low over the lows, but I sat down with one of my coaches and just really rehashed kind of what I was thinking, where I was, and I did some equipment testing and that sort of stuff. And that's continuing on right now. I'm still kind of doing that. So there's a number of factors involved.   
 But I wasn't too upset or too frustrated with where my game was. I felt like it was in a good position. I just needed to sharpen a little bit or polish, I guess would be the right word.  
  
  Q. No big mechanical changes or anything?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: No. No, no, no. That won't ever -- there's nothing mechanical that will ever change. I mean it changes. Just hopefully I go back to where I should be.  
  
  Q. You got a couple more majors and a WGC coming up in the next few weeks. Do you feel like things are shaping up pretty well for you?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. My out look is they're just tournaments. I can't -- those weeks are just -- this week is just as big as those weeks, and to lose that perspective I think would certainly, you know, take me in the other direction.  
 But I am, I just gotta continue to keep improving and keep making some putts, which is good, so hopefully that'll continue.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do on the break?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I'm going to probably go putt for five minutes, and then I'll probably eat again. Sleep.   
  
  Q. Seems to be the common thing, sleep.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Plus this is my third week in a row and I played the CVS on Monday and Tuesday.   
  
  Q. You guys are kind of unlucky. You'll probably have to come out early again tomorrow.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I don't think it's unlucky in the sense that the guys that are playing the other way, there's no rain, if there's no thunders, they gotta play 36 holes today.  
  
  Q. That's true?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: So if we can segment or second 18, that's fine by me. I'd rather play 27 tomorrow versus 36 tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT