PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This might not sound like Zach Johnson but it actually is, 3-under par today, not a bad round of golf?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I played pretty solid in all in all. I gave myself a lot of opportunities. I think with the exception maybe of three or four holes, it's hard to hit the golf ball really close to the pin. I put myself in position to make some putts. I just, you know, a couple lip-outs and a couple slid by but for the most part, it was a solid day.  
  
  Q. Talk about the change in conditions for the third round as compared to when you were out there on Thursday and Friday because the wind was completely different?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: The wind was in a different direction first and foremost and I thought it was a day when it dropped, too. We had some wind, that would be -- I felt like on 4,5,6,7,8 and by the time we made it to the back nine, there was a little bit of a breeze, but it was a cool breeze, if you will, just dropped at your feet. The greens are receptive, they are holding and you can kind of fire at the pins and as a result, that's why you're seeing low scores on this golf course.  
  
  Q. Do you have a number in your head for tomorrow?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, just play solid golf and keep the golf course in front of me. I'm hitting a lot of fairways. I'm giving myself a lot of opportunities, and I'm going to hit the fairway on 18 and I'm going to hit the green in two and we'll see how this works. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Do you feel okay?   
 ZACH JOHNSON: I don't feel great. I got 12 hours of sleep last night and hoping for a good number of hours tonight. It's a head cold, sinuses, but I can fight.   
  
  Q. Do you compare this to how you felt in 2006 when you were on the bubble, trying to make The Ryder Cup Team?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, very different feelings. I would say in 2006 it was a consuming thought. This year, it might have entered my brain, but I'm like, great, if it happens and great, if it doesn't. I want to make the team, but if it doesn't, I'll watch it at home with my family. I've got a newborn. It ain't that big of a deal.   
  
  Q. When did you get the cold?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Started feeling it Tuesday morning. I probably sound worse than I actually am.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT