PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your birdies and bogeys for the folks that didn't see your round.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Birdies and bogeys, I started on the back nine. I hit a sand wedge on 11 to about probably seven feet. Managed to make that.   
 13, I hit a good 5-wood off the tee and hit a lob wedge straight downwind about 113 yards to about six feet. I made that one.   
 15, I made a bogey, pushed my tee shot one step in the rough there. I hit a great shot out of there with a wood and then hit a pretty good chip, but just slid by the hall to about six, seven feet and missed that putt for par.   
 17 was a steal. I made [] an or excuse me, I hit a 5-wood off the tee to about -- I don't know. 15 feet probably. Managed to make that.   
 18, I hit a poor drive, laid up, hit a good shot in there to about 15 feet and missed it for par.   
 And then my birdie on the front was on hole 5, the par-5. Hit a good drive, hit a 5-wood up there, chipped it up to about six feet and made it for birdie.  
  
  Q. Tell us about the Midwestern fans. They have sort of embraced you and a bunch of other Midwestern players; what's it like to come here and have some fans get behind you?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I had it last at Hazeltine. And any time you're around the Midwest or around home, it's great to be in front of friends and family.   
 Midwest people in general, obviously that's what I am, and I think they're fantastic. There's a lots of pride there. There's a lot of support there, and I feel fortunate to be one and it's great to have them here.  
  
  Q. Coming into the week a bunch of broadcasters were saying they wondered where Zach Johnson was. At the beginning of the year people were saying you were one of the top players and then you disappeared for a while, and now it looks like you're back. Tell us about your chances to make the Ryder Cup team and what it would mean for you to wear the red, white and blue for the United States.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: My chances, I think I'm still in it, but at the same time there's still a lot of golf left. There's only 36 more holes to make the team outright.  
 But my focus this week is the PGA Championship and if can I take care of that and play well here, I think things will fall where they fall. I'm not too concerned about the outcome; in other words, I'm just going to try and focus on each round. But I've got time to prove myself if I don't make it. To wear the red white and blue, like I said before, once you're a part of it, once you experience it, it's a privilege, it's an honor and you want to be associated with it every time. So I desperately want to be on the team.  
  
  Q. What changes have you made, if any, to your game coming into this week to be able to contend so well and play so well the last couple of days?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I've only played two out of the last six weeks. This being the second one. I just had my second born so I haven't been able to play a lot. As a result I have been able to practice a little bit and it's a matter of fine tuning my fundamentals and remaining patient more than anything. But fine tuning my fundamentals and just sticking to my process that got me here. I don't deviate away from it nor do I intend to deviate away from it.   
 I played pretty well all year I just haven't put four good rounds in one week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT