JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2010
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like you've been treading water for a couple of days?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. That would be a fair assumption. I just think my scorecard relative to the way the course is and the conditions are presented is very indicative of how I'm playing. I'm playing very okay. 
 Today I felt like I hit it a lot better. It may not have shown -- certainly didn't show on my scorecard, but I hit it better. 
 I didn't putt that bad today. I certainly didn't hit it within five feet much, but I made the short putts, drove the ball good with the exception of two drives, 15 and 18. 18 I hit it good, God, I hit that good, just pushed a little bit. 
 But yeah, I mean I'm encouraged. Two weeks off and the way I'm striking it now, certainly the way I feel like my process is going on the golf course is good.

 Q. What's the most frustrating thing about the inconsistency on and off?
 ZACH JOHNSON: The fact that I'm probably down 12 shots. That's about it.

 Q. That's gotta be very frustrating. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: It's very frustrating. But yeah, I mean it is what it is. What people have to realize is that you get to this level, and when you're sharp, it is magnified; and when you're just a little bit off, it's magnified. So that's why there's a fair gap between the leaders and, you know, certainly where I am, just fairly average.

 Q. Aside from the competition for tomorrow, are there parts of your game that you really want to concentrate on tomorrow?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, just solid shots. I mean going into the British Open, I mean my focus, you gotta control your trajectory, certainly gotta hit it high, gotta hit it low; and as a result I'm just trying to hit solid shots.

 Q. With Stricker now at 20-under, going into tomorrow, what's the thought process?
 ZACH JOHNSON: I mean I -- based on the conditions and then knowing what the forecast is tomorrow, you know, the inevitable is I'm probably out from winning the golf tournament, which is fine, but I mean a good round can move me up the board and certainly can give me some, you know, kind of pull me into next week, which is that's what this game is about. 
 It's all a process, both on the course, and -- you know, every day on the golf course, every round on the golf course, every four turnarounds every week. It's all a process of leading to the next week, and that's why missing cuts sometimes is good. 
 But getting four rounds in competitive golf this week can only benefit me for next week.

 Q. (Indiscernible). Does that change your mindset for today's round?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, not at all. I mean you gotta be aggressive. I mean the greens are still holding, for the most part. Fairways are rolling a little bit more now. 
 I had a lot of wedges today and managed to hit -- I think I hit one solid wedge close, which was frustrating, so my wedge has really been off. But no, my mind frame is the same.

 Q. Did you put pressure on yourself?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, not at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT