JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2010
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you think of your round?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I think it was fairly indicative of how I played. I mean frustrating for sure. I mean I'm shaking the rust off. Two weeks off. I took a lot of time off. I look about 11 days out without touching a club, so you know, I think today was -- my ball striking was fairly average. My putting was really good.   
 Actually hit a really good putt on 18. I was in a footprint, so I mean other than that, I really didn't miss any putts other than 17, but it was a tough putt. So I putted good all day. You know, didn't hit it great, but I hit it okay and managed to make a few putts, so I think 4-under is pretty indicative of how I played.  
  
  Q. You've shot 60 twice in your career. That gives you a perspective on shooting 59. Just talk about a guy accomplishing that here.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: I mean, you know, a lot of people say, well, second shot 59, second shot 59. But I don't care where you shoot. You still gotta tee it up; you still gotta mark it; you still gotta put it in the hole. That's very, very impressive.   
 Some guys will say, well, we played ball-in-hand. I mean I don't care. You're still dealing with wet conditions which the ball goes nowhere, and Paul is a mobster. So that's -- I mean knowing how well he putts, as much as I've played with him, you gotta make putts to shoot 59.  
  
  Q. What's it like to see a 59 on the board before you even start?   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. I hope that's the last time. You know, I mean it's frustrating. I mean you knew before even today started, I knew it was going to be moist. I knew you would have to fire at pins. I knew you would have to be pretty aggressive given the situation.   
 You know, I mean that's not frustrating. That's just the way it is. You know, I could deal with that. We essentially have that every other week, but yeah, the old 5-9 on the board before you even hit a shot is a bit odd.  
  
  Q. All that said, Steve may be one shot behind him. How would it feel to shoot a 59 and have a one-stroke lead?   
 ZACH JOHNSON: I don't have any idea. You know, I mean it's Thursday. You know, you shoot 59 and have a one-shot lead on Sunday, that would be pretty good. But it's Thursday.  
  
  Q. That said, a night to maybe dry out this course a little bit. Do you expect scores to be different tomorrow?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I hope so. I don't think there's a whole lot of rain out in the forecast, at least till Sunday. But we've gotten a lot of rain, and we need some wind.   
 So if the wind picks up, that'll dry it out. We're not getting any roll, but it's starting to dry out in some areas. It drains well.  
  
  Q. What did you think of the fans following you out there today, Zach?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. It's great. It's always nice, especially when I come back here. You know, a lot of "go Iowa," "go this," "go that," "go AEGON," "go McGladrey." You know, whatever. I get that every week. It's certainly more common this week. It's nice coming from faces I know.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were having a good time out there with Bubba.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. Yeah. We're good friends for years, and Tim for that matter. It's nice playing with two good guys and certainly two good competitors, some of the better players in the world.  
  
  Q. Does that make it a little more relaxed you're coming home, playing with two guys you know well?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: It doesn't matter. I play with guys I don't know well and guys I know really, really well. You get used to it. As much as I've played this game. It's nice playing with guys you know, but it doesn't matter.   
  
  Q. Does it feel like an uphill climb, you're still staring up?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I mean yes and no. I don't feel like I'm out of it. You could have said that last year and I had a chance to win going into the last round. I don't know how many shots I was back going into the final two rounds.   
 But I've put myself in position to certainly climb the board, and I'm not ruling anything out. I'm not trying to win this golf tournament right now. My focus tomorrow is the 10th tee shot, and especially after the 10th tee shot today. And then you know, making some birdies and Friday's round. That's it.   
  
  Q. Did you change drivers?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: No. Gamer. Yeah, not yet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT