MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ZACH JOHNSON: Maybe a little bit of lack of roll in the fairway. The course is playing great, though. The rain is probably a good thing come tomorrow and Sunday. 

 Q. Can you talk about the differences in the front nine yesterday and today? Was it more challenging today for any particular reason?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I thought it was. I mean, I just thought it -- I mean, 1 was hard today. I hit a 3-iron today and I hit an 8-iron yesterday, and I hit two good drives. I'm trying to think of some of the other holes. 7 was about the same, and 9 was about the same. 
 I thought it was just a different wind. That north wind is -- north by northwest wind is more difficult, I think. 

 Q. How many years did you play this course before you felt like you understood it?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Three, when I won it.

 Q. Is there a light that goes off?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I think the light probably kind on the weekend of my second year here when I made the cut and really started -- I think I shot 70 on Sunday if I'm not mistaken and really felt like the light went on that day. Then it kind of rolled over into the next year. 
 Yeah, you know, still one of those places where you really just don't try to make putts, you just try to lag them, and if they go in, they go in.

 Q. You don't try to force things, you just try to hit the ball in the right places?
 ZACH JOHNSON: That's right.

 Q. Is this course more frustrating than courses that you normally play on Tour?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, I like it. It's not frustrating. I think it fits my game. I like the speed of the greens. I like hitting in certain areas and strategically plotting your way around. I enjoy that. It's still long. I think it's still long.

 Q. Do you find many courses like that, though?
 ZACH JOHNSON: There is no course like this. Is that what you're asking? 

 Q. Well, I asked Kenny Perry and he said you would think somebody else would have built another course like this. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, there's no course like this. There's not one out there. 

 Q. How would you describe the back nine? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Pretty good. I mean, I hit some really good shots. I essentially hit two bad shots. I mean, I had a good opportunity on 11, which you don't get very often, a really good opportunity at 12, a good save on the next hole, and then some other good opportunities coming down the stretch. 
 You know, I hit a bad tee shot on 17 and then a poor second shot on 18 and still should have made pars. I mean, I put myself in position to make pars, but I didn't.

 Q. With this wind, club selection today, was that something you really had to double think on some of these holes?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it was not easy. You were just standing there and it was pretty calm and now it's blowing. It just swirls. Because of what sits down below behind me, specifically 11, 12, 13, even 14, 15, 16, it just swirls down there. It's hard to judge.

 Q. Are you frustrated, disappointed?
 ZACH JOHNSON: I mean, I'm frustrated with my finish. It's never pleasant coming off playing pretty -- getting it back to even par for the day and then making a couple bogeys coming in. So that's very disappointing. But I hit quality shots, and I just didn't execute the last couple holes appropriately. Other than that, I mean, my game is fine. Everything is fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT