THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 9, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You roll in the birdie to close out the match at the 17th hole.
 ZACH JOHNSON: It was a team effort all along. Hunter started off great and played great the entire day, as we witnessed. It was a good team effort. Fortunately, I got some putts to come in the last few holes. It would have been nice to close out the previous hole, but I hit a good putt there and a better putt on this hole. So it was nice. 

 Q. What a birdie you had on 15. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: We had some birdie holes on 16, 17, 18 and you wanted to not lose one there and it was a big putt. 
 We needed this point and we need every point we can get right now. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Fortunately, I was able to make a good putt on 14. That kept us in the right frame of mind after they birdied. Hunter's putt on 15 was the biggest putt I've seen this week, it was pure. Fortunately, I hit some good shots on 16, 17 and finally made one on 17 which was nice. You know, the International Team is loaded. We have to keep our foot to the pedal there because we can't just kind of take it easy. There's a lot of golf left. We are not even halfway done yet.

 Q. Do any of the format favor either team? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: That's a good question. I don't know. A lot, when it comes to alternate-shot, a lot of it depends on the golf ball. A lot of it depends on probably the type of shots and the type of games each other plays. But I think all in all you could find the right teams, but it's just a matter of getting personalities in order. And this is golf. We know what we are doing. We are all pros and we just have to execute and, you know, let things take care of themselves. 

 Q. Talk about the first two days and what you expect for the last two. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I couldn't wait for Thursday and I couldn't wait for Friday after yesterday. I'm anxious for Saturday. It's going to be a long one tomorrow, but this is the best for me. I love team sports, and when we are able to incorporate an individual game such as golf into a team atmosphere with camaraderie and chemistry and captains and that sort of stuff, it just makes it even that much more special. 
 Then you don your nation's flag on your sleeve, it's such a privilege. I wish it went on for two weeks. 

 Q. The announcement that golf will be played in the 2016 Olympics, what's your response? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: I think it's fantastic. Our game is growing as a rapid rate. Our game brings a lot to the world. I think it brings a lot to kids, especially, the values and the ideals that are instilled in the game of golf that worldwide is really going to take it to another level. 
 And we have arguably got the most popular athlete playing in our sport, and that really doesn't hurt. Tiger has done a lot for it and continues to. I think adding it to the Olympics and representing your country in the Games is fantastic. I hope I get the pleasure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT