WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Particularly those last four holes, the match with Matt, what turned it around for you?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Patience, to be honest with you.  That and just being a little bit frustrated and mad.  I got nothing out of my game early.  I had three lip-outs and I'm just like okay, you have just got to wait because you are going to get putts.  Keep giving yourself opportunities.   
I felt like I gave him a few holes, which is hard when you are playing with somebody like Matt Kuchar who doesn't make many mistakes.  Technically he didn't make any mistakes the last four holes, I just got hot.  So I feel fortunate.  The bottom line is not like I should have won the match, necessarily.  I feel very fortunate.   
It helps in the pool.  It helps from a momentum standpoint.  When it comes down to it, it was just one day and tomorrow is another day.   
 Q.  You guys are goods friends.  You both live at Sea Island.  You are Presidents Cup teammates.  You are Ryder Cup teammates.  How hard is it to play a friend of yours in a match like this?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't particularly care for it and I know he doesn't really either.  We played each other last year in the same pool last year.  I don't really love that.  But it's just the way it is.  Bottom line is when it's all said and done, he's still my boy and I love his wife, his kids, vice-versa.  We hang a lot back home on the island.   
Go figure, he was saying a joke, but he was saying we could have just stayed at home and done this.  Had some guys to watch.   
But it's not easy.  You just got to -- fortunately this is our job so you have got to treat it as such.  Get down to work.  I guess that worked all right the last so many odd holes.   
 Q.  You drive the par-4, 18th?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Good thing I didn't hit driver.  That was just a little punch 5-wood.  No.  I smoked that one.  That's as good as I can hit it under the circumstances as well.  That was good.  So did he.  I don't know if my bounce was better or what it was, but I felt fortunate to be on the green there, just to two-putt.  I still thought I probably had to make an eagle, to be honest with you.  I got a fortunate lie there.  It all evens out sometimes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT