BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 6-under, pretty strong today, Zach. Comments on the day.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Just solid all around. I putted really, really well. I think I had nine putts on the front nine, which was my back. If I got myself into a trap, I hit it close out of the trap, which is rare and pleasant. I missed one putt I should have made, and that was for birdie at 11. And other than that, I played really, really solid.  
 It feels good. I hit the ball good, putted it well. If I missed a green, I missed it on the proper side and that sort of thing. All in all, just a solid round.  
  
  Q. Is that three out of the last four you birdied or three out of five?   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, three out of five. So that's good momentum going into tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Does something click from time to time? When does your putting get good?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: It gets good when I don't have to worry about where I'm lined up, if I'm seeing the line or not. I feel like I'm reading the line behind the ball well, it's just getting into that line when I get on top of it. I've been doing that well over the last few months.   
  
  Q. Is that what it feels like, you just get over the top of the line?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it feels like I'm on top of it and just get the speed and hit it. You might have to have a minor adjustment but it's minimal and insignificant. Yeah, after that it's trust.   
  
  Q. Is that more mechanical, making sure you're lined up properly, and then the rest of it is feel?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, yeah. I've got my drills that I use for certain aspects of my putting, and I've just got to continue to grind those in.  
  
  Q. Just thoughts on the weekend.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: I think the course is going to get firmer and harder if we're not going to get any more rain. The fairways are going to be a premium so I can get some loft in my hands and hopefully hit some more greens. Yeah, it's going to be putting. I mean, that's really what it boils down to on the weekend. I think everybody is hitting it pretty good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT