TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ZACH JOHNSON: I'm very excited to be back here. Last year was short, and I actually succumbed to an injury in my wrist. So it's one of my favorite courses, it's one of my favorite areas, certainly, and I think that everything that Travelers and everything that Nathan does here it makes it easier to come back. 
 So I'm really excited. I hope the weather makes a turn for the better. It's been a bit dreary as of late in the New England area. So, yeah, my game feels fine. I mean, it's not -- I don't have high expectations which is, I guess, probably a good thing. But I feel good. Everything's pretty solid. So it's just a matter of going out and executing. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Is it difficult to prepare for your next tournament after coming off a major? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Well, yeah, my preparation this week has been a little bit different just because I just got in last night. I played the CVS Charity Classic down outside Providence in Barrington. So my normal preparation week has been altered a little bit. 
 But, no, I mean, normally, no, it's not. I'm so routine oriented especially once I get to Tuesday that it really doesn't have any factors. Especially because I missed the cut so I had time off. 
 You know, making the cut or even being in contention if you make the cut in a major would probably -- there would be some fatigue there, mental more than anything I would think. 
 At the same time I just saw Lucas, for example, who is a good friend. One thing I told him, not that I can offer any advice, but the best thing he can do is get inside the ropes. Obviously he's going to do that. 
 He I think when you're in contention in a big tournament or if you even win a big tournament, you want to maintain that rhythm and that momentum. So there are positives and negatives to the next week after a major, sure. 

 Q. You don't have high expectations? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, which is good. I mean, I don't want expectations. I have high expectations of probably of myself, but as far as finishing in the golf tournament, I don't have any expectations. My expectations are to go out there and play solid golf, and I feel like I can do that. 

 Q. What did you do after you didn't make the cut at the Open? Did you stay up around here? Did you go home? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: I had to play the CVS and I didn't get done until Saturday night because of the debacle on Long Island, so I really only had half a day off. I had to be in Providence Sunday night. 

 Q. The Open's going on and you're kind of outside of it? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, no. I mean, it stinks to miss the cut in the U.S. Open, no question about it. But I had the raw end of the wave, and, you know, he I just didn't play well. My game was not as ready as I thought it would be, I guess, is the way to look at it. 
 So, you know, I prepared as best I could. I don't have any regrets, I'm not going to fault myself for that. I went there early. I went a week early and tried to prepare. So, you know I just didn't play well at the right time, unfortunately.

 Q. You mentioned the mental fatigue of the U.S. Open. Could you talk about that and also your suggestion to Lucas about playing inside the ropes? Why in why mind would that be beneficial? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: I'm not just saying the mental fatigue of the U.S. Open, I think it's the mental fatigue of any major. It just wears on you. The thought that's come into your mind you really don't ever have or expect. And then you throw in the fact that that was a five-day tournament. So just the wear and tear of that, you know, I'm assuming it can wear on you. It was a three-day tournament for me, yeah, three-day tournament. 
 I think the best thing is to get inside the ropes. One, whoever it is, is comfortable playing golf right now. I remember I played after my win I committed to Hilton Head prior, so I played Hilton Head even though I did the whole New York blitz thing, and it was the best thing for me. 
 I got out there, and it was kind of getting back into my job. Getting back into my comfort zone of work and just going and playing. Plus I was playing decent, so I had a decent finish that week. It was just one of those things where you want to ride the wave, but you also want to get into kind of a comfort area. Because everything else that's hitting you, all these things that are coming at you from so many different areas, you just don't know what to expect. It's overwhelming. So one of the least overwhelming experiences is getting back in the ropes. 

 Q. Favorite courses, you mentioned one of your favorite courses is this place, why so? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: I think it starts just with the fact that you have everything. The character of the course, you have some long holes, you have some short holes, but they're both demanding. You have some lefts, some rights, you have a lot of ups and you have a lot of downs. I think you also throw in just the unique aspect of the last I'd say starting on 13. 
 Well, even, 10, 11, and 12 are good. But the back nine in general, 13 through 18 those holes are just great. There's not one hole you like more than the next. You know, if you're hitting well, and putting well, you can make some birdies. At the same time, if you're a little bit off, it will bite you.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Zach, and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT