QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ZACH JOHNSON: You know, I don't like making excuses, but I've got a massive headache, and my vision was not great out there today, which was frustrating. But I'll learn from it certainly and figure out what happened and hopefully I'll be better the next time around.

 Q. Were you like that going into today, not feeling well?
 ZACH JOHNSON: No, I felt great. Honestly I think what it is is at my age now I'm starting to develop allergies. It's behind my eyes, that sort of thing. I don't know what or why. I'm not saying that's the sole purpose behind everything. I think I got a little impact early and rushed it a little bit. But all in all, I mean, it's disappointing. 

 Q. Talk about No. 2, just what happened on that second shot. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Second shot? Well, second shot I was in the pine straw. I hit it eight feet right of where I was trying to hit it, so I hit the trees with the tee shot, just a dead block push. Got in front of it, terrible swing.

 Q. When you do something like that, heading into the 3rd, was that tough to mentally -- you got in trouble there on the next hole, too. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, actually I hit a good shot there. I mean, my execution was good on that tee shot. I misjudged the wind, and as a result I had to play safe. I almost made par. It wasn't like I took myself out of it. I rebounded after that somewhat decent. 

 Q. When you got back to 9, did you feel like you were kind of back in it?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I knew I was never out of it, especially on this golf course. I knew there was a lot of birdies out there, and I just had to remain patient. Actually I didn't play that bad on the back, I just didn't score very well. All in all, it really wasn't like -- I'm playing well, I've just got to regroup and hopefully put some things together for next week.

 Q. As far as next week, is that a course you look forward to playing?
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I love that golf course, so I'm very much looking forward to it. I think it's a great test.

 Q. Now you're a local somewhat. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, hour and a half, so give or take. I'll have some family there and some friends there, so it'll be nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT