QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What went so well for you to get this thing started today?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: I think I was patient. I got off to a good start early and just didn't make any putts. Eventually I just kind of settled down and kind of remained in my game, and eventually I started to really roll the ball well. Aside from a three-putt on 7, I mean, I had 70 feet, 80 feet probably, so it was a tough putt to begin with. But aside from that, and certainly the putt on 18, I putted fantastic.   
  
  Q. You got to 10-under, but of course you had the toughest holes in front of you, too. Was it hard to keep your emotions in check a little bit at that point?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Not on Friday, no. My execution of my golf shots was perfect. I hit five shots in those three holes that given the situation I'm not so sure I would change. Obviously 20/20 hindsight, but 16 I had 6-iron out, it was playing 182 and we thought it was into the wind right to left. And because you don't want to go long, we're like, you know what, let's hold back, let's hit a 7, make sure we get it over the trap, don't worry about going long. I hit 7-iron 185 yards in the air. I can't hit it that far. I don't know what happened.   
 And then 17 is parallel with that. Assuming the same wind, I had 6-iron out, even though it was probably a full hip high. I hit it perfect. I hit it right on line, and it came up short. I mean, my execution was great.   
 18 obviously I hit two good shots, and my second putt there was misread. All in all, I can't be too -- it's upsetting, very disappointing, but at the same time I can't be too upset. I did a lot of good things.  
  
  Q. You're still in a good position.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: It's Friday, yeah. You just want to give yourself a chance.  
  
  Q. No problem, though, making the cut this year. Are you starting to feel comfortable on this track?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I've always felt pretty comfortable, I just haven't played well. That's basically what it's been. I've missed the first I don't know how many cuts, four or five. I think this golf course is good. I think it requires a pretty solid drive, get the ball in the fairway and give yourself a chance. Plus I like greens like this. It's what I grew up on, kind of bentgrass, very fast, a lot of break, and I enjoy that.   
 I think the golf course suits my game, it's just I didn't play well early on.  
  
  Q. The swirling winds, is it just going to be a guessing game? Is there anything that you can take --  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, there's a little bit of a guess in there for sure. There's certain areas, when it's low like that, 16, 17, 18, you've got some tree blockage and you've got just kind of a bowl there. That's when it starts to swirl, and it makes it difficult. All in all, it's a guessing game; you've got to find what you think is the wind, and that's what I did, at least it felt like it, and just commit to your shots and try to execute.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT