WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 3 & 1 win over Graeme McDowell. You found seven birdies and an eagle on very difficult greens.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah. You know, I think the rules staff did a great job of setting up the course. I mean, they played it where we actually had some opportunities to make some birdies, tee boxes up, that sort of thing.   
 But yeah, I gave myself great opportunities, and that's really all you can ask for in match play. Quite honestly, I was 2-up going into 17, and I mean, if he would have made a couple more putts it would have been a totally different story, and he had a bunch, too. I don't think I honestly played that much better. It's just a matter of coming out on the right side.  
  
  Q. I think your game is built for match play. You hit fairways, you hit greens and keep pressure on the opponent.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, that's kind of my strategy. I don't have much of an option there. I'm not going to blister a golf course with my power, that's for sure. You know, I've got to play strategic golf, and I think desert golf kind of lends itself to that, anyway. So I think it plays into my favor in that regard.   
 Fairways are a premium for me any week, but this week fairways and getting my -- typically hitting my approach shots in first and getting on the green, giving myself a chance, you said it; if I can add some pressure, that's great.   
  
  Q. This golf course, how does it fit your eye? Obviously pretty good after making that many birdies.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, relative to the other one, I think it's a little bit better for me because off the tee I don't think it's as big of a bomber's paradise, and I think the greens are situated where often times guys are hitting maybe an 8-iron where I'm hitting a 6. I don't think that's much of an advantage just based on the type of greens we have and how immature they are. They're playing pretty firm. I think all in all, it's -- I'm not saying it's even, but it certainly doesn't hurt my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT