MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 10, 2009
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 9-under par and only one birdie on the par 5s.
 ZACH JOHNSON: Thank you. Appreciate you mentioning that. 
 You know, it was good. I just managed my game really well today. I hit a lot of greens. I think I hit 17 greens if I'm not mistaken and gave myself a lot of opportunities. You can always say woulda, coulda, shoulda, done better, but at the same time, I made a few putts. One mishap with a 3-putt for par and other than that, everything is really solid. 

 Q. You had a couple eagles on the scorecard. 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Which is rare. I had three eagle putts today alone. 
 It was nice just having those opportunities. I'm hitting the ball solid. These tee boxes, there's not a level shot, and it's a matter of getting comfortable with your target and getting comfortable with your setup and just trusting it. 
 You know, I swung a little better today. My rhythm was better today and it was nice to see some putts go in.

 Q. Was there a point where you thought to yourself, This is okay? 
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, there was a couple times, I was just thinking, If I can do this -- you get ahead of yourself, it will bite you. That's exactly what I did. There were two par 5s I should have made birdie on and as a result I made par. 
 If you get overly anxious as to where you could go, this game can bite you, and as a result -- I know that. It's a learning process and I've just got to stay more in the present rather than the future and stick to my process and good things can happen. 
 Hopefully I'll have a nice meal tonight and a good night's rest and looking forward to tomorrow. 

 Q. Biggest difference between the first two days and today?
 ZACH JOHNSON: I got behind the 8-ball the last two days, Thursday, Friday. I was 2-over on the front nine with no birdies until today. I shot 4-over on the front nine and just had zero momentum and zero confidence. I made a birdie on 2, and I just kind of got things going. I had a lot of opportunities and a great opportunity on 3, 6, and 9. I made nothing. Obviously, I 3-putted on 15. 
 So a lot of opportunities today, which is exactly what I want. I say all of this, but the greens are tough, and I made my share. Very happy with my round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT