WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2008
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Zach, birdies at 15, 16 and 18, that's how to come in there. That's the green mile.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, you're right, it was. I felt pretty good about my whole day, even going into 15. I'm just like, you know, it's just been a struggle. Give myself some opportunities and see if my putter can roll some in, and fortunately I put myself in position to do that.  
  
  Q. Talk about how difficult this golf course is to play.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: It's very tough. The greens are obviously what separates it. It's borderline -- it's got some Augusta features. I wouldn't say it's Augusta-esque, but it's got some features in that regard. You throw in a little bit of rough, a little bit of length. But the best part about this place is its character. It's got a lot of lefts, rights, up, down, short, long. It's got it all.  
  
  Q. How mentally tired are you after playing a golf course like this because it seems like on every hole you have to think about the shots you're going to hit.   
 ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, absolutely. If you lose track of your focus and your target and your routine, that sort of thing, it'll bite you. Even the smallest mistake is going to really hurt you. I'd like to thank Chris DiMarco, my fashion expert, for my attire this week. Outside of that, it's tough when you tee off at 7:50. I'm not much of a morning person. Getting up at 5:00 is not my favorite.  
  
  Q. What exactly are you happiest with in your game right now?  
 ZACH JOHNSON: Just the fact that I'm working on the right things, I think. I'm trying to -- I'm looking at some different things with my irons and I'm trying to get my putter back to where it was say three or four years ago, and today it was -- I was pleasantly, pleasantly surprised and just very happy with how I rolled it. We're always trying to improve, especially with the putter.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT