SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2018
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zach, in great position after two rounds.  How big is the finish, 7, 8, 9, coming home that way?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that was good.  I mean, I actually probably hit it better than I scored for the most part.  I mean, technically two errant shots today that cost me two bogeys.  But really solid again and excited about the direction of my game.  So all you can ask for is a chance on the weekend, and I feel like my game's in a position to make a move.   
 Q.  Are you happy with the way you're rolling it?  Is what happened here on the final hole hopefully a sign for the weekend, just more of the same?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that's 20-something feet.  You're just trying to get it going on the right line.  I'm fairly fortunate that it actually hit the hole because I would have been at least four, five feet past the hole.   
I didn't necessarily hit all my lines today with my putter, but I putted really well yesterday, and I feel like my best putting is still in front of me.  So I'm excited, and just got to stay patient and keep hitting quality shots.   
 Q.  Great playing.  Good luck the rest of the way.  Thanks for your time.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Thank you.   
 Q.  Zach, not to say that you were playing poorly, but at least not as good as yesterday, until it came to your final hole.  How important was that eagle?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, shoot, just giving myself a chance to eagle.  Truthfully, the most important shot on the 9th hole is your tee shot.  That was one of my better ones.  Holed the shot for me, which is never easy, but getting the ball on the fairway -- I was in between a 6 and a 7 iron on a par 5.  I went with the longer club and just tried to ease it there and give myself a chance.   
So the putt was a bonus.  I was just trying to get it down there somewhere close.  Fortunately, I got one to drop because I didn't get many to drop prior.  Nice to get one to drop.   
 Q.  Will you leave the golf course with close to the sense of satisfaction today that you had yesterday, or are you frustrated?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I'm very satisfied.  I hit two errant shots today.  Two 3 woods, one on 10 that cost me.  Still probably should have made par, kind of three-putted it.  And a 3 wood on 16.  But other than that, there was really minimal work or damage, if you will.  Just a lot of opportunity.  I missed a bunch of putts from like five to eight feet.   
And you're going to have that at some point.  So hopefully, that's beyond me and behind me, and 67's nothing terrible either.  So I'm encouraged.   
 Q.  Final thing.  You've won, obviously, 12 times on the PGA TOUR.  You know what it takes to win.  As you head into the weekend, at least on the first page of the leaderboard, it looks like, mentally, does anything shift for you now as you try to chase this victory?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I don't necessarily think so.  It's going to be based on conditions too.  If there's some wind, you've got to be that conservative/aggressive kind of thing.  You take your numbers as they come, meaning you've got to go when you can get at it because the greens are holding.  But if we have wind like this today, which was essentially minimal, you've got to keep the pedal down.   
Technically, my mindset is going to still be pretty aggressive.  You've still got to put a number up here at Waialae because guys are so good, and I think slightly widening the fairways and the greens holding, you've got to be aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT