THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 28, 2007
Charles Howell III
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You guys ran into a buzzsaw.  Talk about the day and how things turned around. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Neither of us got off to a great start. 

 Q.  Long day tomorrow but you're playing well still. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely.  Our approach is going to be still the same depending on what happens, and try to remember yesterday, certainly, the good things about yesterday.  You know, it's a fresh new day, that's the beauty of it.  We've got the right team.  We're not going to quit and we're going to come out here tomorrow. 

 Q.  Charles, did you feel the pressure and tension build? 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  It's fun when it's over, and it's more fun when you're playing, but we've got a great team.  You know, today, Zach and I, if we had a couple more putts go in in the middle it could have been different.  But we played a great team from the other side and Ernie and Mike played great. 
 We definitely played a tough team today. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  You know what, it's just a matter of making those putts.  It's a team game and those guys were the better team today.  Mike Weir played great, really, really good. 

 Q.  Was it difficult contending with the galleries? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  No.  I mean, you know, I've got experience enough in this to know that you expect that, especially after last year in Ireland.  I think I played with an Irishman every match it seemed. 
 I think all in all, you know, you have to put that stuff aside and focus.  At times I did a good job and other times I did a poor job.  Wasn't very consistent. 

 Q.  You still had three birdies, was it deflating to see you guys go down 2-down against them considering how well you putted? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know what Mike shot; he didn't make a bogey.  He played really, really, really well.  When you get someone in a groove like that, it's difficult to contend with. 

 Q.  Looking forward to tomorrow? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely. 

 Q.  Are you playing 36 holes? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I have no idea.  I have no idea.  Looking forward to it, though. 

 Q.  There was a lot of good golf out there. 
 CHARLES HOWELL III:  It was good golf, and Zach and I played well.  And we were playing two guys that were playing well.  And Mike, with the big fan support, he played well today.  And if a few more putts had gone in today, it would have been a different deal. 

 Q.  The match was even through 7, and Mike hit a couple good shots on 7 and 8, hard to come back from that? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, Mike played very well.  He is very solid and very steady. 
 In these matches like this, especially on a format like this, it's all about putting.  You know, we made some putts and we certainly missed some putts and that's frustrating.  I didn't hit it nearly as well as Charles, and you know, we didn't have our best game, but we certainly gave it our best and we gave it a lot of effort. 
 We had an opportunity down the stretch, if the putt goes in on 15, you never know what's going to happen. 

 Q.  How has the experience been so far in your first time on the Presidents Cup team? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Team events are the best.  That's why we play the game.  That's what we live for, really enjoy it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT