BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Zach, there have been a loft changes to the golf course since you won here in 2013.  What is it about this course that suits your eye?
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, quite a bit, actually.  I certain enjoy the character of it.  I think this is one of those gems where it doesn't have to be ridiculously long to be good, you know.
The fairways are still -- when it's firm like this they're tough to hit.  The bentgrass greens are pure and then when they're firm it's difficult to get it close.
So, you know, if I get the ball in the fairway I'm able to have a little bit of loft in my hand.  I enjoy that.  I don't get that every week.
I think the beauty of this place it has shorts, longs, lefts, rights, you got to stay focused because in the moment you think you have it it will bite you but then if you get it going the wrong way you can bring it back.
I think that's the sign of a good tract.
Q. FedExCup in your mind, Tour Championship, is that there or is it just --
ZACH JOHNSON: Just play.  Everything else will take care of itself.  In my tenure out here the more you focus on next week the less you have an opportunity to really do some good work the current week.
So, you know, if I get there next week, so it be it, it will be terrific if I can.  If I don't, there's positives, too.  It will highlight what I need to work on to get there next year.  So, it is a treat to play at East Lake.  However, I got work to do this week.
Q. Talk about the round.  Tell me about the round today.  You like it here, don't you?
ZACH JOHNSON: I do.  I like what this course demands and certainly the way it sets up.  We get fairways that can get firm like this, greens are firm, it's hard to get it close.
However, if I get the ball if the fairway I have loft in my hand.  That's always fun.  I hit some good wedges today.  I hit them pretty decent.
I left a few out there but, at the same time, I feel like I gained a few, too.  It was a solid day.  I didn't do anything crazy.  I probably had one good save on the 10th hole.  Other than that, it was a pretty boring day.  I like my boring golf.  Yeah, it was a quality day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT