THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 15, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How much fun was it flirting with 59?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Extremely fun, yeah.  That's not an opportunity you get very often.  You usually hit 59, but it's by about hole 15 or 16.  It was a lot of fun.  We just had everything going our way.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference today?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  You know, I made putts and I drove the ball a little bit better than I had, but I felt good the whole week, I just hadn't scored.  Today obviously the score card showed that I started to make some more putts, and that's really what it boiled down to.   
  
  Q.  When did you first start thinking about 59?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Pretty much on 16 tee box.  I made that eagle putt on 15, and I'm thinking, you know, whatever I was, I'm 9-under, like I've got three holes left.  Okay, what's par?  70.  Okay, yeah, we can do it.  But I put it aside pretty quick and got back into my rhythm and got back into my game plan.   
  
  Q.  What do you know about that magical number, 59?  There are probably two numbers in golf that are standing out, 18, Nicklaus' record, and 59.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, it is.  It's a magical number.  It's something that as a golfer you just think when and what if and how.  You know, you really can't focus on it.  That's probably what it boils down to.  You've got to get a lot of breaks go your way, you've got to make some long putts.  You can't hit it to four feet every hole.   
 You know, hopefully I've got a 59 in me in the future.   
  
  Q.  Speak to the confidence this gives you going into Sunday.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It's just confidence, that's all I want from it.  I'm going to try to throw the score card away and not focus on a number.  They say, and I agree, sometimes it's hard to back up a good number.  I'm just going to use it as confidence.  I drove the ball well, hit my irons obviously pretty well, and putted it great.  I'm not going to hit any balls, I'm not going to putt right now, there's not any reason to.  I just hope I can maintain it for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What is it about playing here in Georgia that brings out the best in you?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Good question, maybe the fans, the people.  They grab hold and push you.  It was pretty awesome.  I like the terrain, I like the hills, I like the grass, I like the way the wind -- the wind is pretty crucial here.  It was blowing a little bit out there, not terrible, but we had a good game plan.   
  
  Q.  What was the hardest shot you faced today?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That two-footer on the last hole, my two-footer on the last hole.  I was shaking.  I don't know how I took a back stroke.  I about chunked it, but it got there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT