WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know what happened, to be honest.  I guess that's part of going out to the range and figuring it out.  I started missing shots right.  I don't know, and you can't miss -- and they weren't just barely right, they were right-right.  I know how to go down my checklist and figure it out, so we'll go down to the range and try to iron it out.   
  
  Q.  How much of it was just being in the rough?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Most of it was being in the rough.  I mean, 9, for example, I mean, I tried to play safe every shot.  I tried to play the percentages on every single shot I hit, and I made a three-footer for an 8, a four-footer for an 8.  A good 8.   
  
  Q.  The same theories that you applied when you won at Augusta, did you try to apply here with as difficult as the golf course is?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Sure, yeah, absolutely.  Fairways and greens.  That's pretty simple, but it's penal to be in the rough here.  It's about positioning yourself correctly on the greens, and Augusta is very similar for me because I've got to get the ball in the fairway.  I cannot afford to miss fairways out there, otherwise I don't have the creativity to pull off a miraculous shot out of the rough.   
 You know, it's pretty obvious what I have to do on a golf course like this.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the way this course is set up is close to borderline in some cases?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Borderline, what do you mean borderline?   
  
  Q.  Unfair borderline.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  No, I don't -- well, I mean, a couple -- maybe some of the fairways are just difficult.  It just depends on the wind.  You get a fairway like 9 where it slopes left to right with wind out of the left, that's hard.  That's just really, really hard.  But it's hard for everybody.  It depends what your definition of unfair is, I guess.  I think for the most part the setup is good.   
  
  Q.  What was the shot on 9 that was the one that got away?  Was it the bunker shot?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know.  That's a good question.  I don't know.  I'd have to reevaluate it.  Every single shot I try to play the percentages, based on what I know.  My second shot, the ball -- I could see my entire ball.  It wasn't like it was nestled down.  I saw the entire ball, and I thought about hitting a 7-iron, and I thought, you know what, I can't get to the green.  I have 200 yards to the green, hit a wedge, so I hit a wedge.  It still grabbed my club and went dead left.   
 I hit a fade out of the rough on the next shot, so I don't have any idea.  It's just -- I tried to be conservative, I tried to take the smart approach, which is how I play.  There was only one shot today that I didn't play smart, and I actually executed it all right.   
  
  Q.  Which one was that?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  My second shot on 14, a 3-iron from the tree roots.  I mean, it was stupid, but I pulled it off.   
  
  Q.  Where did it end up?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Almost by the greenside bunker.  I mean, I made a 5, but I could have made a 4.   
  
  Q.  Will you go back and look at tape?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I'll leave that kind of stuff to my instructor and we'll reevaluate when necessary.   
  
  Q.  What's in your mind when you're going through something like that, leaving it in the rough?  I mean, it has to be really mentally taxing.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I mean, it sucks.  I can honestly say it's hard to get over it.  I think it kind of affected me even on the next hole.   
  
  Q.  Outwardly you're not showing a lot of frustration.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, I can't.  I know this game.  Tomorrow it can be totally different.  I mean, I'm experienced enough to understand that -- I mean, I played really well yesterday, and for the most part I played great on the front nine.  Like I said, I got slapped around a little bit, so things can change quickly.  They can go from bad to good and good to bad pretty quickly.   
  
  Q.  Were you thinking about banging it through the tree on 18?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I mean, I'm just looking at all my options.  There was an option not through the tree but underneath it.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you're six back now.  As hard as this golf course is playing, that's certainly within the realm of possibility if you play similar to how you played yesterday.  Is that how you look at it?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, if I play a solid round, you never know what can happen.  This is a major style golf course, and that's the way I've got to approach it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT