JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome 2007 Masters champion Zach Johnson to the interview room here at the John Deere Classic this week.  You've really supported in this tournament a lot this year, but obviously this year has to be a little bit different.  Can you talk about what it was like out there today? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I mean, I may have supported the tournament, but this tournament has supported me, too.  So it's a good friendship.  It's a good relationship. 
 Yeah, today was pretty exciting, much like the previous two years with the juniors.  It's a cool aspect that we've kind of put together.  It doesn't really take a whole lot of effort.  Some of my sponsors have stepped up and really done a great job with giving away some products to the kids.  You know, it just makes it that much better.  They're giddy about golf and what a good way to come down here and watch us play.  So it's great. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Talk about the state of your game and then we'll turn it over to some questions. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  State of my game?  I'm unknown right now maybe.  I mean, I feel good about things.  I'm rested now.  I've taken two weeks off.  I literally took 14 days off and didn't touch a golf club.  That was interesting. 
 Now I'm back to reality, and I've got to get it cooking here.  But I like it.  My focus is the remainder of the season, and to do that I need time off.  I missed the cut in Hartford two weeks ago, whatever it was, two and a half weeks ago, and I was bummed for about the first hour.  After that I felt pretty good (laughing) because I needed time.  I needed some rest.  So it's been nice.  I'm looking forward to the remainder of the season. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Little bit of the rest time to keep up with Iowa football recruiting? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I'm not losing much rest with that.  I've got that down to a science. 

 Q.  What did you do during your downtime? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  The first six or seven days or whatever I was back home in Orlando, or Heathrow, Sanford, whatever, north of Orlando, and then last week we went on a family vacation to Colorado.  I had a good time there. 
 It's kind of strange when you are packing to go on vacation and you're a little depressed because you're leaving your house.  But that's also reality. 
 And then I was sad to leave Colorado.  That's one of my favorite places to be. 

 Q.  We always hear the cliché about people or athletes saying they need to recharge.  Do you feel like you've done that, that you are mentally refreshed? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  A little bit.  I can probably answer the question better as the week goes on.  I hit a few balls on Sunday and I hit a little bit yesterday and then the rain came.  So today I played 18 holes, and it was nice. 
 I mean, I played in Colorado last Friday.  That was the first time I have touched a golf club.  I actually played okay, considering.  I felt like I hit it all right, but it felt strange. 
 Mentally, you know, I think so.  I want to start competing more than anything.  I don't want to -- my fundamentals will come eventually, I just want to start competing.  I think I'm all right mentally.  Physically I'm getting there. 

 Q.  Your track record, every time you take some time off it takes you a week or two to get back rolling again.  Do you come in here with maybe not elevated expectations? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, I think it's got to change sometime.  I don't like expectations in general anyway, whether they're good or bad.  My wife mentions to me a lot of time, whether she asks me or if I just mention it, that man, I feel good about my game, and it's like a Tuesday.  Then I play horrible come Thursday through Sunday.  Or vice versa, I'm not feeling very good, and then I go out and play well. 
 It's all about when you peak.  I think there is balance and I think there's highs.  U.S. Open I was ready to go on Tuesday.  Unfortunately it started on Thursday (laughter). 

 Q.  How is life different at this John Deere Classic, coming into this John Deere Classic, than it was a year ago? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, I won a major. 

 Q.  Oh, really? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  (Laughing) that's really about the only difference from a golf standpoint. 
 Obviously the family has changed with the new addition.  That's been the biggest change, trying to get situated as a father and as parents, but also the best thing, for sure. 
 Some friends and peers of mine out here have asked me, have things calmed down.  Honestly, no, they haven't.  They haven't at all.  Maybe at times there's some breaks, but there hasn't really been much of a calming effect.  That's just the way it's going to be for a while.  I don't know if that's going to quit or if it will.  I think I've got the easy job.  My agent and my instructors and probably some of my family members probably have the bulk of it. 
 Any issues or problems, I've said it a ton of times, or offers or opportunities that we have, they're all positive things.  All of them are really good things, it's just difficult.  It's just something that goes along with what we did.  It's a responsibility now. 

 Q.  You wouldn't label that a downside, in other words? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Not even close.  They're frustrating issues at times, things that you've got to pay attention to and you've got to respond to as far as opportunities go.  But I never had them before, so they're good now. 
 The hardest thing, the most frustrating thing, the downside of it, is saying no.  And I have to.  A lot of the factors, it's just hard.  I don't have the time or the means or -- 

 Q.  Is it what they call an embarrassment of riches?  You have so many opportunities and possibilities -- 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That's exactly right.  It's a timing thing.  It's also a priority thing, what's important to myself and then our team, starting with my family and then branching out from there.  I think our approach has been great.  We've got things on paper, we've got kind of a good brain trust behind things, starting with my wife, of course.  And then it's everybody. 
 The guys on our team, I seek their opinions on a lot of things, whether they're big or small.  As a result I think we've made very, very good sound decisions. 

 Q.  Your dad said you might be a little more cynical now than you were. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Really?  I'll have to make a phone call pretty soon (laughter).  Cynical?  I don't know if I'm necessarily cynical, I think I'm just more of a realist now.  I'm starting to understand what goes along with it.  I'm certainly not cynical.  Everything has been a positive.  I mean, everything has been very, very good, it's just overwhelming. 

 Q.  Between holes when you've got thousands -- not thousands, but hundreds of kids asking for your autograph and you can't sign them all -- 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That's a perfect example right there.  I have to keep the pace up.  We had one group play through today and we would have had a lot more if I didn't, and it would have been a seven-hour round.  It's hard. 
 Like I said, anything that's come to the table, whether it's an autograph on the golf course or an offer to endorse this or play over here in this event are all very worthy, whether it's a charity or -- whatever the case may be, they're all very worthy and very valid causes and requests.  I can only say yes to so many.  We've already got so many things in place from a team standpoint that if it doesn't mesh with what we have in place and what's got me where I'm at, there's probably a reason why I shouldn't do it. 
 That being said, I'd be foolish not to look at it, because like I said, they're all great opportunities.  Everybody has been very understanding.  That's been the beauty of it. 

 Q.  What's it like with the kids screaming on the 18th green, the kids screaming your name?  Has it been like that everywhere? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Usually it's women (laughter).  That's not true.  And then I wake up, right (laughter)?  It was never like that. 
 It was pretty overwhelming.  That was pretty awesome.  Those kids -- they got a little physical with each other, probably a few Band-Aids are going to be needed.  That was pretty cool. 

 Q.  Have you altered your schedule much? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  To date the only thing -- actually through the FedExCup Championship, the only tournament that I've changed is I went to Iowa and withdrew from Colonial.  That's been it.  But we've had opportunities to play elsewhere and declined as a result because it just didn't fit. 

 Q.  Did you have a money offer for this week? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  This week, no, I did not.  Not to get too specific, but in a couple weeks I did.  But it would be John Deere, which is borderline a major for me, a major the following week at the British Open, I have an off week the next week.  That was when the offer was presented.  Akron, which is a huge event, the Bridgestone, and then another major.  So it would be five tournaments in a row, followed by an off week, followed by four more tournaments comprising the FedExCup. 
 So it was just -- that's one of the situations there that just didn't mesh.  I need my rest and I need to focus on the majors.  That's the priority.  It was this year and it was the previous years, and it will be upcoming years.  I mean, there's a reason -- it's just one of those situations. 

 Q.  Not playing here was never an option? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, not playing here at the beginning of the year is an option, but once I committed to it and we got things rolling with the junior day and we got things rolling in other areas with the tournament, no, and frankly, I don't want to.  I mean, I've never really played great here but I've played decent here and I love coming back.  I love the golf course, I love the people. 
 I'm on the board for a reason.  Clair and his staff are -- I don't know many other tournaments staffs, but I think top to bottom they're one of the best. 

 Q.  You mentioned that you've never really played great here.  Does that bother you that it's kind of thought of as your home tournament but the highest you've ever finished is 20th? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Is that what it is, 20th?  Well, yeah, I want to play well here for sure.  You know, I don't know.  It's hard to play in front of hometown friends and family, regardless of where it is.  At the same time, I'm getting used to that now.  I mean, I've done it a lot, especially as of late. 
 Is it frustrating?  Possibly.  I've also -- there's also been a couple years where I haven't played the week before.  I just don't play well the beginning of the next week out.  At the same time I took the week off before Augusta and won.  You know, it's fickle, I guess.  I don't know why that is.  I don't know if it's the golf course, I don't know if it's just me not playing well.  It's probably a mixture of both. 

 Q.  You said in Atlanta, and I don't want to misquote you, something about after you won the playoff that you'd now focus on the process and not the result.  You work with your coach, you go through your -- once you make a decision you live with the results but you don't worry about the results, you just go shot to shot.  Has that been a key to your -- is that kind of a tunnel vision thing? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely, absolutely.  You can focus on that.  Everybody knows it.  Any athlete knows it.  You have to focus on the process, regardless of what sport you're playing or regardless of what you're performing, whether it's one shot or a workout.  I've got to focus on the process rather than the results.  You just get caught up in the results and things go astray.  That's basically what it boils down to.  I think I've for the most part done this pretty well this year.  That's one of the things, that I'm trying to really fixate on it. 

 Q.  That wasn't a new thing this year? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It was just more apparent this year.  Certainly not a new thing.  I mean, shooting a free throw, you miss the first one, you don't let -- you've got to get in the process of your routine of making the next one. 

 Q.  Is it kind of a decisiveness thing, once you decide what -- 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely, it's commitment.  I think that's a lot of it, committing to each shot, you know, staying in the moment.  I mean, I've got a par 5 coming up so let's just make a par -- whatever the case may be.  You've got to stay in the present. 

 Q.  When you Larry Gladson brings these kids down here every year, do you flash back to your origins in the game and do you think about everything that goes along with Elm Crest? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I mean, I have, absolutely.  If you're trying to make me, you're starting to -- (laughing) it's easy to, just because of seeing Larry and all those juniors out there, I remember those days like they were yesterday, battling with my friends out at Elm Crest and having matches and whatnot, that's -- a lot of -- I owe a lot of my success and a lot of why I'm here to them. 

 Q.  A lot has been made over the years about your former investors, sponsors, what you'll call them.  But you think you would have found your way here without that setup, and even so, what did all that mean to you? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, practically or generally speaking, it would have been impossible.  I mean, financially there's no way I would have done it.  Throwing that aside, that's a given.  The money obviously -- it's expensive to play any professional sport on your own.  I couldn't have done it.  Not even possible. 
 But the support I think was the biggest factor.  I had one year in particular where I played horrible.  I couldn't pay them back in full.  Every other year was pretty good.  I paid them their investment and then some.  But I had one in particular where it was just a mess, and they stuck with me.  Even the next year I had even more support.  So that's important. 
 Now it's evident with my new sponsors or my current sponsors.  You can ask any guy out here, the sponsors that they have, whether it's corporate or family or whatever, those -- not family, but corporate or whatever their sponsorship is, whatever their support is coming from, it's huge.  It's extremely necessary, and you can't take it for granted. 

 Q.  When you were here last year you said that Jack Johnson was more of a household name than you were.  I haven't heard from him in a while.  Safe to say that's changed? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  He probably hasn't come up with an album in a while.  That's a good question.  It's funny you say that.  I got here early this past weekend, and I played 18 and 1.  I had a cart this past weekend, just messed around, hit 18 and 1, I played 18 green, there's a couple individuals there, a couple guys taking pictures of the grandstands and the 18th green, and they're from Chile, and they asked me if I'm playing the Pro-Am. 
 I said, "Well, I'm playing the Wednesday Pro-Am." 
 "Oh, so are you a professional?" 
 I'm like, "Yeah, I'm a professional." 
 They're like, "So you're playing the tournament this week?" 
 I'm like, "Yeah, I'm actually playing the tournament." 
 "How you doing?" 
 "Well, I'm doing all right." 
 "How has your year been?  Have you won a tournament?" 
 I'm like, "Yeah, I won a tournament in Augusta." 
 "The Masters?" 
 "Yeah, yeah." 
"All right." 
 Just kept on going.  It was great. 

 Q.  As a follow-up to that, have you enjoyed making the commercials and what kind of reactions have gotten from friends and family when they see you? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It's all been good, very positive.  I mean, I'm not much of a -- I don't particularly like to be in the limelight or -- I just don't prefer it.  But it comes with the territory, I understand it.  Making the commercials was not my favorite thing to do, and certainly watching them was not my favorite thing to do.  But it's great.  It's good for my sponsors.  It's great for Transamerica, and I think the response has been pretty good, so that's all that's important. 

 Q.  Where do you keep the green jacket and how often do you bring it out? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Highly confidential.  It's in my possession. 

 Q.  Did you ever sleep in it á la Phil Mickelson? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  No, I never slept in it.  That's kind of disgusting (laughter).  I would never do that. 
 Honestly, I have not worn it much.  I wore it in New York the day after, I won it for a function -- 

 Q.  Regis? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  And one other function, Cedar Rapids with my charity event.  If it's a golf oriented event I'll wear it if it meshes with my priorities and everything.  I don't want to flaunt it.  It's not something I'm going to -- I don't want to step on anybody's shoes at Augusta National. 

 Q.  Talking about pork chops and corn for dinner next year at The Masters? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know what I'm going to do.  I wouldn't mind incorporating a little bit of where I grew up, some of the foods up here, of course, and also where my wife is from.  She's from an island that's -- obviously Amelia Island there's a lot of seafood action going there. 

 Q.  Talk about the two young guns you played with today. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, Philip Francis, I believe he's 17 or 18.  I think he's 18. 

 Q.  19. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, he's going to be a freshman at UCLA next year, I guess. 

 Q.  And Jonathan Moore? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I think Philip Francis' résumé is pretty stellar.  I remember seeing his name everywhere and seeing him on The Golf Channel.  I think he's one of the top if not the top rated junior in the world.  I don't really know.  But he's good.  He's very good.  It was nice playing with him because I felt like I hit it about as far as he did. 
 Jonathan Moore hit it a little bit further, but also a stellar player.  I think he won the NCAAs as a freshman, and I believe he's playing the amateur circuit the rest of the summer maybe and then might turn pro.  I'm not sure what his intentions are.  I've met him on a couple other occasions with some of the organizations we've both been a part of.  He's a great guy. 
 Great players.  These kids coming out of high school and college are a joke. 

 Q.  Your left elbow, is that a ski accident or a Mr. Fixit job? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That was a minor Alpine slide accident, trying to beat my future brother-in-law down the mountain. 

 Q.  Career flash before your eyes when you felt contact? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolute no.  It's just a burn more than anything.  But it hurt. 

 Q.  Mountain biking? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  No, it was an Alpine slide.  It was in Breckenridge, Colorado. 

 Q.  They've tinkered with a lot of the holes here.  Did it seem different to you playing it today? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It was a little bit different because of the predominant wind.  A little bit.  It was more length more than anything, and a couple new bunkerings, but nothing significant.  I think it's good.  I think it's going to be great. 
 I would say the only thing that's -- Clair Peterson, the tournament director, mentioned to me that the bunkers aren't as consistent as they want them, but they're still good.  They've had some erosion issues.  Some of the new bunkers you can see the sand coloring is different, but it's nothing significant. 
 It's perfect.  It's probably the best condition I've ever seen the golf course on a Tuesday.  It's great.  And they've had some fairly significant rain the last couple days and it's handled it very, very well.  The greens are perfect, the rough is healthy.  It's as good as it's going to get right now. 

 Q.  They've pinched a few fairways.  Is it going to be more difficult -- they've pinched a few fairways in landing spots.  Is it going to be more of a premium -- 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Fairways are always a premium, especially here.  There's some trouble.  The fairways are fair, you know?  It's good.  It's hard to ever get -- it's in one of the best conditions I've ever seen the golf course on a Tuesday. 

 Q.  What do you hit into 18? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Today I hit a pretty good drive and I hit a 6-iron to the middle of the green, a little bit into the wind, too.  I hit a punch 6.  There's been times when that's downwind and I'm questioning hitting driver off the tee, maybe it's a 3-wood to avoid the bunker or keeping it right of the bunker and hitting a fade.  I mean, I've hit a wedge in there before.  At the same time when it's into me I've hit 5- and 4-irons to back pins. 
 I think the new tees, what they do is they provide options for us based on wind conditions and whether it's wet or firm.  Everybody complains about adding length here, adding length there, which I'm probably one of the ones that complains the most.  But there wasn't that many significant changes in length, it's more just giving more options on where to put the tees. 

 Q.  People say it's a shot-maker's course.  Is that the way you're seeing it? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Sure.  I mean, if they get more rain the greens are going to be more receptive and it's going to be easier.  It's going to be easier to fire at pins.  You're going to be able to hold 5-irons and 6-irons and that provides lower scores.  If it gets firm, the shot making comes into more effect, for sure.  You've got to be able to cut the ball in there and draw it in there depending on where the pin is and land it in certain spots instead of landing it on the number.  That's just course condition -- excuse me, that's just weather conditions, and obviously they have no control over that. 

 Q.  How difficult is it for you flying out of here every year on Sunday night to go overseas and then play in that tournament? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, I'm used to flying on Sunday night anyway, but overseas, that's always difficult, regardless of when it is or what you did prior.  The difficulty for me is I'm trying to put a lot of emphasis on the majors.  I don't want to overemphasize them, but yet I'm foolish not to get as prepared as I can, and I haven't been to Carnoustie.  I haven't been to any of them prior to that week of. 
 The difficulty lies in the fact that I've got to prepare -- Monday is more of a day for travel and trying to rejuvenate and getting on the time zone.  Tuesday I've got to start preparing and it's hard.  You can do it.  I mean, Ben Curtis did it and he won.  It's not like it's impossible to complete and play well.  For me it's a little bit more difficult. 
 Like I thought I was very prepared for the Open.  I was probably overly prepared.  I was prepared for the Open, but I played it prior and I had shown up a little bit earlier, and Augusta obviously we play there every year so I started to know the golf course.  It's just different. 

 Q.  Now that you've won The Masters and you come to a tournament like this where you're held in such high regard, do you ever look at this as now that you've won The Masters as feeling pressure you have to win it or it's a tournament you should win? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  No, not in the slightest.  I don't look as any tournament as I should or shouldn't win.  You know, I think Augusta was -- what made it easier for me to win was that I was not supposed to win, and that's a good thing to tell myself. 
 At the same time, I can get ahead of myself if I'm feeling good and I should win.  Like Hartford, I played -- I made the cut at the Open but I played pretty good.  My score didn't show it but I played decent.  I only made three birdies.  But going into Hartford I felt great and I missed the cut by like three or four shots.  Once you feel like you've got this game in grasp it'll slap you around pretty quick. 

 Q.  You mentioned this is your fifth major and you've seen the crowds out there building for you.  When you step on the tee on Thursday, do you think you'll have the same energy level and excitement that you had at Augusta? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, I hope so.  You know what, I don't get first tee nerves or jitters very often.  I have in majors a couple times in particular, but for the most part I don't -- for whatever reason, I might have a little bit of nerves here and there, but I get into it pretty quick. 
 You know, the response is going to be great.  It's great here every year, regardless of what tee shot it is or -- first tee shot or 18th hole, it's always been good, I mean, regardless if I shoot 75 or 65.  You know, I'll be ready.  I'm excited to start competing again more than anything because I've had two weeks off, and it's always nice to see friendly faces. 

 Q.  Do you think the fans across the pond will be really giving you the eyeball now that you've won The Masters and they're going to see you and they probably didn't know a lot about you, and when you go over as The Masters champion playing in their championship? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know.  I would think so.  I don't have any idea.  The one thing I've got to do now is stay more routine-oriented and structured.  That means press conferences, that means when I work out, when I practice.  Otherwise it's hard -- things can get -- my timing can get off and it's more difficult, so whether it's autographs or whatever the case may be. 
 I don't have any idea.  I mean, the golf fans over there are great.  They appreciate the game, they know the game, and they are very supportive of everybody.  They're great people. 

 Q.  This is the eighth year that this tournament has been played here.  How has this course, not to mention the event, matured over that time you've played? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I think you said it.  Every year it's been getting better and maturing.  The golf course has especially.  Like I said, the minor changes they made have certainly improved it, too. 
 The tournament itself, I mean, obviously I'm biased but I think it's very good.  I'd say the one thing when everybody talks about the John Deere on the road is the golf course, and John Deere that supports it.  I mean, everybody likes it. 
 The unfortunate thing is, if there is an unfortunate side, is the date.  Plus now you have the AT &T, Tiger's tournament, the week before.  So a lot of guys play in that and then want to take this week off before they go to the British.  It's understandable.  It's just difficult for this tournament to get the big names here. 
 Quality-wise I've always said it doesn't matter where we play, what tournament it is.  These guys are good.  Anybody can win any given week.  I think the tournament is going to be here for a long time.  I don't foresee anything going the other direction.  I mean, I just think it's a -- maybe the date can change in the future.  That certainly couldn't hurt.  But if it doesn't, you're still going to get great people, great players, a great tournament. 
 The support John Deere has put into it, not just here but the official sponsor of the Tour, is great.  So I don't foresee that changing. 

 Q.  Could you foresee a day when you don't come back here? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Can I foresee a day?  I don't know.  I can't say that about any tournament aside from Augusta (laughter).  I don't know.  I don't have any idea what my schedule is going to hold in the future. 
 For me I play in golf tournaments based on what's best for my golf game, whether it's the golf course that suits me, whether it's the timing that suits me.  That's how I decide.  I mean, it's based on -- I like to play, give or take, two to four in a row, no more than four, although I may have to do that at some point and see how it kind of meshes with the majors because the majors are an emphasis in the summer, spring and summer for that matter. 
 And then you've also got to prepare for the FedExCup now along with the Cups at the end of the year.  So there's a lot of factors involved. 

 Q.  On occasion you've used news conferences and things to tell people you're from Iowa, et cetera.  Why is growing up in Iowa and being in Iowa so important to you in your career?  Could you expound on that, the idea of that? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, if you are from Iowa, I think you understand.  I think it's a pride thing.  I mean, they grab hold of their own and they go with them.  I've always said, you know, I love where I'm from, I love coming back, and every time I come back, I have to leave and I don't want to leave. 
 Alongside of that, if I wasn't Zach Johnson the professional golfer and I haven't done what I've done, I'd be the one outside the ropes following the one that is, just as much as they are with me.  I mean, that's just the way -- I'm not saying other states or other areas are not the same, that's just the way it is here.  I know it.  I've been a part of it and a feel it.  I follow the collegiate sports in Iowa very, very highly, both my alma mater and the University, and I follow the juniors that come out of the state.  I know a lot about their kids that they probably don't have any idea that I know, especially when it comes to recruiting (laughter). 
 It's just the way the state is, and that's never going to change.  It's engrained in our skin. 

 Q.  It's a pride thing? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely, no question.  And an honor and a privilege. 

 Q.  Two things.  After The Masters you said you're Zach Johnson and you'll never change.  Has that happened?  And does an incident like you had here with guests from Chile help keep you grounded? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That's pretty funny.  They were guests of John Deere, customers.  I mean, I don't think so.  I hope not.  I mean, the reason why I have the team I have is partly for that reason, keep me where I'm at, keep me grounded.  I think I'm human, I'm going to screw up.  I've messed up a lot and I'm going to mess up a lot more, but I'll learn from it, and like I said, I feel like I have my priorities in line.  I feel like I've got a good foundation in all aspects of my life.  Foundation is permanent and I don't want it to change, so I don't foresee it changing. 

 Q.  Does your son give you extra motivation when you're out there on the golf course? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, motivation, possibly, yeah.  The best part about him is just what he brings to our lives.  I mean, he's the best gift I've ever received, for sure.  The best part about it is it doesn't matter whether I shoot 85 -- well, 75 (laughter) or 65, he's always there -- he couldn't care less.  And my wife says that she's a little frustrated with it, but every time he sees me, my face, and he hasn't seen me for a while, he's like totally enamored with me.  It's pretty cool. 

 Q.  How about watching the final round on tape of Augusta?  That's got to be surreal. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  That's a very operative word.  The whole week was but especially on Sunday, especially late on Sunday and then -- yeah, once I finished it was very -- you know, when I saw my family there, that was one of those where they got emotional, and as a result I did, especially with Will. 
 I mean, I'm trying to focus on a playoff.  Everybody was talking about Tiger and rightfully so, he had two or three holes left, and Justin Rose was one back with two to go.  My focus was trying to stay, once again, in the present and get my butt to the range. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Zach, thanks for coming in.  Best of luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT