AT&T CLASSIC
May 19, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The score card says 3-under par 69.  That's a nice day.  I look at your face and I see some disappointment. 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I am a little disappointed.  Today was a day of opportunity, and I think I had 18 of them.  So all that being said, you know, I know where I need to go practice.  It wasn't a matter of I didn't hit bad putts, but a couple misreads and -- well, a couple bad ones.  But that's why there's tomorrow, and hopefully I can figure it out. 

 Q.  You have had great success at this golf course over the years.  You can't play much better than you did today, there really isn't much else to do, is there? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, today was a day I could have really moved up the board.  But that's okay.  You know, if I hit it like I did today tomorrow, who knows what could happen.  I feel good about my game all around.  My lag putting was pretty good if there's a positive on the greens.  I'm trying to find it, but that was pretty good.  And we'll go with that. 

 Q.  What was the difference between the front and the back? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I putted well on the front.  Overall I putted really, really well on the front.  For whatever reason I didn't make much on the back, which is frustrating.  I had a lot of opportunities, which is a positive.  I'm going to try to use that as momentum to go into tomorrow. 

 Q.  You're fifth in greens in regulation this week.  Do you feel like you're hitting the ball as well as that indicates? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I'm hitting it well.  Off the tee, it's pretty darn good, pretty solid.  My iron game has been well and my wedge game has been very well.  I've got another day, and I'm going to try to stick with that and see if I can get my putter figured out. 

 Q.  It looks like you're going to be at least two shots back heading into tomorrow's final round.  How do you look at the final round and what you might need to shoot? 
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, this golf course you can make a slew of birdies and you can make some others, too.  It's a matter of being patient and seeing how things go.  I like my game plan.  I've stuck with it since 2004, and as a result I feel good about where things are, and we'll see what happens tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT