WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Birdie on the finishing hole, the eighth toughest hole on the PGA TOUR, pretty good way to finish and get back to red numbers.   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I felt like for the most part today it was pretty good.  I think part of it is just two-plus weeks off or whatever it's been.  Given all that, I felt like -- I hit some good shots and still made bogeys, which you can't really be too upset about that.  It went in.   
  
  Q.  You made quite a run there at the beginning of the back nine, three birdies out of four holes to start the back.  Do you kind of feel that momentum going when you get on a run like that?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I felt great about it.  Actually I bogeyed 11 but I hit two good shots.  We misclubbed.  I think all in all, everything is pretty good.  I'm just coming out here and executing and trying to forget about the recent past and stick to what's going on now.   
  
  Q.  It seemed like at times when you got in trouble the putter saved you today?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Putter was good, and seeing the lines, which is nice.  You know, I hit some putts I thought I made and actually hit some putts I thought I missed that went in, so they evened out.  For the most part I'm making the short ones, which is important, especially on these undulating greens.  It's only Thursday so we'll get out there tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  I have to ask you about 6, the shot that went in the woman's lap.  Can you talk about that a little bit?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Oh, that was funny.  Pulled it, obviously I hit a bad shot, misjudged the wind, misjudged the club and paid the price.  But fortunately I didn't hit her very hard, just fell in her lap, so to speak.  It was a bogey the whole way, I guess.   
  
  Q.  At 1-under do you feel pretty good about being in position to make your first cut here?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm just trying to play one at a time.  That's what I'm trying to do.  You know, for the most part, -- that wind picked up pretty good for us the last three or four holes.  16 is nice to have downwind, and 17, I'd rather have that one into the wind because the green is so difficult.  I don't know if we got the raw end of the deal, but it was difficult coming in.  But I feel good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT