WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2007
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ZACH JOHNSON:  You know, same wind, same direction, maybe not quite as severe -- maybe gusts were not quite as severe.  You know, obviously did not help matters yesterday.  The fairways were receptive and so were the greens.  All and all pretty similar I think.   
  
  Q.  You've had a T-15 and T-3, what is it about this course that you like?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  My caddie won here back in the day with Scott Hoch.  I know the greens are new, but he knows the grain really well and that helps.  For whatever reason I've been able to see the line with my putter and I think that's crucial for me.  I can't overpower a golf course, so wedges and putting are premium for me.   
  
  Q.  You're 6-under on the par 3s and par 5s.  Is that where you need to attack this course?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  Definitely.  The par 5s, I've got to get it close with my wedges.  A couple of them, I can get home.  You know, obviously the par 3s, you know, you've got to get the ball on the green on those and just hope for pars.  I managed to hit it close a couple of times.   
  
  Q.  Was it difficult (waiting) at times out there?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It was for me.  I feel like I'm kind of a deliberate player at times, which, I had to cool myself down and take it easy.  My caddie is pretty mellow, so that helped.  But you know, all in all we had a pretty good rhythm.  Our front nine, there was no one in front of us.  We weren't waiting, we were first off, so that's where we both played pretty well, the front nine.   
 Back nine, we had to wait every shot.  But you get used to it.   
  
  Q.  Are you getting fairly used to being around the mark, how do you feel about your game generally?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  I feel good about my game.  I worked hard in the off-season and it's just a matter of, you know, seeing that work pay off now I think.  I worked a lot, really hard on my putting and that certainly is surfacing now.  I think all in all, all aspects of my game are going up.  I've just got to, you know, continue to work hard and trust in them.   
  
  Q.  How much of a wait did you have on 10?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  They were just walking off the tee, so it was a minimum five minutes, probably ten minutes almost.   
  
  Q.  Only one group?   
 ZACH JOHNSON:  It's only one group, that's correct.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT