THE INTERNATIONAL
August 10, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Zach Johnson off to a good start this week on the international.  Maybe some opening comments about where are day today.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Good.  A lot of positives.  I felt like I left some out there which is good.  All in all it was pretty good.  Putted descent.  Missed a couple putts, but the greens were faster here, so nothing too substantial there, I guess.  All in all, pretty fun.
THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Questions?
Q.  The greens were a little bit faster here than they were Tuesday.
ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know how many more feet faster, but they were certainly faster.
Q.  Talk about the last couple weeks heading into the Ryder cup.  The PGA Championship.  You got to like how you're playing.  You're in a pretty good position to make your way onto that team?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I feel good about my game.  Fundamentally it feel good.  I'm not trying to dwell too much on the Ryder Cup team.  That's obviously a major, major goal.  I want this goal.  I feel like I can take care of business week to week and play well and let things fall where they fall and good things can happen.  I hope I'm top ten, and that's the way I'm looking at it.

I'm going to try to have a good time the next two weeks.  And like I said, let things fall where they fall.  If I'm on the team, that would be a complete privilege and honor.
Q.  You're 9th right now.
ZACH JOHNSON:  I believe so.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ZACH JOHNSON:  Okay.  See I birdied, I    number 1 I hit a good drive    do you have distances of the putts I made?
THE MODERATOR:  Yeah.
ZACH JOHNSON:  No. 1 I birdies about a 16 footer there.  I like guessing, sorry.  I hit two good shots in the sand trap; got up and down in the sand.

No. 5, I hit a good, decent drive.  Good 5 iron in there above the hole.  Made a sliding fast downhill putt.  It's a good thing I hit the hole.  Probably about another 16, 17, 18 feet probably I'd say.

Birdied 10.  I hit a good drive on 10.  I hit an 8 iron to about 6, 7 feet, probably 7 feet straight up the hill.  Pretty easy putt; made that.

Birdied 13.  I hit a good tee shot, sand wedged into about fifteen feet.  Made a good putt there.

And then 17, I hit a good drive and a really good second shot.  Hit a 5 iron to probably about 6, 7 feet for eagle and just left it short, downhill.  Tapped it.  Just didn't get it high enough.

18 I made Bogey, so...
THE MODERATOR:  Any more questions?
Q.  Any good (indiscernible.)
ZACH JOHNSON:  I hit it in a lot of sand traps.  My sand shots were good today.  I'm trying to think of any overall...  Nothing probably too ridiculous.  They're all pretty straightforward sand shots.  I didn't get up on 18.  I hit like I wanted to though.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ZACH JOHNSON:  One, two, three, four, five.  So four out of five I hit pretty good.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT