JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously you take away maybe the last holes on both nines, and you did pretty good.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, you're right.  I can't do that, though, I don't think.
Q.  No, unfortunately you cannot.
ZACH JOHNSON:  You know, I really just hit one bad shot and that was my tee shot on 9.  After that I played probably a little too aggressive from here to hole, and then it obviously got the best of me.

You know, on 18 I've had two bad breaks now obviously.  I don't know if that was on camera.  But mud yesterday and then a pretty funky lie today.  That's my own fault.  I figure if I lay up and try to get up and down, I can make a bogey whichever way.

I don't know, all said, I hit a lot of good shots.  I came back fairly strong, which was good.  I still feel like I'm playing well enough to climb up the board tomorrow.
Q.  It seems like yesterday you putted real well on the back nine.  How was your putting today, was it the same?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I putted well today, to be honest.  I pit hit a lot of good putts.  I hit one that lipped out, did a 360, and I made some, too.  I didn't miss many short ones, which is good.  I hit a lot of solid putts.  I feel like I'm reading greens pretty good.
Q.  After a hole like 9 is there a process you go through mentally?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, yeah, you've got to put it aside.  Pretty much every shot, every hole I have a cycle I kind of go through, and fortunately I got through that pretty good.  I hit three really good shots on 10 and just missed birdie there, and then I birdied    whatever it was, the next two or three holes or whatever.  I put it aside and bounced back nicely, which was good.  Those are the positives I'm going to be looking at for tomorrow.
Q.  How important is it to get momentum right back?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Important.  Like I said, I hit one bad shot on 9 and that really got the best of me.  It was unfortunate.  That's the way it goes, nature of the game.  9 is a hard hole.  It's difficult, but I've been in every situation.  I've been in worse situations.  Bottom line is I knew I was hitting it well and putting it pretty decent, so I felt good about the remainder of the round.
Q.  Is it tough coming back on the front nine after shooting so low and playing it right away again?
ZACH JOHNSON:  That's a good question.  I don't think so.  You know, I hit a lot of good shots on the front and just came up a little short.  My driver was a little weary, I thought.  I should have birdied 2 and probably shouldn't have bogeyed 5, but all that said, I hit a lot of good putts on the front and hit a lot of good shots with the exception of No. 9.
Q.  You had the putter out for a while on 18, didn't you?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I didn't know what to do.
Q.  What did you hit?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I hit an 8 iron and it was the right club.  If it would have landed 20 yards right    well, I mean, I knew it was going to hook.  I played it at the gallery and it hooked more than I thought.  I hit a great drive, hit it right where I wanted to, misjudged the distance to the bunker, which was my own fault.  I don't think I had gotten that much roll all day or all week.  It was either that or putting it and trying to get up and down.  I felt like I could play a little aggressive considering where I was at on the board.
Q.  Do you really need to change anything for the rest of the weekend or just keep playing?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing.  The pins will probably get a little bit harder.  If the wind picks up it could get a little more difficult.  I don't think there's any rain in the forecast so the course will dry out and we'll get a little more roll, maybe a little bit different off the tee.  The wind was totally different today.  It was almost the opposite direction.  You know, the golf course is playing good.
Q.  Michelle withdrew after 9, said she wasn't feeling well.  The doctor wouldn't say anything specific but it looked like dehydration.  What was the heat like today and how do you play through that?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Well, you knew it going in.  The forecast was 90 to whatever every day and humidity of nearly 100 percent.  You know, we've played in all those situations.  It's just a matter of staying hydrated.  I've got some supplements and whatnot to help me along with that.  It's nothing unfamiliar.
Q.  Did you hear while you were on the course that Michelle had withdrawn?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I had no idea, no.

I killed a frog on 18, literally.  Sitting there right there on the bank, blood all over him.  I felt bad about that.  Sorry, that's random, but I did, I felt terrible.  The guy said it just plugged right there, and it did, and it just trickled in.  That thing was hooking hard.
Q.  Thanks for the details.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Sorry about that.  I felt bad.
Q.  After shooting 28 and then ten shots more, that seems kind of
ZACH JOHNSON:  Oh, my gosh, was it really?
Q.  That's a testimony how good the 28 was.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, you know, it was one of those things I got a good start on that front side yesterday, and today, made a couple putts here, couple putts there and I'm 2  or 3 under going into 9 and one bad swing there and obviously wrote down a 7.

Yeah, different wind today and probably wasn't swinging it quite as well as I did yesterday, especially on that side.  I hit a lot of good shots on this side and shot a couple under.  But I'm 2 under going into my next nine.
Q.  Did you hit driver on 9?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I hit a driver, yeah.  That was a pull hook, yeah.
Q.  How difficult was the second shot on that hole?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I didn't think it was that difficult.  I mean, that obviously was a shot that hurt, but I think I got a good break.  It hit the tree and stayed in.  And then I got another good break, it hit the tree again and stayed in.  Maybe it was a good triple, a good save for 7.
Q.  Did you think about going up instead of
ZACH JOHNSON:  No.  If I had more ball to hit first, I would have thought about it, but there was a lot of grass there, too.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT