THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 2, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Zach, for joining us for a few minutes.  I know it was a long day today, so I'll get you out of here quick.

You had a real good finish, once you got back out there.  You had that one bogey on 17.  You should be pretty happy, and also happy that you're done.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Very happy that I'm done, definitely. I feel good about today.  I felt great about yesterday.  Yesterday I played even better, but didn't score as well.  My putter worked very well today.  I missed the one short putt, but that happens.  Bad tee shot on 17, but other than that, there was a lot more positives.  And I was able to capitalize on a lot of solid shots.
Q.  How hard was it for you to go to sleep last night knowing you've got to come back and make that 1 putt and to cap it off, it's going to be for a double?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Right.  That was frustrating.  It was frustrating knowing we're sitting there.  We felt like we could finish, but yet we couldn't.  That's what was frustrating.

But I had a good evening.  I've got a bus here and it was pretty routine.  Rain delays, obviously they're never good, especially for the maintenance staff and all the faculty that has to put all the work in.  But us players, yeah, it stinks, but we're used to it.  We've pretty much met and seen every situation.
Q.  So it didn't eat at you, knowing you had to come back just for that 1 putt?
ZACH JOHNSON:  No, not really.  No, not really.  Obviously I thought about it, but I had 8 feet.
Q.  Was it good to get right back out there?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I think so.  I played four holes and played those four holes pretty solid.  That was the hardest    this morning was the hardest part of the day.  Obviously the sun started to come out a little bit at the end.  1 is like a driver, 7 iron, I hit driver, 3 wood.  So that's not very typical.  Usually it's    it's usually a lot smaller clubs than that.  So coming back out at whatever time we teed off, 4:30, the golf course was easier than it was in the morning when the wind was out and the rain.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Go over your birdies.  You made a birdie on 7.
ZACH JOHNSON:  7, good drive, decent layup shot, sand wedge in there to about 10 feet.

No. 8, I hit a 7 iron to about five feet three inches.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Five feet six inches.
ZACH JOHNSON:  11, yeah, it was a slider.  That was probably a good 22 and a half feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  What did you hit?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I hit wedge from 120.  22 and a half feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  How about 17?
Q.  What did you tee off on 11?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I hit 3 wood and then I hit a 3 iron.
Q.  To 22 feet, did you say?
ZACH JOHNSON:  3 wood, 3 iron, wedge, to 17 feet.  And I made that.  That was a tough putt.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  13.
ZACH JOHNSON:  13, I hit a driver and 6 iron to about four feet six inches.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Five feet.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Oh.  The next I missed about a 5 , 6 footer for birdie.  14, I think it was.

15, I hit driver and that was one of those situations where I had mud on my ball and it was wet, but there was no place to drop it in the fairway.  It was all casual water.  So I hit it.  I hit it left, green high, left, but on the hill and I flopped it down there to about 12 feet and made it.

Bogey on 17.  3 wood into the right bunker and wedged it out.  I wedged it up there to 20 feet and missed it for par.
Q.  That bunker at 17 cost you at least a chance to tie for the lead.  If you had one word to describe the bunkering then what would you say?
ZACH JOHNSON:  One word to describe the bunkering    well, in that situation    even if the bunker there was like flat and hard, I don't think I    well, the bunkers in general are very penalizing.  The new rake system, as everybody is well aware of, makes it as such.  It's just    you hit it in there and you've got probably a 20 percent chance of hitting a close to a normal club out.  But the fairways are moist.  If you miss the fairway and hit a sand trap, you have a bad shot.
Q.  You don't think you could have reached it anyway if the bunker was smooth?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I don't know.  It was one of those things where going into it mentally, I knew I wasn't going to try to hit it out.  It was a downhill lie.
Q.  What did you hit out of it?
ZACH JOHNSON:  A sand wedge to about a hundred yards.  So I had a good number, I just didn't get up and down.
Q.  Feel pretty confident heading into tomorrow?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Definitely.  Hopefully I can just keep driving and putting it.  I think those are two key clubs out here, for sure.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT