BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 2, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You finished tied for second with Jose Maria behind Phil Mickelson.  Phil had a great week and you also had a good week, you won this tournament in 2004, had a good showing this week and played well after the rain delay.  Talk about how you finished today.
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, I didn't particularly get off to the best start.  Probably just trying a little too hard, I don't know why.  I pretty much tell myself, I've got nothing to lose, so why try so hard.

Yeah, that rain delay probably was a key.  I was pretty upset when they blew the horn, but looking back on it, it was probably the best thing.  At that point I realized I probably can't win, since I was down about 30 shots, so I just kind of went out there, and, I don't know what happened, made some putts, hit some good shots.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You had a front row seat to Phil's performance today.  Obviously he played so well.
ZACH JOHNSON:  He is doing absolutely everything right.  I can't think of a missed shot he hit really.  He missed his first drive after the rain delay but that really was about it.  But we're sitting in there for 40 minutes.  It was a display of just, whether you have a lead or don't have a lead, it was a display of perfect golf.  I would assume the previous days were very comparable to that.  Just, you know, had a great rhythm to him.  You could see that he was just in a good zone and it was really fun to watch.  Man, very impressive.
Q.  You told us yesterday that he didn't want to think about records, he just wanted to think about playing well, was there any sense that that was being discussed, was the fact that he finished one stroke shy of the best 72 holes ever
ZACH JOHNSON:  One strike shy?  It wasn't brought up.  I had no idea, frankly.  But I don't think if there was a rain delay, I don't think he would have made a bogey.  But who knows.
Q.  To play as well as you did finish 15 under on a good golf course, is it really a 28 under par type of course?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I'm going to have to say no.  But, evidently I'm wrong.  You know, I think this golf course here is good, it's really good.  As it continues and matures, it's not very old, it will get better and the rough will get better.  They are going to do some minor changes for May next year, so it can only get better, I think.

At the same time, shooting, what did he shoot, 28 under?  That's right, he made eagle.  That's just unbelievable.  You can look at it a different way, like I said yesterday, you can look at it as a positive, there's room to get better, I mean, 13 shots better; that was complete domination.

I definitely think this is a golf course that if you get into a good rhythm and get some momentum, you can make some birdies.  But at the same time if you miss a couple shots, you can make bogey in a heartbeat.  My rounds are a pretty good example. I birdied three out of four holes and managed to make four birdies at the end.  It's kind of, I don't know, bogey trains and birdie trains out here.
Q.  He played with a 40 inch driver in addition to the standard driver to get ready for Augusta, do you swap any equipment out for a course like Augusta?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I have not    actually, I take that back.  I changed one club this week and I rarely ever change golf clubs.  I just put a different 60 degree wedge in my bag with different grooves, something that may check it up a little bit, spin it a little better.  That was really the only thing I've done.  After playing Augusta three times, I thought that would be the best thing to prepare.

You know, if I hit it as far as Phil, I think having two drivers    you can't say it doesn't make sense based on what he did this week.  But I don't have gears.  Some of the long hitters like Phil or Jonathan or Tiger or whoever the long hitters are, they have got gears and I've pretty much got one.  I don't necessarily see myself putting two drivers into play any time soon.  But at the same time, I'll never say never.
Q.  Do you keep that wedge in your bag?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT