WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How difficult was it to get over the disappointment of losing yesterday, to get up for the match today?

ZACH JOHNSON: I had a discussion with my caddie about this and he gave me something to play for in the respect that he told me there were more Ryder Cup points available for finishing third than fourth so that is really what I was playing for. It is not easy, especially after losing to Davis yesterday, but you know, it is business and I have to go about it and treat it as such.
Q. You came close to making the Presidents Cup Team, now you are playing with the Ryder Cup Captain, how important was it for you to put on a performance for him that might keep you in mind as a wild card if you don't make the team automatically?

ZACH JOHNSON: I don't know really what his outlook was going into a match like that, I know he was really trying to win as hard as I was. But he wants to make the Ryder Cup team too. Of course I wanted to win the match but Tom is a good friend and I don't think either of us played well enough to win it and it was unfortunate it ended the way it did but I'll take it and it is just the nature of this game.
Q. Tell me about the eighth hole?

ZACH JOHNSON:  The second shot, I probably rushed it a little bit looking back but I had a great yardage and I just put on a bad swing. I didn't really put many good swings on in the front nine and I felt fortunate to be in the position I was in going into the latter holes.
Q. Have you converted that little reverse toe, left handed shot in practice before?

ZACK JOHNSON: Well I was saying to Tom that that is a shot I need to practice more! I do it at times but it was funky. We had a little discrepancy there but what gave me comfort was the fact that he had about eight feet for birdie. I'm disappointed with the way the hole turned out but I'm not disappointed with my approach.
Q. Was there a cheer when you missed your putt at the 16th?

ZACH JOHNSON: Well it happens, we have that every week. It is frustrating because you are in the moment and are trying to make the putts. It is unfortunate because that is not the way this game is - if you want that you go to a football game or a basketball game. This is a game of integrity and sportsmanship but it happens. It is one person that makes everybody kind of look bad, it is no big deal.
Q. What did you hit here at the 18th, a sand wedge?

ZACH JOHNSON: Yes I hit a sand wedge and what has been fortunate for me this week is that when I have had to hit a shot this week, I've hit it. When I have had to make a putt, for the most part, I've made it. That is the biggest confidence boost I can have going into the rest of the year and some of those cup events if I can get into them. That gives me confidence.
Q. You have to feel good about your game?

ZACH JOHNSON: I played LA last week and played okay, I had one decent round but didn't hit it all that great. I definitely feel better about my game as a whole at this point in the year than I did at this point in the last two years so that can breed confidence and momentum.
Q. Did you get the sense the finalists were waiting a lot behind you?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes we got the sense. We just weren't hitting very good shots and those guys were hitting it right down the middle of the fairway and the middle of the green all the time and we're not. You never like to see the way this match ended up but I was fortunate to hit a good shot and put some pressure on Tom.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT