JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2017
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ZACH JOHNSON: There were two or three just wayward shots that cost me my day.  Just lazy, lazy swings, which is unfortunate.  I feel like I'm swinging it pretty well.   
Yeah, I mean, a grind to get it under par.   
 Q.  Second shot on 2 obviously, and then the drive on 15...  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, those are the two that stick out.  Obviously my tee shot on 18, save.  So those would be the three shots that are not characteristic or even normal.   
I don't know what to say.   
 Q.  You chip-in for on 14, you get some momentum and then you give it right back.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah.  Taketh and giveth, right?   
 Q.  Talk about the eagle.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, I mean, it was a pretty basic pitch, you know, one that I felt like I could get close.  The thing you want to do here shoot a three rather than try to force something.  Obviously it went in.   
You're essentially just trying to get in a three-foot radius.  Fortunately, (indiscernible.)   
 Q.  To be just a few shots back, work to do tomorrow still.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, what am I, 4 or 5, 5 or 6?   
 Q.  5.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, a lot work, but anything is possible.  I'm going to try to birdie them all tomorrow.  See how that goes.   
 Q.  What's been the cause of the struggles on the front nine for you this week?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Um, I don't know.  Have I struggled on the front nine?  I did today.  Shot 1-over.  I would have to go back and think.  I think I've shot under par every day with the exception of today.   
 Q.  When it's moving day and you don't move, how disappointing is that on a course you've had so much success?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it's disappointing.  I feel like my game is right where it needs to be, you know.  I think I got a little bit off with some rhythm, and that was -- my focus today was rhythm.  I don't think it was focused hard enough.  I don't think it was good.   
That's unfortunate.  I hit good putts today.  You're not going to make everything clearly.  I had a couple par putts that didn't go in and then a couple birdie putts I hit right where Damon and I thought and did the opposite.   
You play the percentages here, you (indiscernible) you got a lot of stray putts.  Left centers, right edge, left edge, right edge.  You got to really commit.  Kind of like one foot out because you know it's going left or right.   
That being said, everybody has to deal with that.   
 Q.  17 you hit one for 59 feet.  Talk about that putt.  Did you make a putt on 17, or was that 14 you chipped in?  
ZACH JOHNSON: 14 I chipped in.   
 Q.  Hit 3-wood on 17?  
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I hit 3-iron.   
 Q.  3-iron?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah?   
 Q.  240?  
ZACH JOHNSON: 240 downwind.  3-iron is 225.  3-iron is 12, 13 feet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT