WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2006
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
3 up early, 3 up in the middle and 3 up late, and still, it came down to 18.  Tough match?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, absolutely.  I knew it would be going into it.  He's too good.  Well, they're all good for that matter, but Sean is a fighter.  I managed to play with him on Sunday of the John Deere when he won, and you could see it there.  He's just been kind of groomed to be the competitor that he is.  Once he gets it going, he's tough to beat.  I feel really good.  There was a lot of positives out there, and there's some things I can figure out on the range and around the greens that I can hopefully square away going into the weekend.
Q.  Speaking of the range, you were working awfully hard this week.  Anything in particular you were trying to get 100 percent?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I was trying to hit the golf ball where I was lined up and then finding it pretty much.  It's the same old stuff.  My golf swing I guess is really simple, but I'm trying to be more consistent with it.  My shot pattern is usually a draw, so if I can't hit that, then I've got issues.  That's my go to shot.  Outside of that, it's a matter of rhythm and tempo for me.  I get out of sequence, so if I can keep it smooth and short and sweet, usually it's pretty good.
Q.  How much confidence did you gain knocking off Jim Furyk known as a real bulldog in golf?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Yeah, that was big confidence wise, really.  He's obviously proven himself in match play over the years, and that was a big win, especially coming down the stretch there.  I was fairly proud of myself there.  This is my second Match Play, and I haven't played many match play in general, never when I was a junior, so beating Jim Furyk out here was a huge confidence boost.  Everybody is good, though.  Beating Sean is just as big.  I don't know who I'm going to have tomorrow, and I don't care, I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT