BUICK OPEN
July 31, 2005
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ZACH JOHNSON:  It's where you want to be, I said yesterday, the cream rises to the top and that's the best cream there is.  You want to play with them, you want to be in that position and you want to have that experience.  It's been ten minutes but I'm sure in the next week or whatever, I'll learn a lot more from today's round.  We didn't really get anything going today.  Wish we could have fed off each other a little better.  I had it going early but just couldn't make any putts.  All in all, it's a great week, great day.  I feel good about things.
Q.  Inaudible?
ZACH JOHNSON:  The first time I saw him was on 16 tee maybe or 17, right around there.  But I didn't have any idea what was going on.  I was just trying to stay in the moment and worry about myself.  I thank God for where I'm at and it kind of went that way.

I feel all right about it.  I certainly didn't lose it.  Vijay definitely won it.  He played good today.  He didn't even play that great and he still won.  A couple putts here, a couple putts there, he could have been even better.  That's one thing I'm going to learn is playing with the best players in the world, Vijay and Tiger, you can understand that their good days and their bad days they can turn into a pretty good day, and that's what he did.  He's obviously a good champion and one of best players.
Q.  How were the crowds?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I enjoy that, the more the merrier to be honest, because it just blends in and you get zoned in and used to it.  It's different obviously with Vijay and Tiger and being in the last group on Sunday.  You have to get in that position more often and I'll relish the opportunity and learn from it.

My last tournament was the British and I played well.  I just couldn't score.  I had a double bogey but missed the cut.  Really I played pretty good over there.  I played pretty solid and didn't manage to make any putts or score.  I feel good about this week, but I was just trying to find a groove and stick with it.  Fortunately I found it early.  My caddie did a great job and we were just a good team.

It was a little bit different wind the last few days, similar to Thursday's wind.  You knew where the pins were going to be.  They were definitely a little more difficult than previous days, but that's expected, it's Sunday.  It's still playable, the greens were great and the fairways were pure.  Probably best four days of golf we've had in a long, long time.

I was getting used to    Wednesday is a day, it's a Pro Am day, a day to thank the sponsors and just have a casual round and get to know some guys.  I'm a people person, so I enjoy that, but it's also a day to learn the golf course.  That's kind of my approach going into it.  I don't pay attention to my score.

Granted I want to play well for the guys but the same time, I'm just trying to stay in my own world.  Thursday through Sunday is just about scoring and playing good golf.

It's one thing I appreciate, the fans are always behind me and I love going back.  My wife is from Florida so that's where we'll be.
Q.  Inaudible?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I won last year.  It's one position worse as far as I remember.

I had the opportunities, I just didn't    maybe a miscue execution wise.  I probably didn't hit it as solid today as I did the previous days.  I felt like if I hit it on the green, give my putter a chance, especially when I was putting early.  The longest putt I made today was probably five or six feet.  That's just the way it goes.  I hit a good drive on 9 and made bogey.  I thought I hit a good drive but it kicked left in the trees.  It was a great day, a great week.
Q.  Did you talk a lot with Tiger?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Early on we didn't say a whole lot.  We've chatted a bit.  I've gotten to know him a bit over last year and a half.  He's pretty easy to talk to.  It was a pretty casual round, especially the last four or five holes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT