JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2005
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about the round today, Zach.
ZACH JOHNSON:  It was a rough one.  I mean, I felt good going into the day.  It's a bit disappointing, but, I mean, I'll try to find some positives in there.  I really didn't hit it all that bad, I just didn't make any putts and my execution probably wasn't great, either.  All in all, considering what's gone on the last month or so, it wasn't all that bad of a week, I guess.
Q.  No. 4 a little tough on you, you got it close to the green and then the chip
ZACH JOHNSON:  It was a tough lie.  The ball was a foot above my stance and I flubbed it.
Q.  It still had to be a special week, to hear the ovation there on 18 has got to make you feel real good?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Absolutely.  The crowd was behind me even walking down 16, 17, and 18.  It's awesome.  I mean, I wish I could play here next week.  Well, I say that but I'm going over to Scotland so that's not that bad.  But this place is awesome.
Q.  Have you played with O'Hair before?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Never.
Q.  What was that like playing with him today?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Nice guy, great guy, good game.  Played good obviously.
Q.  Talk about playing this week and heading over to the British.  Are you happy with the way you're going over there?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I am more pleased now.  I mean, I've got    I've got some stuff I can work on    well, always, but I'm in a better position now than what I was say a week ago.  I'm going to go have fun.  I've got family and friends going over there to St. Andrews, and who knows, I guess the last two years the champion has been somewhat of a surprise.  You know, we'll see what happens.
Q.  What did you learn for your trip over there last year that might help you this time around?
ZACH JOHNSON:  I think the first thing I learned is that golf over there is about feel and just kind of creativity.  You can hit about seven different golf courses in your bag and end up in the same spot to an extent.  It's just about being creative and understanding your limitations but yet respecting the golf course.  The bumps and rolls.
Q.  You feel better, though, knowing all this after having been there?
ZACH JOHNSON:  Oh, definitely.  I appreciate it.  It's kind of the way the game was invented to be played.  It's an awesome arena.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT