DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 24, 2017
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little bit about being back at place that you love.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it is just that:  I love coming back to the places I have fond memories, one.  You throw that aside, take the Ws away - which is hard to do - but you take it aways, I love this facility.  I love this membership.  They become -- there is only so many tournaments where -- I know it's presented by Dean & Deluca, which has been terrific, but there are only so many tournaments where the membership takes ownership in the tournament.  This is one of them.
Obviously Augusta would be the premier to Ken of that.  But this one is right there.  I think Jack at Muirfield does a good job, and certainly the Bay Hill folks take ownership too to some degree.
But they are few and far between where the actual membership entity takes a lot of pride and puts a lot of time and effort into their event.
Chuck sheer, Jim witness en, that's guys are good friends mine.  Coming back to the please I love, stay in the same house every year, hit many seam restaurants for the most part.
Champion's dinner isn't bad, either.  I love this week.  Certainly the wall adds to it and the fact that one of my favorites in the game, Ben Hogan, this is one of his old stomping grounds.
A lot of fond memories.
Q. You've been a fixture at East Lake over the years.  I know missing last year is a huge motivation for you to get back.  Just talk a little bit about the stretch run for you and your goals for the rest of the year.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I want to play good golf.  There is no two ways about it.  I feel like I've got my bag settled; I feel like my game is on the rise.
I feel like last year what kept me from probably playing my best -- I had a decent year; not great -- was my driver.  This year my driver is by far and away the best club in my bag.
So clearly the short game, wedge play was great last year and hasn't been great this year.  So that's been my area of focus:  getting the ball in the fairway, putting a chipping.  I love seeing the progress.
Starting to get healthy.  Had some issues there over the last month, month and a half.
I feel like my game is on the rise.  East Lake is a substantial priority.
Q. Could that mean Colonial is good timing for you?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, well, sure.  There is never a bad time to come here.  Yeah, I think so.  I don't want to sit here and say it's going to be a phenomenal week right out of the chute.  I don't have any idea.  I've felt great going into weeks and played terrible and felt horrible going into weeks and essentially won golf tournaments.
I don't get caught up in feelings as far as golf feelings go, but I do enjoy reminiscing positive vibes, and so that's what I'm going to cling to.
Q. As a venue, how much does past experience help with this place versus some other tour stops?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it's a shot-makers' golf course.  You really got to know how to manage your golf ball around here.  May be some experience factor there for sure.
I do think it's one of those golf courses where -- to answer that question I think there are other facilities, other courses we play where that comes into affect more.
This one here - and it's a distinct compliment - is what you see is what you get.  It's right out in front of you.  It's not tricky in the sense that it's contrived or manipulated.
It's there's 18 holes.  You can hit driver on a lot of holes; you can hit a 4-iron.  It gives you options.  You have to hit it good.  The wind is always a factor.  The greens haven't changed.  There are so many things here that have been consistent and constant, but yet to add to the consistency is the fact it's still really, really good.
When we have wind here, you don't see 20-under.  When we have good conditions here, you shoot 10-under you might right in the thick of it.
Q. You're the only guy here I think that's seen 20-under, just F Y I.
ZACH JOHNSON: That's not a question, but thank you.  (Laughter.)
Q. How many jackets do you have in your sort of collection now?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think the three.  I think.  I don't think there are any other tournaments that have -- that I've won that.  I mean, Harbour Town.  I have not won there.  I want to say (indiscernible) has a jacket, too, doesn't it?  And Arnie's?
Q. Arnie used to have a jacket.  Switched to a sweater.
ZACH JOHNSON: Who has the red jacket?
Three.
Q. Where do they stay?
ZACH JOHNSON: They stay here.  You can't take it.  As far as I know.  I never took mine with me.  I was never able to take it off site.  I assume the membership is not allowed to take it off site either.
That's an assumption.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT