SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2017
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under par round, steady as she goes for you.  Thoughts on how you played today?
ZACH JOHNSON: Today was very consistent.  It was very similar to yesterday.  Just didn't put myself in trouble and gave myself a good number of opportunities.  Yesterday I probably, might hit a few shots closer or made a few more putts.  That's typically what happens when you shoot five to nine, but very solid all around.  No bogeys on the card the last two days.  I'm very encouraged.
Q. Solo second, so you still have an opportunity.  Justin said, you know what, J.T., he's playing good golf, but you just never know?
ZACH JOHNSON: I've seen it.  We've all seen it at every level.  You never know.  I've got to stick to what I'm doing.  Get the ball in the fairway, hit some greens, making some putts.  Certainly with the new driver this week, the PXG driver, that I haven't hit in competition, that seemed to pay off.  I'm encouraged with the direction.  Just a matter of execution.
Q. Your wins have been comebacks, so if anyone is going to chase him down, it would be you.
ZACH JOHNSON: I haven't really thought about it that way -- that wasn't really a question, was it.
Q. What are your thoughts on that?
ZACH JOHNSON: You just never know.  I'd rather have a six-shot lead, potentially seven, maybe eight.  I don't know if he's got an eagle putt.  I'd rather be in his position without question.  But you know, I'm going to -- in those nine wins or whatever, I know what I did and I just went out and played and I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.
Q. I guess that's the way you deal with it.  You just go out and try to take -- the pressure is off you.
ZACH JOHNSON: You make a few early and that can always add to your opponent.  But I've got to play the golf course, and that's my only competitor tomorrow.
Q. Seeing the low ones out there, a 59, a 60 today.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, Kis almost shot 59.  So it's doable.  This is a place where you get a little bit of confidence at the flagstick, it can be pretty lethal.  Especially with only two par 5s, that's impressive to shoot anything, 62 or lower.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT