THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ZACH JOHNSON: In the fairway, we're probably hitting a 155 shot.  I was trying to hit a punch 150 shot just because of the spin.
The last comment we made before we made at the club selection was, It's not jumping, right?  We're like, No.  We've had three of those and a couple today.  I guess three of four where, if anything, they needed to be fluffed.  Club had no spin on it, I just to hit it 148.
Q. Just talk about trying to come back.  You were in a bit of a hole?
ZACH JOHNSON: I put us in a bigger hole than we needed, certainly, on 13 or whatever it was, 14.  That was just not quality at all.
Q. That happens.
ZACH JOHNSON: That happens.  We rallied there and fortunately finally got some putts to drop.  We had five or six putts where we were both committed with the same line and it did the opposite of what we thought or it was not enough or whatever.  That was difficult.  But again, it is the Ryder Cup.  That stuff happens.
Q. Can you speak in general just the wild swings of emotion?
ZACH JOHNSON: It doesn't feel like it's any different any other year.  This is exactly what happens every two years.  You just see waves of momentum both directions.  The tide turns, that kind of thing.  It's beautiful.  I'm gutted right now because of that match.  Had opportunities.
Q. In the way you and Jimmy played together, what was the biggest difference today?
ZACH JOHNSON: You're granted a putt, you don't miss, that's the first thing.  Granted, you are talking to me, not him.
Second thing would be hitting some good putts that didn't go in, some that did yesterday.  It's just a difficult format and rhythm.  That to me is the difference.
Q. Must have been nice to make that five or six footer on 16?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, that was nice.  My mentality going into that -- Justin is going to make this, you have got to hit a good putt.  Not make it, you are going to hit a good putt.  I actually hit a good tee shot on 17, just held it too much, and fortunate.  But it was the perfect club.
Q. You have more time before singles start, but what has been your best way of getting ready for singles in years past?
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm going to prepare tomorrow as if it's just another tournament, just another day, just another match.  That's the only thing I can do.  I'll probably go work on a few things just to get lose.  My game is fine.  It's just a matter of execution.  I'm not going to do a whole lot any different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT