THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2016
Rickie Fowler
Dustin Johnson
Zach Johnson
Matt Kuchar
Phil Mickelson
Patrick Reed
Jordan Spieth
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Jordan Spieth
Q. I want to talk to you about tomorrow's match.  What did you think about the pairing?
JORDAN SPIETH: We knew that was coming.  We knew that's who they were throwing out.  They have done it now a couple different sessions.  And I think Henrick and Justin had mentioned it for the past couple months that they were going to do it.
We believe in ourselves and we'll go out there and get our job done and put a point on the board for the United States.  So we have got a huge match ahead of us.
Q. Tell me what you are thinking about, how you are playing.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think we're trending in the right direction, getting ready to peak for tomorrow.  The course is in phenomenal shape.  They have got a lot of mix of tee boxes, so we're a little unsure about what we're going to get.  All in all, with the rough down, it should yield some birdies.
We're going to have to play very, very consistent golf, stay very disciplined in hitting our approach shots and give ourselves as many looks as we can.
Q. Great turnout for the Opening Ceremonies.  What was that like?
JORDAN SPIETH: It was amazing, incredible.  You can tell the people in Minnesota, they are obviously very, very passionate about sports, very respectful, but very passionate fans.  Hopefully we get the crowds that we're expecting for that first match out tomorrow.  The more people the better in our opinion.
That was a really, really neat experience out there having that many people show up for to celebrate the start of the games.
Q. Any message you want to share with the fans?
JORDAN SPIETH: You know, same ole, same ole.  Again, show up early, get there, get on that first tee 30 minutes before we tee off to make sure by the time we get there, those Euros know that they're playing an away game.  We want to feel at home.
Patrick Reed
Q. Just talk about are you excited for tomorrow?
PATRICK REED: I'm pumped.  Jordan and I are playing together, it's awesome.  I feel like because of the last Ryder Cup and growing up with the guy, it's just a great match-up.  To go up against Henrik Stenson and Justin Rose, it's going to be a battle of four great golfers.  It's going to be so much fun and hopefully we can give them a good show and get the U.S. off to a right start.
Q. By playing the opening match, you thrive off that crowd, it's going to be your kind of thing.
PATRICK REED: So exciting.  I had kind of that little taste of being the second match but early on Sunday, on the singles of the last Ryder Cup because the captain was really into both of us.
So now having this chance and being the first match of the tournament, it's just so exciting.  I have so much adrenaline going through myself right now I just can't wait to get started.
Q. Are you going to be able to sleep tonight?
PATRICK REED: Oh, yeah, I'll be able to sleep.
Phil Mickelson
Q. Just talk about the pairing tomorrow.  You and Rickie and the strengths you bring.
PHIL MICKELSON: We're excited to play together.  We're a great mixture of young and old and we have very similar games.  We spend a lot of time playing together.  Before excited about the opportunity to play this golf course together.  And we have a great challenge in Rory McIlroy and Andy Sullivan and we look forward to it.
Q. How important is it after all the buildup to finally get out on the first tee tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON: It's exciting to be able to start playing.  That's what we're here for.  All the ancillary stuff in the first few days is all in anticipation of this moment tomorrow where we can get these matches underway and create some excitement.
Q. Most important thing about foursomes?
PHIL MICKELSON: The most important thing about foursomes is to not get ahead of yourself and to be in that one particular shot.  A lot can happen in foursomes.  It's very difficult to cover.  You don't have a partner covering you.  You've got to play yourself.  We're looking forward to that challenge.
Rickie Fowler
Q. What is it about playing with Phil that makes you guys such a good team?
RICKIE FOWLER: I feel like we bring out a really good energy in each other.  We've played so many fun matches together.  We've only played one Ryder Cup match together, but we've just been around each other a lot.  It seems that we tend to bring out each other's best more times than not.  That's what you want in match play, especially in alternate shot.
I feel like we see the game a similar way.  Love to hit golf shots, have a good imagination.  He just happens to have a lot better short game than I do.  Happy to go out there alongside him.
Q. A lot of buildup to this week.  Finally get it started tomorrow morning.  How excited are you?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's going to be awesome.  The Ryder Cup is the Ryder Cup.  I think Darren mentioned it in his speech, as far as how you can explain it, from what I heard it's like having your first kid.  I haven't had the privilege of doing that yet, but playing in the Ryder Cup, you can't really explain it.  You can't explain it to someone until they have actually stepped on the first tee and played a match.
Q. Lastly, your opponents tomorrow are Rory and Andy Sullivan.  Talk about them as a team.
RICKIE FOWLER: They are going to play great.  Obviously Rory coming off of playing well last week.  A good buddy of mine, so I'm looking forward to it.  We're going to have a good time.  They are tough guys.
Andy is a great player, a great ball striker.  I've gotten to know him over the last couple of years.  They are going to be tough in alternate shot.
Phil and I need to be on our game, drive the ball well and get off to a good start.
Jimmy Walker
Q. Just the Opening Ceremonies, what was your reaction when you saw the crowd and the atmosphere?
JIMMY WALKER: The crowd was amazing.  Tons and tons of people.  The tribute to Arnold was very special, heart-warming, sad.  A lot of cool memories.  Loved to see the videos.  It was very special and sad.  It was very nicely done.
Q. What are your emotions now?  Are you ready to go?
JIMMY WALKER: Second time it's happened for me.  Getting my name called out on the stage is special.  Really gets the adrenaline going.  Goose bumps, smiles, looking over at the guys you are going to go try to smoke.  It's really fun.  We're all friends, too.  So it just adds to that level.
Q. Just playing with Zach tomorrow, talk about that partnership.
JIMMY WALKER: Zach and I have been talking for weeks about the opportunity to play together.  That came together for us.  We're really excited.  Had a great today and we look forward to going out and having a great day tomorrow.
Q. Home soil, have you got a message for the fans?
JIMMY WALKER: Just cheer loud, be loud, be courteous, be nice, be respectful, but cheer hard.  We'll give you something to cheer about.
Zach Johnson
Q. The Opening Ceremonies, never gets old, does it?
ZACH JOHNSON: It never gets old.  It's fantastic.  If you are going to find something negative, it was just the heat.  I would rather have that than the opposite.  It's always special.  Certainly the raising of your flag, your national and them, The Star Spangled Banner, it is what it is.
Then sitting on that row with those guys, my team, my band of brothers, is something I cherish and we'll continue to cherish open any many more years.
Q. You played with Jimmy a couple of times this week.  When did that pairing form?
ZACH JOHNSON: It's been in the works for a while.  I think it's been discussed for a while.  He and I are good friends.  Our games may not be similar, but there's a lot of things that we complement each other on.  We're pretty jacked, needless to say.  We just get to go out together and compete.
Q. In the format that you are playing in the morning, how will your games complement each other?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think it will be terrific.  I'm pretty steady, kind of a security blanket.  I can open him up, add freedom.  And vice-versa, when he's on, it gives me some loft and there's freedom involved there, too.  So it's all about confidence and we still have the same bull dog mentality and that's why I like where we're at.
Q. Pretty excited to go out in the first pairing?
ZACH JOHNSON: I can't wait.
Dustin Johnson
Q. First, Opening Ceremonies, what was your reaction?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was unbelievable.  The crowds out there were -- I don't think I've ever seen that many people at an opening ceremony.  The music was great.  When they sing your country's song, it's really special.  I had goose bumps.
Just you get really excited to start the matches tomorrow.  I'm super excited, I have been all week, to play.  I'm looking forward, we've got a great match.  We're out last in the morning but first session.  We've got us a good match.
Q. Playing with Matt.  Talk about that.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Me and Matt, we knew we were going to partner up this week.  We have been practicing together and hanging together all week.  We're really looking forward to it.  Couldn't be more excited about tomorrow.
Q. Home soil, what is your message to the fans?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Come out, cheer us on, pull us through these matches.  Fans are very important to a team.  We feed off their energy, so we need them.
Matt Kuchar
Q. Talk about who you are paired with and are you excited about tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR: I've got a horse in Dustin Johnson, he's really playing the best golf of anybody at the moment.  It's amazing what he's done this year.  We've played a lot the last three days and it's a lot of fun for me to be able to have him as a partner.
Q. What about you and your game?
MATT KUCHAR: The game is steady.  I've been playing some nice golf.  We've certainly made a good team in the three days of practice rounds against some of the other guys.  We've been a tough opponent.
Q. What do you think about the first eight going out tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR: I think we've got a strong four teams going out.  The tough thing for Davis is having to sit groups.  Toughest part of the captaincy is leaving some guys out that don't get a chance to play in the morning.  We really have 12 great players.
Q. What are you expecting from the crowd tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR: These things are always exciting.  Judging by the crowd this afternoon at Opening Ceremonies, it was such an impressive turnout, I expect an impressive turnout tomorrow morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT