THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is your caddie?  
ZACH JOHNSON: So he's fine.  It was my decision, probably rest him today.  He agreed to it, which was good.  I didn't want to argue with him on it.  He was not feeling great after Friday's round.  It was hot Friday, but maybe a little dehydrated.  Then I don't think he prepared himself properly probably for Saturday.  I'm assuming he would say the same thing.  Even by the fifth or sixth hole, he was done physically, but he got through the day, somehow.   
He's a man of few words, so it's really hard for me to tell how bad it was.  I've been with him so many odd years, you would think I'd be able to understand, but it was bad enough he needed multiple packs of IV yesterday.  That's the story with him.  He's fine.   
Nick and I played mini-tours together.  He's a good player.   
 Q.  Thoughts on getting a Ryder Cup pick?  
ZACH JOHNSON: It's out of my control.  I'm going home.  I mean, I don't -- I mean, at this point, I have my opportunities.  It's one of those things that it's not exactly ideal obviously.  But that being said, I mean, again, I have my opportunities.   
You're also talking about two or three guys that I consider very good friends.  So there's no ill will there.  I've just got to play better.  That's the bottom line.   
 Q.  You've made the team both ways.  How hard is it on the nerves waiting for the call?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it's not ideal.  You don't want to have to get that phone call either way.  You know, but you want a phone call.  You want a phone call.  You want it to go, you know, the positive way.  There's not an individual in that scenario that I don't respect and admire.  Whatever happens, happens.  I just have to go out and prove my worth at this point and going from there.   
You're talking about Davis Love, too.  He's the captain again for a reason and he's one of my very good friends.  He's going to do what's best for the American Team, and hopefully I'm in that equation.  But you know, I just hope I get another opportunity.  Hopefully my past performance in that tournament speaks for itself and I feel like my game is trending, but it's not for them to, it's not my decision.   
 Q.  Do you see it's different this year, two more tournaments; do you see them as an audition to show the way your game is?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, it's certainly a situation where -- yeah.  You can look at it a number of different ways.  You've got a way to go out and even potentially earn that pick.  I don't know.  I haven't been in that position that often.   
I'm trying to think, is it typically -- well, the first one was Top-10.  I forget the scenarios -- and then one of the picks.  I don't think I got picked that year -- 2010 I got picked by Corey, right, and I made the last two.   
I've probably been picked for a Presidents Cup, too, maybe.  I don't have any idea -- I don't know.  I know there's a little bit more media involved, if I do get picked with The PGA of America.  I'll gladly participate.  I'm assuming based on the scenarios that I might have to get picked at this point.  I don't think there's any -- well, no.  There's a scenario.  But realistically, I've probably got to get picked.  You know, that's not ideal but at least I'm in the discussion, you know.   
 Q.  Was there a point at some point in the last few weeks or months that you were pretty confident you would be in the top eight and you wouldn't have to sweat this out?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I didn't really dwell on it too much.  I didn't look at the scenarios money-wise and points-wise.  I didn't really study it.  I knew where I was -- can't help but find it, social media or what have you.  I knew it was punched; a decent finish here, a decent finish there, you catapult or whatever.  That's really all I knew.  That's all the scenarios that I really knew.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT