THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about finding out last night and just the situation in general.
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, as a competitor and as a guy that absolutely loves this tournament, I mean, I was extremely disappointed. But, you know, I didn't sleep well last night, but it wasn't because I wasn't competing. I didn't sleep last night because it's just the unfortunate scenario we're in. I think obviously it's a time to reflect and just really understand, it's just golf. It's just golf. It's just a sport. So it pales in comparison to what we could be combating at some point. Hopefully we're being extremely proactive and we're not, but it's a surreal moment. That's the best way I can explain it.
I really don't know how to summarize it because it's unprecedented.
Q. Is it kind of weird where everything in the world, all the sports have kind of come to a stop? Is this kind of weird, almost movie-type?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, you could say movie-type, you could see dramatic, you could say all of that. But at the same time, I'm going to go and trust those that are experts on all this because I'm clearly not one. I respect and certainly -- obviously don't envy their position, but I respect and I am going to try to acquire all the knowledge that I can. Obviously the TOUR has done that. Jay has done that. I applaud him for that, taking the necessary steps.
It was a process, much like you guys heard yesterday. It probably started Wednesday night to some degree with some cancellations and things of that nature. And then you evaluate and then you re-evaluate and then you re-evaluate and then you make the decision at the end of the day, the right decision. It's just unfortunate. Could we have played? Probably. Should we have played? Probably not. I'm grateful that we have a leader that is willing to go through that process, utilize the committees and the constituents that obviously are in place, and make a very informed decision at the right time.
Q. Is it weird not knowing when you'll play next?
ZACH JOHNSON: Very strange. I don't think my wife is going to be very happy with me at home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT