JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Getting out there and not quite teeing off, then getting back here today.  How did you do?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I mean, it's not that uncommon.  It's uncommon maybe for here because the Deere hasn't seen that in a while, but we're frankly used to it.  This year's been one of those years where it just seems like we've had a lot of elements, specifically precipitation.   
You know, it's unfortunate for everybody.  For the players, it's not great, but it's even worse for the staff; the -- what do you call them, the grunt workers and whatever, the superintendents, for the grounds crew, it's terrible.   
But the course, considering the amount of rain and the short amount of time and stuff, yeah.   
 Q.  All good things come to an end, I guess.  29 straight rounds in the 60s (indiscernible).  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, you've got to assume it is.  Today is the hardest I've seen this golf course since we played in September.   
 Q.  Really?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, by far.  Holes where I've hit -- I hit good drives today, and I'm punching 5 irons and 6 irons, and typically it's a wedge.  It's significantly different.  This wind, we haven't seen this week.  One, it was a switch.  Two, it could easily gust 15 to 20, messing with you, and no roll.   
It's not hard to hit fairways.  It's just very difficult in the sense that you don't have the loft you're accustomed to having.   
 Q.  How do you keep going?  You had one putt inside ten feet today.  That's not you, but you still have to persevere and play.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah.  I was asking Damon on 16, I know I'm not playing great, but I'm really not playing that bad.  It's not like I'm knocking down pins.  I play great shots that just don't pan out with the right yardage.  You misjudge it one way.  It was just one of those days, and then I obviously didn't make a putt.   
That being said, it's not like I hit terrible putts either.  The wind affected a couple putts today.  I mean, I had a putt on 12 that I know is a cup outside because I did it, I don't know how many times, and I hit it inside a cup, and I still missed it right.  Didn't break on that putt.  So the wind was taking it.   
It was one of those gusty days where you're in between clubs a lot.  I hit one full shot on the back nine, and that was on 15.  And I shouldn't have because I hit it 25 feet past the hole.   
 Q.  After a day like that, is it beneficial to get back out?  Are you eager to get back out?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm never eager to get back out, but at the same time, yeah, I feel like I've got a good feel as to how the golf course is playing.   
I mean, there's nothing but clinging to positives right now.  Nothing's really that bad right now at all.  It's just a matter of seeing that ball drop a little bit earlier.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT