JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your reaction on 18.
ZACH JOHNSON: My ball was in like a hoof print.  I mean, it was deeper than a pitch mark, but it was not a spike mark.  It was not a spike mark.  It was not a divot.  Yeah, I almost double-hit it.
Q. How would you describe today?
ZACH JOHNSON: Frustrating.  Long.  Stale.  Very stale.
Q. Was this one of your toughest days out here in quite a while?
ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, for sure.  I think that goes without saying based on previous performances, yeah.
Q. You said this morning the course played as hard as you've seen it play.  Did it play any differently this afternoon?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it was easier this afternoon.  The wind subsided a little bit there, and the ball was going a little bit further.  I thought this afternoon -- my guess is you're going to see a lot of 4- to 6-, 7-unders maybe, especially the guys if they play 18 in the morning when they're rested.
Q. What happened on 12?  Did you just block that shot?
ZACH JOHNSON: Absolute -- that was the worst shot of the week, obviously.  It goes without saying.  Yeah, wrong shot, bad execution, just everything was -- there was not one positive there.
Q. What did you hit?
ZACH JOHNSON: 5-iron.  It was just a little 5.  I took a little bit off it -- I took a lot off it, whatever, but it was bad.  Unfortunate there.
Q. What positives do you take away from this third round?
ZACH JOHNSON: I finished.  That would be about it right now.  I'm searching for other ones right now.  It's hard to find anything else.
Q. Weather, delays, all the things -- this was a very different course for guys this week.  It seemed like no round would be the same.
ZACH JOHNSON: No, it was -- the humidity has been about the only thing that's been consistent this week.  It's just difficult.  I don't know if there was a good end of the wave or a bad end of the wave, either.  We had wind this morning.  I would have liked to have played some yesterday.  Some of those guys played, what, 20 some holes yesterday probably, maybe even 30 some holes depending upon their tee times.  I played 36 today, so it's not like -- at some point somebody played 20 some odd, 30 plus holes.  It's a trying week, but it's nothing that we're not accustomed to.
Q. Talk about how hard it is to do what you did the last seven years.  Can you sum up the last 29 straight rounds in the 60s?
ZACH JOHNSON: Just solid.  I mean, yeah.  Played good.  I don't know what else to say.  I didn't play well obviously today, but the course was totally different than what we've seen the last five, six, seven, eight years.  Completely different.
Q. You have a history of success, though, on that final day, so what do you have to do tomorrow to turn this thing around?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I've got to fight, first and foremost, and then I would say find something positive and stick to that.  It was just not much going on there.  When I had opportunities, I didn't execute.  When I had difficult shots, I made it even more difficult on myself.  Nothing like the first round.  The first round was extremely solid, and frankly pretty easy.  But the last two rounds have not been very easy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT