THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your round today?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, better.  Today was definitely better as far as ball striking.  I hit really good shots going out.  I hit some good shots coming in, too.  Probably didn't get rewarded enough.  But then I hit a couple iron shots.  A bonehead mistake on 15.  A poor drive and then poor decision, just a little overly aggressive and I paid the price and made a 6.  Technically I probably could have been worse.   
But, all in all I thought my short game was great again.  My pitching was terrific.  Yeah, so there's certainly positives.  I just didn't drive the golf ball off the tee the way I'm accustomed to or needed to this week.   
 Q.  Beyond that what do you take away from this week?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, it's another great experience.  I mean, I take away the fact that I didn't have my best and I still had an opportunity to move up the board, especially on the weekend.  I took away -- well, Troon's a great test, brutal test to some extent.  I got the good end of the wave, too, so I can't make any excuses.  The discrepancy between my wave and the other wave was pretty evident and -- I don't know about dramatic, but very evident.  So I got a fortunate break there.  And, again, the fans.  That's the first thing I think about when I come here are the fans.  They're tremendous.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, pride's a hard thing right there.  I felt like I came back and gave it my best.  I'm certainly proud of that.  The leaders are 15-plus shots ahead of me too, so it's not like -- it would be a great tournament without them (laughing).   
That being said, you're talking about two stalwarts of the game and two guys that really know how to control their golf ball, so I'm not that surprised to see that.   
But, yeah, going back to your point there, I'll take it.  I want that Top 10.  I'm not suggesting that's what I play for, but that double really hurt.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, awe-filled, awesome, and just reverent in the sense that that trophy is very revered.  It's a pretty awesome thing.  I'd love to get my hands on it again, in my possession.  I'm sure Phil or Henrik will let me drink out of it again if I need to.   
 Q.  From here will your next start be Baltusrol?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yes, sir, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you know much about that course?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I played there in '05.  I remember, three, four, five holes.  So all in all, I don't remember too much.  I remember it being very traditional, classy kind of course.  Tough, but fantastic.  That's about all I remember.  I'm trying to think of anything else, and I can't think of anything else.  I remember it just being very good.  18's a par-5, 1 is a par-4, but after that, it's all jumbled to me.  Sorry, I can't remember the golf course.   
 Q.  The idea of two majors now in three weeks, is that exhausting?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it's not ideal, but at the same time it is what it is.  If I was to pick the schedule -- this one and the PGA, there are usually only two weeks in between.  They're just taking one week out.  It's not ideal.  The Olympics kind of threw a wrench in that, but it is what it is, so you just kind of deal with it.  I've got a week off, so I'll be okay.   
 Q.  You're one of the most consistent links players in the last five years.  What would you chalk that up to?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't know.  I'd have to look at it.  I think this week, for example, my short game was tremendous.  I putted great.  I three-putted probably four, five times, but you're going to do that here.  I made a lot of putts.  I lagged a lot of nice putts.  Chipped it phenomenal.  So my short game was good.  I think I know how to navigate it short-game-wise.   
Outside of that, I don't know.  I got the good end of the wave this week.  If I got the other end of the wave, we may not be talking right now.  But I took advantage of it and I had a good chance there going into the weekend.   
Yesterday was very unfortunate.  I drove it terrible and it kind of cost me.  But, you know, I love it.  I appreciate it, I embrace it.  I embrace the conditions.  I love tough conditions.  I love going out there and having to just be a mudder.  That's what I love.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT