WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comments about your first three days?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel very solid.  Obviously my scorecard or whatever you want to call it speaks for itself.  But with the exception of the first hole yesterday I've never been down in a match.  I was only down for one hole yesterday and then I rallied.  I'm not going to take this for granted.  I've still got to be patient, still go out and execute.  It's not going to be easy no matter who my opponent is tomorrow and the rest of the weekend hopefully.  But I'm seeing my shots, my execution is there.  I think I'm picking out good targets and I've obviously putting pretty well.
Q. You haven't seen the last couple of holes over the first three days.
ZACH JOHNSON: I've been fortunate to end my matches on 15.  And obviously 12 the day before.  So I felt like, you know what, I played early today, still gas in the tank, I might as well take advantage of it and see 16, 17 and 18.  I haven't seen them since Tuesday, and I thought that was pretty wise.  I don't know if it will matter, but it certainly couldn't hurt.
Q. You've got a lot of confidence and momentum right now.  Could that be a burden?  You can't get over confident?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think you can.  I don't know about a burden.  But you can definitely get over confident.  Once you realize it can happen like that, the realization is the key.  I've been out a number of years now, I'm not going to take anything for granted.
Tomorrow is a new slate, I don't have a 1-shot lead.  I don't have a one hole lead.  I've just got to go out and perform.  If anything, I like the confidence.  I like the fact that I'm hitting quality shots and getting rewarded.
Q. Talk about the fit of this course.  You were just explaining that a while ago.  It's almost like you're at home or this course just --
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I don't know.  I think it's kind of a target golf place, where you've got to hit it here or hit it there.  There's strategy involved there.  Quality shots get rewarded.  It's not big.  It's not wide open.  It's pretty tight, fairly undulated.  I like wind.  I like hills.  It just fits me in that regard.
Now, the greens are some that I kind of -- I like, they're fast and they're true.  And again, what I kind of grew up on.  So there's certainly something there.  But these guys know what they're doing.  It's not like I'm the only one liking this stuff.
Q. Are you pulling for Iowa State?  I know you're in the Sweet 16.  Are you an Iowa State guy or a Hawkeye guy?
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm from the State of Iowa, so anyone in the Sweet 16 from the State of Iowa I'm pulling for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT