SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2020
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zach, nice playing out there in really tough conditions. Remember anything like that?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Not here. I mean, we've all probably experienced wind like this at some point, but it's rare. I've not experienced it here. I mean, in Maui that one year, but we didn't play. It was actually more intense than this.   
I think we started the first round on Monday if I'm not mistaken, so obviously it can low on the here in the Pacific.   
 Q.  What was the key to your round out there today?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I mean, I got off to a great start. I mean, I hit some shots really close. Missed one -- two putts that were close, but I got off to a great start.   
I birdied first three out of four holes. I had a really bone head mistake on 15. Made double there. Other than that, it was just really, really solid. I mean, I gave myself opportunities, and when I was in kind of is difficult predicament, whether it was a 2-putt or an up and down, I was managing to make some of these 3- to 6-footers.   
 Q.  Obviously the Presidents Cup occupied a lot of your time kind of in the down time.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  What did you do to prepare to come here? I know you're a winner here, but why do you keep coming back?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, the first part of that question, I mean, yeah, I didn't get a whole lot of practice the first part of December, but that's okay. I was working. I was wearing another hat, if you will.   
But, I mean, at the same time, there was motivation and inspiration involved there watching those guys, especially on the weekend rally the way they did. And even closing out some of those matches on Thursday and Friday was impressive, too. So, yeah, like I said, there was some inspiring golf. And, yeah, I worked after that. I worked pretty hard. I was anxious to get back and start practicing again.   
It's not hard to be here. It's hard to get here, but not hard to be here. I mean, I love it. This is one-of-a-kind. We get great fan support here. Obviously Sony does a tremendous job. I thoroughly, thoroughly like the golf course. I think it's a classic. When there is no wind it's very gettable, but there is never no wind.   
If it's firm and fast with wind, it's very, very difficult. When it's blowing 25, 35 with gusts over 40, doesn't matter what the golf course, it's just hard.   
So it's one of those cliches, they don't make them like they used to.   
 Q.  You mentioned the inspiration being there, part of the Presidents Cup team as one of the captain's assistants. How does that motivate you?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, it's one of those things. As a competitor, I mean, if you're a part of those teams it's an honor, right? When you're a part of those teams and not playing, it can't be anything but.   
I mean, some of those are my dearest friends as well. Granted, they're my peers and we're trying to beat each other's brains in week in and week out, but I respect them and certainly admire them.   
Again, it's motivating. Knowing what some of those guys have done and are going to continue to do makes you want to work, makes you want to practice.   
And when you're led by Tiger Woods, who has obviously been my peer forever, I mean, we're essentially the same age, if you don't find inspiration and motivation then you're probably looking through the wrong lens.   
 Q.  Congrats on your part in that whole process.  
ZACH JOHNSON: I'm good at making peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, that's about it. (Laughter.) Yeah.   
 Q.  I don't know if that's it. Kind of an off-the-subject question, but Pete Dye just passed away. Didn't know if you knew him at all.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I was fortunate enough to play with him at Hilton Head, one of his gems, in the Pro-Am. It was me and Mr. Dye, Mr. Finchem, and I believe there was another executive of the tour, muckety-muck of some sort. I can't remember who it was, but it doesn't really matter.   
I believe he shot 78 that day, 79 in the Pro-Am. That was within the last ten years, 12 years for sure. Just hearing the stories, you know, what he did with this hole. I mean, I remember one in particular that stands out, but it was awesome. It was just fantastic to see I guess you would say a golf artist on his canvas he made. Very special.   
Condolences to his family obviously. He's a legend.   
 Q.  His influence, his courses are largely unmistakable, aren't they?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, there's fingerprints, and if Pete Dye doesn't have one of the biggest certainly in the last 50 years, I don't know who would rival that. He's not much of a technology guy. I guess he's pen and paper or whatever. Might be embellishing that a little bit, but he's kind of an eyeball, pen and paper, move a little bit of land here, push that there, but he uses what's given to him. I guess you would say he's a naturalist in that regard, which is pretty special.   
 Q.  So it's not as if he just simply went out and took a bulldozer...  
ZACH JOHNSON: Exactly. Yeah, I've two great stories. The superintendent that I grew up who is one of my dearest friends, he left and went from Cedar Rapids back to Des Moines where he came from, and was at Des Moines Golf, so he got to walk around 36 holes of golf with Pete Dye at Des Moines Golf. 36 holes in one day. Flew him in, flew him out, so he could go back home and have dinner with his wife. (Wind interference.)   
Another story was 13 at Hilton Head, which is that awesome into the front green with the railroad ties. It's the only railroad ties in the entire golf course they have not had to touch because she put(indiscernible - wind.) He thought that was crazy and he was looking at the expenditure.   
It was the only hole she did because of time constraints. He's like, Yeah, probably should've listened to her from Day One. The only railroad ties that have not been touched according to him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
ZACH JOHNSON: Correct.   
 Q.  When the pace of play thing comes out next week, players going to feel good about it? Do you feel good about it?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I think there is a lot -- I don't want to say unknown -- but there is a lot of education needed probably. I mean, I've read the e-mails. I love it. We're proactive. That's the first thing.   
To be perfectly honest with you, the policy that's in place has not changed and it will not change, but there is kind of like a tangent arm to that that's going to help facilitate and I think try to make the game a little bit quicker. That's about all I can give you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT