SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2016
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zach, let's talk about today.  How would you compare it to yesterday?  Another solid effort.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah.  Very similar.  I mean very, very similar.  I missed a couple of short putts today was really the only difference.  Had to be about a three-and-a-half, four-footer on the first hole, the tenth hole, my first hole and about a five- or six-footer on the ^ first hole.  And I left some out there.  I had some putts that I could have made, and I made some.  So maybe it evened out, but I feel really good about the direction.   
 Q.  Iron play continues.  Is it getting better every day?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I think so.  More and more comfortable.  Reps.  That's what I need right now.  Quality reps.  And on a course like this, as tight as it is, getting the ball in the fairway is a premium, and the more I get the ball in the fairway, certainly the more comfortable I can become with my irons and be more aggressive.  I hit some really, really good ones today that they didn't turn out five feet, but they were all in the right barrel, right shot shape, et cetera.  So very encouraged in the right direction and I'm just trying to stay patient.   
 Q.  Excited about the weekend?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Always.  We're in Hawaii, man.  It's good in Hawaii.   
 Q.  What do you do this afternoon?  You and the family beach, pool, what do you do?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Maybe a little bit of all of the above.  I'm going to go to the range and hit a couple of balls, hit a couple of putts, obviously have some lunch, slight workout and hopefully get to the pool and the beach with the kiddos, this afternoon.   
 Q.  Sounds good.  
ZACH JOHNSON: Hey, when in Rome...   
 Q.  66 here on Friday, how pleased are you with the total number?  
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm pleased.  Really good control today.  You know, kept the golf course in front of me.  I made a couple of mishaps, but you gotta know where to miss it here, certainly.  I love this place because it really just magnifies what you need to work on.  Fairways are a premium, the golf course is pure, greens are fine.   
I missed a couple of putts, but I think I made some, too.  Probably evened out, but I feel good.  Anytime you can get -- I think on this course any certain wind, two or more under is a good golf day.  So I'm encouraged for the weekend.   
 Q.  How hard is it on this golf course to continue building momentum?  Obviously you love it, you've had success here.  But how do you do it day in and day out?  
ZACH JOHNSON: I think this is one of those tracts where if you get off to a good start, it just really gives you a little bit of confidence.  If you get off to a slow start and make a couple bogeys early, you really have to remain patient because it can bite you.  The slightest bit off, it'll tear you apart.  So I think getting that early momentum is I don't want to say imperative, but it's nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT