THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Zach Johnson
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the match?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think overall, we played okay.  We got off to a great start.  We had a lot of opportunities on that front nine, and really, I had a complete brain you know what on 9.  And Phil on the back side, I thought we played great.  We butchered 14 but other than that we played really solid.
Q. What it making things work between the two of you?
PHIL MICKELSON: We have some good chemistry.  We've kind of fed off each other, and although we had success, we also feel like we could do better.
Q. Improving to 2-0-1.  How much fun has it been playing with this guy for the first time and the success you guys have had?
ZACH JOHNSON: I've had a blast.  It's been something we've talked about for many years and fortunately it's now come to happen.  The beauty of it is, we've accepted from the beginning we're going to hit some bad shots but we both feel good about our game and we can accept the bad shots and move on.  If I hit a bad shot, I feel like my next thought is I'm going to laugh because he either makes fun of me or says something sarcastic and gets me back to where I need to be.  Quite frankly, it may sound a little idiotic but it's simple and great in a team tandem.  I've enjoyed the last three days.
Q. The chemistry obviously is working.  What have you learned about Zach?  You've been on TOUR for a long, long time.  What have you learned about Zach as a person or player this week?
PHIL MICKELSON: Just reaffirming what I've already known about Zach, about what an incredible wedge player and what a quality guy he is and an intense competitor.  A great example is on 9, he made a mistake.  I stayed away, because when you see him get angry like that, he just gets focused in and he made a birdie right on the very next hole.  That's the competitor that he is.  He's just a tough, tough guy to play against and it's been really fun to be on this side of it.
Q. You can't lean on each other tomorrow; it's singles competition.  Does anything mentally shift now?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, the entire Presidents Cup is going to come down to tomorrow's singles match.  We have to take the things that we've learned these last couple of days, these three days and take it into tomorrow.  The good thing for us is that we have plenty of energy and we didn't have to play 36 holes today.  We should go into the singles tomorrow somewhat fresh and ready to go and hopefully play our best.
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, that's just it.  I don't think you can slight the fact that we have had some time off.  We got to sleep in and we are going to be fresh come tomorrow.
All that being said, coming down to singles, that's what it's all about right now.  We had it two years ago at Muirfield and got a substantial lead.  They got really close.  You just never know.  Tomorrow is a day where I learn what I've done the last few days but more than that, I just have to keep my head down and go and play my game, and that's all you can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT