THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 9, 2015
Phil Mickelson
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the decision to putt that on 18.  I think you had the wedge out first?
ZACH JOHNSON: Oh, yeah, my first thought was wedge and then I'm looking at it and surveying it, a lot of grain.  Downhill into the grain on the chip, and uphill into the grain on the pitch.
So it was just one where I felt like, you know what, six-foot circle, my best chance is putting it.  I mean, I could hit a great chip and get a terrible kick or what-have-you, and just felt like that was the proper play there.
So it really wasn't much of a decision.  I talked to Phil about it.  Phil's just like, "Whatever you're most committed it."    I think the percentages there was obviously what I did.
Q. And then the putt was three feet?
ZACH JOHNSON: Yeah, it was probably 2 1/2 feet, three feet.  I didn't feel fantastic over it but I felt confident over it.  It's the kind of putt I want.
Q. Putt it 500 times --
ZACH JOHNSON: And you make it 498.  I felt great with my process and my thinking through it.  I didn't want to over-think it, so I just read it from behind, caught the grain read and that's all that was needed.
Q. With all the weird stuff, Phil holing out --
ZACH JOHNSON: We fought.  That's the part that's very comforting and motivating is the fact that we fought.  The unfortunate side is it sounds like we have a rules committee that truthfully didn't know the entire rules but that's unfortunate.  Human error.  We messed up and they messed up.  It would have been nice to have some true finality to that but we didn't.
Q. Not that it's good that it ever happens, but is it better that it happened to you two, because you guys have been out here for a long time --
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't think it matters who it happens to.  You know what, the thing is this:  We didn't know the one-ball rule.  We were playing smart because he knows what my ball does, and he hit a perfect tee shot.
I mean, yeah, he knew the ball situation and put the one in play he thought was best, and we did that all day yesterday, as well.  So it was unfortunate.
PHIL MICKELSON: It's a question I should have asked.  The one-ball rule -- I don't know why I didn't ask.  But it's the player's responsibility to know the rules, and if I had a question, I should have asked.
Q. Is it difficult to move to the next tee and refocus?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well it helped me get a little bit more focused because I was so angry at myself.  I ended up making a birdie and eagle on 11 and 12 and got refocused.
The fact is that Zach and I spotted the International Team on two holes.
ZACH JOHNSON: Quite frankly, it was one of those situations that's just unfortunate and you've got to step it up.  Again, I'll say it again, if I want to step it up, you know, individually, I can do that.  If I want to step it up in a tandem, there's no guy I want better than him.
Q. Did it feel like a victory?
PHIL MICKELSON: No, it didn't feel like a victory.  But we -- I, made a mistake, and I had never even heard of a match adjustment.  That one's new.
ZACH JOHNSON: It's unfortunate.
PHIL MICKELSON: We discussed it.  We discussed it with Bones.  It's never been an issue because we've never had a one-ball rule and yesterday we were switching the balls every hole.  I thought I'm going to go with a firmer ball in the wind, he's going to be laying up.  I wanted to see if I can get there in two.  That's our thought process.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT