THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 9, 2015
Zach Johnson
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A lot going on on the golf course for you guys.  Let's go back to the 7th hole, from your perspective, what exactly happened?
PHIL MICKELSON: I tried to put a firmer ball in play to reach in two, to be able to go for it in two.  I've got a partner that's going to be hitting wedge and laying up, and I wanted to go for it.
And as we were walking down after I hit it, I just thought, gosh, I'm sure there's no one-ball rule.  But I was with Captain Haas, and I said, "Would you just check."  And sure enough, there's a one-ball rule.
See, The PGA of America doesn't have a one-ball rule.  You can play 18 different balls, brands, whatever, on 18 different holes during the PGA Championship and The Ryder Cup.  So this threw me for a loop that we have a one-ball rule that we've never really had and I didn't think much about it.  But it's my responsibility to know that.  I should have at least asked about before I teed off.  It just had never been a thought for me but as a player, that's your job to know that.
Q. How difficult was it for you two to recover on 8 tee when you realized you went from all-square to 2-down?
ZACH JOHNSON: Difficult situation but I don't want to say it was completely -- it's actually not that uncomfortable.  I like having my back against the wall, and if there's a gentleman I would like to be fighting with with my back against the wall, it's this guy right here.  The shots that he hit, the putts that he made, the putts that he hit that didn't go in is exactly what I would expect.
It was a great fight and that's all we could ask for.  Tough match, one you would expect.  It's just there's a little bit of bitter unfortunate taste but that's okay.
Q. What did you see from your advantage point on 12?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, my partner knocked it in 12 feet behind the hole, he's going to have good action on that.  I took a wedge, hooked it, I had a little hook lie and let the hook wind just take it and it landed five, six feet left of the hole and size-sauced right in.  It was nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT