TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2015
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start us off by talking about your round today.
ZACH JOHNSON: The round was good.  It was very good.  It was clean.  To my knowledge, I think I missed one fairway in the rough.  Everything else -- oh, that's a lie.  I missed two fairways in the rough.  Shoot.  But it was good.
I drove it well.  I have to drive it well here.  I hit a lot of greens.  I chipped it once.  So I'm assuming I hit 17 greens.  Maybe I hit a fringe, maybe two, I'm not certain.  So a good ball striking day and I putted great.  I just didn't make everything, but I putted solid.
Q. Was the course fairly gettable today?
ZACH JOHNSON: Well I think it is just because of the wind or lack of wind.  We had a little bit early on in the day.  It felt like 1 through 5, maybe, 1 through 4 we had a little bit to contend with.  But for the most part it was pretty benign and the course you feel like you know what, I just got to hit it solid and pick my target out and point and shoot kind of thing.
You could kind of get at it.  But at the same time, 8-under, if that's still what he's at.  Okay, 7-under.  That's still a really, really, really, really, really good score.
Q. Has your idea of what a low score is changed during the playoffs with given the low scores that have been posted?
ZACH JOHNSON: No, it's never really -- I never really pondered that thought.  I got to be honest.  I guess there has been some low scores, but I think that conditions setup and just elements that are presented have enabled low scores and guys that are playing well.
Q. So 22-under to win Boston?
ZACH JOHNSON: No, that doesn't surprise me.  When I played my practice rounds there, I was thinking 20 issue.  18 to 20.  But 22 is obviously, very impressive.
Q. Is there anything that can happen this week that would change your Player of the Year vote?
ZACH JOHNSON: I don't have a -- I don't have one right now, so there's no way to change it, because I don't have one.
Q. Can't you give suggestions to the PAC?
ZACH JOHNSON: Well, we all vote.  I don't think it's the PAC.
Q. Well, they give the nominees, right?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think the nominee's are pretty obvious.  In other words, I don't think -- I think it's a two-man race at this point.
Q. Is there anything one of those men can do to change your mind?
ZACH JOHNSON: No.  If Jordan wins this week or if Jason wins this week, that's, you know, that's probably what's going to push my barometer either direction.
But I can't -- I would have to really sit down and look at the numbers and the facts.  I really don't know.  Those two guys have played tremendous but they're really young and I'm really old so if I win this week -- just kidding.  No, I won't vote for myself.
Q. You could though.
ZACH JOHNSON: No, I would never vote for myself.  No, I got no chance.  It's between those two guys.  I don't have any idea who is going to win.
Q. Because some people have already decided, it doesn't matter what happens this week.
ZACH JOHNSON: Sure, they can.  Absolutely.
Q. How familiar were you with the scenarios that it would take to win the FedExCup?
ZACH JOHNSON: I think I got the gist of it.  I don't really know it -- I got the gist of it.  But I do know that I pretty much got to win, so I'm going to try to take care of that and technically I can't even control that.  But I'm going to try to play my best and if there's a scenario on Sunday where that happens, perfect.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT