PAC-12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2021
Trinity Baptiste
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Arizona - 60, Washington State - 44
 Q. You guys opened up the game on an 11-0 run and you had seven of the team's first 11 points.  Just talk about the energy level from the get-go.
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   Well, we know that we haven't been playing well the last couple of games.  I want to start off with that.  And our leaders stepped up this week in practice.  Coach was on us harder.  We just wanted to come out and win.  We don't want to go home.  Simple as that.  So we are just taking it one game at a time.  But that was the intensity from the start of the game.  We know we have to play how we should be playing.  But not to dwell on that, but now you're going to see a better Arizona team.  That's what the intensity was in the beginning.
 Q. You guys had 11, you forced 11 turnovers on Washington State in that first quarter.  It seemed like the defense was rolling.  Can you just talk about the defensive effort and the whole entire game?
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   Well, that's our identity.  That's who we are.  You're going to see aggressive defense, traps.  Just we're going to be ultra aggressive every time.  That's Arizona's identity.  So that's no surprise, honestly.  We always play like that.  We take a lot of pride in our defense.  That's just something we do every day in practice.
 We emphasize a lot on our defense and that's just our identity.
 Q. This is your first PAC-12 tournament experience, like Coach Adia was talking about.  Talk about what this experience was as opposed to the ACC Tournament that you played in?
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   For me, there's not much of a difference because I know I have experience.  I've been in the tournament.  I know it's a different game come March.  Everybody is going to bring their best game and everybody is 0-0.  The record is 0-0.  So it doesn't matter what seed you are.
 I understand that when March comes, everybody's going to bring their best game and I just want to win.  I told Coach I don't want to go home.  So now just taking it one game at a time and just focus on tomorrow.
 For me there's not much of a difference because I'm ready for it.  You know, I just love this time of the year, to be honest.
 Q. You had a career high six steals.  Could you talk about your individual performance defensively?
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   Well, I watched a lot of film with my coaches.  And I was out of position a lot on the way we trap and our -- when we trap on ball screens, I was out of position a lot and the next man over.
 I made sure I watched a lot of film and I made adjustments to make sure I'm in the passing lane more and I'm denying the next pass so it's not an easy skip to the corner for a 3.  It was just a lot of film that I watched, and I just made an adjustment and made sure that I was ready to go.
 Q. Coach Adia said all week that you guys were much hungrier and you were having great practices.  What was kind of the vibe?  Because I even saw the video that was posted of you guys as you were walking down the hallway.  I've never seen you do like the chant and all of that.  You guys seemed like you were just really locked in.
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   Are you referring to the video of the noises we make?  Okay.  So, honestly, that's like one of my favorite part of pregame, our pregame ritual, just coming out making the noises, kind of being together like a pack, but I would say -- I'm sorry I forgot the question.  What was the question?
 Q. You guys have had -- there's this new vibe that it's postseason.  And you've had it all week, Coach Adia said.  Are you guys feeling different?  You had a lot of energy.  Everybody from what we're hearing, even in warmups, you guys looked like you were totally locked in.
 TRINITY BAPTISTE:   Well, I wouldn't say it's a new vibe.  I would just say that it's been a vibe that we've had.  But now that it's March you have experienced players like me, Aari, Sam, Cate, who have experience, Bendu.  And we have to step up.  We have to be better leaders.  And I think that's been the biggest difference this week in practice.
 We have to step up.  And I put a lot of responsibility on us leaders because we have to start the game right and show the bench and the younger ones what the standard is.  So that's been the biggest difference.
 We've been leading better this week.  And I just give credit to all the upperclassmen and everyone who has been leading.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT