ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 27, 2018
Bush Hamdan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This year you've had a lot of success pounding the ball, sticking with the ground game, and Ohio State has sort of switched up high-scoring offense, and the defense has been a little (indiscernible).  What are you looking to do in this game to exploit some of those vulnerabilities?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, I think it's certainly sticking to what got you here, your identity of running the football.  But obviously very talented defense when they put it together.  So we'll have to create as many mismatches as we can to be successful.  And, again, it's kind of that combination of sticking to what got you here but also showing enough wrinkles with the time we've had to prepare.   
 Q.  As seniors in this program, what kind of impact have guys like Browning and Myles Gaskin had on the team?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Tremendous.  I think if you look at a group of seniors, probably have done as much for a university as any current maybe has ever done.  When they came here and had to play early in leadership roles to where they've gotten the team now, expected to be in this game and expected to be competing for national titles, they'll be remembered for a long time.   
 Q.  Coach, what's the biggest challenge that the Ohio State defense is going to give you guys in the Rose Bowl?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think their athleticism, top to bottom.  Their front seven.  Got elite pass rushers, which is expected in a game like this.  And so top to bottom, their athleticism is tremendous.   
 Q.  How would you describe the impact that Jake and Myles have had on the Washington program from the day they came in to now?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Tremendous.  I think -- I don't know if any two guys or really the group of seniors have impacted a place as much as these guys ever have.  I think as they came in, taking a leadership role early in the process to now taking a program that expects to compete for national titles year in, year out and games like this, so I think their legacy will be that where they took this program and we hope to stay atop.   
 Q.  First team that really paid a lot of attention to Chris Petersen was when they played Oklahoma.  What does it say about a coach willing to -- and you guys willing to call plays like that, whatever it takes, so to speak, as he was saying to me at Disneyland?  What does it speak to his approach to the game?  A lot of guys are afraid to do that.  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think there's probably an aggressive nature there.  There's a nature of sometimes having to do some things to create some explosive plays.   
So whether it's been his creativity, whether it's being aggressive in these kinds of game, set the tempo.  Sometimes it's more just about our team saying we're willing to call those things and the nature of them needing to cut it loose in these games.   
 Q.  What makes him special from your vantage point of working with him as a head coach?  Why has he been successful in your opinion?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's probably an easy one.  I've been with him for so long.  He creates this culture where everybody's held accountable -- staff members, players included.  You got a job to do, and you better be striving to do it to the best of your ability but also having a very comfortable environment where guys enjoy coming to work every day, and it's been that balance that's been as good as anywhere I've been around.   
 Q.  How do you all come around calling a gadget play, a trick play?  Is it spur of the moment?  Is it you know you're going to do?  I know you're not going to give me any tips for the game, but is it you just go in, is part of the arsenal just like off tackle?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think so.  I think generally you may want to go into a game and say, hey, we want to call one a half.  Again, like any other play, it's probably called two weeks in advance.  You've got to have the right look.  You've got to have the right hash, if you will.   
But I think, just like anything else, you want to be aggressive with it, if it's the right situation, the right look, gotta call it just like any other play.   
 Q.  Urban Meyer's coaching his last game in this game, won three national titles.  Chris Petersen is as accomplished as any college football coach around.  Do you think like most -- I think the answer is yes, but does the average college football fan know how good Chris Petersen is?  You've been in the playoffs and won titles.  Do you think they know, or do you think maybe he's not as appreciated as some coaches?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think sometimes we get lost where we're located in Seattle.  I think from an exposure standpoint, they probably maybe don't -- you don't get to see him as much and whatnot, but I think he would agree the people that matter, the people he works with every day and know how fortunate we are to be around him, and it's truly been an unbelievable ride for ten-plus years.   
 Q.  Do you think what Chris does would work anywhere?  Talked to folks over the years about a fit with a coach and the programs.  Is there something about Boise and Washington that would create perfect situations for him, or would Chris Petersen translate in all 50 states?  
BUSH HAMDAN: You never know.  When the magic happens, it's about the right fit, the right coach, the right place.  I know it's really important for Coach P. to be able to bring in the type of people he wants, both coaches and players.  And I think Boise and Washington have allowed him to do so.   
 Q.  How did you impress him?  What is it that makes Chris Petersen like somebody, want to hire somebody, want them around?  You know what I mean?  What kind of person or worker do you have to be to succeed with Chris Petersen?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I don't know.  That's kind of hard.  I think there's -- I think personality-wise with any head coach he probably hires people very similar to him.  But I think overall you've got to make sure you're doing it for the right reasons.   
He's got to genuinely believe that you care more about the players off the field than you do on the field, and there's got to be the itching desire to be the best.  And regardless of where you're at, that never-stop-learning process taking it one day at a time.   
 Q.  We asked you what's your favorite national monument, and you said Statue of Liberty, and then you were --  
BUSH HAMDAN: No, no, no, that play probably had been on the board for about two years and got called.   
 Q.  It is amazing what puts you on the map, isn't it?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It is.  It is hard.  I think for me, being an East Coast person, I think for three, four years playing at Boise we were a Top 25 team.  People probably didn't even know we were Division I, and then a game like that gives you the kind of exposure.   
Amazing when you look at it because I think we might have been up three, four touchdowns in that game and that became very close at the end.  And looking back on that, I don't know if we were to receive the same amount of attention unless it ended the way it did.   
 Q.  Offensively this year what's been sort of the challenge, for want of another word, to get things on a consistent basis, and do you feel like -- obviously the Pac-12 game is no offensive -- but go ahead?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it's certainly been good, like any coach would tell you, you get all the pieces back and healthy, going at the same time.  We've certainly been a little bit of a mixed bag at times, especially on the perimeter, getting Myles back.  Missing Myles for two, three games was obviously critical.   
But we're excited to go.  We think we've had a couple of really good weeks of practice.  And the guys are ready to go and excited about the game.   
 Q.  Where have you seen James grow the most in his time at Washington?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's a hard -- he's a hard one on that.  From the day he got there, he handled himself like a professional football player.  And I think that's been such a strength of his -- never too high, never too low, that consistent mentality.  I think his growth comes from learning an offense and feeling more familiar there.  He's so well beyond his years from a maturity standpoint that we've really relied on that, his whole time here and especially from here.   
 Q.  How does that trickle down to the rest of the team?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think -- I don't know if I've been a part of a team that's dealt with as much adversity maybe as this team has.  And I think really the reason we're in a game like this is because of Jake Browning.  There's been times other teams have been around that you lose a game, and you start going in a different direction.  I think him coming, coming to practice every single day, up, down, staying as consistent as he's been has really propelled his team.   
 Q.  When you say "adversity," do you mean losing games, losing players?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think the ups and downs of the year.  Had the big one early on to Auburn.  Obviously that was a tough one for us.  But just every single day I think how consistent he's been, I think younger players' eyes are always on him, naturally being the quarterback, garnishing that attention and how he's handled himself, for anybody else who's going through something else has been a testament to him as a kid.   
 Q.  He said yesterday he'd like to have a long career in the NFL.  How do you see that next step?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Really well.  I think being fortunate enough to be there last year, could never put a premium on great football players, and he can play.  And there's no doubt in my mind.  So for him to have that opportunity, excited to have him for one more game, but we hope the best for him.   
 Q.  Second bowl game in a row, opposing defensive coordinators on the record saying they prepare the (indiscernible) Chris Petersen since he started Boise.  Do you think it gets to a point where it's too much (indiscernible)?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's always funny, we were never like this gadget offense when we had success at Boise.  It was always about running the football and creating off of that.  Maybe that's a good thing.  Maybe it's the fact that we do so much of that coaches spend a lot of time.   
 Q.  Do you think it gets to the point where it's almost like a threat (indiscernible) that signature, that player, that defensive player is as dangerous as a trick play itself?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think so.  I think any great defense does that in a way with blitz packages and showing it just enough to keep you on your toes and make you think about it.  I think there's certainly a lot of different nuances to this offense.  We think teams have to prepare for it.   
 Q.  How about on your end when you have two or three extra weeks, what's the battle between (indiscernible)?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's certainly hard.  I think the biggest thing is certainly the development part of your younger players, making sure that those first six to seven practices you're getting them enough work to really jump-start them to spring ball.  But really last ten days has been a focus with our guys that are playing in this game get them as prepared as they can be.   
 Q.  What jumps out on film when you look at the Ohio State defense?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, extremely athletic across the board.  I always say this:  When you play in these types of games, this is what you expect from a front seven standpoint, the pass rusher they have, the interior guys they have.  Certainly a front seven that's going to be a challenge for us.   
 Q.  How have you guys been in making big plays on offense this year?  They've given up some big plays this year.  How have you guys been hitting those?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think up and down we've created a lot of explosives, what we call.  We need to continue to turn those explosives into even bigger plays.  So for us it's 12 yards and 16 yards for a pass.  And, again, the opportunity for us to create even more of an explosive play there is game changing for our offense.   
 Q.  Two years ago Washington and Ohio State were the two teams that lost in the playoffs semifinals.  That experience for this program, you're in the final four, you're where everybody wants to be, the four teams that have a shot at it, but you went down and scored, and the rest of the game didn't go as you wanted it to.  What does an experience like that do for a team or a program?  Is it rough when you lose -- you end a great season on a loss and maybe you weren't as competitive in the end as you wanted to be, or is it all positive, or like, hey, this is how good we are, we know what the standard is to win a National Championship, to have to be this good?  What did that do for Washington?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it's twofold in that, for the team always changes, so however many seniors you have on that team, they move on.  But for the program I think it's critical.  To be in an experience like that, especially to travel to Atlanta and know what the environment's like.  I think from an experience standpoint, maturity standpoint, those guys know what those games feel like and what needs to get done.   
 Q.  And as a coach, when you prepared for a team like Alabama, now when you're in a game like this, whether it's Pac-12 Championship game preparing for Ohio State like this, does it help you in prep when you're on the national stage against the best of the best?  Do you learn anything about that?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, I certainly think you do.  I think more than anything it's trusting what's got you here.  And I think you can get all this time to prep, and the issue we normally have is just having too much, and so I think in a way it's got to be your best plan of the year.  You've had the most time to do it.   
But that doesn't necessarily always mean more.  And so I think it goes back to the same fundamental principles I think that got you here.  Putting the players in the right situations.  Making sure we're fundamentally sound.  Taking care of the football.  I think those are all lessons you learn from a game like that.   
 Q.  And there's a lot of coaches that remember the losses more than you remember the wins.  You've been part of so many wins, but when you think about that Alabama game, are there things that you still think about, if we would have done this or this would have happened?  Or how do you look back on that game?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think certainly one of the more -- maybe the most talented team we maybe ever played.  But I think in any game, I think what our defense did in that game and kept the thing close.  Again, the turnovers certainly hurt us.  So we'll remember that one for a while.  But it has been two years.  So we're certainly ready to move on.   
 Q.  You've been around some of the biggest games, whether it's the College Football Playoff, NFL playoffs.  What is it about this game?  Is there any extra type of forum because it's the Rose Bowl?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think so.  I think growing up as an East Coast kid, I remember waking up on the morning on the 1st and seeing the sun and not even knowing where this game was.   
So I just think -- I don't care where you're from, this one is as special as they come.   
 Q.  Do you have any thoughts of what it's going to be like when you step foot on the field you get to look up see the stadium half red and half purple?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I don't know.  You just want to make sure you're staying as focused as you can for the game but enjoying the experience.  That's something we've preached to our players and something that I'll hold true to this week.   
This is a special one, a special feeling.  I think you need to take a time to count your blessings for being a part of this game.  And then go cut it loose.   
 Q.  How have you seen Jake progress from the freshman year to now?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's a question we get a lot.  I think the biggest thing about Jake that's important to know is the day he stepped on campus, his maturity level was that of an NFL-type player.  And so I think the consistency he's had is how maybe I'd more describe it over the last four years of never too high, never too low.   
Teammates can rely on this guy.  I think naturally, just like any quarterback, the game develops from game to game and year to year.  But it's been his consistency through the whole course of his time that's been most impressive.   
 Q.  Is there a game you can point to where that's like when Jake figured it out?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's hard.  I mean in 2016, you know, there were certainly a lot of explosive plays and we were able to do a lot of things with the personnel around him.  But I think sometimes at times when I get that feeling when things are not going well it always -- it may be a drive, another drive, but he always bounces back.  From game to game his resiliency is off the charts.  One of the best I've ever been around.  And I'll always remember him for that.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on Ohio State's D line, probably the strongest part of the defense and especially with the pass rush itself?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, extremely, extremely talented, I think both across the board, Young will pose some issues in the pass game for sure, knowing where he is at all times, Jones is as talented as a guy we've played all year.   
Certainly, it's what you would expect in a game like this.  It's what you would expect from an Ohio State team that we've followed for a long time, and it will be a really good challenge for our guys.   
 Q.  Of course you don't want to give away anything, but there's some running backs who have been pretty explosive against the Ohio State defense.  Any thoughts on that?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, I just think that naturally, too, I think from the style of their offense you know you're going to get maybe more plays than you do in the other game, I think it puts pressure on the defense.  But, again, I think they've played as well as anybody this year.  We know they're every bit as good to be on the Final Four and fortunate to play these guys.   
 Q.  Wanted to ask about the Ohio State defense and the biggest thing they say is the athleticism.  What can you say about the athletes they have?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Impressive.  Seeing them walk around Disney, you say:  That's a good-looking guy.  I hope he's on offense.  But, again, it's what you would expect of being in a game like this.  Ohio State's going to be, year in, year out, a team that recruits atop the country and certainly have plenty of players on defense.   
 Q.  Talk to me about some of the things you have in your pocket.  Is there a level of trust you have to have in the offense in order to put those plays in?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, I think those certainly can be -- as a coordinator, you think about if things aren't going so well, what's something that can get you back to where you need to be, back to there, and those trick plays can certainly bring a certain amount of energy that other plays don't bring.   
So I think you have them in your back pocket.  If it looks right, you call them and you be aggressive with them.   
 Q.  The guys said they have fun with it.  Is it fun for you when you get a chance --  
BUSH HAMDAN: No, no, it's always nerve-racking, because it's not like a loss of two or a gain of two.  It's either a big one or a bad one.  But, again, it's good.  I think it forces you as a coordinator, too, to take that mentality, whatever it takes, to create explosive plays.   
 Q.  Myles and Jake Browning, how rare is it to have that kind of combination for four years?  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's extremely rare.  I look at what maybe two guys have done over the course of four years being more influential to a university than any other combo maybe in a long time.  And so I think the unique thing was probably where they started from the standpoint of doing whatever it took to just try to get us to bowl eligibility and now where they've taken this program, those are two guys we're going to miss in a big, big way.   
 Q.  Talking about Jake, he actually said there's a Jake lash because he's been there so long, J.T. Barrett for so many years, is there something about familiarity does breed contempt -- too strong a word, but that idea he's been there so long people are ready for the next big thing?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think naturally when you take a place from being a six-win team to a ten-, eleven-win team, expected to compete for national titles, expected to be in games like this, they forget about what those days before were like.  So I've said this many times, we're going to miss this guy in a big, big-time way.  His professionalism, his consistency, his attitude has been second to none.   
 Q.  What's the most impressive thing about him?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I would say that.  I don't know if there's been any sports figure like in the Seattle area that's been through as much as him in four years.  And I think certainly he was given every opportunity to kind of take another path and he kept fighting through, great attitude, did whatever it took to continue to put this team on his back and get us to where we've gotten.   
 Q.  Obviously two years ago he was like the talk of the country for a time, and last two years hasn't been quite that.  How would you kind of assess the last couple of years?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, again, I think in 2016 it was a matchable year for us offensively and the players we had and whatnot.  I keep going back to the consistency.  I think he's just battled and battled and through ups and downs stayed Jake, the guy we'll always remember him for and put this team in situations to be successful.   
 Q.  When you say stay Jake, what does that mean?  
BUSH HAMDAN: A lot of people will ask you how he's matured over the years.  The reality is the day he got to Washington we're like, okay, this guy acts like a starting quarterback.  I don't see him necessarily as a guy that's made this huge jump from a maturity standpoint.  He kind of came in knowing what the position entailed, never too high, never too low.  Put his teammates first and I'll always remember him for that.   
 Q.  And it takes a special person to deal with (indiscernible)?  
BUSH HAMDAN: In this day and age, absolutely.  I think the amount of pressure on these guys, social media.  Every single throw is being criticized, and so I just -- I think it takes a true football-type guy that loves the game, understands the ups and downs of playing the position, accepts the challenge.  This guy is as big time as I'll ever coach.   
 Q.  Is he better now than he was then?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yes.  Yes.  He is.  I think he's gotten better every year.  Again, the biggest thing for me is just to make sure that he's just continuing to just enjoy it.  I think this experience can challenge a quarterback, I think it really can, and challenge all these players in what they go through.  But not forgetting why they started playing this game and the opportunities that it's provided for them.  But these opportunities will not be there forever.   
 Q.  How do you know when to call a trick play?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Every question has been on trick plays.  We always have -- we probably always go into a game with at least one or two of them.  Again, they're as much for us as they are for trying to surprise the defense.  I think our players enjoy practicing them, they enjoy the energy it creates.  But similar to other plays, it's got to be on the right hash, the right situation, the right look just go from there.   
 Q.  What do you see about Ohio State on film?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Super athletic.  It's not surprising, we've played in these games, it's what you expect from a New Year's Six game.  Just extremely athletic up front.  Certainly gotta be aware of their defensive line, where they are at all times, handling the pass rush and really, really good defense.   
 Q.  When you see a team that's given up so many big plays, does that change at all how you approach things?  I assume you want to get big plays in every game anyway, but do you just kind of go into it doing what you want to do, or do you try to attack more?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, I think it's a mixture of doing what got you here but also having enough creativity and the time you do have, the more time you have to prepare to add some wrinkles to the plan.  But we think -- we know the type of defense these guys have been playing for a long time, and we feel these guys are as good as anyone.   
 Q.  Do you feel like having some time off gives them some chances to smooth off some of those rough edges and stuff like that?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it does for everybody gives you a second to take a deep breath, analyze what you've been doing.  Sometimes those weeks go so fast that you need to do some self-scout, if you will, on your own offense or defense.  And I think everybody will be better for that.   
 Q.  How do you describe what you guys tried to do offensively?  
BUSH HAMDAN: We certainly have relied on the run game, and we want to play as complementary of football as we can.  We've been able to control the clock and start with the physicality thing.   
So certainly going to have create more explosive plays in this game with how their offense plays, and we're aware of that.   
 Q.  What do you remember about Alex Grinch from his time at Washington State?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Really good.  Really, really good.  He was always tough.  Regardless of where Washington State was, you knew he was going to pose a lot of issues.  And that's certainly the biggest game of the year always for us.   
So I think you see a lot of his blueprint on this defense, and what they've done always been very difficult to manage up front with the amount of movement they've had.  Really sound in coverage, and he's as good as a coach as there is.   
 Q.  Did you think you would escape him coaching Ohio State?  
BUSH HAMDAN: That's how the coaching thing is, man.  Sometimes -- you always look in the program see who is where, and you're surprised how many guys you know.  But really happy for him and all the success he's had.   
 Q.  What is the hallmark of Alex Grinch, not his defense, but the defense he's a part of?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it always just goes to how far guys play for him and the passion that they play with.  But certainly from a schematic standpoint, again, it's the amount of movement and penetration they create up front and been really sound, quarter scheme and the back end.   
 Q.  How well do you know him?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Not super well, just seeing him at conventions and things of that nature.   
 Q.  I know there the big emphasis was on turnovers, doing everything in their power to create turnovers.  Some of that was -- approach to that was probably not as good as it is now.  Was that something -- was that obvious as a coach?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think so.  I think it's a testament to what he's done.  Washington State hasn't really changed very much since he's left.  I think emphasis on turnovers, schematically, extremely similar.  That's how you know a guy's done a good job.   
 Q.  Who does Ohio State remind you of personnel-wise and schematically?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Schematically, Washington State, from Grinch being there couple years back.  So very similar there.  Personnel-wise, I think obviously they're obviously up there as one of the best defenses we'll face.  We thought Utah was extremely talented with their defense.  Up front, the front seven, we think Auburn had a lot of players similar to these guys.  This is what you expect in these kind of games.  We know it will be a big challenge.   
 Q.  Starting your season (indiscernible) how much does that help prepare you for a game like this?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it helps in a big, big way.  I think a lot of times some of those type of games don't help you until next year.  But to have another opportunity, guys know what to expect and they just know the execution part of it, what it's got to look like, the details are going to separate a game like this.   
 Q.  What does Jake bring -- seems like really extended play and a lot of quarterback stuff, he's not a speed -- (indiscernible)?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Sure.  It's always one of those things I think as a coach where if a good thing happens, you're applauding it.  If a bad thing happens, you're on him.  But he's just had that great knack of extending plays.  I think every great quarterback out there can play within a system, but at times, when things break down, they've got to take it and make it their own.  And he's done an unbelievable job creating plays.   
 Q.  What do you think his legacy is going to be?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Expecting to be in a national title, run every single year, being in games like this.  Sometimes I think when you take a six-win team and make them a 10-plus win team, year in, year out, people forget what the past was like, but that's his legacy.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have a good feel on some red zone issues, it's been consistent when you get to the red zone more than anyone, but once you get there --  
BUSH HAMDAN: It's tough.  The toughest part is I think you spend three weeks looking at everything, breaking everything down that normally comes into self-inflicted wounds and penalties, and so but it comes to the details.  And I think we certainly spent these last three weeks practicing a lot, making sure we get down there as much as possible, and we've just got to go and execute it.   
 Q.  Has that been maybe the most frustrating part of this season, the fact that you guys haven't been able to --  
BUSH HAMDAN: Yeah, we've left a lot of points down there.  So I think we look at what we've done this year, and there's been certainly some good things and played complementary football.  But we've got to finish.   
 Q.  How do you assess your first season?  
BUSH HAMDAN: You know, it's always the same, man, constant state of improvement.  There's certainly things you look back on.  But it's one day at a time, taking the next step.  And we're ready to go.   
 Q.  What makes Jake so special among his teammates?  
BUSH HAMDAN: Just the consistency.  We said all along, I think any player that feels like they're going through some stuff times, sees how he handles himself and knows that they're not even going through a tenth of what he's going through.   
So I think when you have a leader like that who's handled himself as well as probably any quarterback in this day and age, I just think that breeds respect from the locker room.   
 Q.  A guy who keeps showing up every Saturday, it's not so easy for fans to understand I think the hits he's taken, the pain he's playing through.  How much pain has he played through throughout his career, sophomore year with the shoulder and all the hits he's taken?  
BUSH HAMDAN: I think it just always starts with toughness with Browning.  Mental toughness, physical toughness.  There's probably guys that have missed five, 10 games in his career.  And that guy has been a constant thing for this program, starting at quarterback for Washington and that's been critical.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT