ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A great day in some lovely conditions…
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah it was absolutely perfect out there today, hardly a breath of wind all day. It was quite cold first thing this morning bit warmed up after five or six holes, and for the hole of the back nine I only had a short sleeve short on and it was lovely and warm, which is almost unheard of in Scotland in October. So the conditions were very scorable indeed, and I managed to take full advantage of them with some good golf.
Q. Your top five last week was your first of the year, so it hasn't gone entirely according to plan for you…?
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I've been dividing my time between the States and Europe, and whilst it's great to have the opportunity to play on both Tours, it does take it out of you physically and mentally. I've also got two young kids, which can take it out of you as well. But it's good to be back playing in Europe, and it's good to be playing well again. Hopefully I can keep it going for the next two days.
Q. Have you felt the game coming around?
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, there were definitely some very positive signs last week, and I felt good on the range at the start of this week. I'm in a good position after two rounds and it's nice to see my name up near the top of the leaderboard again, because as you say it's been a fair while now. I just need to keep in the same zone at St Andrews.
Q. Are you looking forward to playing the Home of Golf over the next two days?
JAMIE DONALDSON: Absolutely, it's always great to go back there, especially when the weather's like this. If the wind stays low, I'm sure there will be some pretty low scores there so I'll have to keep attacking and making birdies to keep pace with the leaders.
Q. Do you enjoy the Pro-Am element?
JAMIE DONALDSON: No, my partner keeps getting in my way! No I'm only joking, they're great guys and we had a lot of fun out there today. It's been good fun and hopefully we can have a decent crack at the team competition.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT