JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2009
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMIE DONALDSON: It was pretty blowy all day, we had quite a bit of rain off and on, overall pretty happy with the score. Played well. Yeah, in position, happy.   
  
  Q. You've been swinging the club really well for some time now. Were you pleased to see conditions like this, trying to come from four behind?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it helps. You don't have to go ballistic. You've just got to know how to do it I suppose and put yourself in positions, and here we are in position.  
  
  Q. How much confidence do you take from Scandinavia, where you played quite beautifully down the stretch; did nothing wrong, obviously Gonzalez took it away from you at the last minute.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, a lot. I mean, I've played pretty well all year really. It's just not quite been happening. It's just week-after-week it's been getting better each week.   
 You know, Scandinavia was great. I played really well all the way through, and played well last week in Holland, so just have a week and just put myself up there and won't be too long before the door opens.  
  
  Q. Just a question of keep knocking at the door; your experiences this year help you cope with a day like tomorrow?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, obviously the more you put yourself up there, the easier it is I suppose. I've just kept doing it week-after-week, and all I can do is just keep doing it and keep concentrating on one shot at a time.   
  
  Q. Do you get the sense of frustration that you haven't gone over the line yet, or do you just think just keep playing away, plugging away?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, just keep plugging away. I've not been frustrated really. I've been doing everything that I can every week, and where you finish is as well as you've done type of thing.   
 I maxed it out in Scandinavia. I don't feel like I've not been over the line. I feel like I've been doing great every week, and all I can do is keep putting myself up there. Scandinavia was fantastic and last week I played well and here I am pretty well so overall pretty happy.  
  
  Q. How are your health issues?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I missed a year, but it's a lot better than it has been. I don't think I'll be going next week, so I need to take a week off and just calm down a bit. I can't do too many events in a row and I can't practise too hard but provided I manage myself well, it's okay.   
 Every day I think I go in the physio truck and I get massage for 20 minutes before and after every day and warm down every day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT