THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2009
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very impressive six birdies, 12 pars, very consistent. How did you feel out there?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I felt great. I played well from word go, really. I just got in a good frame of mind, I got in a good zone and doesn't really hit a bad shot. It was a good day.

 Q. You were playing well at the Irish Open but of late the form hasn't been well, but shown here, what's the reason?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I've been playing pretty well most of the year really, I've just not quite been finishing off as well as I would have liked. If I keep playing like I just done today and keep the same sort of frame of mind, then anything is possible.

 Q. What was it that made the switch for you with that marvellous 65? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I just kept really patient and things just started to happen really. I had a little bit of a slow start, I suppose I was level after 5 and just stayed patient and the balls started dropping. In the end it turned out to be a great day.

 Q. You're in a good position and a good position to grab that elusive open spot for Turnberry. Are you thinking about that? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: There's loads at stake, I suppose, but try not to think of anything, just one shot at a time and just stay in the present and just get on with it. 

 Q. Terrific round of 6-under par, what was the secret of success today?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I don't know, I really didn't do much wrong. I played well from the word go really and things just started going anyway, a few putts started to drop. I didn't really hit a bad shot all the way around, so you're going to shoot a good score at the end of the day.

 Q. 69-68-65; does the game feel better day by day?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, today is the best I've played so far. I played great and didn't miss a shot really. Maybe one on the first but overall, I had no complaints on a great day. 

 Q. One Top-10 for you this year in Portugal but you've been on boards a lot more than that. Do you feel disappointed you haven't taken more advantage?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I'm in this position because I'm not quite finishing the job off, but I've been playing well all year round. 
 Just a matter of keep putting myself in position and get better at being up there.

 Q. Looking for your first win on Tour, do you feel ready to take it if you get the chance tomorrow?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: You never know. Obviously I'm in a great position. If I keep doing everything that I've done today and putted as well as I have done today, then anything is possible. 

 Q. Good at staying positive when you have to finish things off?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, what can you do? You can sulk like a baby or get on with it and get the most out of it. That's what I've had to do. 

 Q. Good team around you to help? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, yeah, the guys have been helping me are all right. I played great all week, so just a matter of keep doing the same things and just waiting. 

 Q. Is this a good course for you, good memories? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I've had a 65 here before. I've had low scores before, so you know, the weather is pretty much the same and you're in a position to do the same thing tomorrow. 

 Q. Scottish blood in you? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Maybe a long way down the line. I think my dad's doing his family free now, so somewhere down there, there might be some I think. 

 Q. Trousers have no relevance; Donald tartan?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: No, favourite pants. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT