THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2009
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about another good day in horrible conditions. 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: We had the better side of it today in all fairness. The weather was looking like it was going to be shocking and it just dropped. 

 Q. Was it easier today? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it was a double bonus because you put the tees up, thinking the weather was going to be bad and when we played it was pretty much flat-calm. We had the good side of it but it balances itself out as the year goes on and you have to take advantage of these things.

 Q. So take it in stride? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it was set up perfect for a lot of low scoring for the late starters. The scores tell it all.

 Q. What are the highlights for you? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I played pretty solid all the way around really. I didn't birdie any of the par 5s come in, but I had a good few birdies in between and overall it was a really good day.

 Q. Were you expecting to shoot even lower?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it was lined up, the par 5s are difficult to get it close with the second shot. I played them all right. Just didn't quite pick up but overall happy with the day. 

 Q. Happy with your position?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, very. We're a couple behind and the weather looks horrific for tomorrow, so you know, all the best. 

 Q. Just feeling pretty confident after Estoril and the form that you showed there?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good. I just need to keep doing the same things I've been doing the last couple of days and be patient. 

 Q. You said yesterday, perversely perhaps, that you enjoy it. 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I do like it in the bad weather. I don't quite enjoy it but I like sometimes the bad weather. Usually favours me. But we'll see tomorrow. 

 Q. Did you have a little look around the locker room beforehand and think others would struggle today? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: The standard is so high these days that a lot of people can way well in all sorts of adverse conditions. It's not like it used to be where some people struggled more than others. 
 If I keep playing the way I have been doing and keep doing the same things, I do like the bad weather, so it's on my side.

 Q. And you don't mind an early start for a weekend? 
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, yeah, it's going to be two-tee start, so it won't be too late tonight. 

 Q. Have you met Shane Lowry?
 JAMIE DONALDSON: No, I haven't. The amateurs play on conditions like this all year-round, and the amateurs usually play on courses set up tougher than this. 15-under is very good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT