THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about the eagle, if you would.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, a really good yardage. I just hit a soft 9-iron. It was looking like it was close coming in the wind and just kicked left and wind in, so it was brilliant.  
  
  Q. In the context of the round, you were going well at the time, but even better?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Oh, it was great. Not easy, none of them are. I hit a great tee shot and it went in, hit a good approach and went in. So it was a great add-on to the round.  
  
  Q. You say nothing is easy out here but given the horrible conditions, there's such a wealth of good scoring, is it easier than you expected?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: A little, yeah, I mean, it was -- in practice, it was difficult in places. It was windier and it's a bit rainy today, a bit drizzly, but slightly easier than it was in practice.  
  
  Q. So those greens are a little bit more receptive?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it softened the greens up a little bit, the rain. And they are not cut that short. I think they left maybe a little bit of growth on them.   
  
  Q. Do you like links golf?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Love it. Grew up on it, really, I suppose. Played my amateur golf on links courses, so when I get on a links golf course, I do enjoy it, yeah.   
  
  Q. Course was not like this at Estoril, but similar --  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it was windy, linksy. It's a tougher course here. You've got to be playing better. But still plenty of chances out there and the scores are available.  
  
  Q. Do you find there's more enthusiasm when you come in to a place like this, albeit you have to wear the waterproofs and the hats?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: It's nice, because we've played in some much more bad weather, but it's nice to shape the ball more and hit different shots, high, low, as opposed to just standing there and just like throwing darts at the flag.   
 Sometimes that's harder and I find when it's that easy, you know it, because you've got to hit good shots all the time. I know when it's like this, you have to see the shots and shape the shots more, and it suits me.   
  
  Q. It's understandable, but are you a little perverse? Not many would go along with that.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: The course I grew up with was very windy and wet most of the time, so obviously played a lot of golf in it and I can see the shots easy. I think when you're not on your game it's easier to play when it's tougher like this.   
 Like I said before, it's like throwing darts. You just have to be hitting it straight at the flags, otherwise you can't compete.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT