THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  If you could just assess the first round.  JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I played nicely to be honest.  It was difficult.  You know, I doubled 17 there from what I thought -- I'd hit two decent shots, didn't make the carry and ended up going left of the flag, which was frustrating and cost me double bogey.  Apart from that, it was a really good round of golf in the conditions.  Anything under par really this afternoon you're pretty happy with.  Yeah, it was a shame.  But level par is not disastrous, and we need to go and take advantage hopefully of half decent conditions in the morning.   Q.  You mentioned that 17th.  It seemed like a lot of players had difficulty with that hole.  Just how difficult was that?  JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, really difficult.  It was very difficult.  You couldn't go right, down the right-hand side.  You had to sort of hit it down the left off the tee.  You couldn't make the carries, and I thought I'd hit a really good shot, and it missed the fairway by about a yard and it left me with a difficult -- it was in the wispy grass and then didn't make the carry, but I hit a good shot.  I've hit two really good shots and I'm left with nothing.  It was frustrating, really frustrating.  But that's golf.  Like I say, anything under par is pretty good today.  Level par is not disastrous.  Just got to go and shoot a low one tomorrow.   Q.  You mentioned the conditions.  Obviously the morning had the edge in that respect, but then you're off tomorrow morning, so maybe there's some making up for lost time?  JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, we've just got to hope it's similar.  Or if it's not, you've just got to play really, really good to make some ground.   Q.  Before you go out in the afternoon and the wind gets up, do you take note of the scores that were shot this morning?  JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, but there was no wind this morning.  It was still.  You're going out this afternoon, and it looks like it's blowing.  You've just got to play as well as you can in the conditions that you've got and not think that it was a lot easier in the morning.  That's golf, and that's usually what happens in links golf.  It's difficult generally in the afternoon, easier in the morning.  So you've just got to let the draw level itself out and play well when you've got a chance to get close to the flags.   Q.  And I guess playing in these conditions -- do you feel it'll level out tomorrow then?  JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I'm playing pretty good.  I'm putting pretty good.  So there's a chance if it's still tomorrow, we can go out and shoot a really low one tomorrow.  I don't think the weather is going to be great, by all accounts, but we'll wait and see.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT