BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   Drove it well in places, couple of errant shots.   Overall not bad.   Hard to hole a lot of putts on them greens.   Didn't really hit irons close enough to convert a lot.   So overall, pretty happy.   
   
 Q.   2‑under a good score and close to the lead?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's good.   Like you say, no complaints really.   Could get the iron shots a bit closer.   The greens aren't great at the moment.   But you've just got to get the putts on line.   The closer you hit it, obviously the easier it is to make putts.   Like I had a putt on 18 from distance and it was never on the ground.   
So it's tough but the course is set up nicely.   Everything else is really good.   Could have hit a bit closer.   Get to get the iron shots tight tomorrow and shoot a low score.  
   
 Q.   Unlucky at 17?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I hit a great shot at 17.   Missile straight at the flag but it didn't quite slow down.   It was a bit of a fiddly chip from back there.   Quite happy, in a decent position.   Wasn't firing on all cylinders, but at the same time, made up for a few errant shots.   
Yeah, I'm in a decent position.   Go out tomorrow and just like I say, tighten up a little bit and see if we can go low.  
   
 Q.   Playing with Rory; huge crowds.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's awesome.   You come to the Flagship Event, great draw, great lads.   So, yeah, it's awesome.   
   
 Q.   Back in this country, do you sense people saying, that's the man who hit the winning shot; do you hear that?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   A little bit, but yeah, that was then and this is now.   That's gone.   It's a wonderful memory to have.   But got to push on from there.   Yeah, see if we can shoot a low score tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you're in good shape?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, pretty good.   Few things need to tighten up but overall pretty good.   At The Players, I played nicely and played nicely in a few events early on in America.   In the middle I wasn't very good, although it wasn't far off to be honest.   A few missed putts out there when you've got chances and you're on wrong sides of draws, suddenly you're missing cuts when you've played all right.   
These things happen, so you've just got to get on with it.   Players was a good result.   Today I played pretty solid.   So tomorrow, like I say, just tighten up a little bit and keep grafting away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT