THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about your round today.JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, pleased.  Pleased.  I played really good today.  I played all right yesterday, just couldn't quite get on a run early enough to get the, to make enough putts to go on a run.  But finished well.  Birdied the last two holes yesterday to setup a low round today and 5-under, pretty good.  I had some chances out there to be lower, 16, I got a side hill lie and I'm trying to hold up a 5-wood and just pulled it a little bit into the left rough.  It's tough to judge how the ball's going to come out.  I played aggressively, but it came out a bit too much. 17 pretty much went straight at the flag, had a perfect yardage with a gap wedge and it was right on line and came up just short. But, yeah, happy with the way I played, I played really good.  That's as well as I played for awhile.  Hit the ball great.  Been looking forward to some time off at home.Q. You could sell a 67 to a few of the leaders.JAMIE DONALDSON: I've not really paid much attention to what's going on really, I was trying to shoot as low as I could and where possible just take shots on.  And that's what I did and 5-under was pretty much as low as I could have shot.Q. Six to go, were you thinking that you might be able to set the target?JAMIE DONALDSON: It's one shot at a time for me.  Just kept my head down, shoot as low as you can, post as low a score as you can and see what happens. A couple more would have been nice, but 5-under on this golf course on a Sunday, you're always pretty happy with.  It's a tough golf course at the best of times. Greens weren't quite as firm and fast as they were last year, but they're still really good.  Hit a putt on line it goes in.Q. You played well last year here.  Is it a place you feel comfortable?JAMIE DONALDSON: I really like it.  It's a great golf course.  It's a shot maker's golf course, it's not necessarily a bomber's paradise.  So, yeah, it's just really good.  Designed brilliantly.  It's one of the best we play all year.Q. Does this sort of kick start your season?JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, the season has been up-and-down.  Nothing, no real heroics as yet.  A decent result this week.  The way I played, I'm happy with the way I played.  Moving on, yeah, looking for a big summer at home.  Looking forward to getting home.  I've been here for four months with the family, which has been awesome, but looking forward to getting back, having a week off at home, catching up with friends and kicking off in Europe again.Q. What's your reaction where it stayed up at 17.  Is that a shot that still has you drawing breath every time?JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it wasn't too bad today, because it was down wind off the right.  It's that perfect wind for me.  If I get, if I got a good yardage, it's, you know, so I can go at the flag and just, and it's just going to always drift in left. I hit it and it was perfect in the air I thought it was great.  It came up just short.Q. Is it important to finish on a good note then before you head back to Europe, to get more FedExCup points on the board?JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, obviously, I'm looking to, I want to get in these playoffs at the end of the year.  That's important for me.  I've not played -- I played pretty good over here, but not good enough in places important it's been quiet a majority of times, a lot of times. But it's all a learning curve, I haven't played that much in America.  I'm still playing courses I never played before and I'm trying to get used to where I want to play and where I don't want to play. But on the whole, it's been great.  We have played some great golf courses, big courses this year early on and it's tough.  You just got to get your head down and keep grinding until you get results that you want.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT