WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL SYMES:   Many thanks for joining us.   You've come very close to winning it last year.   This tournament is obviously one of your favorites.  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I enjoyed it.   Obviously last year was a great result for me.   Helped secure Ryder Cup placings and stuff like that.   Yeah, it was a huge week on what is a brutal golf course.   
PAUL SYMES:   What makes it so brutal?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's usually blowing.   I played a practice round today, it's blowing very hard.   It's very difficult.   You've just got to keep it out of the water.   That's the main thing, and then make your score on the holes that you can attack, which is not many to be fair.   
PAUL SYMES:   You come on to the week in good form, obviously a decent finish again in the Honda Classic last year which gives you a lot of confidence going forward.  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, last week was good.   I think that's my best finish in a regular event in America so far.   Yeah, things are starting to click over here, and yeah, it was a solid week, which bringing in‑‑ just take the form into this week now and see if we can go out there and contend again.  
PAUL SYMES:   Does it suit you if the wind blows here?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'd prefer to the wind blew to be honest.   Windy golf seems to suit the Europeans.   It was windy and wet last week and seemed to suit; a lot of the Europeans did well.   It certainly suits me if it blows.   So we'll have to wait and see.   
PAUL SYMES:   By all account, the course is in great nick, as well, a lot of players have been complimentary about the condition.  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's perfect, as it was last year, really greens are a little firmer because there's not ‑‑ it didn't rain but overall, yeah, it's in very good condition.   
   
 Q.   Last year and the golf course and greens were brand spanning knew so everybody was talking about how firm they were.   The greens this year a little more receptive and what has been different about the course this year, as opposed to last year that you've seen so far?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's not as‑‑ it got damp last year.   We had a lot of rain, didn't we.   So this year, it's been very similar.   Everything seems to have settled in.   It looked quite new last year so now it looks like it's been here 15 or 20 years.   Yeah, it's a good test.   The greens are still firm but not as firm as they were last year.   They are more receptive but still downwind, you're going to get a lot of release on the ball.   
So it's still playing very difficult.   
PAUL SYMES:   Thank you, Jamie.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT