ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2015
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you reckon?   You've moved tremendously up that board?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Obviously it was a good day.   Got the ball going on the greens which is very important here.   The greens are running really well so if you get it online, you've got a really good chance.   Yeah, I started off really well.   I think I was 6‑under after nine, something like that.   In a strong position, couple of bogeys on the back nine and then finished well eagling the last.

Q.   You've not played badly for days but what clicked today? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Just holed a few more putts.   Hit a lot of really good putts and played well at the same time.   Today the golf course is there for the taking.   This golf course very rarely is flat calm, and today it's probably early 80s and not a breath of wind.   I've had a good score today, 8‑under but I think‑‑ I wouldn't be surprised if somebody went a lot lower.

Q.   Does it feel like your winning year walking down 18; the eagle to move up the board?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I remember it.   Not too long ago now.   My game's come on since then.   The game's been pretty good this week and I need another good day tomorrow.

Q.   Good to do it at the start of the year, isn't it?   Bodes well. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I've had a month off at home, not doing much really as regards to golf, so I needed a break.   To come here and play good at the start of the year is very important.

Q.   You left South Africa early; you weren't feeling well.   How is health and did you get over it?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, sometimes play a bit too much golf.   I played too much golf and had probably a bit of sun stroke or an illness of some sort.   So I had to go home unfortunately, which was sad.   I love that place.   It's a great tournament. 
You live and learn, don't you, and here we are in Abu Dhabi, fully rested, and ready to go tomorrow.

Q.   What do you make of your position on that board going into Sunday?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's good.   Like I said, I've gone out there and played as well as I could.   Gone out there and holed a lot of nice shots and made some putts.   I've done what I can do today.   What everybody else does is out of my control.   Just have to go out tomorrow and see if we can do the same thing again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT