ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2019
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How nice is it to be playing some lovely golf again?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: It's great.  You know, it's not been going brilliantly since I've come back from injury.  But you know, there's been a lot of great stuff in there, as well.  So you've got to take that and look at that and think, well, you know, at the end of the day, it's not far off.  The results haven't been there, but the golf was there or thereabouts.   
So it was a case of staying patient and putting it all together.   
 Q.  This week, we've been talking about all the birdies that have been made but just one bogey in three rounds.  How happy are with you that and also how much does that tell you about where your game is right now?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, good.  I've been working on swing thoughts.  You know, trying to keep it pretty simple, and today it was right on the money.  I was hitting little soft draws all day which is what I like to hit.  I hit a lot of fairways.  Hit some really good tee shots.  It was much easier yesterday.  I didn't quite drive it as well.  Today was much better, hence the lower score.   
 Q.  There's a couple of things you can achieve tomorrow.  One, obviously winning again on The European Tour in a Rolex Series Event, and the other would be getting back to Royal Portrush where you won The Irish Open.  How do you go about staying in the moment and how do you go about attacking tomorrow?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Just much of the same, really, the thoughts today.  Hopefully I'll wake up the right side of bed tomorrow and continue the good play.  I feel today was really positive, really solid.  I just need to do more of the same.  If I can drive it as well as I've driven it today and make a few more putts, then I can shoot a lower score.   
 Q.  What's the target score for tomorrow?  Is there one?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: I mean, I don't know yet because the lads have still got quite a few holes to go.  We'll have a look later, and I'll go out tomorrow trying to shoot as low as I can.   
 Q.  How good did that feel?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it felt great.  I played really good.  Drove it really good, so it made things very easy.   
This golf course is really good, and if you can get it in play a lot, then you've got chances for birdies.  There is a low score out there, really low.  We've been very lucky this week with the weather.  It's been did you feel.  A few drops of rain but generally it's been fantastic and the scoring is showing because of that.   
 Q.  It's been a difficult time since the injury.  How do you feel about your game and the consistency you've shown over these three days?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, really good.  I've played today as well as I've played.  I'm at full speed now.  Maybe did the comeback a little bit early, who knows.  The thing is with these operations and stuff, you never know how long you have to wait.  You never know if you wait for 100 percent fit, then it can be just so long, and what is a hundred, do you know what I mean.  So sometimes you've got to be there or thereabouts and just get on with it, and that's what I've been doing, and starting to play some really good golf.   
 Q.  It's a good time to start playing some good golf.  There's a couple Open places up for grabs this week.  How special would it be to get one of those and go back to Portrush?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, massive.  I started this week thinking if I can -- I've been playing all right.  So this week is nice that it's all starting to come together right at the right time.  I do really want to go next week, but it's a long way to go yesterday and I've just got to go out there tomorrow and play as well as I did today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT