BMW MASTERS
November 2, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is your verdict on that?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   By all accounts it was a very difficult day.   Was such I suppose to go from flat calm to three‑club wind is difficult but golf in the whole wasn't very good by all of us.   I think there will be members of the crowd playing off about 15 turning pro.   
It's a funny one there.   It's very difficult, we're all trying to win a golf tournament.   I had a lot of chances.   Just couldn't play the shots.   I was in there till the end, somehow.   Had a good chance on the last.   Concentrated so hard on the line and don't hit the putt.   But there you go.   That's golf.   
   
 Q.   And all the more galling knowing just what that birdie would have brought.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I just thought, I've just got to make the putt.   I had a perfect line and just left it short in the middle, which is dreadful.   That's how it is.   Some of the greens dried out nicely and they were really quick.   Other haven't and they were damp and slow.   It was in between paces on the greens, which is difficult.   
But overall, there's a big chance gone there.   There was a tournament to be won and I just didn't do enough to do that.  
   
 Q.   You are being hard on yourself because I take it with the wind like that on the home stretch in particular, everybody is finding it tough.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's very difficult.   You could literally stand on the tees all day‑‑ 13 was brutal, 17's brutal, 16's brutal.   16 we're hitting a 3‑iron in there today when yesterday I was hitting in a little 9‑iron.   So that's how different it is.  
But you've just got to laugh, had so many chances out there, to make up ground on the leaders and didn't quite play well enough to do that.   It's tough out there, granted, but needs to be a bit better.  
   
 Q.   I take it as a week, it's good for The Final Series for you to start in this kind of fashion?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's good.   I felt as though I've played poorly today and still finished decent.   So you know, I can take the positives out of it, but golf's a frustrating game sometimes and you can't have it all your way.     
Wasn't quite on it today by any stretch of the imagination, but still, top‑five finish in the first event of The Final Series is a good start.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT