BMW MASTERS
October 30, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JAMIE DONALDSON:   I played really good early doors, the first sort of 12 holes, never really missed a shot, and played as well as I could.   And then I got straightforward, put a good yardage with a gap wedge on what was the third hole, so my 12.   Hit a bad shot, pushed it.   I've got a sidehill lie and I'm going straight at the flag and maybe you think about, probably should have gone further left. 
But you know, I was playing well, so I played aggressive.   It didn't come off.   Pushed it, went in the water.   A terrible setback when I've not missed a shot all the way around.   It's just one of these things. 
But I played nicely after that.   You know, managed to birdie the next, which is a good birdie.   And had a good chip‑in on the sixth hole, good birdie on 7, and then threw in a couple of iffy shots on 8.
Birdied the last, so you know, there's a lot of really good stuff early on, like I say.   But there are a couple of bizarre shots thrown in.   I don't know where they came from, so I'm going to go hit balls on the range now and see if we can eradicate that for tomorrow.

Q.   Speculating, but is it anything to do with tiredness, jet‑lag, just getting used to the circumstances? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I don't know.   Maybe a little bit.   But we need to get rid of those for tomorrow and there's no reason I can't go out there and shoot a really low one. 

Q.   Looked like for a while that there would be a wealth of low scores, but I take it in the rain like this and the length of the course, it's not easy. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   When the rain stops, it's perfect conditions.   It's not much wind and it's mild, so you can be really aggressive, and was doing.   When the rain comes in, obviously it changes things slightly, and the greens are sort of spiking up a little bit. 
We had perfect greens early on and then when we turned, obviously half the field has already gone through.   So they weren't quite as good.   I think apparently the greens are quite new so they need a little bit of time.   They are pretty good.   Early on, they were great.   So it's hard to hole putts in places.   You've just got to keep hitting them on line and hope they go in.

Q.   Your thoughts about The Final Series which starts here with the BMW Masters and runs through to you Dubai?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's very exciting.   It's a great finale for The European Tour.   Obviously great for the players to be able to play in these four fantastic events.   You know, there's lots to play for for everybody, no matter where you are on the ranking. 
It's nice that most people get into this one, and then they have got a chance to make up positions on the Order of Merit, not just for the guys that have gone in but the guys at the top, as well.   There's lots to play for for everybody, and I'm thoroughly enjoying it.

Q.   Do you use it as an incentive yourself?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Oh, yeah, massively, everybody.   There's so much to play for.   There's four huge events, finishing in Dubai.   So you can change your whole season in just not only four events, maybe just two. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT