THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Describe the reality of winning for me.  JAMIE DONALDSON: I can't, really.  I knew obviously I'm 4-up with four to play there, and hit a really good tee shot down 15 there.  Just a perfect yardage and wedge shot of my life to close the game out. Can't really put words to it.  It's unbelievable.  Obviously I knew it was all getting tight there at the end, but it's all getting tight at the end, and everybody was obviously building at my group.  I was just trying to not spend too much time looking at the scoreboard and just concentrate on my match and that's what I did, and was able to do it well enough to close it out.   Q.  Talk about your captain, Paul McGinley, just give a brief comment on how brilliant he's been this week.  JAMIE DONALDSON: He's been sensational.  Paul captained one of the Seve Trophys I played in ^  and I told everybody that he was going to be unbelievable here, and he's certainly done a lot more than that.  He's been incredible.  It's been a hell of a week.  (Embracing Captain McGinley).   Q.  Describe the sense of achievement.  PAUL McGINLEY: Proud is the first word.  I want to say as captain it's been a real honour to get these 12 players, they have all been Colossus, and all of them, the caddies, the backroom team, five vice captains, it's been a huge team effort.   Q.  What is the highlight for you?  PAUL McGINLEY: The highlight, the pleasure when you look at a face like that (embracing Jamie).   Q.  How were your emotions today?  You haven't been out on the course very much because obviously you've been planning the next session, you told us.  How were your emotions as the day unfolded?  PAUL McGINLEY: I followed Victor for the first few holes.  He found it a little different experience; we prepared him for singles not having Graeme on his shoulder.  I watched those guys at the end. But this guy has been well groomed in by Lee Westwood.  If he learns half as much from Lee Westwood was Lee Westwood knows, he'll be one hell of a player^ .   Q.  Was that a key, the marshaling of the rookies by Graeme McDowell and Lee Westwood?  PAUL McGINLEY: That was the big factor, there's no doubt.  We had a fifth vice captain looking after those guys, and we really came out jumping in the afternoon and these guys really, really did it.  They were fresh when they came out; Victor and Graeme were fresh.  One session you (looking at Jamie) sat in the morning and he came out in the afternoon and I had played great.  Wave after wave after wave, that's what we talked about.   Q.  You put an incredible amount of effort into your team room, all the touches and motivational messages and pictures, how much did they payoff?  The guys were telling me they really did.  PAUL McGINLEY: I think so.  We had a plan.  We had a real plan and we had a structure with three or four big ideas that we kept going back to and we kept feeding into and ultimately they proved to be right.   Q.  You've won tournaments, you've obviously won Ryder Cups as a player.  Try and describe how much this moment means.  PAUL McGINLEY: It's a great sense of pride, as I say, this ugly face (embracing Jamie's smiling face), how happy it is, and the pride that we give to everybody, and the happiness of people in the stands, that's what you did.  I'm giving it for everybody else, it's not for me. Playing is something very, very special, and I said to the guys last night, as much as I've enjoyed captain, it's different than playing.  Enjoy it, be out there and enjoy it, because the days happen so quick and they go.  It's been a real great honour.   Q.  First time you've been part of Ryder Cup, tell us the team spirit in the team room.  JAMIE DONALDSON: It's amazing.  The lads have got on so well all week.  It's been great craic in there.  It's just an incredible week.  You can't really -- it's hard to describe how good it is.  It's just -- there's nothing else like it in golf.  It's just a total one-off.  It's just a huge, huge thing, and it's just been amazing to be a part of it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT