THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
John Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A disappointment is always a disappointment when it's a loss, of course, but what a good match and how well they played.LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, they played brilliant.  Didn't really give us a chance and made a lot of good putts on top of when we were in the hole, and I think they were 9- or 10-under.  Sometimes that happens.Q. Every time you threatened to come back at them they still had something in hand didn't they?LEE WESTWOOD: Every time we looked like we were going to get one back they sunk a 30-footer or something like that.  So that's part of the good match play.  They are almost more than a win when you hole it on top.Q. A win yesterday but a different reality of what The Ryder Cup is all about.  It's tough stuff, isn't it.JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it is, when you are playing against those two, how they played today.  They just played very well, like Lee said.  You think you've got a chance in the hole and then they go and make a massive putt.  We made a few big putts yesterday to stay in it and they did the same to us today.  That's golf sometimes.  There's nothing much you can do about it.Q. They were 6-under for the front nine and that's something isn't it.JAMIE DONALDSON: It's very good but it can happen easily in fourball golf.  So you've just got to try and raise your game and just keep going and wait for chances to happen.  We just didn't get the chances today.Q. Display of unbelievable golf, and particularly from Hunter Mahan.JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, they dovetailed very well.  When one is out of the hole, one is in there.  They didn't really give us any sort of doorway in to any hole, really.  I don't think we had the honour once. They just played very good golf.  That's just how it goes sometimes.  We played well but not well enough.Q. And looking at the team situation, does it feel okay right now?  I know you just lost but Justin Rose has been playing sensational, they won 3 & 2, do you feel better because you know the team is going strongly.LEE WESTWOOD: We know we have a strong team and we are all playing well.  Occasionally you're just going to run into a buzzsaw and that's what it felt like in our game.  Obviously can't come on the other games, but the Americans were about to come back at us.  They were 5-3 down overnight so they were bound to come out strong today.Q. Happy with your game?LEE WESTWOOD: Feel like I'm playing all right, yeah, not too bad.Q. And Jamie, as well, ridiculous chip-in here.JAMIE DONALDSON: Too little, too late, unfortunately.  You've got to have -- nice to make a few of those earlier on.  That's just the way it goes sometimes.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT