ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   I played great on the first day and played great today in what was atrocious weather.   But I suppose yesterday wasn't good, either.   Today at least it was constant rain, so you weren't so much off and on with the waterproofs.   It was on all day, and in a way it's sort of easier than taking things off and on.   
You know, it's been a decent week.   I had a chance and in a great position.   I pushed a tee shot on 16.   Made great contact but unfortunately with the wind hard off the left, trying to feed it to the flag, got a bit greedy and just put it in the drink.  
   
 Q.   All the more galling that you could have played it from where it laid instead of having to take the drop?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I could have done.   Didn't realise that until after I got to the green which was too late unfortunately.   But the long and short of it is I shouldn't have been in in the first place.  
   
 Q.   At the time you were joint leader.   Were you aware of just how well you were going up that board?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I was playing great.   I've played well all day.   That shot was slightly off, only a little bit.   You've got to take these shots on if you want to keep making scores, birdies.   I was in an aggressive frame of mind.   I played well all day.   You know, these things happen.   That's golf.   It's a great golf course with an incredible finish.   Unfortunately it wasn't quite my day.   
   
 Q.   Has plenty of its own defences anyway but you mentioned the weather, and when it's like that, it's an atrocious like that, really.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It was brutal out there today at the best of times.   There were some holes that you're hitting 3‑ and 4‑irons into the green where earlier on in the green he were hitting 9‑irons or wedges.   Especially on holes like 12.   That was the course bearing its teeth today.   It played really difficult.   I played really well all day.   Just a pity that 16 ended up like that.  
   
 Q.   So many positives, World Ranking points and everything, you're in good shape.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's all good.   I'm in good form going into next week and the week after, so I just need to improve a little bit to contend again next week.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to relish that, the links in Scotland?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I very much look forward to that.  
   
 Q.   Do you know very much of Royal Aberdeen?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I've heard it's very nice and a great test of golf and so I will be looking forward to that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT