OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic round of golf.  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I mean, you can never be disappointed with 10-under, can you.   
You know, like I was saying before, I knew what was on the cards out there, and you know, I think I had five holes to go, started thinking about 59.  I thought, well, okay, just birdie every hole coming in and you've done it.   
Birdied, I started thinking about it coming down the fifth.  Birdied 5, 6, 7.  Great chip on 8 after a poor tee shot, and then obviously you knew your chance had gone then.   
I'm really happy with the way I played.  Drove the ball fantastic and putted really well.  So yeah, very happy.   
 Q.  Obviously coming off the missed the cut last week, did you find something in the lead-up to this round?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: I played well last week.  I played well the second day.  I played well enough to do all right last week.  Unfortunately missed the cut by a shot.  You know, this week, working on my putting a little bit.  Working with Phil Kenyon, helping me out, which made a big difference.  Started hitting a lot of putts on line and reading the greens better.  YEAH, just led to a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  Having birdied the eighth, are you aware 59 had gone, but the course record?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: I didn't know the course record.  I was only thinking of 59, really.  Probably shouldn't really be thinking that.  Should be concentrating on, you know, hitting fairways and hitting greens, giving myself chances.   
I don't know, I fancied it.  Wasn't to be.  I knew I had to chip that one in on 8.  It was close.  Didn't go in and that was it then.   
But yeah, I'm very happy with how I've played.  59 is only a bonus, isn't it.  It's icing on the cake.  Everybody wants to shoot 59, but it's something that is only if you're playing really good golf, and that's gone now, so it's just a case of more of the same moving on.   
 Q.  How close is your game now to when you played Ryder Cup a few years back?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it's very similar, yeah.  Played really good today.  Drove it as well as I've driven it in a long time.  New driver in the bag today, TaylorMade driver, new one, so that was really good.  Very happy with all my gear and everything.  Just got to keep playing like that and keep concentrating on shooting low scores or the rest of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT