ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A round with seven birdies and three bogeys.   How do you feel about 67?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I played pretty solid most of the way around.   Yeah, happy with the way I've played.   Happy with the position I'm in.   
   
 Q.   You've played this championship ten times, the first eight occasions didn't manage the Top‑20 and last year you got a sixth.   Have you figured out this place?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Should hope so after that length of time.   It's a great golf course.   I like it and I've played it as you say quite a few times.   It's one of those golf courses where you just have to hit really good shots and if you don't, you're in big trouble.   
Yeah, I played well last year and I'm playing well this year.   
   
 Q.   How do you expect the course to play this afternoon?   More low scores?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I think more good scores are out there this afternoon.   The wind is not picking up and the greens are holding up nicely.   They are soft and receptive and you can attack flags provided you're in a good position on the fairway.   I'm sure there will be more low scores but I can only control what I do and it's a good day and happy with the way I played.   
   
 Q.   Fantastic opening round, seven birdies, tell us about it.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I played pretty good.   You're going to make mistakes out there.   It's a tough golf course.   You've got to hit good shots and you can't be too far off line.   
Today I was pretty good and I got in good positions hitting good tee shots into the fairway, which enables a shot close to the flag if you hit a good one.   
So there was a few of those today and happy with seven birdies and 4‑under par.   
   
 Q.   The greens are rolling so pure right now.   Do you feel like when you do get it around the hole, you should make it?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, the greens are really good.   They are quicker than normal.   They are normally very good here.   This year in particular, they are faster than they have been.   Yeah, they were very pure this morning and when you get a putt online, it looks like it's going to go in.   
   
 Q.   You've had a great year so far; what type of confidence are you playing with right now?   Are you going out there feeling like you can win every week?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I'm playing pretty well at the moment.   Last week was big.   It's been quite stop, start, since coming back from America, so it's nice to get in a run of four events now that I'm playing in sort of Scotland and the open.   I played well last week and form's coming good coming into this run of tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT