BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you reckon on that score after three days here? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, pretty good.   I've not played great today.   Slightly off but scored well, so that's what it's all about at the end of the day.   You can flush it around here and shoot 1‑under.   So I've shot 4‑under, and I've been scrappy, but holed the putts when I had the chance and that's what it's all about.   So happy with the position I'm in.

Q.   Score‑wise, looked like you got it going for a little while. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I got off to a great start and then a couple of loose shots, two bogeys.   The weather was a bit up‑and‑down.   The fades were drawing, and my draws were fading.   It was hard work but I was just quite happy to get a decent up‑and‑down the last to save par.   Yeah, quite happy. 

Q.   Not the first time we've said it but you get so many seasons in one day, you just have to adapt. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Well, although I've been in America for three months and been spoilt out there with perfect weather all the time.   Yeah, like you said, it was, jumper off down the first, and it was full waterproofs after about three holes.

Q.   How much transition is there needed to come back from a lot of time in the States to play in a traditional English situation again? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's just a little bit of time change to get used to, the jet‑lag and stuff.   I've been home at week with my feet up enjoying the sun, which is a rarity.   We had barbeques every night.   It was great.   After a while, you're over the jet‑lag and it's not too bad. 
It's easier going out but tougher coming home because you just want to lie in bed until mid‑day which is only seven or eight o'clock.

Q.   Course‑wise and conditions and everything, just reassessing? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's coming home, isn't it.   You've done it for so long and played on these courses for so long, so you know what to expect.   It's just difficult with the rain going off and on, off and on. 
But this is a proper golf course.   It's a tough golf course.   You've got to play really well.   You're rewarded generally for really good shots and punished for bad ones.   You've just got to hit a lot of fairways around here to make any ground.

Q.   Fancy your chance of a good knock into the final round? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I mean, like you said, I've not been on it, but I can score well and if I can do that again, I'll be happy.   Was in nearly perfect position to make eagle if not birdie on the last and at the end did well to make par. 
You know, it's not far off.   It's there or thereabouts.   I just need to eradicate any loose shots tomorrow and keep rolling putts in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT