THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got it going out there.   Impressive.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was good.   The greens are so perfect this morning.   Every putt you hit sort of kept its line and ended up going in the hole a lot of the time.   So it was just nice to take advantage of the perfect early morning conditions.   
   
 Q.   So you play well in Florida.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Seem to, yeah.   I played nicely yesterday but didn't get anything out of it.   I didn't convert anything, and then hit a couple of bad shots and suddenly 2‑over.   You know, that's golf.   Today was much better.   I just scored better.  
   
 Q.   Is this a course that fits your eye?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it does.   It's just difficult, really difficult.   There's no letup on any hole.   Even short holes like 12 is it, 10, if you miss the fairway, you haven't got a prayer to get it anywhere near the hole or even keep it on the green some places.   Like I say, you've just got to stay hydrated, stay focused and just keep hitting fairways to have half a chance of getting it close to the flag.  
   
 Q.   Back to Britain next week?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess the last three months?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'm happy with the way it's gone.   There's always parts to improve, but for my stretch out here last year, which was poor by the standards of this year, within a year I've moved on a hell of a lot.   I've competed in world events and played in places very good either side.   We just need a little bit extra in parts of‑‑ the three months that I've been here it could have been excellent, but in the end it's been very good so far.   We've got a big weekend here to cap it all off and go home and enjoy some time at home for a week, back to the cold.   
   
 Q.   You must be going back to Wentworth with a lot of pride, too?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, happy, yeah.   It was my job to come out here to compete more over here in these bigger events like Doral and like the Masters, and I'm just trying to keep improving all the time.   I've come over here and done that, so yeah, happier going home with what I've achieved in the three‑month stretch.  
   
 Q.   Exceeded your expectations?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Always knew there was going to be a good week or hoped there was going to be a good week in there, the way I've been playing certainly the back end of last year.   It was nice to happen at Doral.   That was a great week, obviously.   The Masters was a decent week.   Yeah, so quite happy, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Has your family enjoyed the experience?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's always nice to play in the heat for a decent stretch.   They're enjoying the sun and lying by the pool chilling, so it's great.   So different, isn't it.   And to stay in Florida with what is perfect practice facilities, you know, it's very different at this time of the year.   I mean, I'm sure I'll be going home now and all the courses will be coming on and the facilities there will be great, but it's just nice to be able to do it somewhere where you've got a long period of time doing it.   So yeah, it's great.   
Next year will be back playing a few more events, probably start earlier.   Yeah, just keep‑‑  
   
 Q.   Should have enough for your card?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'm done on that, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Any long putts today?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   No.   18, 20 feet.   A lot of times looking at the board, it said Donaldson or whoever, and it says 35 feet.   And you think, God, is that 35 feet?   God, it looks about 20.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT