MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First cut made here. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was good.   I scored well again today, which is important. 
I didn't do as well tee to green the last two days, but scored well.   I made quite a few good up‑and‑downs and a few good solid birdies in there as well.

Q.   The bogey there on 13, you seemed to be going pretty well. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I did the same yesterday, I bogeyed 15 when I was going along really well‑‑ well, scoring really well. 
I hit a really good three off the tee.   I hit it too good and it ran out on a line which we didn't think it would run out.   I was tempted to hit it off the pine straw and just take the shot on.   It was quite a long way back, so I laid it up to a decent position and just hit the pitch too well and it went long.   It's very difficult from there. 
But you are going to make bogeys out here.   Bogeys aren't disasters, it's the doubles and triples that kill you.   So occasionally you're going to drop shots, but you just got to make it up with birdies.   That's the story of Augusta, I suppose. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's great.   This year, sort of the last three or four tournaments, I played really well most of the time. 
The two days here I've driven it all over the place literally.   I've had to change from driver to 3‑wood to hit more fairways.   I did do that and then I was able to score from it. 
It's just one of them things.   Sometimes you're not going to hit it where you want it.   There's quite a lot of tee shots here that are really tight, which puts pressure on your long game anyway. 
Then, if you're slightly off at the same time, it just makes it really difficult.   But I think that in the end I just got to tee it up and just smash it and just say, wherever it finishes, just go play it from there. 

Q.   Do you think three years ago you wouldn't have scored well if you weren't driving the ball well?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, possibly.   Possibly.   I don't know.   It's difficult to say.   I can't remember that far back.   I'm getting old. 

Q.   You had a good look at the leaderboard. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I was sort of looking around, I wasn't really paying much attention to it. 
There's so many difficult holes out here, so many holes where you can take big numbers, that you just got to be so focused on what you're doing.   That's what I'm trying to do, not really pay much attention to what's going on, on the lead, to try and get the ball in the hole in as less strokes as possible.   That's what I've done the last couple of days and that's what I'll continue to do.

Q.   When you look at the leaderboard now, Adam is coming back here in the last few holes, what do you see, what do you think about the back nine?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I can only control what I'm doing.   The golf course is mentally difficult.   I'm just going to go out there and play one shot at a time and just try and hit more fairways than I have done the first two days to give myself a chance to get it closer to pins to make lower numbers.   That's all I can do.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT