EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 29, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on a very, very tight match. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Well, I played so well at the start.   I flushed it for nine holes and then I don't know if the heat got to me a little bit, but I hit some shocking shots and gave him a few holes. 
So you know, it was good to get a halve in the end.   It was important to hole that putt for the team and for my match, but I made it very difficult.   It was‑‑ can't give holes away with pars.   So you know, overall, it was very important to hole that putt on the last, and I knew I had to make it, and I made it. 
So yeah, it's slightly frustrating, but I'm glad I made that putt on the last.

Q.   A lot of tension involved with all of the home support and you've got to face up. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I knew he would make it.   He had had a good run in.   He made a good birdie on 16.   I had a chance on 17, misread it, and so it was very important to hole that putt, following him in, I hit a perfect putt and it went right in the middle.

Q.   How much are you looking at the board and how aware are you how vital that halve could be?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I wasn't really playing much attention.   It was just me concentrating on my own match.   That's all we can do.   It's just a case of getting your head down and just keep hitting good shots and make sure you try and get your point on the board.   But at the end, a halve that was as good as I could have done, so there you go. 

Q.   In more general terms, is this good preparation for Ryder Cup? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, any match play is great.   The more match play I play, the better.   It's been a great week.   I've been unbeaten this week which is great.   I've played a lot of good golf.   Obviously it's a pity, a couple of holes with a pars, but that's golf.   That's how things go sometimes.   Things to work on but played the last couple holes very, very well.   And when things were not going in my favour, the momentum was strongly with him.   So yeah, quite happy the way I finished the last couple of holes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT