EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 28, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on another hard‑won victory? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Just that, just another grind today.   Down early, walking off the ninth green, no fault of our own really.   The boys played really well.   We were both under par there sort of the first 12, 13 holes, a couple under par and it was a good quality game. 
We got lucky in the end and the boys were probably favorites playing 13, 14, 15, middle of the fairway, and they made some mistakes and thankfully we played solidly and we were able to capitalize. 

Q.   Seems a very similar scenario to the four‑balls on day one but a different dynamic in foursomes. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's tough to get your rhythm.   We played a lot of good golf in the middle there, and like Graeme said, the guys sort of took their foot off the pedal a little bit on a few holes, gave us a couple, but yeah, it's a tough format.   We played pretty solid all the way through, a couple more putts here and there, and we'd have been in a much stronger position but happy with it.   Very happy with the result.

Q.   When you get into this situation are you looking at the board? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, at one point it was looking really smelly.   It looked very, very red.   So for us to, well, a lot of the guys, looked like they turned them around and for us to turn that game around like we did yesterday was very important.

Q.   Does become a nice lead into the singles, doesn't it?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, it's going to be very interesting to talk to the guys when we go in here.
But without knowing, I'd say heat was a massive factor today.   It was extremely hot on the golf course today.   Jamie and I both were feeling this, especially in this very tough alternate‑shot format, tough to get your rhythm anyway but when you feel like you're over heating, it's very difficult to focus and it's very difficult to hit your shots.
Like Jamie said, I think a lot of the guys looked like they have dug deep coming in and scraped a couple half matches and we are very happy with our point.   Whatever happens, we are in a nice commanding position going into the last day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT