WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just tell us about the round. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I played really well all week.   My long game was really good from tee‑to‑green and I played really good.   You know, I think in the end, it's come down to not quite holding enough putts.   But I hit a lot of good putts this week and sometimes they just don't go in.
Yeah, happy with the week overall. 

Q.   What was going through your mind when you were watching Reed coming up 18? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   You know what, he's 75 yards away, I thought it's pretty much done.   But you never know.   You've just got to watch and wait and maybe he makes a mistake, maybe he doesn't.   But I've gone out there and played as well as I can, and you know, shot as low a score as I can in the conditions that we've had to play in all week, and that's all I can do really. 

Q.   How do you feel about your game?   You've won in Abu Dhabi and you're playing here, you have to feel pretty good. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was important to have a good week, sort of in America.   I've not played great in America, the events I've played in.   So it's nice to come here and have a great week on what is a very tough golf course. 

Q.   The Ryder Cup, will this get you in‑‑
JAMIE DONALDSON:   You never know until someone‑‑ you never know whether you're in until you're in, really, so I don't really try to think about it and just keep playing every week and just keep giving myself more chances to win golf tournaments. 

Q.   And what would that mean to you? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, massive.   Yeah, yeah, it would be a dream come true, you know, but it's been a long way away and I've got a lot of big tournaments before then.   It's important that I work hard and play well in the events I've got left, because obviously, naturally you want to be going into that event with a lot of form.   So it's important to keep working hard and playing well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT