WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   Well, I'm enjoying myself.   It's a tough battle out there.   The course is playing really difficult.   But yeah, I'm enjoying myself and same again tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I suppose you learned quite a lot last weekend at the Honda, didn't you?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I did.   Just getting more used to playing golf over here.   It's more bouncy, greens are firmer, and so it's a slightly different game.   Yeah, I'm slowly getting used to it.  
   
 Q.   Which part of your game needs to be strongest if you're going to go out and win tomorrow?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I just need to hole more putts.   I played pretty good today.   I played promote I solid the previous couple of days, especially yesterday.   I just need to make a few more putts.   Going to hit a few putts now and see if we can get something ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   No time for a wee party down in Miami tomorrow?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Definitely not.   I wish, but definitely not.   
   
 Q.   A little different day than Friday, but still well played.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was strange on the driving range this morning, after yesterday, it was blowing us inside out if we stood there and there was not a breath.   It was kind of eerie.   But as the day picked up, there was a little bit of wind towards the end.   Like I said yesterday, even with no wind on this golf course, it's still a very tough test.  
   
 Q.   Was that a tough adjustment this morning after playing in that wind?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, sometimes it can‑‑ you can get sort of a wind swing and then nothing else, but still pretty good today, played nicely and was there on the range and on the course.  
   
 Q.   You said the wind picked up on the back nine, how is the golf course staying as far as condition‑wise, is it staying in pretty good condition?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's perfect.   The greens, everything is really good condition‑wise.   Nothing's breaking up or anything, even though it's so new; it's as if it's been down for quite a while.   In a couple of years to come, it will be even better.   
Like I said before, every hole is difficult, and you've just got to try and keep it in play.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you'll be within at least three or four shots, maybe even closer, have to feel good going into Sunday.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'm in a good position.   Just go out tomorrow and shoot as low as I can.  
   
 Q.   Enjoying your time in the States?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'm enjoying myself.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT