TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 10, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Round of 63 today, now first of all, I will get on to your hole‑in‑one, but just sum up your day.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I played nice.   It started off, I hit a good putt on the first for birdie after a relatively scrappy hole.   It was going along slowly but nicely, and then the back nine, it all sort of went off.   And obviously the hole‑in‑one on 16, which was mad‑‑ I hit a really good shot.   It was always going to be very close but to see it go in was, yeah, fantastic.  
   
 Q.   A right result as you moved up to about fifth on The Race to Dubai; how about next week?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, looking forward to it.   Obviously the game is pretty good.   Played well last week, this week.   Fly out tonight, get there tomorrow morning.   The family is out next week which will be fantastic.   Yeah, looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Not quite going to make it this week, are you, but what a performance I would say?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I thoroughly enjoyed it.   It's been a great week.   The course has been awesome.   You know, the first time we played a tournament in Turkey, it's fantastic and it's a great place.   The hotel has been awesome.   Thoroughly enjoyed it.   It's been a great week and the weather has been great.   So can't knock that.   
   
 Q.   Did you know that was the prize?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I forgot actually.   It's mad; it's weird when it goes in.   You hit it right down the flag and you're hoping in the air it's going to be close and it lands and vanishes, and it's like, where's that gone.   
Yeah, it was great.   The fact that you get something for it, as well, is nice.   But it was a great time for it to happen at that point in the round.   
   
 Q.   If somebody told you at the start of the year you would go into the Dubai World Championship with a chance to win the whole thing‑‑ what an incredible year it's been for you?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I mean, I've not really looked.   I don't really know where I am or what I'm doing.   Been obviously focusing on what I've been doing this week, came away one shy.   Had a chance at the last and didn't make the putt.   Hit a great putt.  
It's been a great week, thoroughly enjoyed it.   Had great weather all week, as well, which has been nice.   
   
 Q.   How many hole‑in‑ones have you had?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   That's my fifth.   I think I've had three in a year and a half.   
   
 Q.   What other prizes have you won for them?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Nothing.   This is the first time (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT