TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 8, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good is 9‑under over two rounds? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's pretty good.   The course is pretty much there for the taking.   It was quite cold early on, and it was quite windy earlier, as well.   So it was harder than yesterday.   Yesterday was like throwing darts, there was no wind, and it was slightly overcast, and it was very straightforward.
9‑under is pretty good and I'm happy with my position.

Q.   I take it there are plenty of chances to still be made regardless of the conditions? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I think the weather is going to be pretty good for the next two days, come what may, it's going to be low scoring over the weekend.   The course, providing you're hitting the fairways, you have a chance of shooting a very low score; let that be me on the weekend, and two good days, and we won't be far away.

Q.   You've done well in elite fields before, is that something you've raised your game for?   I know you play well week‑in, week‑out but you always seem to mix it amongst the big guys, as well. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Well, yeah, you tell me that‑‑ I don't know.   I'm just going about every week just playing my game, and you know, putting myself in a position to shoot a very good score. 
So yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   I've played well the last two rounds.   So I just need to keep doing more of the same, and make the putts.   Then, you know, I keep playing the way I've played the last two rounds, then there's a very low score in me. 

Q.   Game's healthy in all aspects, is it?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's good, happy how I've played and really like the golf course, so, yeah, looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   First time in Turkey? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It is my first time.   A lot of people come here on holidays and stuff.   It's becoming a massive holiday destination.   A lot of friends have been coming here for quite a while, and I've never been here.   You can see why they keep coming back.   It's a great place, the hotel is awesome and the food's great.   You couldn't beat an all‑inclusive.   Just don't spend too much time in the bar or you could be in trouble. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT