PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Satisfied after a day out in the wind?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yes, very satisfied.   It was getting a bit crusty out there and the wind is blowing.   Just as we were teeing off, it was very calm after maybe four or five holes, the wind started to get up, which it always does here in the afternoon.   So to shoot 5‑under I'm very happy with.  
   
 Q.   You know to expect it; is it easy enough to compensate for it?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   No, it's not easy.   You know, you've got to hit the shots.   If it's flat‑calm here, like the scoring showed this morning, Scott shooting an incredible round of golf, it's obviously possible.   But when the wind gets up, it gets trickier, and I'm happy with where I'm placed and how I've played.  
   
 Q.   Does it change your thinking when you see Scott Jamieson shooting very nearly a 59 but soaring up the leaderboard and knowing what seemingly will be low score again?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   You know, people are going to do it in the morning here if it's calm.   Not necessarily thinking that low, but it's a very good score.   You just have to get on with what you do and just try to keep in touch with the leaders.  
   
 Q.   How important is it that at the last?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It was a nice way to finish.   You sit on that tee and you know, it's a tough, tough tee shot, especially wind off the right.   You know, so it's a case of just trying to get that ball in the fairway and then give yourself a chance from there and I hit a really good shot in and the putt tried to be short and in the end just dropped.  
   
 Q.   Nose to the grindstone, you know you have to shoot low tomorrow, same ambition right at the top?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's a golf course that welcomes low scores, even in the wind, guys are still shooting sort of seven under in the wind.   It's a tournament tomorrow which will be up for grabs for anyone really.   There's quite a lot of people top of the leaderboard.   Personally I've got to just get my head down and keep playing like I've been playing and see if I can hole a few more putts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT