PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 10, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   65 today, that sounds pretty nice to me, how do you feel about it?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Good.   I played nicely all day.   You know, it was pretty calm this morning, so it was important to take advantage of the benign conditions.   
   
 Q.   The greens out there are starting to firm up, is that the way you like it?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I mean, there was some quite firm this morning and some quite soft, so sort of varied on from hole to hole.   There's some out there on the back nine towards the end that will be very firm later today.   You know, I think the greens will get firmer as the greens go on which will put forth a tougher test.  
   
 Q.   Abu Dhabi, a little bit like Abu Dhabi; you like it there; you're the champion there.   This is not so dissimilar.   What is it about these sort of resort‑style golf courses with you?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I don't know, I've played well here before played pretty decent last year.   Enjoyed the course.   It's a nice week and the weather is always great.   It gets windy, so it's a good test and it's a good, fun week.  
   
 Q.   We have this championship here for you to get rid of first and then we have big championships coming, huge, there's four big ones.   What are your goals for those?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   My goal, I've got, like I say, I've got, yeah, four to six big events left.   I've got lots of goals, lots of targets to hit for those big tournaments.   If I can pop off a win from now before the end of the year, it would be great in the grand scheme of things.   
Played well pretty much from the off.   It was quite still this morning so it was important to play well in those conditions.   
   
 Q.   You've played here often enough, you know just what can be achieved and how you've got to chase a few birdies here and there?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   You've got to be patient, as well.   There are a lot of birdie chances out there, a lot of the holes, especially when it's calm‑‑ but you've got to be patient.   You can very easily get ahead of yourself and start throwing the toys out of the pram when they don't go in, but you just have to wait and be patient like I said, and then wait for the birdies to go in.   
It's tough out there when the wind blows, but when it doesn't, there's a lot of chances so you just have to take it when they come.  
   
 Q.   You've had it flat calm but you don't mind if the wind blows, either?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I don't mind, but to kick off the tournament off, it was nice to have those conditions, and it was very much target golf.   A lot of greens were holding.   Some were firm, some were soft, so it was a bit of both.  
You know, it was nice to play well, like I say, in those conditions.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel any benefit from having played Seve Trophy last week when you played some pretty good stuff at times?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I played well.   Most people played‑‑ most of the lads played well last week.   A shame to come up one short.   It was good.   You know, you're playing under tough, competitive conditions last week, so it's nice to get rid of some of the rust if you like and play well and then just bring it onto this week.  
   
 Q.   Does that team environment help reenergize things for the season?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was great.   Those team events are fantastic.   We had great fun all week.   You know, it's just like I say, it's nice to play in those conditions in a team environment.   It's a great buzz and you know, it will do nothing but help this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT