DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 6, 2017
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Interesting opening few holes for you today.
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, hit it great early on.  Hit two really good shots into the par 5.  But I was still asleep.  I just casually 5-putted, which was kind of bizarre.  I think I was half-asleep.  I've had a lot of early mornings recently and was in the middle of a run.  Yeah, just wasn't really paying much attention and thought I was going to be there all day.
Q. Plenty of birdies, nine birdies today, which must be pleasing.
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I played really good all the way around.  I putted nicely and drove it well.  So you know, that combination, you've got to hit it close.  But you've done the hard bit.  This golf course, you've got to hit the fairways.  It's brutal if you miss them.  If you hit them, you can shoot a number.  If you start missing fairways, it's very difficult.
Q. Do you feel the game is better than perhaps results have been of late?
JAMIE DONALDSON: The last three events I've played pretty good.  Top 10, Top 15, 30th in front.  I've been playing nicely the last three weeks.  Just a lot of injuries over the past 12 months and now they have gone and cleared up, and, yeah, back to where I left off.
Q. How did you play?
JAMIE DONALDSON: Played nice.  Hit a lot of fairways and putted well.  So yeah, quite happy.  The golf course is very tough in places.  Start missing fairways, become difficult.  But you know, I drove it well, so gave myself a good chance of making lots of birdies and went out and did so.
Q. Are you working on anything in particular at the moment?
JAMIE DONALDSON: Doing better.  Always working on things, aren't you, bits and bobs.  Played nice.  Swing felt good.  The putter went well.  Just tidying things up.  I've had a lot of injuries over the past 12 months.  They have cleared up now, so a case of just cracking on.
Q. So surely this round will give you a lot of confidence going into tomorrow, and tell us a little bit about the course here, and obviously suits your eye.
JAMIE DONALDSON: I like it here.  It's a great setting.  I think to play brilliant golf courses, a great links course, this is the spot.  You've got Portrush, Portstewart, County Down.  It's all here on this coast.  If you're going to go anywhere for a golf holiday, you'd come here.  It's just incredible scenery.  The golf course is awesome.  It suits my eye.  You're hitting in dunes with flashes of the ocean on every hole.  It's a beautiful place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT