VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your verdict on the day, please.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Played pretty good.   Scored great towards the end there.   You know, I was 4‑down early.   He holed some of the longest putts that I've ever seen, which were pretty spectacular for him but not for me.   
You know, he got off to a great start, was 4‑down early and it was a matter of just being patient and waiting and just seeing if we can make a few putts and get back in the game and that's what I did.   I've just played the last few holes as well as I have done, I've hit two 7‑irons into 16 and 18, which were as good as I've ever hit, and I birdied both holes.   
But from me putting the pressure on 18 and hitting it to six feet, he hit it to four feet (laughing).   He hit an awesome shot there, because the pressure is massively on him.   I thought, you know, once it was in the air, I thought I could get a halve out of this but it wasn't to be.   
   
 Q.   And yet the holes you mentioned, the fifth and the eighth, he had no right to hole those putts, you were helpless in that situation.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I couldn't do anything.   He hit two awesome putts but again, you never know what's going to happen in match play and you just have to keep going.   It turned around in my favour towards the end, although I played really good.   But wasn't quite enough.  
   
 Q.   Sounds a silly question when you've lost out, but have you actually enjoyed it, the very fact that it's match play, head‑to‑head like that?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was awesome.   I played so well coming in that you can't not enjoy it.   But you know he's just pipped me there, which was‑‑ it was just (laughing)‑‑ just tight, wasn't it.   Good on him for hitting such a good shot into 18 when I put all the pressure on him.   
a lot of match play in my amateur days and I always liked it.   I think even though my record is not good, I've always enjoyed playing it and I think I'm good at it.   So hopefully I need to keep proving, especially to the new Ryder Cup Captain, that I can play this format.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT