MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   There's only one hole we can start with, isn't there.   Talk us through it. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   There is.   It's funny.   Like it's a tough shot, the pin's high up on the right side, so you don't know whether to take it on or sort of play just short left, so you got a putt up the hill. 
But my caddie said, listen, you just go straight at it when it's up there.   And that's what I did.   And it was great to see the ball pitch right on line, just short, and it went in. 
So it was pretty special.

Q.   What was the club and the yards?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I think it was 177 and I hit a soft 7‑iron. 

Q.   How many is that now?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Two. 

Q.   What do you get for this one?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Nothing?   I don't know, somebody said crystal. 

Q.   It's not a new car. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   No, but to make a hole‑in‑one on the 6th hole at Augusta, that was awesome, yeah. 

Q.   You got your team Donaldson with you. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, they were all jumping around.   So, yeah, it was great.   The shot was right down the flag, but you don't know whether it's the right club until you see it land and then it went in. 

Q.   How many did you bring with you?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Oh, there's, I got my dad and my brother and two mates.   They have all got daft names on the tee sheets.   And I think that he's my longest serving mate, so he got that.   Plus, my brother's put all sort of stuff on the back of the tee sheets.   We have had good fun this week.   We have a nice house down the road.   It's been great. 

Q.   Do you have thoughts on the other 17 holes?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Drove it pretty well, put it in a lot of really strong positions, but just didn't hit the iron shots as close as I would like. 
But overall pretty happy.   I was disappointed to bogey the last, but, you know, I think it was the shortest shot that I had that didn't quite come off. 
12 I hit what I thought was a really good wedge shot straight down the flag and it pitched just on the top of the bank and came back into the water.   So a little bit like that way, a tiny bit the other, can make all the difference around here.

Q.   Do you keep the ball?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I kept it.   I'll probably auction it with a flag for charity.   So, you know, anything I can give to charity that might raise some money.   But it was a great day, good fun.

Q.   You played with Martin and Mark today.   What was their reaction after that?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   High fives everywhere.   Everybody hit really good shots right down the flag, it was just mine was dead on line and it went in.   So it was awesome. 

Q.   Did you think that was a possibility coming in that you would have this experience to get a hole‑in‑one your first day?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Not there.   I mean, you're staring down that hole and the green's like there's dead elephants buried everywhere. 
So, you know, the pin is in the hardest pin placement, so you just have to take the shot on, I went straight at it and the shot came off exactly as I wanted it to and it went in.   It was just like, wow. 

Q.   Is that a Donaldson tartan, is it?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's a Galvan Green Masters tartan, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT