ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   Solid start, played some pretty good golf out there.   It's a tough day.   The wind is blowing a little.   Not as hard as yesterday but still a little wind here makes the golf course very difficult.   
I hit quite a lot of good shots, and more often than not in the short stuff, which you need to be around here.   The rough is very penal.   
   
 Q.   5‑under on a difficult track out here, that's a good start.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, you just take what comes really.   It's been a long, difficult golf course, and when the wind blows it makes it even harder.   It's a case of being patient and waiting for the putts to go in.  
   
 Q.   Was there a highlight?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I hit two ropey wedge shots on the second and third, and I made two birdies from them.   So that was a turning point for the day and kept the momentum going.   
I hit a lot of good shots, but those two particularly sort of helped the score, if you like.   Like I said, it's a tough golf course and it's tricky out there and I'm very happy with the score.   
   
 Q.   Did that already help, the fact that you had those four rounds in Durban?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Well, takes a little bit of rust off if you like.   It was nice to play four rounds, get the season going and on a great golf course last week, as well.  
To come here, having played one tournament and having played sort of half‑decent, it gets you up to this place to come here a little dry if you like is very difficult.   It's a tough test and you have to be on; if you're slightly off, you can be severely punished.  
It's a great field, good World Ranking points available, and just playing my game and getting on with it.   
   
 Q.   Splendid round of 67.   What was the secret to success today?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Scored pretty well today.   Obviously 5‑under is a great start.   I played pretty good in most of the round but there were times when it wasn't quite on, we made some good up‑and‑downs.   It was a matter of scoring well and keeping the momentum going.  
   
 Q.   Give us a feel more how the golf course is playing today?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Pretty much the same as normal.   It's tough but it's playing pretty long.   The rough is quite penal and you've got to keep out of the rough, and if you don't, you've got to just give yourself chances of making pars.   It's a tough golf course and you've just got to keep it on the straight and narrow.  
   
 Q.   What were your expectations coming into this event?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I played last week, played okay, a bit up‑and‑down.   I had not done much in the last month off, relaxing at home with the family.   Just getting the season going again really.   I've been looking forward to coming here.   I love playing in Abu Dhabi and the Middle East, and just looking forward to getting the season going again.  
   
 Q.   Your Race to Dubai position has improved all of the last five years.   What's the target this year after 19th?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I'm always trying to find ways of improving each year.   You want to just keep getting better every year really and whatever that takes.   
   
 Q.   On a day Tiger woods described as very, very tough you had a round of 67, how impressed are with you that?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, chuffed.   It's a very difficult golf course.   It was tricky today, the wind sort of blowing around a little bit and it literally stayed in the same place quite often.   A tough day, just a matter of hitting fairways.   If you start hitting the rough here, it becomes very difficult.   Most of the time today I was in the short stuff and had chances to make birdies.  
   
 Q.   You stuck in there with your short game, as well.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, made a few good up‑and‑downs, holed a bunker shot.   
Yeah, I'm chuffed with the day.   It's a tough golf course, like I said, and sort of just keep trying to hit the short stuff and give yourself chances.  
   
 Q.   How have your expectations changed from then to now?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I've been getting better every year, the last five years I've improved, and just keep working hard and finding ways to improve.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT