VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2013
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, good finish.   Played pretty nice all day.   Just hit one bad shot at the par5, lost a ball.   Apart from that, pretty good.   A few birdies to finish to finish 2‑under, yeah.   
   
 Q.   On a difficult track, one you like?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's a good golf course.   It's difficult.   You're slightly off line, lose your ball.   It's very severe in places, very difficult.   But yeah, I like it.   It's good.   You know, if we can keep playing like that, there's a few birdies to be made, you just have to keep the ball in play off the tee.  
   
 Q.   You lost your ball twice; where?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   8 just pulled it on 8, it's an easy par 5 if you get the drive away.   It's quite a short second shot.   
Today it was into a strong wind, and it's very narrow off the tee, slightly left‑to‑right, pulled it, lost it, and then made par the second ball, made double and just sort of stayed pretty focused and made a few birdies coming in, which resurrected the flub on that hole.   
   
 Q.   Some of the vegetation here is very dense, you can't even see your way into it, can you?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   No.   It's nearly not even worth looking for it unless you're trying to find snakes or something.   Yeah, it's pretty dense.   There's nearly‑‑ like I said, there's really no point.   
   
 Q.   I take it you've seen no snakes but probably a few monkeys?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, there's a few monkeys today.   It's not South Africa at its best I suppose.   It's rained the last sort of four or five holes, which I didn't mind too much yesterday, it was so hot, and today it was just lovely, apart from the rain.  
If the rain had held off another four holes, it would have been perfect playing conditions really, apart from the wind.  
   
 Q.   With the rain coming down, I guess it's what we are used to at times?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, we've had a bit of rain as it goes generally through the year, you don't really expect it here, except the occasional thunderstorm.   It's just drizzling at the moment.   The wind is not quite as strong but it's still pretty tough out there.  
   
 Q.   How was your winter break?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, nice.   I didn't really do much.   Just sort of had a couple of week holiday and relaxing at home with the family.   
   
 Q.   So time to recharge batteries, really?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I've had basically just over a month off, which has been great.   I've not really played, like I said, I would have played a little bit of golf in Mauritius.   We stayed at Le Touessrok Golf Course, a small tournament, a bit of fun, more of a holiday.   It was just nice to put the clubs away for the time being.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean you come out determined to increase on that wonderful form of last year and the first victory of your career?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, yeah, best year‑to‑date.   We start fresh now.   It's start from the beginning and see if we can improve on last year.   There's still many things to improve on.   
But like I say, it's nice to have a month off and feel fresh coming into the start of the season, which is the most important thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT