BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAMIE DONALDSON:   Started pretty good.   Hit a lot of good shots early on and didn't quite capitalise on them.   Drove the ball great most of the day.   My iron play was poor.   Didn't hit it that close to flags and then missed greens with short clubs, which you know, you're not going to shoot a score from.   So it was a slightly frustrating day.   But that's golf sometimes.   
   
 Q.   I soup pose we always say it's going to be near impossible to repeat what you did on the opening day here.   But it seemed like a matter of just holding it together at times today?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, because it was such a battle because I didn't play‑‑ the iron shots weren't great.   It was just tough.   You know, I made a few good up‑and‑downs for that, as well.   You know, but we hit a lot of good chips and a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   So overall, I mean, a couple better was probably the best I could have done with the way I played.   
Today was one of those days where it didn't come together.   The day before, everything went right and today nothing went right.   Let's hope, sort of get on with it and get on with tomorrow and see if we can sort of hit it close again.  
   
 Q.   The par 5s were good to you?  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, played the par 5s pretty good.   But just too many sloppy shots.   I had wedges and 9‑irons and stuff like that and miss a green.   That's not normally the way I play.   Just slightly frustrating.   Like I said that's the way it goes.   
   
 Q.   And Peter Hanson playing alongside you, that probably rubbed it in just a little bit.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, he played great.   He putted well, holed a lot of putts like I did the day before.   Today he didn't putt as well.   But you know, we are in a decent position, if we can go out tomorrow and shoot a good number again, then we are right back in the mix of things.   
   
 Q.   Absolutely, because you know better than anybody that a low score is possible out there.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, the way my golf goes sometimes, wouldn't be surprised if I shot 7‑ or 8‑under tomorrow.   Just that's the way it is sometimes, but you've just got to get on with it and get the most out of it.   
You never know what you're going to get; it's a box of chocolates, I'm afraid, which is frustrating at times, but that's just how it is.  
   
 Q.   As a result of your 62 yesterday, Ballantine's gave you a lovely bottle of whisky.   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   That's great.   Thank you very much Ballantine's.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT