BMW MASTERS
October 25, 2012
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us and congratulations, fight a fine round out there today, 10‑under 62.   Just tell us about your day.  
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I just played great all day.   I mean, I played great from the word go.   Hit a lot of fairways and put myself in really strong positions and capitalised when I had putts.   Didn't have many long putts.   Just played really well, and one of those days where everything went for me.   You know, it's been a really good day.  
STEVE TODD:   You've showed us a few times this year that you have those low rounds within you and you've also played well in China before; so the combination of factors came together nicely there?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I have seemed to have played quite well in China when I come here.   I enjoy playing here.   The golf course seems to suit my eye, I like the way it's designed.   Today it just suited my eye and it was sort of like quite benign conditions.   Weather wasn't much wind and stuff.   It was quite flat calm, so it was just sort of paramount to low scoring.   
   
 Q.   What would have been the longest birdie putt you had out there today?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   20 feet.   
   
 Q.   What hole was that?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Good question.   It would have been early on the back nine.   Probably 11, I think it's 11.   
   
 Q.   The golfers sort of talk about being in the zone, is that how you sort of felt today, was it?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, I was properly zoned in.   Just felt pretty relaxed all day and very relaxed atmosphere, good fun with Clarke today.   I just kept hitting the ball where I wanted to hit it and the putts sort of started right where I wanted them to start.   So sort of added up to a really good day.   
Yeah, I was just in the flow of things.   
   
 Q.   Would you say that's one of your best competitive rounds ever?   I think you shot 61 but that was on preferred lies, am I right?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I've had two 61s.   I had a 61 in China, I think the year before last maybe, and then I shot 61 in Morocco this year.   
Yeah, I played really good.   To compare it to those two other rounds, it's difficult to say, really.   I've just played very well all day.   You know, it's up there with the best rounds I've ever shot.   The golf course is probably slightly harder than the other two that I played I would say, the other two low scores.   It's very much up there, yes.   The golf course is certainly no pushover by any stretch of the imagination.   
   
 Q.   This field doesn't get a lot stronger or better than this for a European Tour event; is this quite a statement you've made today, do you think?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It is a particularly hard field, tough field this week.   It's as good as any; the whole Ryder Cup Team is here.   It's a brutally hard field.   
All I'm trying to do, even if you're playing against a weak field on The European Tour, it's still a strong field.   The strength and depth across The European Tour nowadays seems to be very strong.   It's just particularly stronger this week.   
But I'm just going out there trying to play my own game and whoever I play with, I'm just trying to do what I do and control what I can control.   I've just got to play well for the next three days to finish on top sort of thing.   
We are just taking one day at a time and one shot at a time and playing to the best of my ability and concentrating on me, not anybody else.   
   
 Q.   After a few years on the Tour, you had your first win this year at The Irish Open.   Is there something that you found from that win that kind of gave you a little boost in your self‑confidence, something to make you turn out a great round like this today?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's listed my confidence from the win, of course it has.   I know I can do it when it mattered and it was a big win and a long time coming and it happened this year and it was great.   You start performing like that in big tournaments, it only sort of rolls on from there and you have to sort of reset your targets and move on.   
Yeah, that was awhile ago now but I've been playing pretty good since.   Yeah, just enjoying it and just keep trying to do the same things that enabled me to win that week.   
   
 Q.   After years on the Tour, you got your first win, but this week and the following few weeks on The European Tour, you have all of the big money tournaments.   Everything is about 6‑, 7‑ $8million.   If you get a big win this week or maybe a good result in the upcoming weeks, it might change your whole mentality; or how do you see yourself preparing for all of the big tournaments coming up?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, The Irish Open win has opened quite a few doors.   We're playing bigger events and tougher fields.   I just want to keep improving all the time.   I've got targets, personal targets I set myself each year.   
I just want to keep improving and get better and move up the World Rankings.   However well I do, we are always looking to move to the next goal post and do better all the time.   It's a great stepping stone and just looking at each week to try and play as well as I can and try and fulfill the goals that I set myself each year.  
   
 Q.   Is today's weather perfect for yourself, like when you won The Irish Open?   Is it similar to this?   
JAMIE DONALDSON:   I mean, apart from the rain that we had a bit early on, it's ideal scoring conditions.   There's no wind.   There's no sun but it's quite warm, slightly overcast obviously.   It's ideal scoring conditions if you took the slight bit of rain earlier on.   It is ideal scoring conditions, but like I said before, the golf course is difficult.   We played it slightly shorter than we have done in practise, but it's still a very difficult golf course.   Although it's tough, you've still got to play a lot of good shots.   
STEVE TODD:   Jamie, well done and thanks for joining us.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT