DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 20, 2016
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you reckon to a round of 70 to move you nicely up the leaderboard?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, drove it pretty good.  Overall pretty happy.  I seem to play the hard holes quite well today and the easy holes, I made difficult.   
But yeah, overall, pretty happy.   
 Q.  In terms of scoring, it sounds fairly modest but essentially that's good scoring over two days, isn't it, in blustery conditions?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, yesterday, it's funny the scoring, because yesterday it was a lot harder.  Today was easier and there was a score to be had out there today.  I think if you were able to hit it close enough, especially this morning with the greens being better than they were yesterday afternoon, you know, I played pretty good.  Wasn't able to capitalise on the sort of calmer conditions this morning.  But overall, like I say, pretty happy.  3-under is not bad.   
 Q.  Reading between the lines, is it frustrating you haven't made more of it?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: It is what it is.  You've got to pick up on the par 5s here and I didn't do that today, but then made some great birdies on the tougher holes.  Sometimes you birdie the hard holes and make it hard for the easy holes or sometimes the other way around.   
Just got to be patient and give yourself that opportunity to catch up on holes that you might not birdie by staying patient and wait for the putts to go in.   
 Q.  I appreciate the victory in this event was a while ago and on a totally different track, but still a very special vibe about playing The Irish Open?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Oh, it's great.  Yeah, I love coming to Ireland.  I love playing any of the courses over here.  The crowd, you always get great crowds.  They are very supportive and they come out in numbers.  It's a great event, one of our best events on Tour, and I love coming back to play here.   
 Q.  Is it something that brings out the best in you, as well, the way you react to it?  
JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, I suppose it's the same as the Manchester weather, isn't it, living at the moment at home.  It's the drizzly, windy weather.  Maybe I'm used to playing in those conditions.  But yeah, it's great.  There's great scenery and great crowds, and there's always the pint of black stuff in the evening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT