BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   After the severe rain yesterday, the course must be playing quite long.   Tell us about how playing conditions were?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Not too bad really.   It's not that wet under foot.   You think it would be a lot wetter.   The course obviously has drained very well.   It was quite dry considering. 

Q.   Wind seems to be quite gusty; is it making it very hard to play?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it's tough.   It was mainly crosswind, a lot of crosswinds.   You're always trying to shape the ball one way or another into the wind to try and hold it.   Otherwise if it goes, you lose control, it's quite difficult.   But overall, yeah, it's a tough day.

Q.   2‑under par opening round, how do you feel about the result? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, good.   I played nice.   You've just got to keep the ball in play all the time.   There's a lot of tough holes out there today, and you know, kept it in play and holed a few putts. 

Q.   Can you run through your birdies? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   10, that was the first hole of the day, 4‑iron to a foot.   That always helps to start the day. 
16, I hit a 6‑iron to six feet and holed it. 
18, bogey, it was a good bogey in the end.   I hit it right off the tee in the trees, chopped it out, nearly lost it, found it, chopped it out, knocked it on on, 2‑putted for six. 
4, two drivers, just short of the green, chipped up and holed it from about ten feet. 
5, hit a good 3‑wood into position.   Then I hit full gap wedge to ten feet and holed it. 
7, I hit a good 4‑iron, actually.   It was a good shot.   I just went long.   I had to putt through the fringe, and didn't get it right.   Fired it past.   3‑putted, basically. 

Q.   How was it today? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, it was good.   Played nicely.   Surprised, could have been better, actually.   It is tricky.   We played the first‑‑ we both played nice.   Made a lot of good up‑and‑downs but overall a pretty tough day.

Q.   There are chances out there but few and far between I guess. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   There are chances.   You've just got to put it in position off the tees and see where it falls.   One of the easiest holes was 18, and I bogeyed.   So there's no gimmies.   You have to play well and put it in position.

Q.   How tricky is that wind? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   If it stays the same, it's tough.   But it's when it starts changing direction; there's a few times where you're changing direction towards the end there and that would be did you feel because you don't know if it's down or into.   Like the last hole there, we didn't know whether it was helping off the right or into off the right because it kept moving. 
So we didn't quite get it right but we weren't far off but it's tough when it's changing. 

Q.   Give us an indication, some of the elevations. 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   It's a very hilly golf course and obviously it's very windy.   Flat, calm day, you can shoot a low score, but today it's just a case of keeping it in play all the time.   You can very easily spray it.   I sprayed it a couple of times and just about got a way with it. 
I parred the first hole, pushed it right off the tee, and then was behind a tree and hit a 5‑wood down the fairway and snapped it into three pieces, which I've never done that before which was quite amusing.   But I made par there, so I don't mind.   Got to go have it re‑shafted now. 

Q.   No damage to the wrist or anything?
JAMIE DONALDSON:   No, no, the wrist is still good. 

Q.   And good to play with Mark Foster? 
JAMIE DONALDSON:   Yeah, he's a good mate.   He played really well.   He probably played slightly better than I did but we scored the same.   That's golf.   Tomorrow is another day.   Might be calmer. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT