SAAB WALES OPEN
June 5, 2011
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMIE DONALDSON: Poor day overall. There's nothing really more to describe it. Yeah, the finish was pretty good again, with you but the start was slow, on a day which was there for the taking, the conditions were pretty good.   
 It's the easiest day out of the four. We didn't play well enough to capitalise on any decent shots or make enough birdies. It's been a good week and probably would have taken it at the start.   
 I've come here this week to a golf course, that at the start of the week, you would say, yeah. It's a good position, but we were in a really strong position yesterday and didn't play well enough today simply.  
  
  Q. Played well at the start and then not, did that knock you?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: It wasn't pretty at the first hole. It was raining, cold. I made a double. I thought I hit a pretty good tee shot really. Thought it was on the fairway but it wasn't. But after, that I played -- I hit a lot of decent shots but I couldn't really get the pace of the greens, had a couple of sloppy 3-putts and putts I shouldn't have missed but it happens and overall it's not really good enough.  
  
  Q. When you were playing, were you looking at the leaderboard? Because it was on for somebody to go on a charge.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it was. I was 4-under playing the 12th and it's that sort of time that you're looking at kicking on really, and I hit a poor tee shot there into the water, tried to force it a little bit, which was disappointing from that point, you suddenly make a birdie on 12, and you're really kicking it on and have a chance of putting a bit of pressure on. I really had to kick on from that point and I didn't. It wasn't quite to be.  
  
  Q. Another Top-10 finish, your game is in good shape?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it's pretty good. Some more tightening to do. Need to tighten up on the greens a bit better. The putting wasn't quite as good as it has been. Overall, it was good, just need a bit more when it matters and be all right.  
  
  Q. And in this form, confident going into open qualification tomorrow?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, it's a matter of just not doing much tomorrow, a big day tomorrow, and if I can play well, we'll easily qualify.   
  
  Q. Good enough to qualify?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT