SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Jamie Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Reflect on two rounds of 68 if you would.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yes, I played really good. I probably played better today than I did yesterday but yesterday I played really well yesterday, but it was just tough today because of the wind. Played sort of the first eight or nine holes into, so it was a matter of sort of keeping your score, making pars really. It was just a matter of grinding until the wind turned, and you had a lot more holes on the back nine downwind.   
  
  Q. And you're a good wind player?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, like I said, waiting really, and I kept waiting and kept waiting, made a few pars and bogeyed the 9th, which I didn't hit a good shot. But after that I played really solid, you know, and just birdied 11 and 12, and then sort of waiting, and it was great to finish on a high with an eagle on the last.   
 I hit a really good shot to the middle of the fairway and then I hit 6-iron and hit a really good shot, waited for it to release on the green, but it was very soft. So I was on the front of the green, hit a pretty decent putt pretty straight and it stayed straight so it wobbled around a little bit and dropped in at the end. It was a really great way to finish.  
  
  Q. How long?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: 30 feet probably.   
  
  Q. You can exaggerate if you like. It felt longer from where we were.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Yeah, so it's great to see it go in the my middle, yeah, really great way to finish. You obviously like to birdie the last anyway, but the way it went in was a bonus.  
  
  Q. What kind of appreciation have you got from the crowds out here?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: They are really good. They have been great all day for all of us really, especially me. But yeah, the crowds are great. The course is great. Just looking forward to a really big weekend.  
  
  Q. When you're playing in a marquis group like that, you get support regardless, but do you feel the warmth of the home supporters?  
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I do. You know, support has been great. Played really well for two rounds really and in good position.   
  
  Q. Has it always been like that here, or is it a case of your form has improved, your ranking in the world has improved; people know you that much more now.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: I've always had a bit of support down here, because obviously you're we go much, you come back to your homeland if you like. Yeah, I've always had decent scores down here.   
 Let's just hope we are still playing like this Sunday, and provided I keep doing what I'm doing, be up there on Sunday on the back.  
  
  Q. Do you thrive on it?   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: Of course we do, that's what we play for. Today has been really enjoyable. I played with two really great golfers who played really well, and just look for more of the same.  
  
  Q. Good for you to test yourself against that kind of player, as well.   
 JAMIE DONALDSON: It's great. They sort of bring each other along I suppose. Everybody is playing really good golf, and all you're seeing is good shots. So you have got to focus and keep playing good shots.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT