CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2011
Lisa Meldrum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LISA MELDRUM: Yeah, it was a lot of fun today. We got off to an early start this morning. It was a 7:30 tee time, and a few people were out early. I just got off to a great start, and just stayed loose with my caddie this week. So far I've got a good friend of mine on the bag who is also a very good player, so that's been fun for me. 
 But, yeah, just looking forward to the weekend, and that is one of my better rounds this year. We haven't played too much and made a lot of birdies to start the day, which was exciting and then left a few out there even when I made the turn on the front side.

 Q. Great start and a great finish. 
 LISA MELDRUM: Yeah, it was fun to birdie 9 there. I didn't hit the best shot in there, but any time you've got the putter in your hand, you have a chance to make it, and that's what I did. So that was a fun way to finish for sure.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 LISA MELDRUM: I think just my start. I started 2-over on the first few holes yesterday. Not hitting bad shots. Just the weather came in and I got a little frazzled, I guess, at the beginning. Then today I got off to a great start, made a great putt on the first hole, and from there I kept the momentum going.

 Q. You were playing summer rules, I guess. Was the course tougher than yesterday? 
 LISA MELDRUM: Yesterday we were playing with clean and place. There were a couple of tee boxes that were a little further up, and today got a few balls with a little bit of mud, but they had moved those boxes back. 
 It was similar. There were a couple of holes that were playing longer, but overall, it was the same.

 Q. To make the cut, is it a sense of relief for you? 
 LISA MELDRUM: Yeah, it's nice. I had a good start yesterday, and my goal is not just to make the cut. My goal is to be up there and do really well. But to have that sort of in the past now it means any time you get a chance on the weekend, you have a chance to win. 
 So we're just going to do the same thing I did today and try to move up tomorrow.

 Q. This is your second year? 
 LISA MELDRUM: It's my second year, yes.

 Q. And your best result this year? 
 LISA MELDRUM: Just a made cut at the beginning of the year, couple made cuts, nothing spectacular.

 Q. What is your best result here at the Canadian Open? 
 LISA MELDRUM: That's a good question. I made the cut a few times. I don't remember. I know back in '04, and last year I did okay. I don't remember the exact position. 
 But it was fun just try to keep the momentum going on the weekend and like I said, just embrace being out here and try not to put too much pressure on myself.

 Q. You're from Kirkland?
 LISA MELDRUM: Yes.

 Q. You live in the States though? 
 LISA MELDRUM: I live in Florida. I live in Orlando, I live in Montreal right now, so all over.

 Q. You spend time --
LISA MELDRUM: I spend my winter in Florida.

 Q. I was not sure if it was Kirkland. 
 LISA MELDRUM: Most of my life, Kirkland. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT