KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2016
Dennis Baggett
Sylvia Lopez-Navarro
Matt Ferrara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DENNIS BAGGETT: Good afternoon, everyone, and friends.  We're excited today to make something official that we've talked about for quite a long time.
This being the seventh year of the Kia Classic, we've had different charitable initiatives that we've supported and done a lot of things locally but we are really excited about the announcement we made at our Media Day a few weeks ago with Brian and the group from Kia announcing Hire Heroes USA as the Official Charity Partner of the Kia Classic for this year.
We thought today was an appropriate day to make this presentation, today being Military Appreciation Day.  If you didn't seen it or don't know about it, we allow military members and their families free admission to the tournament for the entire week, just as a very small thank you from our group for all the work that they do.
And it's a pretty cool display, if you can't watched it, go out to the 9th hole and take a look at some of those young men and young women in uniform that are attending the flag.  It will be, if you haven't seen it, it will give you a pretty cool little sense of pride to see and think about what they do for us and do for our country.
So this presentation, I really want to hand it over to Sylvia Lopez-Navarro to make this, but I want to say from our perspective, Matt Ferrara and everyone at Hire Heroes, we are proud to be partnered with such an organization; that not only is doing such great work for military members coming back, but also does it with such integrity.
We hear a lot of times about these charitable organizations that so much money is going towards administrative fees or exorbitant salaries for executives, and we know that the money that is going towards Hire Heroes is really being put to use doing the good work that you do.
To make some remarks about that, I want to hand it over to you, Sylvia.
SYLVIA LOPEZ-NAVARRO: Thank you, Dennis.  I'm Sylvia Lopez-Navarro, Partnerships and Experiential Marketing Manager at Kia Motors, America.  On behalf of the Kia team members and retail partners Nationwide, we welcome you to the 7th annual Kia Classic.
Each year the tournament promises exciting rounds of competition played by the top professionals in the game, and so far this year has been no exception.
Over the past seven years of this partnership, both Kia and the LPGA have evolved.  Kia is one of the fastest-growing car companies in the US, and our world-class products including our luxury flagship sedan, official vehicle of the LPGA, the Kia K900, are making consumers and the auto industry sit up and take notice of the new Kia.
The LPGA has enjoyed increased popularity, as well as this event has seen exponential growth year over year.  It is because Kia and the LPGA complement each other so well, that Kia recently extended our title partnership of this outstanding tournament through 2018.  We are proud of this partnership and look forward to the many years of success and cooperation to follow.
While the opportunity of this tournament is global, we can't forget the local communities here in Southern California that host Kia year after year.  But both Kia and the LPGA are committed to giving back not only to local communities, but also on a national level.
With the strong military presence in the backyard of the Kia Classic, we at Kia Motors America along with our friends at the LPGA, recently announced that Hire Heroes USA is the official charity of the Kia Classic and we couldn't be more happy.
To help further this cause, on behalf of Kia employees, I would like to present Hire Heroes with a $25,000 donation to help them further along the important work they do each and every day.  In addition, a portion of the proceeds from the ticket sales received here at this tournament, will be donated to Hire Heroes USA.
At this time, I would like to welcome you again, Matt Ferrara from Hire Heroes USA to join Dennis and I to receive this amazing donation.  Thank you all for your time, and enjoy the beautiful southern California sun.
MATT FERRARA: Thank you, and first of all on behalf of Hire Heroes USA organization and the thousands of service members and their husbands and wives who we change the lives for and assist every year, I'd like to deeply thank Kia Motors for this donation.  This will be instrumental in us delivering our services throughout the Southern California region and possibly around the entire country.
As far as our mission, our mission is to empower military veterans and their spouses in succeeding in the civilian work force, and we do that by helping them understand the skills that they obtained in the military and translate those into something that works into the given civilian career that they would like to get into.
We use all kind of different resources to help these individuals, everything from mentoring to resumé edits to job sourcing, leads, training, interview skills, you name it.  We are with them throughout that entire transition.  This donation will not only help us change those individuals' lives, but drive down unemployment in the veteran community.
For that, I thank you so much for your interest in this cause and I thank you on behalf of the organization and everybody that we help every year for this donation.
DENNIS BAGGETT: There's an incredible amount of passion that comes through you, I know and in talking to Brian, we were fortunate enough to spend some time with Kim yesterday talking some more about the organization, and like I said, the passion that comes out of what you do, it's much more than just a job service or a placement agency and organization.
So thank you for all of that.  I don't think -- I've learned a lot about the importance of the type of work that you're doing, and it's just one of those things that you don't really think about, so thanks for bringing it to the forefront.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT