MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Jorge Fabregas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you surprised?  Would you just give us your reaction, Jorge? 
 JORGE FABREGAS:  Yeah, I am -- I was surprised, kind of shocked that I was left unprotected, I mean all indications from Chicago were that I was going to be protected, but I'm very excited, most definitely, I'm very, very excited to be an Arizona Diamondback, there's no question about that. 

 Q.  What do you know about the Diamondbacks organization already and having played against Buck Showalter's team, what do you know about Buck? 
 JORGE FABREGAS:  You know, I tell you one thing, being with the Angels in Spring Training, I saw that ballpark then, it looked very, very nice.  And I think it's going to be great.  As far as playing with Buck, I'm not too familiar.  I know I've played against him, against the Yankees, but I know he's a good manager, I've heard good things about him.  I'm very excited to work along with him, with the pitching staff. 

 Q.  Ron Schueler indicated that perhaps he was looking for a better defensive catcher to work with the  young pitching staff, did you have any inkling of that? 
 JORGE FABREGAS:  I was really surprised because I think if there's anything that I'm known for it's my deepness, and I feel that's going to be my job with Arizona, also is to help pitchers along and help them out and get them through the games, when they don't have the good stuff.  I'm kind of surprised that Mr. Schueler would say that. 

 Q.  How would you describe your relationship with the young pitchers that were on your staff this year? 
 JORGE FABREGAS:  I tell you what, I got along with them great.  I've gotten calls from a couple of guys already here at my house.  I really got along with them great.  They knew I was a no nonsense, business type of guy, I really studied my hitters, I knew exactly what their plan was.  I told them this is what we're going to do.  I got together with them and tried to help them out as much as I could, especially at the end of the season with the White Sox. 

 Q.  You've played your career in the American League, how long do you think it will take to learn the hitters in the National League? 
 JORGE FABREGAS:  That's going to be one of the hardest things that's going -- that I'm going to have to adjust to.  One of the things is that I don't  know the National League hitters quite as well as I know the American League hitters, but hopefully through the magic of videotape I will definitely get a head start.  I hope we will meet with some of the Diamondback personnel and I'll see as much tape as I can on these National League hitters.  I want to go into Spring Training ready to go knowing that I've got a good knowledge of the National League, so we'll take it from there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT