NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Chandler Hutchison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHANDLER HUTCHISON: Just excited, obviously, to hear my name called.  When you get to be with an organization like Chicago, with the history that they have and a young core team, I'm excited to join and hopefully help them become a really good NBA team.  The emotions are awesome tonight.  I feel like I'm in the perfect fit.
Q. What was the wait like to get picked 22 and just the feeling when you finally got word they were going to be the team?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: Yeah, really it was just exciting.  I was waiting from pick 1.  I didn't know really what was going to happen.  Just excited to hear that.  And then to see that it's with Chicago, once it finally sinks in where you're going, it's just amazing.  It's a blessing.
Q. Did the Bulls tell you they were going to pick you?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: No, I didn't have any guarantee on where I was going.  It could have been anywhere.  Honestly, my heart was racing really from 15 on.  It was just an exciting moment, though.
Q. Now that it's happened, what are the emotions when you think about where you came from to get to this point and your whole team at Boise State cheering for you?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: Yeah, those are my guys.  I've been at Boise State for four years, so I've had a lot of teammates and spent a lot of time with them.  The support from them has been great, and I know they're watching.  It's a special feeling not only for me but I know for them, too, because the work that we all put in.  It's kind of like paying respect to that and seeing that it does pay off.
Q. You kind of said you're ready to just get started.  Now that you have a team and you know it's Chicago, how do you think you fit there and how excited are you to finally get going?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: Yeah, I think it's a great fit.  I feel like there's need at the wing position for them to kind of add to their core that they have.  It's not very often where you feel like what you get is a really great fit.  You end up going wherever you end up going.  But in this case, it's just special to see that it was with Chicago.  Great fanbase.  I'm so blessed, and I'm ready to go right now.
Q. How familiar are you with Wendell Carter as a player, as a person, and have you guys talked at all about pairing up in Chicago?  Did you know him at all before the draft?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: I am a basketball junkie, so I'm always watching TV and Duke shows up on TV pretty often.  I've seen his game and seen what they've been able to do.  He's a special talent.  There's a reason why he was the No. 7 pick in the draft.  Just lucky to get a player like him to be able to kind of have that one-two rookie duo to be able to just grow together and make a name for ourselves.
Q. You said you were dreaming about this.  Talk about the moment it happened.  Was it what you thought it would be like?
CHANDLER HUTCHISON: Yeah, it was everything and more, really.  Like you said, I was just dreaming about it.  All the emotions just kind of come out, and you just feel every little ounce of the pain of working hard and getting to this moment.  It's a good feeling, and I'm just ready to start the next chapter because I know this isn't the final step of anything.
I understand being a rookie in this league is hard, but I've done a lot of things that have been hard and put hard work into this game.  I don't plan on stopping any time soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT