WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
September 29, 2017
Maya Moore
Renee Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sparks - 75, Lynx - 64
Q. Determined to get off to a good start, you weren't able to get that done today.  What did LA do to make that so hard?
MAYA MOORE: You know, I think overall, we're pretty satisfied with our defensive execution for the most part of our game plan.  Just continuing to be persistent and find ways to put the ball in the hole early on, to make sure that we get off to a better rhythm.
Q. Maya, you didn't have any points in the first half, and then you came with 16.  What was the difficulty in the first half, and then what kind of turned it around for you after the first half?
MAYA MOORE: Just trying to be aggressive, just continuing to help my teammates in different ways that I can, and again, just being aggressive.  Starting out the half, scoring in the paint.  That always helps, and just trying to be even more aware of trying not to put myself in situations to commit fouls so I can stay out on the floor.  A combination of those two things really helped.
Q. As you prepare for Game 5, Coach Reeve said that the starters just didn't compete at a level that was necessary to win.  What can be done to change that?
MAYA MOORE: Just do what we know to do start to finish.  A 40-minute game, there's a lot of time in that 40 minutes, a lot of times to make mistakes, a lot of times to come together to go on runs.  Just going to be everything that we have for 40 minutes of just trying to stay locked in and execute our game plan, especially on the offensive end.
Q. In Game 4, you'll have your backs against the wall.  What key adjustments will you focus on to dig out a win and extend the series?
RENEE MONTGOMERY: Obviously there's been a theme that the team that punches first seems to set the tone for the game, so of course we want to set the tone for the game, but next game is do or die, so I'm pretty sure we're going to have to play like our season is on the line next game, so the adjustment is -- there is no adjustment, you play like it's your last game.
Q. Maya, you all closed within low single digits late in the game.  How did they regain momentum at that point?
MAYA MOORE: Well, you know, it's a game of runs.  Unfortunately both teams seemed to have a -- when they make runs, they're runs, and it's a lot of points at a time.  You know, a couple of -- getting into foul trouble early in the fourth, I think most of the fourth quarter it was five fouls to zero, so they were shooting free throws every time.  Some of our mistakes in fouling happened, so the free throws helped separate them, and you know, toward the end there with some of their screens, getting their guards open for a three ball or an unforced turnover here and there, so those things are what we can't give up if we want to get our runs back.
Q. Game 1 they held you without a rebound in the first quarter, but the rest of the game you decisively defeated them in the rebounding margin.  You also beat them on the glass Game 2.  Tonight they took control in that area.  Can you tell me how they managed to do that?
MAYA MOORE: By getting to the ball before we did.  I mean, rebounding is sometimes about luck, but 99 percent is about effort.  That's definitely not a secret of how you win championships is giving your team extra possessions with rebounds.  Something that we know we have to get done, something that we can do because it's been our identity all year.
Q. Renee, what is Los Angeles doing that's making it difficult for your team?
RENEE MONTGOMERY: Their pressure.  I mean, they pressure the ball.  They're very active.  I mean, look, they've been a good defensive team all season.  I think like coach has said, we're both the top teams on defense, so neither team is going to give up anything easy, so we know it's going to be difficult on both ends, we just have to execute.  The rebounding obviously makes a difference and getting to the free-throw line, so we've got to get to the free-throw line more, just be more aggressive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT