BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2017
Shaka Smart
Jarrett Allen
Andrew Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 63, Texas - 53
THE MODERATOR: Okay, University of Texas has arrived, Coach Shaka Smart.  His student-athletes are Jarrett Allen and Andrew Jones.  Coach, we'll go to you for your thoughts on tonight's game.
SHAKA SMART: Congratulations to West Virginia.  They did what West Virginia does so well.  They were the more aggressive team.  Over the course of the game, I think there was a cumulative affect of the way they play.  Obviously they shot the ball better from outside.  That was a big difference as well.  But congratulations to them.  I think they have a great chance to win this tournament and make a deep run in the NCAA Tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student-athletes?
Q. How much was West Virginia's aggressiveness, how much did that take you out of your game?
ANDREW JONES: West Virginia is known to be playing hard and aggressive.  That's their MO and their style of play as a team.  At certain points of the game, them being overly aggressive on us, and on the bigs, took us out of our offense a little bit.
JARRETT ALLEN: Andrew said it perfectly.  They sped us up.  We couldn't actually get into our flow and just congratulations to West Virginia.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, guys.  We will let you go back to the locker room.  Questions for Coach?
Q. Coach, how much was their aggressiveness, how much did that affect your shooting percentage?
SHAKA SMART: Good question.  I don't think it was affecting our shooting percentage as much as it affected our flow of what we were trying to do, which I guess in turn affected our shooting percentage.  But, man, we got a lot of open looks that didn't go in.  It's hard to be aggressive defending free throws, and we shot under 50% from the foul line.
I think some of the possessions where we turned the ball over or forced up a bad shot, those are the ones where obviously we were really impacted by West Virginia and the way they defended.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach, for coming.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT