NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
Iman Shumpert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The Warriors playing small ball, how do you handle that? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   I don't understand what you're asking.

Q.   Facing Curry. 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Well, they're playing small ball.   They have the ability to mix up their lineups.   That's what makes them a great team. 
So we've just got to continue to do what we do as far as defending, making sure we contest shots and rebound what comes off the board.

Q.   Talk about adjustments, if you can explain a little bit, anyway, what kind of adjustments need to be made when Golden State does have their smaller lineup? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   You just have to take the challenge.   I don't think there's any real adjustment you can make.   Like I said, that's what makes them a great team is they have the ability to play many lineups, different guys handle the ball at any given time. 
You have to take the one‑on‑one challenge of sitting down in the stands.   You have to communicate.   You have to be up on their ball screens because they have to take (indiscernible) shooting the ball.

Q.   Perhaps the biggest weapon for this Cavs team be the fact that there are two days in between games?   Will that help you guys going into Game 5? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Every little bit of rest and preparation helps.   But it's going to come down to pride and taking the challenge.   Like I said, we have to sit down and take the challenge, make sure we step up and knock down our good looks when we get them. 
I think we had a lot of good looks last game.   We just failed on connect on them.   And we've got to do a better job of knocking those shots down.

Q.   (Indiscernible) what do you have to say about the Warriors winning by such a large number of points? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   I think they did a great job playing at their pace last game.   Like I said, I think a lot of it had to do with us just missing shots.   I thought we had a lot of good looks, especially myself.   I thought I had a lot of great looks at the three and didn't connect. 
Going into the next game, we know if we're presented with those opportunities, we have to make sure we knock them down.

Q.   As a starter, what do you think of their bench when they're up close to give them a few more minutes?   (Indiscernible) would you support seeing them more to give you more of a bit of a break at times? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   That's up to Coach.   At this point everybody is ready to play any time.

Q.   (Indiscernible) what is your approach to defending Thompson?   Is he a guy you just have to stay with and get help on anybody else? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   He's one of those knock‑down shooters.   There's times you can get help, but you've got to make sure it goes out hard to him, because he's got a quick trigger, and he's pretty on target on the floor. 
That's the tough thing about guarding him and Curry.   They don't really have a weak spot on the floor.   They can shoot it well from every angle, so you have to be close enough to touch.

Q.   Do you feel good about what you did there, or was that the flow of their offense? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   I think that was the flow of their offense.   He's going to be a tough cover every game.   I think that Andre Iguodala and Draymond Green did a terrific job scoring the ball last game and putting pressure on our defense.   That gave Thompson time to just step back and sort of let the game come to him. 
So definitely going to have to make sure that we stay within arm's reach of him and make sure he doesn't get comfortable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT