NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Iman Shumpert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel you will be guarding more than maybe you were in the regular season? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Like I say, it depends on how the game's going.   But I definitely expect to be on him.

Q.   We keep hearing that Kyrie is not a hundred percent yet.   You went through this with him the last couple series.   What do you expect on a game‑by‑game basis from what he can do and what he'll try to do? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   I just expect him to help the team in whatever ways he can.   You know, he's not a hundred percent, and when he's not a hundred percent, that doesn't stop our goal because we know Kyrie wants to win.   So pretty sure he'll push through the pain.

Q.   Other guys stepped up when he didn't play or when he was limited.   Is there going to be more of that that some of you are going to maybe take on more offense? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Like I said, we'll have to see how the games go.   Every game is different.   But that's for us to feel it out, see what we have to do.   You know, if responsibilities have to change, then they have to change.   But until we face that, we go in there playing Cavaliers pass ball.

Q.   How do you guys change with Delly running the show versus Kyrie? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Not much of a change.   They're two different type of players on the attack.   But I think Delly pretty much keeps the train on the tracks from when Kyrie sits down or when Kyrie decides not to play, he still runs the same sets.
Delly doesn't want to do as many isos as Kyrie, but the same ball screen sets and handoff actions, split action.   Dell runs all those.

Q.   When he gets hot off the bench, the entire team goes crazy for him.   What's that mean for you guys? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   I think it's the same way for anybody.   Anybody on this team goes off, Delly is the first guy off the bench.   If he's not playing, he's off the bench cheering you on.   If you just dive on the floor for a loose ball, Delly's the guy that helps you up. 
So when you see a guy like that having success, you're going to cheer for him.

Q.   Warriors have zero experience.   LeBron making his fifth straight trip.   How much do you lean on his experience?   How much is that a factor for you guys? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   It's huge for us.   All year though LeBron's experience, period, just knowing the league, knowing the situations, time and score, he's always a step ahead of the game.   You have to absorb as much of that as you can. 
Like you said, there are plenty of times when we lean on him for what we need to be doing and what we need to be focusing on.

Q.   When did you become comfortable with the Cavaliers would you say? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Well, it took me a couple weeks to finally play.   But I would say once I finally had the offense down pat, then my legs finally adjusted to not playing for a couple of months back to playing again.   So I guess it took about a month and a half.

Q.   What was it like for you to come from the Knicks and come to a new team and try to fit in in the middle of the season? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   It was different.   It was a challenge.   The guys on the team, as far as the coaching staff, made it a pretty easy transition for me.   I think they just simplified my role.   Once I was able to accept and embrace it, I was pretty (indiscernible).

Q.   Have you heard from any of your boys on the Knicks saying good luck or congrats? 
IMAN SHUMPERT:   Oh, yeah, of course.   I've talked to a lot of those guys.   All of those guys right now are doing their own things.   Probably just working towards getting better next year. 
That doesn't keep them from supporting myself and J.R. Of course they're watching the games and trying to get better just from watching.   So, yeah, I talked to those guys a lot, actually. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT