SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Rocky Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UNLV - 27, San Diego State - 24   
 Q.  Coach, Parker Baldwin talked about complacency and the inability to hold that 11-point lead.  What do you attribute to that?  
ROCKY LONG: I think there are all kinds of things you can look at.  They deserved to win because they outplayed us.  There is always a misconception when you play a team that doesn't have a very good record that they don't have athletes.  I think the media makes that mistake dramatically most of the time.  They have some athletes, but the truth of the matter was they controlled the line of scrimmage.   
They controlled the line of scrimmage on defense because we didn't block 'em, couldn't block 'em and we weren't able to run the ball.  We threw it okay, but eventually that cost us the game.  We weren't able to run the ball.  We weren't able to play the kind of offense that we like to play and the kind that we normally play, and then on defense they controlled the line of scrimmage, too.   
They ran the ball way too well.  We gave up a couple of deep bombs, but that's going to happen every once in a while, but they ran the ball way too well.  I think we played a little soft in the first halftime, and in the second half we started blitzing them some and played better, until they split the blitz and the guy went 75 yards for the winning touchdown.   
They controlled the line of scrimmage, and normally the team that controls the line of scrimmage wins.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your decision to leave Agnew in there over Chapman.  
ROCKY LONG: At halftime we decided that he was playing better than Christian was, so he got to play the rest of the half.   
 Q.  Did you see anything like from Agnew that Christian hadn't been doing?  Christian completed 8 of 10 passes.  Was there something that --  
ROCKY LONG: Yeah, we thought he was moving the ball better, because we had -- I already mentioned this.  We weren't controlling the line of scrimmage, so it puts -- a mobile quarterback has a better chance to extend plays and make plays.  Because we weren't blocking them at the line of scrimmage.   
 Q.  Third quarter you came up with two big turnovers and got the 11-point lead later on.  When did you feel like it started to get away, the previous touchdown?  
ROCKY LONG: I didn't think it got away at all.  One big run play won the game.  That doesn't mean it got away from you.  They made one big play.   
 Q.  They had the TD before that with 9 minutes left.  
ROCKY LONG: Yeah, that's the one I just mentioned.  It was third and 20 and we played soft, and the quarterback scrambled for a first down.  That's a mistake on me.  I shouldn't have played that defense.   
 Q.  Were you surprised, given all that was still at stake for you guys, you controlled your own destiny --  
ROCKY LONG: We still do.   
 Q.  Nevada was winning tonight.  I don't know if they can win out with a head-to-head with you guys, but given all that was in front of you and UNLV being 2-7 coming in were you surprised the way this unfolded in an effort way, and in an execution way?  
ROCKY LONG: No, I wasn't surprised because that's the way we've been playing all year, except for a couple games this season.  And this was our tenth game.  We've been playing just like you saw tonight all year long.   
And when you do that, usually you're 50/50.  You win half of 'em and you lose half of 'em.  To this point we have been lucky we haven't lost half of them.  We've won more than we've lost.  So was I surprised it was that way?  Not at all.   
That's the way our team is.  They're going to be a lot better here in a couple of years, but that's who they are.   
 Q.  In the first half UNLV had the ball, 27 yard line, you were given the option push them out of field goal or force them to complete fourth down.  What was your thought process on that play?  They ended up kicking the field goal.  
ROCKY LONG: We scout those guys, and that kicker had not been very accurate from over 40 yards, and I think it was a 44-yarder so we went with the statistics and decided to let him try to kick it from there rather than giving them another shot at putting it in the end zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT