SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2013
King Holder
Quinn Kaehler
Colin Lockett
Rocky Long
Nick Tenhaeff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Inaudible. 
    QUINN KAEHLER:   No, I just thought it was through.

Q.   What do you take from this game?   What can you take?   Looked like until the last point, you had a really solid outing. 
    KING HOLDER:   I mean, personally, I would say on defense, I think we did pretty well.   Not well enough to win the game of course, but we are glad as a team that we fought to the very end and that's a good sign as a team that you have warriors who won't give up.   That's the onlypositive I would take from this. 

Q.   You guys played really, really well the first half‑‑ disappointing? 
    COLIN LOCKETT:   I mean, just the disappointment of not putting a full game together.   You know, we played pretty much the whole game all the way up until, you know, we started falling apart. 
    I mean, that's really the only disappointment.   I'm more happy for my guys that they came out and fought.   We didn't do that in the past two weeks, our first two games, so I'm just happy we came out, fought, and we really tried to put a whole game together, and we showed a lot of improvement. 
    We still have a chance to go out there and win a whole bunch of football games, and you know, we've just got to go back to the chalkboard and learn from it.   It hurts, and just move on as men. 
    QUINN KAEHLER:   We just did a good job as a team, making the plays that we had to to move the ball.   We had some guys make some really good plays and that's how we can play, if we execute.   We still made mistakes, but, you know, we can move the ball and score points as long as we do our jobs. 

Q.   Obviously youplayed pretty well ‑‑ inaudible. 
    QUINN KAEHLER:   I mean, right now, I just want to get back to work and try to get better so this doesn't happen again, so, you know, our teammates don't have to feel this anymore. 

Q.   Nick, looks like you had much more success today getting to the quarterback. 
    NICK TENHAEFF:   We showed glimpses of what we want to be and what we're capable of.   Obviously couldn't put it together at the end to finish it out.   But you know, it provided some hope to know we can do it and we've just got to keep working.   Hit the film tomorrow and get better.

Q.   Do you think the penalty by the quarterback was deserved? 
    NICK TENHAEFF:   I haven't seen it.   The officials make those calls.   I have no say in that. 

Q.   What's the level of frustration, 13‑point lead‑‑ between this and Ohio State, so close. 
    COLIN LOCKETT:   We got what it takes to do it.   We got the guys, we got the coaches.   We got the mentality and the attitude.   It's just so close, and really, you see it.   Before your eyes, you see it, and then just like that (snapping fingers)   it's gone.   So I mean, that's ‑‑ I think you'd be frustrated‑‑ anybody would be frustrated with an outcome such as this.   So, I mean, that's just pretty much it. 

Q.   Quinn, did they do anything different in the second half?   Looked like they got to youat one point ‑‑ what were they showing? 
    QUINN KAEHLER:   They ran pretty much the same thing that they did in the first half.   You know, most of them were just my fault, not getting the ball off, or, you know, making the right pass protection calls and doing that stuff. 
    COACH LONG:   All right.   I'll answer any questions you have.

Q.   What do you take from this game?   I know you're disappointed but what do you take from how you played, the beginning, all the way to the‑‑
    COACH LONG:   I thought our players put in a good effort.   I thought they came ready to play and they played hard for the whole game and we made some critical errors near the end of the game and we ended up losing. 

Q.   Despite the late interceptions, can you talk about the development of Kaehler? 
    COACH LONG:   I thought Quinn had a very good game up until the very end.   I thought he threw the ball pretty accurately.   Made some good plays that kept drives alive.   The first drive of the game was an excellent drive by everybody, but obviously he has a lot to do‑‑ quarterbacks have a lot to do with whether you can move the ball and score points or not.   I thought until the very end, he played pretty well. 

Q.   What do you tell them?   Played well, but what do you say to them?
    COACH LONG:   You don't say anything to them right now.   You watch the film tomorrow and show them the things that he did well and obviously you show them the things that he didn't do well, and you go back to the practice field and try to improve on the things that he can do better. 

Q.   Of the two picks‑‑ inaudible. 
    COACH LONG:   The first pick was a wide receiver screen that he overthrew.   So I don't know if that's on him or not.   He just made a bad throw. 
    The second throw, there was a guy coming open and he threw it where a linebacker got a piece of it and it popped up in the air. 
    I don't think there's ever an interception that is one person's fault.   I mean, you've got to give the other team credit.   One was a bad throw and the other team, the linebacker got in the passing lane and tipped the ball. 

Q.   Chase, is he okay? 
    COACH LONG:   I don't know, I saw he had a wrap on his shoulder.   I don't know what it is but he was wrapped up. 

Q.   Was he injured in ‑‑
    COACH LONG:   I guess he did, because he was only in there for one play and then came limping off. 

Q.   What's your level of frustration:   13‑point lead, seven minutes to go and didn't get it done; what's your level of frustration? 
    COACH LONG:   It's no different than it was going into the game.   We got good kids that work hard and we're not performing well to win a game yet.   So it's no different than it was going into the game. 

Q.   Offensively, did you run the ball better? 
    COACH LONG:   There were some plays where we ran the ball well, but we didn't consistently run the ball well. 
    So that put more pressure on the throwing game, and we already know that we have to be able to efficiently run the ball to be good on offense.   It's very obvious.   It's obvious to everybody.   And we had a couple big runs, and we had some important runs that allowed drives to stay in progress and eventually score points. 
    But we weren't consistently able to run the ball, which puts a lot of pressure on us, because we are not a real good passing team. 

Q.   There are a lot of key penalties on both sides; are you disappointed with the penalty that you guys got, completely changed‑‑
    COACH LONG:   I don't‑‑ I'm not‑‑ I'm not any more concern with this penalty than any of the others.   It came late in the game so people might put more importance on it, but I won't say anything about officials. 

Q.   What to expect from the team‑‑ what is your impression, do you feel better‑‑
    COACH LONG:   I never feel good when you lose, never.   I appreciate how hard they played and I appreciate how aggressive they were and how physical they were. 
    I appreciate all that, because if you've ever been an athlete, a competitive athlete, that's the first thing.   You try as hard as you can and do as well as you can and when it works out, you're happy and when it doesn't work out, you're not. 

Q.   When you guys are not running the ball as well as you'd like to, is that still on the offensive line or are there a lot of factors? 
    COACH LONG:   I would guess it's Oregon State's defensive line.   I can't tell until I watch the film, but I would guess it's their defensive line that played well. 

Q.   So what's the game plan at the quarterback position going into the week now?   Is Quinn your starter? 
    COACH LONG:   You're asking questions that won't be answered until we watch the film. 

Q.   Is this a better football team than it was the first‑‑
    COACH LONG:   I think we made some progress tonight.   Any progress we made tonight, won't be worth it if we don't continue to do it next week. 

Q.   Defensively, did you feel‑‑ there seemed to be a considerable amount of pressure on the quarterback.   Do you feel that that was the case, and if so, is it a matter of scheme, effort or both? 
    COACH LONG:   We probably blitzed about 80 percent of the time and put our kids in a lot of man‑to‑man coverage situations.   And until that last two‑minute drive, and I know it was with four minutes to go in the game, but that last two‑minute drive, I thought the pressure helped and the defensive backs did a nice job of covering. 
    We didn't make‑‑ we didn't make any plays that could have stopped that drive and we were making plays most of the rest of the night to stop drives.   We just didn't get it done on that drive. 

Q.   A loss is a loss, but is this a lot different than the Ohio State game because of the situation? 
    COACH LONG:   No, they are all the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT