ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 29, 2019
Imad Wasim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pakistan - 230/7 (49.4), Afghanistan - 227/9 (50)   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Imad Wasim of Pakistan.  Questions?   
 Q.  Were you nervous when you walked out to bat that that game might be beyond you?  
IMAD WASIM: No, it wasn't like that.  I think we've got very good players at the end.  I knew if one of us stayed in, we would make it.   
 Q.  Nevertheless, the rate was rising, and I guess there was pressure involved.  
IMAD WASIM: Look, it just happened.  Rashid Khan was bowling brilliantly.  If you take a chance, you might give them a wicket.  So, we were like, just don't give wicket to Rashid Khan and then the rest we would see how it goes.  And we knew they would bowl short, and we targeted that.   
 Q.  The atmosphere was obviously electric, a lot of fans, Pakistan and Afghan fans.  Were you aware of what was going on?  And obviously there were some incidents at the end of the game when fans ran on.  
IMAD WASIM: No, I think we were inside.  We didn't know what happened.   We didn't know about that.   
 Q.  It was really, like you said, like you were confident that you could get it going.  But what do you think went wrong for you guys in the middle, because strung two wickets and suddenly lost, like, back to back a few wickets?  Did it add pressure to the thing?  
IMAD WASIM: I think there wasn't a good shots at that stage.  But, look, these guys win those games many times.  So it had to be someone else.  So if you can see, they won the last game.  Now, there are a couple of guys who chipped in and win this one.  So it's a great team unity.  I think it happens in cricket.   
 Q.  Is this a matter of building a performance like this in the World Cup, you will now sort of seal your place in the team?  And also, is this your best performance that you've played so far in your career, in a World Cup match?  
IMAD WASIM: I was always on the team, mate.  (Laughter).  Look, I just -- every time I go out there I just play for my country.  I love my country too much.  I know every sportsman, they do.  But I just love my country.  I just want to give 100 percent every time. The result, it doesn't matter to me because if I give 100 percent and the rest of the lot, we're good enough to beat any side on a given day.  It was a great innings.   
 Q.  Could you please talk about Afghanistan's performance?  They tried their best.  And also the 46 overs, that probably changed it completely in six balls?  
IMAD WASIM: Look, their spinners, they're world class.  If they score consistently over 250 or 260 on any track they can cause trouble to any team.  So credit goes to Afghanistan.  I think last five years they rose up.  And look at that, they're giving a tough time to every team.  They gave India a tough time.  They gave us a tough time.  And there are a lot of teams, you know.  So Afghanistan, I think, is a force to reckon with in a couple of years' time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT