BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 16, 2015
Jean-Julien Rojer
Horia Tecau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ROGER-TECAU/Matkowski-Zimonjic   
6-4, 6-4   
An interview with:   
JEAN-JULIEN ROJER   
HORIA TECAU   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you expect to play quite so well in your first match?  
JEAN-JULIEN ROJER: Yeah, I think so.  We started off the match today really well, of course.  We were really sharp from the beginning.   
We've had in the last month or so also some very clean and sharp matches where we've played.  I felt very good coming into the match.  I was very comfortable coming into the match.   
I think we've had very good, specific and detailed practices also coming into the match, which helps a lot.  More than anything, I think I was pretty calm on the court.   
I can't speak for Horia, but judging how he was before, during and after the match, he also was feeling pretty good himself.   
I think together we were comfortable.  Yeah, we knew what we wanted to do and we had great practices leading up to the match, which had us feeling good during the match.   
 Q.  Are you feeling any pressure in the battle for year-end No. 1, to become that team?  
HORIA TECAU: No, not really.  To be honest, it's something you see before the tournament starts.  The way we prepare for our matches and our tournaments, we always try to do our best, to think about the next match, think about getting better, about trying to win titles.   
We don't think about points so much and the rankings.  Yeah, we knew that we got this close to the Bryan brothers.  But at the end of the day we want to get a first-match win here.  We want to continue with a win.  What comes after that comes.   
We're going to be extremely happy and proud if we're going to finish the year No. 1.  If not, we gave everything every match.  That's the way we play.   
 Q.  How pleasing has it been for you that you did so well last year in your first year as a team, and now you've backed it up and done even better this year?  
HORIA TECAU: It's very rewarding to know we working in the right direction.  We keep improving our game.  We always talk about our game, trying to improve every aspect.   
We practice a lot.  To see that in the results we had this year, it's very rewarding for us.  We're going to keep working on that.   
I know the second year is always better because we know each other better.  We organize our practices better.  We prepare the big tournaments better, especially the Grand Slams, by knowing exactly what we like to do before the match starts.   
 Q.  We had four new Grand Slam champions this year and the Bryans didn't win a major for the first time in a decade.  Do you feel like they might have slipped a little bit this year?  Do you feel like there's a lot of new teams that found ways to beat them?  Can you comment on that?  
JEAN-JULIEN ROJER: Yeah, I think they would be the first to say they haven't had a year that's up to their standards maybe 'cause in years past, I don't know, they accumulate 12,000, 13,000 points, maybe more.  I don't know.   
This year, yeah, they haven't won a slam.  You can never really write them off.  I know everybody's getting a bit older, and they also have a private life, a family.  A lot of stuff changes.  Just life happens.   
Maybe this year they didn't have a year as they would have expected to or hoped for, but they're still there for No. 1 as a team, yeah, which speaks to their quality.   
As far as the other players, I do think the doubles, the competition is getting better.  Players are getting better.  We have a lot more singles players in doubles as well which forces everybody to raise their level.  I know we enjoy having those guys around to push us and be better.   
I would like to think, at least for us, I can't speak for anybody else, we're trying to inch closer to where they are.  Like Horia said, I think we're the kind of team, we're very focused on what we need to do, what we need to do to get better.  We'd like to keep improving, to get better.  If that at some point leads us to surpass them, be the No. 1 team, I think we try to better ourselves with our practices and matches and results and things.   
I don't know if I answered, but...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT