WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2012
Robert Lindstedt
Horia Tecau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LINDSTEDT‑TECAU/Bhupathi‑Bopanna
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tell me a little bit about the match and how you feel about winning the title.   
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   Like I said on court, I don't think the monkey can be any bigger that just got off my back, of our backs.   We finally get the big one that we been fighting for for so long.  
To get that and fight through and beat such good teams on the way and you come out on top, it's an undescribable feeling.   The Masters, basically every match in a Masters Series is a final at any other event, so...   
   
 Q.   Looking forward to London, how does this help your chances?  
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   I would be surprised if we're not through very soon, so it helped a little bit I'm sure.   
   
 Q.   Can you also talk a little bit about your match yesterday against the Bryan brothers and how that felt.   
HORIA TECAU:   We played really well yesterday.   We came out with a game plan and we executed well.   
Last time we played against them in Melbourne we were up in the third set and didn't close it out.  
So yesterday we went for it, and we had to play well to beat them.   We served really well, and that was the key for us.   
First time for me that I'm beating the Bryans, so it's very rewarding to beat the best doubles team in the world and get my first Masters title here in Cincinnati.   
   
 Q.   You hadn't won a match here together in two previous...  
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   No, no, never.  
   
 Q.   What do you think changed for you?  
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   We were very close to going out in the first round also here.   That's doubles.   Such small margins.   Just because you lose here twice doesn't mean you can't win it.  
Obviously we kind of proved that here.   That's doubles for you.   It always comes down to just a few points.   
And especially here it's very lively and fast.   If you lose your focus for just a few points, then you're out.   
So we did a very good job of fighting and staying in the matches this week.   
   
 Q.   You talked a little about the conditions coming here and how drastic is itespecially going from ‑‑ I know guys you said you prefer grass‑‑ essentially coming here, hardcourt and then humid, the Midwest.   
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   No, I mean, we love hard court too.   Obviously we love grass because we have very, very good results on that.   
But here I think it's the liveliest conditions in the world.   The ball bounces higher almost than anywhere else.   It's quick, it flies, so it's very tough conditions to master.   
It takes quite a few days and matches if you're lucky to actually feel comfortable here.   That's what we did.   The match yesterday I think is one of the best matches that we've ever played.  
HORIA TECAU:   Yeah.   Like you go through some weeks where you get adjusted right away; first, second day get adjusted to the hard court.   Here it's always been after four or five days we really got a feel of the ball and the courts.  
So lucky worked for us to get through those first two matches, and really started playing a lot better in the sort of and the final.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your confidence level going into the US Open this year.   
ROBERT LINDSTEDT:   It's not worse.   (Laughing.)  
HORIA TECAU:   It's been a successful summer, very consistent on the clay courts, on the grass, and now here hard courts in Toronto and Cincinnati.   
So we're really confident, but we have to keep our feet on the ground and really work to get adjusted to the courts in New York.  
There will be some tough matches there, too.   Everyone wants to beat us.   You go out there and you're a target.   But we have to keep doing the things that worked well for us.   That's the only way we can keep winning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT