PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 28, 2010
Robert Lindstedt
Horia Tecau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LINDSTEDT-TECAU/Bopanna-Qureshi
  6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Fourth title?   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: Yeah. Fifth for him, fourth together.   
  
  Q. Do you have some good chemistry together?   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: No (laughter). I don't know his last name (smiling).   
 No, I mean, since we started in March, we had our ups and downs. We said that in all our interviews. It's tough getting started because both me and Horia, we have a pretty strong will, we like to see our tennis in a certain way.   
 I think we're both learning to give up part of our own way of looking at tennis in order to help out each other. I think we're finding that much, much more, learning to talk to each other much, much more. When we connect like that, play well, we're a very dangerous team. We play very aggressive and quick doubles.   
 When we have these good weeks, then we play really, really well.   
  
  Q. Second set they came on a little stronger than the first set. What kind of turned it around for you?   
 HORIA TECAU: You expect them to do that. We expected for them to play better in the second set, to try different things and play more aggressive.   
 There was only one break in the first, but we were feeling we were on top. So we just tried to play the same, stay strong on our service games and wait for the chances.   
 They have big serves, big games. If they're on, it's very tough to break. We just have to stay strong and focus on our stuff.   
  
  Q. What is the key for a doubles team to mesh? Is it on court or off court?   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: A bit of mix of everything. There's teams out there throughout history, they couldn't stand each other's guts but worked well together on court.   
 I think it's a way of just finding a way to work together on court. You don't have to go have dinners every night out. I actually think it's good to not spend all the time off court with each other. Even if you don't want to, it becomes sort of a relationship. You have your quarrels and everything.   
 It's so different because there's guys, these guys should play good together, but they don't. It's game styles, personality in a mix I think. It's very difficult to say who is going to play good and who is not going to play good.   
 We both thought when we saw each other play, This should work. It didn't really in the beginning. It was kind of tough for us. Yeah, like we said, you find ways to work around different issues or whatever. But tennis and personality, everything just mixes. There's not just one particular thing that you can say, Okay, this is why these guys are playing good.  
  
  Q. What didn't work in the beginning for you guys?   
 HORIA TECAU: We didn't know each other that well.   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: I think we wanted it too much. We have to play good.   
 HORIA TECAU: And it didn't happen right away. But eventually I think it's two very important things: trust and confidence. We learned how to trust each other, how to be confident in each other's game. We practice well together and we managed to find a good relationship on court, like a good attitude and a good way to be on court. That made a big difference for us to play good matches and lose or win those tough matches.   
  
  Q. Given the quality of the doubles draw this week, how satisfying is this performance?   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: For me it's unbelievable. The only downside is I think we should have a thousand points for this week. Literally every team we played played in Cincinnati. To win the four matches here, get 250 points, you would be in a final of a Masters Series for sure. That is the strongest 250 of the year, yes. I would say it's even the strongest 500 of the year.   
 I don't think I've ever played a 250 stronger than this. The quality of this doubles tournament is outstanding.   
  
  Q. How much confidence does that give you for New York?  
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: A little bit (smiling).   
 No, it's the boost we wanted. We had a tough start to the America tour. We didn't really do as well as we wanted. So this just comes perfect for us. It's a huge confidence boost, for me at least.   
 How about you? You okay?   
 HORIA TECAU: Yeah (smiling).   
 That's what we wanted from this week. We wanted to play some good matches and win some good matches and go into the US Open with confidence, and we got it. So hopefully gonna continue in New York.   
 ROBERT LINDSTEDT: Never a guarantee, but we hope to have the same run as we had before Wimby when we won the week before, as well. If that happens, I'll be okay with that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT