NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 16, 2008
Jason Kapono
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JASON KAPONO:  Yeah, thanks.  It was a good competition.  Obviously, coming in I knew the field was going to be stiff.  It's a talented group, Steve Nash, Peja, Dirk, Daniel, Rip.  So I knew I had to put in some time.  And thank goodness for Kevy (Kevin DiPietro, Raptors' equipment manager) there.  He built me five racks, and I felt pretty good out there. 

 Q.  When we were talking the other day you said it's really important to get off well in that first rack, that first rack I think was the worst one each time. 
 JASON KAPONO:  Yeah, that's the same thing that happened.  It's so weird because you're sitting out and you're cold, and you have to come in there and catch fire quickly.  I think I missed my first two or three, but I slowly got back into it, and I finished strong. 

 Q.  Where do you keep your other trophy, and do you have room for two? 
 JASON KAPONO:  Yes, I do.  The trophy's actually back at my house in California.  And the second one, I don't know where I'm going to put it.  I'm thinking in the bathroom or something.  Maybe every time I take a shower or I go in and brush my teeth I'll start my day out staring at this beautiful trophy right here (smiling). 

 Q.  What about in your locker in the dressing room? 
 JASON KAPONO:  Pardon? 

 Q.  In your locker in the dressing room. 
 JASON KAPONO:  Yeah, but I think it's going to upset a few guys.  Because we've got a very talented team that can shoot threes, so I don't want to always have them staring at my trophy and stuff, because it might screw them up a little bit. 

 Q.  Did you know you were going for the record there at the end?  Did you know you had a chance to tie it? 
 JASON KAPONO:  No, I mean, the way it was set up on the scoreboards, you couldn't tell what your score was, so you just had to go off of feel.  The first round I was actually kind of scared, because I didn't know what I needed to get to the finals and I didn't know what I had throughout.  So it was all by feel. 
 If I would have known, I wouldn't have, you know, or I would have tried to make the first two. 

 Q.  Chris Bosh, your teammate, was speaking to you a little bit, coaching you up.  What did he have to say to you during the competition? 
 JASON KAPONO:  He was on the sideline telling me to shoot it.  That's what he always tells me.  It was good because a few of the other guys were over there trash-talking me.  So it's always good to have one guy sitting on the sideline keeping you focused.  It was good to have Chris there, and now we'll be out there to go see our man Moon. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT