ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2013
Brody Ninyette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's the verdict? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   It was a pretty solid day.   Wasn't hitting it that well on the range, warm up wasn't too good.   Thought my course management was good enough to get me in but putter failed me the last few holes, that was it. 

Q.   Proud of yourself?
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, definitely, leading into the week, if somebody told me I'd be tied third or fourth, I'd be stoked.   My main object was from this tournament onwards, just trying to save my card for next year after a lousy start of the year.   So pretty stoked.

Q.   What are the feelings, the emotions when you moved to 11‑under and you're three clear at the time? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, well, I mean, I didn't really take notice of it.   Tried to sort of keep my head down and keep going.   Knew I had a couple of shots cushion.   Just tried to do the best I could. 

Q.   And I suppose only time will tell, but do you feel that you learned something about yourself, about management, when you are in that kind of position?
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, absolutely.   Mentally this week, I thought I handled it quite good.   This summer I've been working with Sean Lynch, my mind coach, so a big improvement.

Q.   What's next?
BRODY NINYETTE:   I have the next week or, so do some practice, go back home and fly off to Queensland to the PGA over in Brisbane.

Q.   And the money comes in handy. 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Absolutely. 

Q.   Obviously it's tough to carry a lead into the last round.   How do you feel you handled that mentally today. 
BRODY NINYETTE:   I thought all right.   Surprising, I got quite a good sleep last night and yesterday was so tiring in that wind and rain.   I was pretty tired last night, so I got a great sleep, woke up, went through my routine.   Would have been nice to hole a couple of putts, but anyway. 

Q.   In the end, those couple of eight‑foot par putts on the back nine.   Are those the ones that cost you?
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, the big one was 16.   Sort of putting up that slope, I didn't want to sort of leave it at the top of the slope.   Tried to give it a bit extra to get over there, but kept rolling past the hole.   That one coming back, the wind was into, sort of bowled a bit and stayed outside the hole.   We read it as right‑lipped put but was breaking right‑left and stayed out there. 
17, hit a good shot in and thought I was in, but just sort of hung left on me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT