ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2013
Brody Ninyette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  OLIVIA McMILLAN:   Thank for joining us, your second year on Tour, how does it feel to be leading Australia's richest tournament.
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, it's a totally new experience but definitely exciting. 
OLIVIA McMILLAN:     And the weather out there today wasn't so great.   Can you tell us how you handled that? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Obviously just try and keep everything dry.   There's a lot of placement out there.   Just try to think about course management more than anything. 

Q.   Spoke to you last night and you said the possibility of being back‑‑
BRODY NINYETTE:   No, still back there.   Still back there. 

Q.   Did you see it coming though today?
BRODY NINYETTE:   Definitely I've been playing well the last few days.   But it was good to hole a few putts and get myself into contention. 

Q.   Tell us about your caddie, a former member here. 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, he's a member here for most of his junior golf‑‑ definitely good to have him on the bag.   He reads the greens well and knows the course pretty well. 

Q.   How will you handle the pressure of tomorrow? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, it's obviously a very new experience, so try and get some sleep and see how we go tomorrow. 

Q.   Yesterday you were struggling to make the cut and now you're leading the tournament.   What changed for you? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   I mean, going to 8 yesterday, I hit a couple of horrid shots, and got my nose going a bit.   But at the turn, something clicked and started making some good swings and holing a couple putts.   Just getting the feel of the greens a lot better. 

Q.   Can you just talk us through what doors would open if you do happen to win this tournament? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   I wouldn't have a clue.   Obviously being able to play in Europe next year or so, that would be one of the bigger things.     Just getting to travel a lot more.

Q.   So what would it mean if you could have those experiences next year, how much would that help your game? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, it would be amazing.   It would be a whole new experience, getting out there and playing over there would be unreal to see how the world's best do it.   I've only played these sort of tournaments in Australia, so whoever comes over from America‑‑ obviously you watch them a lot and see how they play the game and see how it's different.   But definitely be amazing to see how everyone else does it, as well. 

Q.   What's it like as a pro golfer, getting there, can you just explain what life is like? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Obviously in Australia, the season's busy towards the end of the year.   You've got such a big gap in the middle of the year, so you sort of go try and get around a bit and find other tournaments to play on other tours and get some eligibility over there. 

Q.   Now tomorrow you'll be playing with Rumford or you'll be right behind him; he's won twice in Europe this year already.   What's it going to be like having him on your heels? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Be definitely a challenge.   I've never actually played with Brett before, but obviously I've seen him play a lot.   He's definitely got a good game. 

Q.   Speaking of Brett, does it give you a bit of a boost to see a couple of West Australians up at the top of the leaderboard and getting the support of the galleries, as well?
BRODY NINYETTE:   Definitely, it's good to see the guys up there.

Q.   What's your No. 1 focus going into tomorrow? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Keep my nose in the check mainly and just keep doing what I'm doing.   

Q.   Since you turned pro, have you had any wins? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Any wins?   No.   Pro‑Ams mainly.   I've been in contention a few times but never actually get over the line. 

Q.   Jason Scrivener, are you guys good mates? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Yeah, pretty good mates.   We see each other a fair bit on the Tour and have a chat. 

Q.   With your situation‑‑
BRODY NINYETTE:   I can't actually remember.   I know I was leading both tournaments I was in contention, I was leading midway through the final round.   Just never actually finished it off. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BRODY NINYETTE:   It was definitely good.   Like I said to the reporters yesterday, I mean, got a bit of a multi‑cultural background, my dad's side is indigenous and my mom's side's Greek, so I'm sure both sides of the family would be promote I psyched.

Q.   Do you find a lot of people following you, you're inspiring kids coming up through the ranks? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   I don't know if I am, but it would be nice to think so.   If I encouraged anyone to pick up a golf club or have a crack at it would be pretty good. 

Q.   Who were you idols growing up? 
BRODY NINYETTE:   Ernie Els.   Stephen Leaney, he's from my home course in Busselton and always get a chat with him every time I can. 
OLIVIA McMILLAN:     Thank you so much for joining us.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT