ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 15, 2019
Faf du Plessis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
South Africa - 131/1 (28.4), Afghanistan - 125 (34.1)   
 Q.  Today obviously it must be a bit of relief for you.  How impressed were you with that bowling effort?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Very relieved.  Feel a little bit lighter.  But I think in all our cricket today was much better and much more competitive.   
We spoke a lot about energy in the field and stuff and I think you can really, really see a big difference today on the team.   
So really pleased with the bowlers.  I thought once again Andi and Chris were very good through the middle there.  The two of them are starting to put in some real consistent performances now for us with the ball, and that's very, very pleasing to see.   
Imran, as always, is special, but I think especially on a wicket like that today where it's not suited for spinners, straight boundaries, to get four wickets like that today was an amazing bowling performance.   
 Q.  At 33 for none, when you went into that first rain, was there a feeling of, flip, here we go again?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: No, it wasn't here we go again.  It was just a case of reminding the guys not to get frustrated with doing the things that we need to do.   
If Afghanistan plays a few shots of the things that we need to do, then it's okay, but not to feel like we need to change or panic.  So that was more the feeling and the discussion is these are our plans; these are the areas where we need to bowl.  Focus on that and then the results will come.   
And maybe that drinks break came at a nice time for the guys, just rezone themselves, especially when you haven't played teams like that.  The bowlers don't know a lot of the batters.  So it took them seven or eight overs to really nail down what areas they should be targeting at different batters.   
 Q.  Was this game a case of the performance is what really matters?  And with regards to that how pleased are you with the whole performance?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, we needed to be solid.  And I think I've said that a lot, that we have shown signs of good cricket but we've shown signs of inconsistent and at stages bad cricket.  Today was an opportunity for us to put our peg in the ground, to make sure we put in a solid performance in all departments.  And I thought we did that, bowling, fielding and also batting -- very clinically, chasing the small total down.   
Tough, tricky first 10 overs there with the ball nipping around a little bit, getting through that and putting pressure back on their bowlers.   
 Q.  Is it too simplistic to say if any of you had bowled like this against Bangladesh, you wouldn't be in the trouble you are in?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, that's a fair comment.  Obviously the wicket was better than this one, so there wasn't as much assistance.  But, yeah, for them to score 330 on a day like that -- probably 280, 290, then it's a different chase.   
Unfortunately, we can't go back into the past, but, yeah, today was a much more consistent performance with the bowl.   
 Q.  You mentioned when you guys were batting the ball, nipping around in the first 10 overs and Afghanistan obviously bowled quite well there, but do you feel that a bit of an opportunity was let slip to give the run rate a big boost?  Chased down 127 and, say, 20 overs, run a ball that have to be on?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, after the start, initially the start was just to about making sure we get a good foundation.  And then I thought Quinton did that really well.  He transferred that pressure -- I suppose that's what Quinny does always anyway -- but he did take their attack on.   
And then when we got to about, I think it was about 60 or so runs, conversation with the coach was, it's a good opportunity for us to maybe send someone like Andi who is not going to take five or six or ten balls to get himself in.  But the nature of the start that we have which gives us the freedom to send someone in to try to attack a little bit more.  So that was his plan.   
Then hash.  Obviously Hash, obviously in a perfect world, yes, you would want Hash to get 40 balls, 40 or 50 balls.  But I think specifically with him it's a bigger picture.  It's about getting runs, finishing a game off, getting confidence for himself.  He's a big player for us and we need him for the next four games.   
So ideally you wanted to score a little bit quicker there towards the end, but I see it more as a big picture thing with him specifically.   
 Q.  Is that the kind of innings that you think can kick start Hash, because he's obviously a very important player?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, he's an important player for us.  I think time in the middle is gold for anybody.  Guys like Quinton, they're on a different level when it comes to attacking and free all the time.   
But not all players are like him.  Some players really just needs time in the middle and runs behind their name or their back, which really gives them confidence.  And that's why I say, in a perfect world, yes, we could have pushed a little harder at the end.  But for me, sitting on the side, I was okay with him because I see the value in it in the games that's coming up next.   
 Q.  The challenge is probably going to get a little tougher from here on.  What are the things that you took from this game that you think really need to hold onto before the next one?  And are there other innings you need to improve on?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yes, three games coming up now, three big games for us.  But I think if you play like we did today, we will be a better team.  There's no doubt about that.  We've showed that for -- leading up to the tournament.   
The first three games we didn't play like we did today.  Forget the opposition.  It's the stuff that you can control yourself, and there was energy in the bowlers.  There was energy in the fielders.  Batters were clear in what they needed to do.   
So hopefully, hopefully this is a real confidence booster for everyone on the team.  And there's a little bit, as I said, a little bit of weight that you feel that's off your shoulders now, so now the guys -- we know what's lying ahead; we need to win every game that we play.  But today was a really good step in the right direction.   
 Q.  You spoke about the two all-rounders doing really well.  Is that plan B seeming to be kicking into gear?  And secondly, the first time you've played the same side in two games.  Does that also help to settle things in addition?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, as we said, when coming to the World Cup, our plan was always with the bowlers we had, the X factor bowlers that we needed a batting all-rounder and possibly two batting all-rounders.  That's why obviously Andi and Dwaine came into the picture.   
But now that we've lost two bowlers and two fast and X factor bowlers, obviously Morri  then jumps straight to the front again.  But I've really been impressed with Morri.  He came these first couple of weeks within the side, was a little bit off his game.  But he's turned it around completely.  And he's bowling really well in practices.  He's hungry.  He's performing well.  He's consistent.   
And that's something that probably has not always been there with him.  So that's really good signs for him.  He's putting in a performance after performance.   
And then your other question was?   
 Q.  You played the same --  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yes. See, the plan is, as I said before this game, is to try and stick with players now and try and see how we can get some momentum in selection and hopefully that unfolds with runs.   
So obviously someone like Aiden coming into the next two or three games, hopefully he really can put his name in scoring runs as well, because we do feel Aiden is a special player.  And I think the world hasn't seen it one-day international cricket yet.  But we do believe there's something there that is made for the big stage and also for big games.  So we'll be backing him.   
 Q.  You spoke yesterday about Lungi and leaving him out today with the longer plan in mind.  How confident are you that you're going to get him at 100 percent for New Zealand?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: I'm hoping that he would be 100 percent.  From what I'm hearing from the physios is that that will happen; they're pretty confident.   
But we were also pretty confident a week ago.  So that took a little bit longer.  It's just literally seeing how his body goes.  As I said, he's coming off one or two injuries in a row.  He bowled again today.  Tomorrow we're on a travelling day.   
But our plan is to make sure he gets his load up as well, because there's one thing having an injury, but secondly he hasn't bowled a lot of overs.  When you come into one-day international cricket, it's not just like playing three overs and the next just going through action.  You need to be on.  Intensity needs to be at 100 percent, because if you are bowling not 100 percent, then the opposition will take you down.  So I'm hoping that he will be at 100 percent.   
 Q.  Do you get to a stage with him where you start considering reinforcements from back home at some point?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: I don't think it's that serious.  Dale was obviously a little bit more serious.  We were hoping we would see results.  And it just almost went backwards.  But with Lungi, we're seeing it the other way around; he's improving.  Now I think it's just a case of getting his fitness levels back in.  I think he'll be fine for the next game.   
 Q.  Andi bowled well again today.  And he also batted at 3 side.  How impressed have you been with him over the last five games, and has he been your most consistent player?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Yeah, he has been.  He's been really good with the ball.  Surprisingly every single game he does get wickets.  Initially, I feel like he's picked up a yard again.   
He's not running quick obviously, but he's definitely bowling, not floating.  So the ball is coming out -- I feel like there's more intensity with him hitting the crease, hitting the wicket.   
And the same thing with Chris Morris.  They are seem to be moving in the right direction with their game in terms of consistency.  Andi, if he can hit that same spot and use his short ball every now and then, he's an effective bowler.  So really, really pleased with the way he's going.   
 Q.  The fielding today was really good.  Dwaine had sort of some really good catches out in the deep, good catches in the slips.  The intensity just seemed to be up.  What was the buzz out in the field?  He was saying what?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: Dwaine took some really good catches --   
(Laughter)   
 Q.  Rossi.  My bad, Rossi.  
FAF DU PLESSIS: I saw Dwaine was catching some yawns there on the side.  But Rossi, good fielder.  Aiden, really good fielder.  Good catches.  But as I said yesterday before the match, it wasn't practise as much this week as important the stuff that we really need to get right from what you can control.   
And that is one thing, is that I felt there was a real good buzz and presence.  So that tells me that the guys are hungry and motivated.  And why it wasn't as potent in the first three games, I can't tell you that; there's no answer for that.  But there was a real purpose this week in speaking specifically about that.  So it's good to see that that was good today.   
 Q.  Is this now a new beginning in the tournament, start afresh from tomorrow, is that the feeling with you guys?  
FAF DU PLESSIS: That's the feeling.  You always need to look at things optimistically.  We got sort of a step with West Indies with the rain.  And now we took a real big step towards where we need to be.  So I hope so.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT