NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Chris Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I didn't know what to expect because I just came here this morning, just happy to be here knowing that I have been drafted and I'm just ecstatic about it right now. 
 
I'm not sure yet, I mean, you know, we're going there this summer and trying to make the club and I'm hoping things workout and I won't be disappointed. 
 
I think it's an all-around game, play both ends of the ice, I think, you know.  Yeah, I was actually, so much build up and excitement leading up to this day being drafted it was a big relief to finally know that I can say I'm an Ottawa Senator right now. 
 
I had no idea until they picked me,, you know, I just said that, you know, whatever happens, I'm going to be happy because I had no idea, so... 
 
Yeah, I try and style my name after Chris Chelios, he's a great two-way defensemen, he likes a physical game, gets involved, that's the way I like to play. 
 
Yeah, you know brand new arena, great city and, you know, lots of young prospects, you know, it is going to be a good team in the future for sure.  
 
Yeah, Wade Bendon is a good friend of mine in the juniors and played all along.  It's great to be going into camp and have a buddy like that there. 
 
Well, you know, you never know. 
 
Well, I think, you know, this has been a dream of mine for my whole life and, you know, they're really happy for me, you know, I'm sure, you know, once I make it to Ottawa, you know, I'll be able to, you know, make them happy, you know, I'm sure they'll have a satellite dish watching all their games and I'll be fine. 
 
Like, if, you know, the time comes when I sign, it would be only fair to get them a house, you know, somewhere. 
 
You know it's great. I mean, they've made so many sacrifices for me throughout my whole hockey career, you know, the whole family can take credit in me getting drafted. 
 
I think there's a, you know, advantage he is and, you know, to both, so, again, I just had my mind open and, you know, whoever was going to take me, I'd have a big smile on my face and I'm really happy right now. 
 
Fought him a little bit, you know, not a whole lot, but, you know, I'm sure I will now. 
 
They've done a great job, you know, everything has been organized and going smoothly, just, you  know, I'll remember this day for the rest of my life being drafted in St. Louis. 
 
Some are for sure, yeah, that will be a place where I'll have, you know, lots of memories obviously, yeah. 
 
Yeah, I was too excited, you know, it's the biggest day in my life so far, I haven't been able to get much sleep the last couple of days.  Even now that it's over I probably won't be sleeping for a couple of more. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT