AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2005
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  In a match that's that close, can you say there was one thing that won the match? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  I think the thing was my fighting spirit.  And I just -- yeah, I just trust myself from the beginning to the end even if it was really tough.  And it was just a real battle.  But I never, never gave up.  I was like keep thinking positive and go for it and go for it, and it worked at the end.

Q.  How does it feel to be in your first Grand Slam semifinal?

NATHALIE DECHY:  It feels great.  That was really tough battle.  So I'm like -- after the match, I couldn't realize.  But I'm really, really proud of what I did and I want to keep going for sure. 

Q.  Were you disappointed to be playing out on Margaret Court instead of Rod Laver?

NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah.  Yes, I think you feel really disappointed because you just think that nobody care too much about this match, and it's still a quarterfinal Grand Slam.  I know like the other match was much more entertaining for the Australian and for the tournament, but that wasn't scheduled very nicely. 

Q.  The 10-minute break between the second and third sets, do you think that was to your disadvantage?  Schnyder seemed like she were in trouble after you had leveled up. 

NATHALIE DECHY:  It was one of the first time I was doing that, having a -- taking a break.  I think it's really tough to go back on court after.  You really think that you're better inside and you don't want to go back out there.  It was tough for me, too.  Like really I struggle even more the heat after the break.  It was tough before, but it was even tougher after, I think.  So it was not easy.

Q.  How do you feel about facing Lindsay? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  I played -- she's No. 1 in the world.  I play her in Sydney last week and I was already playing well, did a great match, lose against her.  So I think from two weeks ago I improved.  And it's such a great lady and such a great champion that I'm really happy to play against her in semifinal. 

Q.  How do you think you could beat her? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  I think I can because I'm playing much, much better than two weeks ago, and already two weeks ago it was like tough two sets.  Yeah, she won it in two sets.  I have few occasions.  I haven't think about it too much yet, but I will go for it. 

Q.  Physically, how much has the match today taken out of you, the heat?  Will you be okay? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, I think I'm -- I will recover really well.  I did some -- already I start recovering.  I did a lot of walk, stretching, and I'm going to have I think a three-hours massage tonight.  Our physio is here from the French Federation, so he already start working with me.  It's gonna be -- I feel much, much better already than when I came out of court.  I know she had a tough one, too, even if she had a little bit of shadow on court and I didn't.  But I'm going to recover well for sure.

Q.  Will that be one of the major factors in the semifinal, which player recovers best from today? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  It's -- yeah, but it's also when you get at the end of the tournament, it's normal to feel a little bit tired.  The good thing is I'm not painful from anywhere.  I feel 100% on my body, so that's the good thing.  I know that I just have to recover from this match, so that's already pretty easy compared to like if you have a kind of pain.  So that's pretty good.

Q.  How will you approach the semifinal?  There won't be a great deal of pressure on you. 

NATHALIE DECHY:  I think the same way as I did on the previous rounds.  Like I really enjoy myself out there.  I just playing some really good match, doing what I like to do, and it's gonna be the same tomorrow.  I mean, it's wonderful to have this kind of emotion, and I want to keep going. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT