AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2005
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Your opponent said she lost the match rather than you winning it with her unforced errors.  What's your view on that? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, I don't -- I just focus on the result and I'm at the next round and she's not.  I think I won the match, too.  I played the way I needed to play against her, and that's about it.  
 
Q.  What's your thoughts about playing Patty Schnyder next round? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, she's a tough one.  I mean, she loves playing on this surface.  She's always played well - last year semifinal.  She won on the Gold Coast again this year.  I think she's such a tough player, like lefty, not easy to play.  But I had -- I remember last year I played against her here.  I lost in two sets, Round of 16.  So I don't want to do the same mistake again, and I think I will learn from this previous match.  
 
Q.  Do you have any plans to do anything differently this year, other than win? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Not yet, no (smiling).  I just -- I didn't think about it yet, no.  
 
Q.  You've been very patient to get to your Grand Slam quarterfinal, haven't you?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah.  Yeah, I don't know how many time I play a Grand Slam already, but it's been many.  But it feels great to be in quarterfinal.  I know that it's not the end of the tournament.  I have to stay focused and I want to keep improving again.  But it's step by step.  It's never too late.  
 
Q.  What do you think you need to do well against Patty? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I don't know yet.  I just don't want to think about this match.  It's gonna be in two days, so still plenty of time.  We'll talk about it with my coach later, maybe tomorrow, and I'll see. 
 
Q.  Will you have any sort of celebration tonight to have made it this far?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  No, no (laughing).  As I said, the tournament is not over yet.  It's only the beginning of the second week, so I still want to be in that state of mind.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT