PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 28, 2004
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  How draining was that, physically draining? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  It was tough condition out there.  I'm still so hot, I cannot cool down.  But, no, it was a tough match for sure.  It was so close.  Just few points.  But that makes the difference.  
 
Q.  Was your neck okay at the beginning?  This morning, how did you feel when you woke up?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  It was good to finish the night because the night has been terrible.  Like I couldn't sleep very well with this neck.  But then I had my physical trainer from the French Federation who came this morning, so really helped and did a great job.  That's why I could actually be on court and be almost hundred percent to play.  But also it took a while to warm up, and that's why maybe I didn't start really well in that first set.  
 
Q.  It seemed like you were moving kind of slower in the first set.  Second set it loosened up?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, exactly.  And with the heat also, it was good to keep it warmer.  Maybe at that time it was too hot.  
 
Q.  Did you ask for the heat rule after the second set? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, just to change.  At least to change the shirt, because the shirt was weighing like two kilos of water.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the last service game.  Were you a little nervous coming out of the changeover?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I don't think it was nerves.  It was more like I felt like I run out of gas, like I didn't just have time to realize and I was Love-40 down, like I didn't hit that shots.  It was so fast.  And then I watched to my coach and my boyfriend.  I'm like realizing, wow, it's three match points down.  That was too late.  
 
Q.  The game before that, she was serving at 4-All, you had like three breakpoints. 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  That was my biggest opportunity.  I think it's more on these two game points than at the other game I miss my chances, I think. 
 
Q.  Why are you and your coach parting ways?  Is he retiring?  Do you have a new coach you want to hire?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  He's part of the Federation.  He has to stop traveling because he's in charge of the women's tennis in France.  So he stops after US Open.  We've been working for three years together, so it's a bit disappointing.  It's good also, I'm starting with a new coach after September.  It's going to be a good thing, for sure.  
 
Q.  With you being doubles partners, do you think you just know each other's games very well.  Three sets wasn't really too surprising for you then?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, we always played some tough match.  Even on the tour when we practice together, it's always like five -- when we only have an hour to hit, we do five-all all the time.  We always go tough match.  I knew today would be a really tight match.  That was the case for sure.  
 
Q.  Were you prepared for just the heat out there?  It's been a nice week, and then to have the humidity move in.  How difficult was that on your body? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, I didn't expect that that much because the last two matches has been night session match, so pretty good for the body.  But maybe it's the best preparation for the US Open because if it stay like this, it's going to be the same next week.  So just get used to it, and my body will recover, for sure. 
 
Q.  You haven't been in that many finals.  Is there a certain excitement about being in the final that you can't get any way else?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  That's always really good to be at the end, like the last day even, sometimes in doubles and also in singles.  It's the best day of the week, for sure.  Losing in the final for sure is disappointing, but I had such a great week.  I'm coming from the Olympics.  I didn't know really what to expect because I just arrive on Saturday evening.  And the whole week has been really great.  So I just have to think about this and then move on to the US Open next week.  But it's been a great week.  
 
Q.  Are your nerves different this morning than for another match?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  No, I wasn't different this morning.  I was more focused on my neck that really bother me.  
 
Q.  Now that you made it to the final here, if you come here next year, do you think they'll put more of your matches on Stadium Court?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I have no idea.  Maybe, yeah.  I like playing tennis, no matter where it is.  Really some great match here.  I think the crowd liked it.  So we see.  But it will be for sure pleasure to come back here.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT