WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2008
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. IVANOVIC/N. Dechy  
6-7, 7-6, 10-8  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Nathalie.  
  
  Q. How well do you think you played today?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: I think that was like for sure one of my best match so far this year probably in term of I played some good matches, but playing this level against a top player was something that I didn't do for such a long time.   
 So I was really happy and enjoying that kind of level, for sure.   
  
  Q. When you were at match point and you saw her hit her forehand, what did you think was going to happen?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Well, during one second I thought I won because the ball stayed on the net for just a tiny bit. Then I didn't see clearly if it was going on my side or on her side.   
 Then I saw. I was like, Gee, there's maybe somebody in the sky who help her on that one. But it's part of that sport, and it's why this sport is so difficult but so beautiful at the same time.   
  
  Q. How about after that? What did it do to you, seeing that happen?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Well, it was pretty tough to recover from that one. But I think I manage pretty well, otherwise I would have take 6-0 in that final set.   
 But I really thought, Okay, she had some kind of luck on that point. But you always deserve the luck, so she fight for that one. And I say, Okay, I'm going to fight back again and maybe I'll get some more chances, better chances, as long as it goes.   
 But the third set was really tight. I had maybe one chances in the third set, but was my hat again, so...   
  
  Q. Did you see what she did at the end of the match, walking up to the net?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Did she kiss the net?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 NATHALIE DECHY: The net deserved it.   
  
  Q. Have you seen the movie Match Point?   
 NATHALIE DECHY: Yes.  
  
  Q. Do you remember the moment in the movie?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: No. Except the thing that this match -- no, actually I didn't even see it. I saw the movie Wimbledon, but I didn't see Match Point. Sorry.   
  
  Q. You are so elegant and noble in your defeat. Are you always like this?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: I had to work on myself, because until five minutes ago I was crying very hard. So now, I mean, it's just a tennis match, and it's always so tough when you lose these kind of matches. But I think I gave my best today.   
 You know, when I was 3-Love down in the first set I was really thinking that I'm gonna have a tough time on that court. Because the last match we played I lost 1-1, and I haven't seen the ball during the whole match. I was like, Okay, it's going to happen again.   
 I'm playing against the No. 1 player in the world on Court 1 at 1:00. Everything's going so fast. I have to do something. And then I start playing really well. I start enjoying myself. I start being really good.   
 I mean, of course I'm completely disappointed right now and I'm -- as I told you, I was crying for the next hour after the match. But this is just the sport. You cannot do anything about it.   
  
  Q. What was your conversation with Ana at the end of the match?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Just, Well played. Good luck for the rest of the tournament. I think she's just a great, great champion, and it's nice to see her at the top. She's great for women's tennis. So if she can go really far, I'll be even more happy.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking about her good fortune?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: It had to be one side and it wasn't my side. What can I say? Maybe today she can go and play lotto also a little bit. It would be a good day for her.   
 As I said, I mean, I don't know the word in English, but we have a word like we have luck, and we have another word in French, 'réussite'. I mean, when you go for the luck and you go for it, maybe you deserve it. She went for it, never complained, fight hard, and that's why maybe she's maybe the winner at the end of this match because her level never dropped.   
  
  Q. At the end of the match you sat down and put a towel over your head. What happened next?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Like all the emotions coming back. I mean, I just start crying at the time.   
  
  Q. Were you disappointed that the umpire made you forfeit that point at that crucial time in the third set?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah, for sure, because it's just -- it's more appreciation than a mistake. There's no challenge at this time. I felt like I was making that volley winner anyway. And my hat dropped during that volley, so I don't feel like it bother her, but it's another rule and he took his decision. I cannot go over that.   
  
  Q. Is that someone upstairs as well not smiling on you?  
 NATHALIE DECHY: It's just how it was today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT