PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 9, 2003
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Can you talk about today's match.  Was it a matter of getting things going?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  It was a tough match because I always say I had some trouble to play against her.  Most of the time I lost against her, so I knew it would be a tough match.  She start really well, too.  I was always most of the time down.  I really try.  The main thing was fight and try to stay in the match to be able to have my chance at one point.  That what happen in the final. 
 
Q.  What is it about her that makes it so tough on you every time you play?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, I don't know.  Maybe she likes my game.  She's really hard  -- it's hard to win a point against her because she moves really well, she change the pace.  Her ball are always really well-placed like in the court.  It's a game that bother me a little bit.  So I had to be really careful on her.  
 
Q.  What was the turning point? 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  The turning point, I think in the second set, in the beginning of the second set, I start to feel really better like try to move much better, to hit the ball better.  I was trying to step in the court and go to the net.  That was a little bit of the change of the match.  On the first set, I was always behind my line of the  -- she was like the boss on the court, making me run.  In the second set, it started to change. 
 
Q.  Where do you feel your game is right now?  Do you feel confident, motivated?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, I feel confident.  Since the beginning of the year, I had some really good matches.  I won my first tournament.  It was some good confidence for the rest of the year, I think.  I think it's in a good way.  But for sure I think on the last few months, the tennis has been improving a lot.  There's more and more good player, Top 20, Top 30, who are able to play well and who are able now to beat the Top 10.  It's kind of every match are getting tougher.  It's good.  I have to be fit for every matches. 
 
Q.  You now possibly play Kim Clijsters again.  Would you be looking forward to that?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Do you think you give her trouble?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  It won't be the same because Kim since that match has won a lot of matches, is now No.  3 in the world, has won the Championships.  She had more confidence than last year at this stage.  But I think both of us will have this match in a little corner of our mind.  It will be one of my advantage.  After, on the court, it's going to be really tough for sure.  But I'm happy to play against her, for sure. 
 
Q.  You've had some upsets here.  Is that the type of tournament that it's been for you with Anna and then Kim?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I think it's a tournament that I like.  It's always good to come here, to have this great place here.  It's so calm, like peaceful.  You're there just to play tennis and to focus on the tennis.  Yeah, I think I like this place.  I always did some great matches.  I had some great victories here.  Why not keep going?  
 
Q.  If Francesca does what you did last year, what would it be like playing her?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I know her really well.  I played against her last year in Scottsdale on the same surface.  She's more like a good clay court player, but on a slow surface she's always good.  If she wins also against Kim, that means she's going to be really good.  For the moment, I just want to like recover this match and go and have a look on the other match and see who I'll play.  But I'm not going to try to think too much about that.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT