TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2000
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Nathalie.  
 
 
Q.  Two weeks in a row. 
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, I played a good tournament last week.  I had a tough draw this week, so I was kind of expecting what was going on.  But it was a good match today for me.  
 
Q.  Did you sense that Kim was having some physical problems?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I didn't really think that she was having some like problems on the court.  I knew that she was coming back from an injury, so it's not easy to take like a month off and to be back straightaway on a tournament where you played so well last year.  But on the court I didn't pay attention to anything.  I just played the match.  
 
Q.  You've had a lot of success here.  I know two years ago you had a couple big wins.  What is it about here at Indian Wells that's been good to you?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Maybe it's always the good timing when I come here, I don't know.  I really like this tournament.  I really like the surface.  Each time, it's true, I'm playing well here.  I don't know.  Just keep going.  
 
Q.  To save a lazy guy from looking it up, who did you lose to last week?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Last week I lost to Capriati. 
 
Q.  What did you like best about your game today?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  I really was able to make some winners at the end, to step into the court and to really push her to make the mistake.  So because at the end of the second set, it was a tough games.  It was really the moment to do it.  I really did it at that time, so it was good. 
 
Q.  Could you tell that she was not 100% out there?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, it's always hard to be hundred percent on the first round, so I knew if I was really good with my game, she would have some trouble with it.  So I just thought about that.  Yeah, I think she was  -- you know, she's still playing well, but maybe she's not like at the same level when you are first round than when you are in the final.  But it's the game, it's the tournament, so you have to be ready for the tournament.  
 
Q.  How would you compare the way you're playing now to the way you played two years ago when you did well and were in the Top 20?  Do you think you're a better player now?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yes, uh-huh, yeah, for sure.  
 
Q.  In what way?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Because I have two extra years.  But even if the ranking is still not there, I feel like I'm improving a lot.  My game is really getting more strong like on the last two or three months.  I really work hard this winter, and it's really getting back very good.  
 
Q.  Kim told us because she has an ear infection, she couldn't hear the ball bounce.  Wouldn't that be an enormous handicap to a tennis player, not being able to hear the ball bounce?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Yes, and not being able to see the ball also, I guess (laughter).  
 
Q.  Two years ago you got to No.  20, last year there were some struggles.  How frustrating did things get for you last year?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  For sure it's always frustrating to see that you still working, and maybe what you're working on was not the right way I was supposed to play.  Maybe also then I start losing some confidence because you're not winning the matches that you were winning the year before.  So I just, yeah, tried to forget what I did last year and come back better on this year.  And it worked.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you're at that level you were two years ago when you got up to No.  20?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, I don't want to just always make the compare, like to compare between the two years.  I just want to enjoy and have fun on the court, and then, for sure, the wins will come.  I just don't want to. 
 
Q.  Why do you think you do so well at this tournament?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  Because I think I really enjoy this place.  I just feeling well.  Also I always coming from  -- most of the time some good indoor tournaments, so I feel confident.  Then when I arrive here, it's good timing.  
 
Q.  Are you starting to feel like you can win this tournament yet?
 
NATHALIE DECHY:  It's a long way to the final.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT