THE MASTERS SERIES - INDIAN WELLS
March 12, 2000
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Nathalie. 

Q. Is that one of the stranger matches you've been involved in?

NATHALIE DECHY: I guess so. I did some, not too many, but one or three like this that
you never finish them. You're leading all the match, and she's coming back. I had so many
opportunities. Tennis is like that sometimes. It's a weird game. That's why everybody
likes it. 

Q. After the second set, you were up 5-1, she wins six in a row, you turn around and
win four in a row, then she comes back again. Are you thinking, "Oh, no, not
again"? 

NATHALIE DECHY: Excuse me?

Q. After a commanding lead in the second set, you jumped out to a lead in the third
set, she came back. Were you thinking, "Not again"? 

NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah, but at 4-All, I knew that I had lost many chances already. But I
say, "Okay, even if I didn't play well there, it's still 4-all in the final set, you
can still do something." I didn't think about what happened before, and just played
the point. 

Q. Do you play better on clay or an hard?

NATHALIE DECHY: Hard court. Well, I don't like clay, so. 

Q. You're ranked 24. 

NATHALIE DECHY: 23 (laughter). 

Q. This says 24. 

NATHALIE DECHY: Somebody told me this week. I don't mind.

Q. You play well enough maybe to be in the Top 10. 

NATHALIE DECHY: Thanks. But to be in the Top 10, you have to win many matches like
this. I won one last week. I did a great match last week, a little bit the same, and this
week again. I have to win again a few more like this.

Q. Among the French players, how are you ranked?

NATHALIE DECHY: There's too many. Five or six, I don't know. 

Q. Why do you think today you came up with the win? What was it that you did that made
you win?

NATHALIE DECHY: Well, I never gave up, because I could have done it a lot of time
before. Even in the tiebreak, I still believed that I could win. I was trying to get
focused on my game, to do my best.

Q. Do you think you got a little comfortable when you were up 5-1 in the second? Did
you think it was over?

NATHALIE DECHY: No, I didn't think it was over. I know she's a good fighter. But I
don't know what happened at 5-1. She didn't miss anything. She did so many unforced errors
in the beginning of the second set, it surprised me little bit. I thought it would be
tougher like the beginning of the second, so I was a little bit surprised by this. But
then she didn't miss anything. I was waiting that she give me the match, but she didn't
(laughter). 

Q. Did you have a late doubles match here last night?

NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah, I finish at around 10:00. But every match, we've been the last
one for the last three days. I'm getting used to it. 

Q. How many hours were you here? You were waiting all day, right?

NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah, uh-huh. I'm going to do I think the same today because we're
playing again doubles. It's a nice site, so I don't mind.

Q. What do you do to kill all that time?

NATHALIE DECHY: I think today I'm going to rest a little bit because I deserve it. But,
no, I have to run a little bit just to take the pressure away. I don't know, I'm going to
make some few phone calls in France and wait. 

Q. What do you have to do to improve your game to beat Halard and Testud?

NATHALIE DECHY: Well, first of all, my goal is not to beat one of the French girls. 

Q. Well, to go to the Top 10. 

NATHALIE DECHY: To go to the Top 10 is to keep working like I'm doing since a little
bit. I can still go more at the net, improve my serve even. It's a lot better now than it
was like six months ago. I have so many things to improve on each stroke.

Q. What's the name of your coach?

NATHALIE DECHY: There's two. They are the Federation. Olivier Beranger and Georges
Goven. 

Q. Do you feel more like a survivor than a winner after such a long match like this?

NATHALIE DECHY: I feel like a winner because I won (laughter). 

Q. Obviously you're a winner. Is this a survival match, too? It's a long match. 

NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah, it's always good, even if it was a tough match, to finish and win
it. That's a big point for your confidence. If I had to lose that match, could have been a
little bit hard. I mean, this is some really strange match, but it's always good to win
them. 

Q. I think you won because you played a great tiebreaker. 

NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah. 

Q. You played very well in the tiebreaker. 

NATHALIE DECHY: The tiebreak was maybe the best part of the match because I really --.

Q. One point at a time. 

NATHALIE DECHY: That's true. That's what happened. 

Q. She played some sliced backhands. She would hit the ball (inaudible)?

NATHALIE DECHY: I think she was maybe trying to cut the pace, to do something else
because she didn't know what to do anymore. Yeah, it was weird. I played her on grass, and
she's doing a lot of this kind of stuff, so I was used to it. 

Q. Can you talk about the 11th game where you broke her in the first set. 

NATHALIE DECHY: The 11th game of the first set? 

Q. In the first set where you broke and won the match. 

NATHALIE DECHY: It was too long ago, I don't remember (laughter). I don't know. The
first set - I don't remember. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT