US OPEN
September 10, 2006
Nathalie Dechy
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. So you were not seeded in this tournament; you won. What can you say about this victory? NATHALIE DECHY: Well, we were not seeded, but we did some good matches in the French Open already. I mean, we took match after match, and really get better match after match, I think. It's not a matter of seeding, it's a matter of playing well match after match. Q. Were you expecting such good results? VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, you always come for the tournament and you always have the desire to win, you know. Everyone, you ask every player, every player come into the tournament to win. But I think it's more important just not to expect anything. You just go on court and do your thing, you know. Just to concentrate on every point and go, you know, match by match, like Nathalie said. I think that's what we're doing good, you know. No matter who is on the other side of the net, and no matter how we play this day, we just try to fight for every point. That's the most important thing. NATHALIE DECHY: The first match, you remember the first match was such a nightmare. VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, it was so bad, you know. I couldn't put the ball in the court. It was so different because we didn't really play many doubles, and I was playing singles and I was just feeling on the court I have no space. Like I couldn't make a shot in doubles. I played every shot was going to the (indiscernible) or net or to the fans, you know, because I couldn't find the court. Well, but, you know, was more important to communicate with each other. And no matter what happens, just, yeah...Q. Today you were communicating well. In the first set, you had 5 4 for the others, Love 40 and...NATHALIE DECHY: Yeah. VERA ZVONAREVA: What can we do? What can we do? But it's just the way the game goes, and we got to enjoy it no matter what, you know? That's what we work for, 20 years, to play in front of the crowd, in the center court of the Grand Slam in the finals. It's a great opportunity. You just got to enjoy. No matter how you play, try to do it. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT