PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 17, 2005
Nathalie Dechy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How do you think the match went today?

NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, obviously I lost.  But I think the first set was a pretty good level of tennis, and then I dropped mine in the second set, and she raised hers.  So that make the difference on the score board. 

Q.  Can you explain why you have a drop-off?

NATHALIE DECHY:  I think it was more physical drop-off.  I start to be much more late on the ball, didn't run as fast.  Against a girl like this, it doesn't help. 

Q.  Talk about how well she played the tiebreaker. 

NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, I think she start playing really well when she was down 6-5.  She was with the wind, and she really start to change her serve a little bit, start to be more flat, go for -- even on the second serve, she went for some really fast serves.  Same in the tiebreak, just went for her shots.  And it worked pretty well. 

Q.  Second set it seemed like she cleaned up the unforced errors. 

NATHALIE DECHY:  Yeah, well, she did less unforced errors, but I think I was not the same on the second set.  It makes a huge difference. 

Q.  After she protested the line call, you won the next two points.  Did that give you reason to think maybe she was going to be distracted and you could continue onto victory?  You won the next two points to make it 3-3 in the first set. 

NATHALIE DECHY:  And? 

Q.  Did you have any idea that Lindsay would be distracted by that incident?

NATHALIE DECHY:  No, I don't think.  You can be distracted if you think there's a mistake like at the end of the tiebreaker or something, but it was just the beginning of the match.  It was not the biggest and the most important point of the match.  I knew -- it was more like she was starting to be frustrated than getting something about the mistake. 

Q.  You said you were tired.  Did the first set take that that much out of you? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  No.  I think it was more like the matches I played before. 

Q.  When you view Lindsay, do you perceive her as being fast, medium, average or slow? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, I think at the level she is, she cannot be slow.  That's for sure.  But I think she's moving really well.  She doesn't seem like, but she's able to catch a lot of balls.  She's pretty fast. 

Q.  A question about Suarez and Ruano Pascual, they had a great year last year.  What makes them so difficult to play against in doubles? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  Because they play like a different type of game.  They're just so really -- it's so hard to play against them because they don't play like you teach about, they play just completely the opposite and it works.

Q.  It's not classic doubles?

NATHALIE DECHY:  No, it's completely unclassic.

Q.  How would you describe the style that they play?

NATHALIE DECHY:  Well, they just really solid on the baseline.  They're able to lob very well.  That's about it.  Good team, I think.  They function really well together.  They're really good friends.  They've been playing together forever, it helps. 

Q.  Do you ever see a day coming when any woman totally dominates the tour or do you see it as different people achieving Grand Slam victories? 

NATHALIE DECHY:  I think it's getting tougher to do -- like to be able to see one player really dominate the tour for many years because you need to be really fit and be consistent all the year long.  And I think it's more fun to see many, many players being able to play well.  So what we have on the last few years, I think it's good for the women's tennis to see like all different kinds of player:  Lindsay, Amelie, the Williams, the Russian.  It's like really a big competition out there and it's much better like this. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT