NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 3, 2000
Mike Modano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mike, been asking everyone about the penalty kill on the 5-on-3 for 49 seconds in
the first period. Seemed to give them quite a lift. Maybe take a bit of wind out of your
sails. What impact do you feel it had on the game?
 
 MIKE MODANO: Well, it is a great opportunity at that time of the game, already scoring
on our first powerplay and having an opportunity on 5-on-3. It is an area of our game that
hasn't been too productive 5-on-3s, I think we look around there is certain people that
the penalty killers key on and we obviously try to get Zubov and Brett the shot try to
work off that. They seem to control the play pretty well. Brodeur made some good saves and
we felt confident after obviously scoring our first chance powerplay that we would -- you
know, it is a great opportunity, 1-0 with 5-on-3. 
 
Q. So much has been made of the top two lines, the top line on both teams. In a game
like this when the Devils put almost everything into shutting your line down how much do
you need a second line to step up and have some sort of scoring --
 
 MIKE MODANO: Tonight we felt we never played against the Arnott line. It was mainly
Gomez's. Obviously it was some change from Game 2 but you know, we are put out there. We
play against who they want us to play against. Obviously the key to our success is our
depth and if we are scoring, you know, one or two goals a game we still need those -- you
still need support. That is the way it was last year. We always got key goals from
everybody throughout your lineup and made life a lot easier. 
 
Q. Why do you think you didn't play so much against Arnott's line because after Game 2
you said that is the matchup that you guys wanted?
 
 MIKE MODANO: We felt after Game 2 that that would be a definitive matchup. There wasn't
-- there was some times that we were against them, but it wasn't as consistent as the Game
2 in Jersey. 
 
Q. I know a lot of times shots aren't necessarily indicative of how games are going,
but they have had a huge shot -- shots advantage in the three game. How concerned are you
that they have got a pretty good edge on you guys?
 
 MIKE MODANO: Well, we feel very flat-footed in the neutral zone. I think we are
standing around trying to check flat-footed; they come through the neutral zone pretty
fast and they got some defensemen who can skate. And they counter off mistakes very well;
trying to make the cross-ice passes a lot and they are able to intercept them and turn
them into good scoring chances, but that is usually not our typical style. We usually
tight check; don't allow too many shots throughout the game and it has been a problem that
we have been trying to address throughout the first three games. 
 
Q. Do you think what were you thinking when Marty Brodeur threw you a great break
there, when he shot the puck into the stands, are you kicking yourself that you didn't
take advantage of?
 
 MIKE MODANO: Yeah, that was a great opportunity again that slipped by and we had a
couple of great chances there at the end when he tried to go up the middle, I was able to
intercept it and Stevens somehow got his stick, the pass to Brett. Brett had a great shot
in the slot again but it seemed to bobble on him when he let it go. But, you know, we had
our chances. Some of our decisions weren't very good tonight on their goals, and it is --
both teams are very solid with the lead. Is it very tough to take that away. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT