NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 18, 1998
Mike Modano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE MODANO:  Just to watch him go up and down the ice together and score that goal was really the focal point and climax of the whole game.


Q.  Think it might be the last time you see those two on the ice together?

MIKE MODANO:  Somewhere, somehow, they're going to be back together somewhere playing.  Who knows?  But they're very close.  They've done a lot of things together.  They've grown up together winning.  I'm sure this isn't the last time you will see them.


Q.  (Inaudible)

MIKE MODANO:  I don't feel sorry for them at all. Looks good on him.  Came through for me.


Q.  (Inaudible)

MIKE MODANO:  Definitely, always have good bragging rights.  Have to wait another year.


Q.  Would you like to see the format continue?

MIKE MODANO:  Yeah.  It was exciting.  A lot of good things.  Focal point coming up for the Olympic Games.  It was fun and different.


Q.  We're looking for the rivalry inside the rivalry. Was there any Canada versus U.S. in this dressing room?

MIKE MODANO:  Not really.  I think once you get out there and you're playing, you're playing to win.  We all had to fly a long way to play.  Once you're here, you might as well win and play.  I think the guys felt like that.  We had an early wake-up in the first period.  Tied it up after that, kind of didn't look back from there.


Q.  I know you're all wearing the same jersey.  There's a little flag in the corner.  Did you think about that for a second?

MIKE MODANO:  A little bit there.  For the most part, it was (inaudible) NHL.  It was fun playing with some of the great players in the world and our country. Different format, but a different player.


Q.  Let me put it to you this way.  Let's say the Canadian player scored everything single point for team North America.  Pride-wise (inaudible)

MIKE MODANO:  Trying to get something out of me, squeezing me (laughter).  I don't think anybody would have felt any different.  We wanted to win, and Hitchcock, looks good on his record.  That was the main thing we were going over.


Q.  How about you and Tkachuk playing together, a  little World Cup magic?

MIKE MODANO:  It was fun.  Keith is always a pleasure to play with.  I just told Keith, he's big, can't move himself, try somehow to get the puck to him, get some good shots.  Scored a few for us.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT