NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 8, 2000
Brett Hull
Mike Modano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mike, biggest goal of your career so far, can you describe the play?
 
 MIKE MODANO: Yeah, I would say so. It just -- from our own behind our own net, it just
developed into a nice flow all the way up at the ice, I was able to get it to Sergei. Once
I got it to him, I realized how much room he had. It was kind of toward the end of a
shift, but it was just developing nicely throughout the play and they were able to get it
to Jere and Jere to Brett and I think just seemed like everybody shifted to that side of
the ice and Brett was able to -- his first attempt I think hit his shin or stick; came
back to him, he stuck with the play, as it came through the next time, able to get my
stick on it; hit my shaft and off the post and in. 
 
Q. Guys, you and your mate seemed to gain more confidence as the game progressed. Do
you feel it is attributeable to Game 6 against Buffalo last year?
 
 BRETT HULL: I don't know, I just think the game as it gets long and people get tired, I
think just if you stick to the game plan and don't try to waste energy you can find some
room out there because I think a lot of people are trying to be a little bit safe; a lot
of people are a little bit tired and aren't going to step up as much. So I think there is
just a little bit more room. 
 
Q. Mike, was there a point in the game where you maybe became, as a team, the hunter
Instead of the hunted; maybe it was in the second overtime; did you feel that happen?
 
 MIKE MODANO: A little bit. I think we felt some chances were coming and we were getting
some good play down low; able to wear them out a little bit. So much back and forth and
everybody is really at that point very conservative what they do with the puck. It is more
or less territorial; get it to the point, and usually it is those shots from the point
that find their way of getting through bodies. But I still felt good. I think a few of us
still had some jump and some freshness to us. 
 
Q. Brett, are you just throwing the puck on net there or do you know that Mike is
cutting to the net?
 
 BRETT HULL: With the first play I know he is cutting to the net and just trying to
throw it there and maybe he can get a stick on it or bounce off him or have it lay there
and I know Jere who gave it to me is still going to the net as well and it hit Scott
Stevens in the foot and came right back on my stick and I still saw Mike going and fired
it towards the net. 
 
Q. You probably won't be surprised to hear that Belfour said that this is the best game
since he stopped 75 shots when he was a little kid. Will you evaluate his play tonight? He
kept you in the game for most of it stopping quite a few point-blank shots.
 
 BRETT HULL: We were joking before the game. I said, you know: Just stop it Eddie, stop
everything and we will probably win because we will probably find a way to get one anyway
and he said: Okay. It's funny how that works out. 
 
Q. The Devils were talking about they still had 3-2 in the series. But how much
momentum do you think you grab from this victory? Are you concerned that all the road
teams won the last four games?
 
 MIKE MODANO: We felt if we got this tonight we would come back here Monday night. That
was our train of thought going into tonight. Obviously this was -- you are not going to
see Saturday or Monday without tonight's. It is a big momentum change. I think we all feel
-- finally realize what we have to do and how we have to play to beat these guys and you
know, it always seems -- we seem to come up big when the time is needed. Guys seem to
rally; we seem to support one another. We don't get down. We stay positive; stay with the
program, and as the game goes on we seem to find cracks and seams that we take advantage
of. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the emotional joy you had when you saw the puck go in the net?
 
 MIKE MODANO: Well, it is just, you know, just hurry up and get off the ice and get out
of here, but sense of relief, it is ---it is a once-in-a-lifetime deal when you are
playing this long in the Playoffs and elimination game and you are able to see another
day, but there is some major joy there. 
 
Q. About halfway through regulation tonight the puck support by the forwards and
exiting your zone just changed, like it did a 360 from the previous four games. Talk about
that being a key to you guys staying out of trouble tonight.
 
 BRETT HULL: Was Hitch in here earlier? (Laughter.) I think that is with both teams. I
think that is the way you are going to have success scoring or creating offense because
the forwards work so hard coming back to help the "D", there is not a lot of
plays of distance where you are going to be able to get a guy in a good situation because
everyone plays so tight, you get the puck, you just have to kind of get it by someone and
hope another guy is there to continue on with the play and as you are taken out, try to
get back into it to support him again. 
 
Q. Talk about Eddie?
 
 MIKE MODANO: He made some great saves, the one on Sykora there point blank and, you
know, a few on that line they seem to generate a lot of offense, that line, and chances,
but he was -- you know, we feel tired as players and skaters, but you can't believe, can't
fathom what those goalies go through, the mental toughness, the focus, to be out there for
six periods. They don't have a chance to come to the bench for a breather. They stay out
there. They both played phenomenal. Brodeur made some great saves on Keane and Nieuwendyk,
but they were both spectacular. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT