NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 4, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Before the first game you mentioned the free throw as such a big key, that was switched around in Game 2, Miami was able to get there.  What are some of the key things besides the obvious that you have to do to execute better there?
FRANK VOGEL:   Well, we've got to keep Jimmy off the line more than anything.  He's obviously great at attacking the basket and initiating contact and getting himself to the free throw line.  We have to be more disciplined on contact.
For us offensively, we're moving the basketball really well.  We set some kind of record about number of passes in the zone and the ball movement was outstanding.  We've just got to make sure that we are attacking the paint enough so that we can get to the free throw line as well.
Q. Spoelstra confirmed there's no Bam or Dragic again in this one.  Is there a certain level of competitive disappointment that goes with that as much as you separate that from the game plan?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I don't really invest in that.  Honestly, I identify with who is going to be on the floor and how do I beat them.  I don't really have an emotional reaction to whether guys are in or out.  I know the guys that are going to be playing for the Miami Heat are capable of beating us tonight and I just keep my focus there.
Q. Obviously Miami is limited with their personnel.  What's the balance for you on offense of preparing to face the zone again and then maybe just sort of anticipating a counter punch that they will do differently tonight?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, we looked at a few different things that they may do.  Obviously more zone or less zone is a part of that but also some things that they do within the man-to-man defense that they have and some ways they can tweak their zone.
So obviously they have got a great coaching staff.  They are going to look at the ways we attack the zone and try to make some adjustments.  That's part of the playoffs, anticipating the other coach's adjustments.
Q. You didn't have Rondo in the first round. And his stretch, of basketball basically since you got him back up until Game 2, might have been his best game of the playoffs, is a big part of your success.  Do you buy into the whole 'Playoff Rondo' thing and how important has he been in this run up to this point?
FRANK VOGEL:   He's been vital to our run up to this point.  There's no question about that.  We are not here without him playing at such a high level.
I personally don't really like the 'Playoff Rondo' thing because I think it implies that he's not good in the regular season, and he's been good for us all year.
Obviously, the great players are going to play their best in the playoffs.  That's no different with Rondo, but like I said, he's been consistent and really good for us all year.
Q. You've talked about LeBron's level of buy-in, how it was almost immediate this year.  There are times in these games where you're up 15, 17 points and he's getting upset visibly about a lone rotation, arguing for calls, even when the game is seemingly in hand.  What does that say about his level of lock-in to the game, and what tone does that set for you guys?
FRANK VOGEL:   It's player leadership, and when you have team captains or player leaders holding each other accountable, making sure the bar is set high, there's no let-down in situations like you described.
It's invaluable.  It strengthens my message.  That's always going to be the coaching staff's message to play every possession regardless of what the score is. And when you have your leaders saying the same things, echoing your voice, you know your team is going in the right direction.
Q. When you were playing against Rajon in various cities --
FRANK VOGEL:   Scared me to death.
Q. -- when he would yell your coverages on the court before your own players did.
FRANK VOGEL:   You could see how smart he was and how prepared he was.  That's one of the things that -- before you coach players, you don't really know players and that's been one of the things that's most impressive in being around him all year is the level with which he prepares as a player.
He spends as much time watching tape, studying scouting reports as the coaches do if not more.  It's impressive.  It's fun.  It's why we included him in our coaching staff meetings.  He was an equal voice with all of our assistant coaches.  I did fire him from the meetings when he came back from being injured and was a healthy player just to keep that proper separation.
But his level of preparation is something that people probably don't know as much about as his intelligence.
Q. Seemingly from the moment you got here, your first press conference, you've been overshadowed by something or other with things that have gone on on this team.  How would you frame your role in all this and your satisfaction with how you played that role?
FRANK VOGEL:   Being overshadowed is just fine with me (laughs).  I've always said that this particular job is not about me or the head coach.  It's about LeBron James and Anthony Davis and their legacy that they are creating.  It's about the iconic Lakers franchise and getting them back to where they deserve to be. And you know, I've always had the mindset to just come in and be focused on the work, be focused on doing the job at a really high level and playing my part.  If that means I'm being overshadowed, like I said, that's just fine with me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT