NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 26, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles Lakers 117, Denver Nuggets 107
FRANK VOGEL:   Can I start by first wishing Jeanie Buss happy birthday.  This is your birthday present, a trip to the Finals.  We miss you, Jeanie.  See you soon.
And then secondly, saying congratulations to the Denver Nuggets on a heck of a postseason run.  They gave us all that we could handle.  So much respect for Murray and Jokic and all of their players, Coach Malone and their whole program.  They are just so tied together and connected.  Like I said, they gave us all that we could handle.
Questions?
Q. LeBron, what he's meant to you this season, after going against him all those years in Indiana, the fourth quarter that he has, going to the Finals nine times in 10 seasons, how did tonight's game typify what you've seen from him this season?
FRANK VOGEL:   I just feel he's had a chip on his shoulder all year long.  Everybody has doubters.  To be in the Eastern Conference and get there as much as he had, now to come over to the Western Conference, I think just an enormous accomplishment to do it with a third team.
So much respect for him and love for him and what he's meant to me.  He has empowered this whole group with just buying into the plan that we had, with how we wanted to play this year, and getting the whole group to buy in.
Obviously a great part of why we've had this success. Understanding that the job is not done.
Q. I want to keep this general for you.  What else stood out to you about your team as you now advance to the finals?
FRANK VOGEL:   I loved how scrappy we played defensively.  We know we have the firepower to score with anyone, but when we really commit to the defensive side of the ball -- this team was playing at an extremely high level, very difficult to guard.  We bought into the coverages and trying different things to mix our pitches a little bit.  But just to really work on that side of the ball is what I'm probably most impressed with.
Q. We talk a lot about not taking LeBron for granted.  What he did in the end of the fourth quarter there, do you stop and say, "This is incredible," and kind of appreciate this moment when it's happening?
FRANK VOGEL:   That's exactly what I said.  I don't know if I've ever witnessed a guy take over the game the way he did in the fourth quarter tonight in person.  It was remarkable.  Doing what he's doing on the defensive end is always -- last game, too.  He takes the assignment of guarding their hottest player, wins that game for us.  Obviously, taking over down the stretch, possession after possession after possession of big shots, big plays.  Just a remarkable performance.
Q. I know you were saying you didn't need to communicate the urgency of closing out the first opportunity against the Nuggets, but what were you seeing pregame?  Was there anything unique that you noticed about your group?
FRANK VOGEL:   We locked in.  We've been locked in every game this whole playoffs.  We've had a couple of quarters here and there where we haven't really been sharp.  But when you have two great captains and great player leadership like we have with Anthony and LeBron, who are super focused and have the ability on the floor to dominate long stretches of games, you have a chance.
I just feel like this game tonight, we knew what this team was capable of with their survival instincts.  I was just proud of how locked in we were.
Q. Obviously, you know what to expect from LeBron in these situations, just he does it all the time.  Anthony, this is still all new for him.  How did he respond to this stage and how do you think he'll respond next?
FRANK VOGEL:   He can't respond any better than he has.  He's playing exceptional basketball.  He's really just staying in the moment, is my observation of him.  He's just playing basketball.  We know what the stakes are in these games, but it doesn't change anything for him other than being super focused and super locked in.
Obviously, he hit the big shot in Game 2, which changed the series and put us in position to be where we're at tonight.  But he's got that ability to dominate both sides of the ball. Defensively with his blocks and his ability to contain anybody, any size.  And the many ways he can hurt you on the offensive end -- tonight, he is hitting threes, scoring in the post.  Just a dynamic player.  He's handling the moment as expected.
Q. You came into the league in 2001, so almost 20 years ago, and this is your first Finals appearance.  Can you describe the magnitude of hearing that this is LeBron's tenth?
FRANK VOGEL:   (Laughing) Yeah, it's pretty normal for him.  I haven't been there.  It's very rare to reach this level.  You know, there's 30 teams, 30 great teams competing every year.  Only two get to get to the Finals.  I actually came in in  '98.  But you know, splitting hairs there.
I don't take it for granted.  We have a special group that I feel very fortunate to be a part of, to be aligned with two all-time players in LeBron and Anthony, and with an iconic franchise.
I'm super happy for all Laker Nation.  We feel your support.  Wish we could do this at Staples Center, but I know how proud our fan base is and how used to being in this position that they are.  And it's been awhile.  So happy for you, Laker Nation, to get us back where we belong.
Q. You mentioned earlier it's been a calendar year since you got into practice for this journey, not just with the team but with LeBron.  In the past, there's been a decent amount of noise about his relationship with different coaches, and seems like it's been smooth sail, trust, growth.  How you would you describe the trust between you two and what does it mean to you that he obviously counts on you quite a bit?
FRANK VOGEL:   It means everything to me.  Honestly, I'm here to just do the job.  I have no ego in this.  I just want to play my part and create a plan, put guys in position to be tied together and tie the strings together.
He's been invaluable in terms of earning that buy-in.  His support of me has meant everything for our group.  To me, that's the greatest sign of a leader, is one that supports the coach.  To have his support means everything to me.  Gives me confidence that we can do great things in the next round, which is obviously the ultimate goal, and look forward to doing that.
Q. Following up on that, obviously you have a lot of talent, but given you and the staff are new, a lot of different challenges throughout the course of the year that were unique, what was your approach in trying to navigate those?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, talk about togetherness from day one.  My opening press conference when I addressed the media, in my one-on-one meetings with our players, with my coaching staff and obviously aligning with our front office.  They have organizational togetherness.  It's just if we are all pulling in the same direction -- if you get a group of people pulling in the same direction that has talent, you can accomplish special things.  It's rare and unique to have this many new pieces come together so quickly and have success so early.
I just credit our whole organization for buying into that and putting us in position to be where we are at now, which is having an opportunity to compete for what we are really looking for.
Q. You were so close to this early in the last decade, one game from the Finals.  Eventually that Indiana core breaks up and you go to Orlando.  On this winding path, do you ever doubt if you would get this shot again, and what does this career achievement mean to you?
FRANK VOGEL:   You always wonder.  I was always hopeful that I would get another opportunity.  I remained confident in my belief in myself.
But you know this career achievement is so far away from where I'm at mentally right now.  I'm just trying to play my part.  Give our guys a plan, make sure that everybody is playing together.  This run is about LeBron James and Anthony Davis and all the guys that bought into starring in their roles and about the Lakers family who is used to being in this position and used to being in the Finals, used to winning championships.  It's been a long time for them and it's been a difficult number of years out of the playoffs.  So it's really just all about them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT