NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 24, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. If I could, could we start off the court. Just wanted to get the sense of how you and the team are doing following the news in the Breonna Taylor case.
 FRANK VOGEL:   Well, we're trying to stay strong.  You know, it's clear that this news has hit our guys very hard.  It's heartbreaking, and you know, there's really no silver lining to it.  It's a reminder of, it's not just -- it's hard for Breonna Taylor, her family, and everybody that was invested in this.
 But it's just a reminder of all the other acquittals when unarmed black men are being killed, and it's just something that's hit us hard.  Just a reminder that, you know, how important it is for all of us to vote and to be educated on all the potential police reform bills that are out there, and just play our part and do everything we can to help affect change.
 Q. No easy transition to basketball, so I'll just do it directly.  When you think about last game and the film and the ensuing practice, what's the most important thing you want to see in the first quarter that indicates that you guys are moving forward?
 FRANK VOGEL:   Sense of urgency.  I think we played hard in Game 3 but we didn't play as hard as the Nuggets.  That's what we have to do to win Game 4.  We've got to play harder.  We've got to play tougher, more physical, with more hustle, quicker to loose balls.  It starts there.  And then all the execution pieces have to be done at a high level, as well.
 Q. Having been to the Conference Finals in 2013 and 2014 in Indiana and having to run into the guy who is on your side now, do you find yourself reminded of that experience, of that intensity? Or dwelling on it, thinking back to that time at all now that you're back in it again this year?
 FRANK VOGEL:   Well, I certainly have more confidence with him on my side than I did back then, that's for sure.
 Yeah, I'm well aware of the level that he can reach, especially after losses, and I'm excited to see how he responds tonight.
 Q. Kind of going back to Mike's first question, you talk about going through a lot and having a lot of conversations in the last couple months, and sort of getting informed and aware.  When you experience a news event like Breonna Taylor and this, the announcement of the charges or lack thereof, do you find yourself experiencing that differently than you might have like a year ago or even a couple months ago?
 FRANK VOGEL:   Well, certainly we're more invested now than we were a year ago.  We reached a tipping point I think with George Floyd.  These issues have always been there.  They have always been wrong.
 You know, I think when we reached the tipping point with George Floyd and with this year's team having been through so much, it's something that we all share these emotions.  So, when something like that comes out yesterday, we share it just the same, and I do feel it differently today than probably would have a year ago.
 Q. Denver's experienced players, Jamal Murray have gone from very good to great.  Miami has improved in the season as they have gotten into the bubble, and Boston has gotten better since they have been here.  But you guys are kind of where you expected to be at this point.  Why do you think you guys were able to do that when maybe some of the other teams that thought they would be here, weren't?
 FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know, expectations are always up for debate, for lack of a better way to put it.  If you look at our expectations to start the season, we hoped we would play well in the second half, but we hit our stride very early on in the season.  We knew we had a chance to be really good.  Played at a high level all throughout the season, and fortunately up to this point, we've been able to have success in these playoffs.
 I think AD, understanding that this is a different type of ceiling for this playoff run than he's had in the past; obviously LeBron's experience and all the other experience of all the other veterans that we have on this team, have given us confidence and intelligence in preparing for these playoffs.  That's probably why we are at where we're at, but we are certainly not comfortable in any way that we have achieved anything.
 Q. After a loss like the other night, do you come out of it thinking problems were more on the defensive end, more on the offensive end?  Is it a 50/50 split?  Where did you think the issues were after Game 3?
 FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I thought the split would probably be I think 60/40, more issues on the defensive end.  I wasn't happy with our defensive commitment.
 Offensively, I thought we played well.  We turned it over a little too much.  I liked the quality of the shots we were getting.  We had a poor shooting night.  Worst shooting night since Game 1 against Portland.  If we shoot the ball better, a few less turnovers, we'd be in business on the offensive end, but we have to raise our level on the defensive end.
 Q. When you look at the shots that you liked, those were shots you just missed as opposed to maybe their defense being right there?
 FRANK VOGEL:   A little of both.  Yeah, they played a good basketball game, the Denver Nuggets did, in Game 3.  They contested some.  They got to us some.  Broke our rhythm some.  But when we did have good offensive possessions, we had several possessions where we had good possessions without getting the payoff, and you know, that happens from time to time.
 Hasn't happened to us in probably a month or more, so hopefully we return to form tonight.
 Q. After the Breonna Taylor decision landed, Danny Green told us yesterday that he could see the four remaining teams having meetings the same way they did in the first round.  Have you heard anything like that gestating or any plans about what you're going to do going forward?
 FRANK VOGEL:   I have not heard anything about that.  I know that we all have it on our minds and on our hearts to continue to use our platform to raise awareness and to try to affect change, and most importantly, to raise the intent to get people to vote.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT