NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 20, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys have been really good at not letting your foot off the pedal as these series have gone on. Once you've gotten the lead after that Game 1, what's important there, anything that you emphasize with your players in the course of leading into this Game 2 here?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, we don't really have to talk about it much with this team because we know what they are capable of based on what they did the last two series.  They are a comeback team within games when they are down at halftime and they are a comeback team within series.  We don't have to talk too much about it.  Our guys are going to be motivated to get tonight's win.
Q. LeBron historically in the playoffs averages around 42 minutes, and you've been able to keep LeBron below his regular-season count so far.  How important do you think that could be in moving forward and what do you think the key has been so far?
FRANK VOGEL:   We always want to keep his usage and minutes at a reasonable rate when possible.  Obviously has the possibility to go up if needed, but this is a marathon and we need him throughout the whole series and hopefully the next if we are able to advance.  We always want to be smart with his minutes.
Q. Really, really consistent since the first game with the Portland series -- how important has KC [Kentavious Caldwell-Pope] been when you look back at what you guys have done here in the last three, four weeks?
FRANK VOGEL:   I think everything he does is important to us.  You know, obviously his ability to knock down threes when Anthony and LeBron are doubled-teamed, is very important, as well as when running the floor.
But KCP's impact is most felt with the energy he plays with.  You know, he's one of the hardest-playing guys in the league.  He changes ends with great speed and effort and hustle, and that motor, you know, that energy, really affects our group.
But certainly, if you're asking about his shooting on the back side with double teams with Anthony and LeBron, that's been a big part of our success, yes.
Q. You don't have to remind your guys to keep the foot on the gas, that kind of thing.  What luxury does that provide you, and how early did you figure out that it was going to be that way with this group?
FRANK VOGEL:   Well, just because we don't have to remind them, doesn't mean I won't remind them (laughs).  Every time they score a basket, probably we'll remind them.  Our group is very locked in and focused and it is a great luxury.  It's about player leadership.  Anthony, LeBron set a great tone, Rondo, some of our other vets.  They understand the importance of this time of year, and you know, thus far, they have had a great mindset to, like you said, keep our foot on the gas.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT