NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 29, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you bottle that fourth quarter from your guys for two whole games, or is that the kind of thing you just need in spurts? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know the answer to that question.   We're just going to go in and try to win Game 6.   I believe we can go into their building and get a "W," and that's all our focus is on.

Q.   Is it all about momentum at this point? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think every playoff series momentum changes dramatically every basketball game.   Certainly, it's swung back in our favor.   We've got to keep it going and get a win in Game 6.

Q.   The biggest adjustment for your guys last night that's going to carry over to Game 6, that they did well? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We defended without fouling.   We kept our hands out of the cookie jar, and we moved our feet.   You take it out of the officials' hands when you earn no calls and you play with defensive discipline. 
So I think that's something we have to have against this basketball team.   If they're going to shoot 30 threes, we've got to make sure we're contested on the perimeter and not put them to the line.

Q.   Do you feel like this team plays best when their back's against the wall? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think every team plays best when their back's against the wall.   So, yes, I do.

Q.   Frank, when you were playing in the first round of the playoffs years ago, did you foresee this rivalry? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   It's tough to say.   What I foresaw is we're going to be the championship contender, and obviously they were a team built to be a dynasty. 
So I guess in that regard, yes, I thought we would have a good rivalry.

Q.   Have you had the opportunity to talk to Lance about some of the things he does, in the huddle, blowing in the ear, and all of that?   Does that bother you in any way? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   What, being in the huddle?

Q.   Yeah, that's it. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   People are in my huddle all the time.   Every player in the NBA does that.   That's nothing.   Blowing in his face probably crosses the line.   That's not really who we are.   We want to be a competitive team, but we don't want to cross the line.

Q.   Do you feel you get more out of Lance when he's engaged like that, though, when he's loose? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think Lance is always engaged out there.   He's just a competitive guy.   He wants desperately to win, really cares about doing whatever it takes to get a "W."   I think that's a good attribute.

Q.   Frank, given the way that he defended LeBron, is that a greater option that you can give Paul a break and give him more time in that assignment? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think with somebody like LeBron James, the great scorers in the game, you have to mix your coverages, and you have to mix your matchups.   He had a good burst in there, but it's not anything I think is going to hold LeBron down or anything like that. 
It's just something we've got to continue to mix coverages, mix matchups.

Q.   Frank, what was the defensive thinking on that last play with LeBron having the ball?   Was it stop LeBron?   Stop his pass?   How do you play that? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I'm not saying.

Q.   In general, how do you kind of handle those situations? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We don't want to give up any bucket.   We don't want to get beat by three, obviously, when you're up two, but you don't want to give up an easy two either.

Q.   How much better does this team have to play than you guys were last night? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think we've got to play a lot better.   I think we played pretty well.   I think we had some stretches where we didn't play well at both ends.   They got us all spread out across the three‑point line, and we've got to cover those looks better. 
We had some pressures offensively where we were a little out of sync, a little out of rhythm.   The margin for error is much slimmer when you're playing on the road in the playoffs.

Q.   What are the things that Paul George did to be so effective last night?   Attacking the rim? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Made all his shots.   No, I think our defensive pressure allowed us to get some easy looks in transition, and once you see the ball go in, the half‑court becomes easier.

Q.   Frank, you guys worked all season for the possibility of a home court Game 7.   What do you think of your team about the possibility of making that happen? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We're one win away from doing it.   We've said all along that home court advantage doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to‑‑ you win your three home games and lose your three road games and get to a Game 7. 
We've been able to win a road game in each playoff series we've been involved in the last two years, and we have a confidence that this series will be the same, that we can go into Game 6 and be able to get a "W." 

Q.   Not that you don't expect an all‑out assault from Lebron James, but given what happened in the last game, do you sort of brace for something extra? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I'm sure he'll be much more assertive.   He had career lows, playoff career lows.   Because of the nature of the game, being out of rhythm and being in foul trouble, it certainly takes everybody that is in that situation out of their rhythm.   So the greats usually try to respond with a comeback type of performance.   So I think we can expect that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT