NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 28, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 90
  Indiana Pacers - 93

Q.   Frank, Paul George played tonight like the superstar he's always had the potential to play like.   Did you guys give him the green light from the word go to shoot as much as he did tonight and just go for it? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No more than normal, to be honest with you.   I thought our whole team had a little bit of a yellow light mentality and got hesitant a little bit when we got down. 
My message to the whole team was the light needs to be on green for all of us.   You need to go.   You need to attack.   You need to be aggressive.   Paul took it and ran with it and took it to a crazy level.

Q.   Second half, you had just two turnovers.   It seemed like those steals to layups really fueled that second‑half run.   How much did you see that impacting you guys really getting going in that third quarter? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We were aggressive with our hands defensively in the passing lanes and pressuring up.   We were able to force some turnovers, and forced turnovers get easy buckets.   Then half‑court gets a little bit easier because you've seen the ball go in.

Q.   Obviously, other than LeBron foul trouble, the Rashard Lewis six three‑pointers is really another story of the game.   Is it hard when he hasn't come on offensively in this series or all season?   Is it hard to adjust to that? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   To Rashard Lewis?   No, I mean, they always have somebody out there that can shoot the basketball.   Whether it's Mike Miller or James Jones or Ray Allen or Shane Battier or Chris Bosh, I mean, they have three‑point shooters at every position. 
So we have our coverages.   We got to him, and he made some contested ones, made all the open ones, and you've got to give him credit. 

Q.   Frank, down at the half with the series and season on the line, what was the message to the team to get them to respond the way they did in that second half? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Just like I alluded to earlier, to not lose belief, not lose‑‑ hey, LeBron was on the bench for a stretch.   We didn't take advantage of it.   It doesn't mean anything.   There's still plenty of basketball left.   We can take advantage of it in the third quarter, in the second half, and to make sure our green light was on go. 
I thought we just got a little bit hesitant, and we just needed to stay aggressive. 

Q.   Frank, Lance Stephenson did a great job of aggravating LeBron all night.   He pushed and shoved and played around with him for most of the night, kept him off of his game.   What was your thoughts about that? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   He just competed.   Nobody can stop or slow down LeBron.   LeBron got out of rhythm because of foul trouble.   Just all of our guys, we just competed, as tough as we could, no matter who we were on. 
We overcame one heck of a shooting performance by the Heat.   The threes that they were making in the second half was just ridiculous.   Their shot‑making was ridiculous, and we were still able to prevail.   So I'm very proud of our guys. 

Q.   Was this a case of the defense leading to the offense?   Before the game, you talked about the offensive execution leading to a better defense.   Is this a case of the D leading to the O as far as the pressure and forcing them into maybe some of the things that you were doing offensively in previous games? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No question.   Certainly, like we said earlier, if you're able to force turnovers and get some easy buckets in transition, then that changes your mindset a little bit when you do get into the half‑court slugfest because you've seen the ball go in the basket, and that certainly helps.

Q.   Frank, what were you telling your guys in that final time‑out before the Bosh three?   And what were you anticipating there? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We knew the ball was going to be in LeBron's hands.   We know the types of sets that they like to run.   So we were just going over coverages and making sure that we knew we could go for a quick two. 
But we wanted to‑‑ we didn't want to give up a three.   We were up two.   That's the play you were alluding to, right?   We were up two, and we didn't want to give up a three.   But we didn't want to give up LeBron James at the rim, like we'd done the past two.   So we made sure we had rim protection and scrambled on the three‑point line.

Q.   Coach, you won this game, however, you shot 59 percent from the free‑throw line.   How concerned are you about that going into the next ballgame? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We've got to make our free throws.   We have a good free‑throw shooting team, one of the best in the league.   I'm confident our guys will knock them down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT