NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 27, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, the day after, any time spent reflecting?   Have you come up with anything that is different from last night? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah.   Every time you watch the tape, the picture becomes more clear about what happened, what has to happen, and we've got to play a better basketball game in Game 5.

Q.   What would you say happened now? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Well, I think their defensive pressure took us out of some of the things we wanted to do.   I think we weren't disciplined with our fouling.   We put ourselves in a position where we couldn't sustain our rotation like we want to.   We've got to be more disciplined there. 
I thought we did a good job keeping our turnovers low, which is the key to this series.   We've got to‑‑ I thought our defense at times was a little bit better, but still got to improve.

Q.   I know you're sick of talking about it, but do you think Lance's comments played any role in the Heat's performance or in his own performance? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know about the Heat.   I can't speak for them.   I think they're motivated by winning the Championship, not by anybody's comments. 
I think that, if anything, maybe Lance tried to walk the walk a little too much and maybe put too much pressure on himself, didn't get going early, and then he got in foul trouble.   So he had a rough night. 
It might have had an effect.   It's tough to say.

Q.   Do you take any issue at all with a number of your players laying it at the feet of the officials? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think we've got to worry about what we can control.   We know we're going to have to play through adversity on the road in the playoffs, and our guys just need to put their focus on what we're doing.

Q.   Did you address that with the team? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes.

Q.   Can you share the gist of it? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Just what I just said.   That's basically the gist.   We can't control calls.   We've got to worry about what‑‑ we've got to control our turnovers, our shot selection, our passing, our defense.

Q.   Clearly, you disagree with some calls.   You got a technical. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I can't go there.

Q.   Were you okay with the officiating, or do you think that lost the game? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I can't go there.

Q.   What's that? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I can't go there.

Q.   Were you disappointed that Paul carried it?   Whether your guys were frustrated or not, there's always that line about how much to say.   Were you disappointed about what he said or how he said it? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.

Q.   What do you have to do to combat their pressure?   Have cleaner possessions?   Get better shots? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Well, we've got to play through randomness.   That's what they force.   That's what their defense forces.   It takes you out of, oftentimes, what you're trying to do offensively, and you've got to play through random action.   You've got to create good shots through random action.   That's what attacking the Miami Heat's about.

Q.   Now you guys are in a position where you need to win three in a row. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No, we don't.   We need to win one game.   That's all we're thinking about right now.

Q.   Then you have to win one more, and then you have to win one more. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes.

Q.   How do you get your team in the mindset where, right now, we've really just got to take care of business? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Listen, 3‑1 is a tough challenge.   We know that.   If it's going to happen, it typically happens when the home team is down 3‑1.   If we win Game 5, the pressure goes back on them.   Then they've got to win Game 6.   Otherwise, Game 7 is in our building. 
All our focus is on right now is coming back and getting Game 5 and extending the series.

Q.   What was your primary message to your team today after film work? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Just what we just said.   So we're going to do our work to focus on improving.   Today was about offensive execution, to play a better offensive game, and that we should have every bit of confidence that we can win at home. 
We're one of the best home teams in the league, and we've got to come back and win Game 5 and extend the series, and we should have confidence that we can do that.

Q.   In football, a lot of times teams will send tapes to the league to have them look at calls.   Do you guys do that? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We do that regularly throughout the year, yes.

Q.   Did you do after this game? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I'm not going to comment on that.

Q.   You talk about their defense, but how was your defense, especially with Chris Bosh stretching?   Rashard wasn't effective in the same stretch. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I thought we spaced them a little too much on two plays, the contested twos, the drive and shoot game.   That's a good shot for Chris Bosh, but it's something we can live with. 
We can't give them uncontested threes.   We've just got to make sure we push up on them enough.   And obviously try to take advantage of them on the other end.

Q.   Some of those early turnovers, especially at the beginning of the first quarter and third quarter, is that a by‑product of guys maybe being a little too tight and not trying to get a turnover so they maybe make a bad play? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No, a few of them were trying to get the ball to Roy Hibbert to establish our inside game.   They made good defensive plays with their hands to turn us over‑‑ or their feet.

Q.   Were passes too casual at times? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No, just good defense.

Q.   What are they doing to Roy?   Are they fronting them?   What are they doing to take him away?   Or is it just they put perimeter pressure? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We've got to compete.   It's the perimeter pressure.   Look, Roy Hibbert's hurt the Miami Heat more in the pick‑and‑roll game and on the glass in previous years.   That's where he's put up his biggest numbers while mixing in the post‑game.   It's not like he's had success getting 20 to 30 post‑ups a game. 
So that's what we're trying to utilize.   That's how we're trying to utilize him.   They're doing a great job with their hands and deflecting those passes.

Q.   Frank, you said something last night along the lines of you still just have to win one game back down here in this building to ultimately get to where you want to go.   Do you sense any crisis of confidence when it is a 3‑1 deficit guys are staring at, or do they kind of seem the same to you? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think any time you lose three in a row in the playoffs, it shakes your confidence some, but we can't worry about that. 
All we've got to worry about is coming back and winning Game 5 and give us an opportunity to come down here and win one game, which we've won one game in each playoff series that we played here the last two years.   We should have confidence that we can do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT