NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 24, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Indiana Pacers - 87
  Miami Heat - 99

COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Tough loss for our guys.   Thought we competed really well, came out of the gates pretty strong, got off to a good start.   Then we didn't manage our foul trouble well and didn't manage our‑‑ they're picking up their defensive intensity well.   I thought we attacked appropriately but didn't finish in plays, and obviously turned it over a little too much and let them get going.

Q.   Obviously, Ray Allen has done this to a ton of people.   Is it something where, when it happens, you go, "There he goes again"?   Was there something you guys didn't do that he got those four three‑pointers in the fourth?   Obviously, I know you go into a game telling your players to watch out, but when Ray gets going like that, what's it like on the other side defensively? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's extremely difficult to guard, especially when you're playing big against him, but we haven't been hurt quite like that, with that kind of a clash in styles, which is what this series is about.   So we've just got to do a better job with it.

Q.   You guys have been through a lot, obviously, four elimination games so far, the deal with Paul, a 15‑point lead gone tonight.   How much resiliency do you think is left in you guys? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   A ton.   It's very early in the series.   They came back.   They took care of their home court.   We've got to come out and try to get Game 4.

Q.   A couple of adjustments that they made tonight, did you see it coming, putting Lewis on West for a period of time and also the press that Spoelstra went to for a short period? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes, that's just them picking up their press.   Like I alluded to before, I thought we attacked it appropriately.   We got a couple of chippies, missed some open threes.   There were a couple of times we turned it over.   But we're going to attack their pressure and make sure we finish better. 
As far as Lewis' adjustment, it was a matter of Bosh being in foul trouble and Rashard did a good job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT