NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 20, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 87
  Indiana Pacers - 83 
  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Tough loss.   You've got to credit Miami for making more plays down the stretch.   
We played a pretty good basketball game, but we just had a couple of key turnovers and a couple of defensive breakdowns that led to threes that were just big, big plays.   
It's a split.   We'll respond.   We'll look at the tape, make our adjustments, and come back for Game 3.  
   
 Q.   Frank, Paul apparently said he had maybe a blackout and blurred vision from his collision with Wade.   Do you have any information about his status?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I do not.   The only information I got during the game is that he's okay, good to go.   
   
 Q.   Frank, as well as Lance played tonight, did he do anything celebration‑wise that irked you at all?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.   Not at all.  
   
 Q.   Coach, you guys contained LeBron and D‑Wade for the most part for three quarters.   They both had big fourth quarters, LeBron 12, D‑Wade 10.   How demoralizing is that to allow those guys to just come up at the end of the game and get big shots?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's not demoralizing.   We know they're great, great players.   They're a great team.   They're the champs.   That's what we expect from those guys because they've been there before.   So we've just got to respond.   It's not demoralizing.  
   
 Q.   Frank, you went heavy with the starters.   Did they have enough left late in the game?   Did you see anybody gassed?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think so.   I thought Lance looked a little gassed during that one stretch.   That's why I got him a quick blow and got some other people some touches.   
Paul George has got to guard LeBron.   He's got to stay in there when he's in there.   So he might have been a little bit, but I thought everybody else looked okay.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that's the way you're going to have to go, or is it just a matter of you need bench guys to step up a little bit more?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Our bench guys hopefully will step up, and we can extend their minutes a bit more.  
   
 Q.   They went with Udonis Haslem to start the game this time, and do you think it was harder for Roy Hibbert to get position offensively tonight than it was the other night?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think U.D. does a good job, but I think Roy did a good job fighting for position and dominating the glass.  
   
 Q.   Coach, what was it about the final five minutes that changed the complexion of the game?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Like I said, we had some defensive breakdowns that led to threes and a few turnovers.   A couple good looks where we missed shots.   Lance missed some good passes to start the fourth for guys who were open, and we just didn't connect.  
   
 Q.   Could you sort of address the game that Lance had.   For much of it, he seemed to be the driving force behind your team.   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No doubt.   He had a spectacular game.   There's no other way to put it.   Gives us a big edge.   He really delivers and made a lot of big shots and big plays.   He was either making a big shot or finding somebody seemingly on every possession during that stretch in the third quarter.   
He was great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT