NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 19, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Start with, I guess, got a film session in.   What do you see after analyzing Game 1? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We played a pretty good basketball game.   I think we can play better.   I think we need to play better because Miami is going to come back and play a more complete basketball game.   So we've got to elevate our level.

Q.   Frank, knowing that LeBron is probably going to come out tomorrow all guns blazing, how do you prepare for that strategically?   Is there anything you do in particular?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No, just recognize the spots that he likes to be aggressive and make sure that we're all being accountable for that.

Q.   Frank, how is it different when Paul is being guarded by Shane Battier and not LeBron or someone else? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   When he's being guarded by Battier?

Q.   Yes. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Battier is a heck of a defender.   They've got multiple guys that they can throw at Paul and create a lot of resistance for him.

Q.   You talked about LeBron, make sure he doesn't come out aggressive.   How do you make sure your offense comes out aggressive and sharing the ball and getting decent shots? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's what we watched mostly offensively today is some of the aggressiveness and the ball movement that we were able to accomplish and just ways that we think they're going to be more aggressive and more sharp on their defensive end and just make sure that we stay aggressive.

Q.   What did you do to disrupt their defense so much? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Look, we just try‑‑ we just executed well.   We shot the ball well from the perimeter, which always gets you better spacing.   We screened pretty well, and we attacked off the bounce.   Then we made good decisions when we didn't.

Q.   Do you feel they have an answer for your inside game with Roy and David West around the basket? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   They've proven two years in a row that they do, yes.   So they've got a great team scheme, great team approach.   It's not about one guy that they're going to throw out there that's an answer for those guys. 
They play defense as a team, and they've won championships doing so.   So we've just got to try to stay ahead of the curve.

Q.   Based on the first half small and the second half big, mixed in different types of lineups throughout the game, do you adapt to any of it or just stick with who you are regardless? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   You have to adapt to who's on the court.   It doesn't really matter who starts first minute of the first quarter, first minute of the third quarter.   We attack who's out on the court accordingly based on their strengths and weaknesses. 
So the changing lineups doesn't really faze us other than what we're doing on that possession.   It will change our defensive approach and offensive approach.

Q.   Do you think this was the pacers team the Heat expected to see come out and play last night? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Probably.   You know, I think, as champions, any opponent that's going to come at you, you have to expect their best. 
I thought we played a pretty solid basketball game and probably what they expected.

Q.   Having Kevin back, what role do you expect him to have? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Similar role.   Similar role to what we saw before.

Q.   In the rotation you mean? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes.

Q.   How impressed are you with the way your guys have handled outside distractions this year? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   There's been a lot, but our guys are high character guys here.   That's what this whole team is built on. 
Back when we had troubles with our image five, six, seven years ago, Larry Bird started from scratch, saying we're going to bring in high character people and people that, not just don't get in trouble, but are able to handle things like that, that care about winning, that care about individual performances and the work that goes into it, and we got a lot of high character guys.   I think they've handled all the outside stuff pretty well.

Q.   Frank, no matter how your team plays over any stretch of time, they always seem to play some of their best basketball against Miami.   Why do you think that is? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   I think we play good against a lot of teams.   Look, we saw a lot of what Miami's seen the last three years where you're playing against one of the top team, you're going to get the other team's best shot. 
I think, obviously, these guys are the champs, so any time you're playing against the champs, you want to bring your best effort.

Q.   How long can you‑‑ is there a limit to how much David West can guard Ray Allen right now? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes, it's not 48 minutes.   He can't do it for 48 minutes.   We'll change matchups.   We'll put him on whoever we need to put him on.   He's prepared to guard any of their small guys, and a lot of times I'll let him decide who he wants to guard.

Q.   Did you see anything positive, negative out of that matchup last night? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, we kept our rotation intact, and we stayed who we are, which I think strengthens us.

Q.   Frank, when you've had the lead on them before in the series, how important is it that you actually extend it? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Very important.   It's‑‑ we don't have any level of complacency.   We know what they're capable of.   We know they've lost Game 1's before and won series before.   It's well‑documented. 
They're the champs.   So I don't think there's anything but we need to get Game 2.   That's all we're thinking about.

Q.   Frank, if Game 2 is a test of something for your team, whether it be focus or maturity or whatever, what word will you use that Game 2 will a test for, for your team? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   I mean, it's a test.   Look, it's really not that deep.   It's a game we have to get.   That's all we're looking at.

Q.   Whatever it was you said to Lance late in the Washington series in that practice meeting‑‑ I know you don't want to share it.   But is it safe to assume that it's taken effect? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's the complete reason why he played well, my intuition at the one‑on‑one meeting.   We were actually talking about restaurants in Indy, where he likes to eat. 
No, he's played two really solid basketball games.   He really has.   All the credit goes to him.

Q.   So what you're saying is he's hungry? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes, of course.

Q.   He's obviously transformed from the last regular season game here, when he got kicked out against Miami, to what he showed yesterday.   How do you think that transformation came about? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think he learned from that experience.   I think he felt horrible about getting ejected out of a big game like that.   It's good to learn a lesson then than in the playoffs. 
So I think he learned from that and came back and just has the mindset that he's going to keep his edge, he's going to bring the edge that he brings to our team, but he's not going to do anything that crosses the line.

Q.   I have to ask, everyone healthy and available after practice today? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes, everybody is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT