NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 18, 2014
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 96
  Indiana Pacers1 - 07

COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Proud of our guys.   Played a heck of a basketball game.   Really liked the offensive balance from our starters in particular, and our bench played really well.   Didn't score a ton other than C.J., but I thought they played really well. 
The defense, it was kind of a weird game.   I thought they missed a lot of open looks, but I thought they made a lot of guarded shots.   You know, they got out in transition more than we wanted to allow. 
It's a good start to the series, but it's just a good start.   That's all it is.   We've got to come back and expect a great fight in Game 2 and try to get Game 2.

Q.   Frank, you guys were extremely aggressive out of the gate.   Was that the game plan to bang them inside like that in the first quarter like you were doing? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We want to have balance.   We want to utilize our wings' strengths, and we want to take advantage of our big guys inside as well.   So it's not one or the other, it's both. 
But we certainly want to be aggressive at all positions.

Q.   Frank, whenever their offense stalled a little bit, it was always Dwyane going into the paint, getting the runner.   Is that something you have to tell your guys how to defend? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Dwyane Wade's runner?

Q.   Yeah. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, he's one of the best scorers in the history of the league.   We've got to account for him.   Obviously, he had a great night, and we've got to do a better job on him.

Q.   Frank, offensively, it looked like your guys were pretty aggressive inside and things.   What were the things you saw? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We're just being aggressive off the bounce, trying to attack, force help, and then share it.   It's a pretty simple plan.   It's not always easiest to execute, but I thought our guys executed pretty well offensively tonight.

Q.   Coach, you hit 5 of 6 threes in the first quarter, and 6 of your 18 shots were threes, but then over the next two quarters as you opened it up, you only took 6 out of 30 or so.   Did you intentionally go away from the threes once it was open, or did they adjust? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.   We always take what the defense gives you.   Again, everybody's got to be in attack mode.   When help comes, you share it and turn the ball into a hot potato and let the defense dictate what shots are going to be open.

Q.   Frank, particularly out of the high and middle pick‑and‑roll, you were getting a lot of weak‑side action on extra passes even when they extended.   Is that a new wrinkle, or is that what you were supposed to be doing all year long? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I guess our guards are just getting better at it.   So I guess it's more what we were supposed to be doing all along.   Our guards are attacking, and when help comes, we share it.

Q.   Frank, what's your message to your team after you play a game like this and you're dealing with prosperity for one of the few times this postseason? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   You know, the good thing is the team that is coming back for Game 2 is the two‑time defending champs.   So I think we understand that they're going to bring an enormous amount of fight in Game 2, and like I said earlier, it's a great start to the series, but it's just a great start.

Q.   Frank, Lance was extremely comfortable tonight.   How much of his edge actually carries you guys to play as well as you did tonight? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Well, I just think his edge always helps us, but I thought he played‑‑ although one really bad shot, I thought he played really intelligent.   You know, really just attacked, read defense really well, and found the open man.   So I think he was a big part of our offensive attack. 
He was 8 for 12 and then 8 assists, 2 turnovers.   That's pretty impressive.

Q.   What was your take on the Chalmers foul, or fouls, on C.J.? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   The ruling or the foul?

Q.   Just the way it was adjudicated. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I actually haven't seen the foul again.   I know there's contact as he went into the shot, and I guess maybe he shoved him into the‑‑ shoved him after the play, but they ruled it as two personal fouls, similar to a guy shooting a basketball and then there being an off‑the‑ball foul.   There can be two fouls on the same possession. 
So kind of a unique play.   I hadn't really seen that before, but I think it was the right ruling.   It was a hard foul.   It's the playoffs.

Q.   How concerned is Evans' strep throat, and do you expect him to be back in the next game? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I do expect him to be back.   I mean, it's strep throat.   So hopefully, he's back by Tuesday.

Q.   David West chasing Ray Allen, is that something you're comfortable with?   Obviously, it didn't hurt him chasing the smalls, but are you comfortable with him doing that moving forward in the series? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's a concern.   We don't want David to run around the three‑point line, especially with a guy that moves that well. 
They play small.   We're not just going to change our lineup.   We're going to stay who we are.   David welcomes that assignment and accepts the challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT