NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
June 3, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What basically is your message to the team?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Be confident in our plan.   We have to pour it on defensively, on the glass and offensively.   Everything we've done to our success in those three areas is repeatable.   We expect to do it tonight.   
   
 Q.   Is there any temptation with your starters' minutes tonight?   I mean, how do you balance that sort of temptation with knowing they need‑‑  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Pretty close to playing them all 48 minutes up to now.   So I don't know if I can stretch them much more than I already have them stretched out right now.   There is that temptation to stretch them some.   
   
 Q.   When you're in a situation, 7th game, is there any type of tinkering, or is it basically both teams know each other and‑‑  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think there is.   The common answer to that is ‑‑ it's all about attitude.   Every time you play a team, you pick up things that they think they can exploit on you.   There's areas you can improve on in facets you are trying to do.   So I think there's still ares to improve.   
   
 Q.   You've been head coach for two‑and‑a‑half years now.   Your first Game 7.   Are you nervous about it or do you feel the same confidence that you've always had?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I'm nervous before every game, regular season, playoffs, elimination games, closeout games.   I always get a little nervous.   I wouldn't say it's anything different.   
   
 Q.   Frank, how much of an impact do you think that your ability to put Paul (Indiscernible)?  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think it's had a real impact on the defense all year.   Nevertheless, the less we double‑team, the better off we'll be.   We are committed to a double‑team against LeBron, we will say that.   (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   Anything in the last 48 hours that makes you confident‑‑  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I like what I saw in Game 6.   The same level of steady confidence with the plan and do what we're able to do, match up, and I have confidence it will carry us through.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT