NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 31, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coach, as you watched last night, what troubled you most as you look back at the game from your perspective?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We can play better.   I know we can play better.   You have to tip your hats to them.   They played a great game.   Especially LeBron imposing his will offensively, but really rallying the troops defensively as well.   We definitely have some clean‑ups and some things we know we can do better, and our intent is to do that in Game 6.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to look at the tape of the Andersen‑Tyler Hansbrough issue?   And what are your thoughts on that now?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I did look at the tape, and I have no thoughts I'm willing to share with the media.   
   
 Q.   Have you shared thoughts with the league on the matter?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I have no comment on that.   
   
 Q.   What was the mood this morning?   Have you guys gotten together for anything at all?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, we watched some film.   We just had film.   And the mood is still encouraged.   We know we have to‑‑ it's the same as it has been the whole series.   We know we have to play great to beat this team.   We know we didn't play well enough last night to do it.   We're confident that we can.   
   
 Q.   Your confidence in them has been a constant, obviously.   They're a confident group too.   How much of that do you think is borne out of, no matter what, your confidence in them never seems to waver?   How much do you think that matters to these guys?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think it's part of it.   But it's not‑‑ it's not just false talk.   There's a reason I'm confident.   I like to tell these guys I'm not an optimist, even though that's what my image is.   I'm a realist.   And when I look around at what I see in the room when I'm talking to this team, when I look at what I see on the court and the level of execution that we're capable of and the adjustments that make sense from our coaching staff‑‑ which I think my three assistant coaches are the best in the NBA‑‑ the intelligence that they bring to the table combined with the talent we have on this basketball team gives me real confidence in this basketball team.   
    So I think our guys understand it's not just happy talk or anything like that or false optimism.   There's a real reason to believe.   
   
 Q.   How do you contend with LeBron and keep the role players from hurting you like they did last night?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Better than we did last night.   We have to keep them in front of us.   That's the biggest thing.   And we've got to take his airspace more.   
    He got a lot of basically uncontested dribble pull‑ups that we know he's going to make.   They're high percentage lifts for him.   We have to make that harder on him while keeping him in front of us.   It's a tough task, but I think our guys are up to it.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I have not gotten an update on that.   So I think he's fine.   They usually will tell me if they felt he would be out.   
   
 Q.   When they're blitzing the pick‑and‑roll the way they are, how do you get your guards more involved offensively?   (Indiscernible) when they kick them out?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think for one you can get Paul George using the pick‑and‑roll more and get our ones and twos on the weak side so they can be recipients there.   A lot of it is based on the defense.   If the defense doesn't rotate to Roy Hibbert, Roy Hibbert is going to make plays in the paint.   You know, or David West the same way.   
    Where if they only guard those two guys, come off the weak‑side shooters, that's the shots that the defense dictates.   But certainly there's things you can do from a creative standpoint to make sure your guys are going better than last night.   
   
 Q.   I know you said last night you haven't looked back at last year at all.   Coming here 2‑2, going home down 2‑3, Paul said that it's a great way to measure how far we've come as a team.   Is that the mindset you want them to have going into this?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think so.   I don't really know what mindset I want them to have.   I just know that I don't put a lot of thought into last year.   Last year's series was so dramatically different.   Danny Granger was our leading scorer.   He went down with an ankle injury.   We didn't even know if he was going to play in Game 6.   We were pretty sure he wasn't.   When he did he wasn't at full strength, and it limited us.   
    To me last year is a distant, distant memory.   This year's team has got a completely different identity.   Last year's team wasn't the best defensive team in the NBA in the regular season.   This team is.   I just think it's a different thing all together.   
   
 Q.   You talked about enjoying the chess match in the playoff series.   Has this particular one been like the highest level chess match you've played so far?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   I think all of them have.   It's always a little more intriguing when you're trying to take down the champs and trying to take down the best player going right now.   We just have such respect for their team and for him in particular that the greater the challenge, the more fun it is.   
   
 Q.   Is it strange at all seeing Wade not as aggressive offensively and not winning a game when Bosh and Wade combined for 17?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah.   I hope we continue to be able to limit his numbers.   I feel like he's capable of exploding at any time.   Either one of those guys.   So we're just trying to do the best we can.   
   
 Q.   Kind of lost track of Roy in the second half last night.   Do you want to try to exploit that more?   You guys didn't get him the ball that much in the second half.   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We got a little out of sync in the second half.   No question about it.   Was trying to get our guards involved and trying to keep Paul George in the pick‑and‑rolls.   The ball didn't find him.   They did a good job.   You have to credit them.   When he got it, they doubled him.   When he didn't have it, they were fronting him.   
    So they did a much better job.   Like we did a much better job on LeBron from Game 3 to Game 4 in the post, they did a much better job from Game 4 to Game 5 on Roy Hibbert in the post.   
   
 Q.   What makes you bullish on the idea that you're going to come back here for a Game 7?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Adjustments, understanding we didn't play to our best, which I believe with our backs against the wall we will, and being back at home.   It's not everything, but it's a small factor.   
    Really, the backs‑against‑the‑wall mentality and a clear‑as‑day blueprint of all the things that I know we can do better.   I know with a fact that we can do better.   
   
 Q.   Were you working on adjustments in your walk‑through just now?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We watched film and, yes, it was about adjustments and cleaning up the plan.   
   
 Q.   How long were you on the court?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Not very long.   
   
 Q.   One thing LeBron mentioned last night was that Lance was talking to him some during the game.   Do you discourage that from Lance?   Do you like it because he's an emotional guy?   Do you care one way or the other?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't really care one way or the other.   I like competitive spirit.   I like guys to play with an edge.   Lance plays with an edge.   He doesn't typically cross the line where he's trash‑talking.   So as long as he's not doing that, then I like him playing with an edge.   
   
 Q.   How much of what Haslem is doing makes you rethink what you are?   Or does it not have a great impact on adjustments from your end, from a defensive standpoint?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We have to account for him.   He's a champion.   He's the heart of their team.   He's making big shot after big shot after big shot.   And if we over‑help, he's going to burn you.   So he'snot as much of a factor as the big three.   But the concept of stopping the big three and getting to everybody else applies to him as much as it applies to getting to Ray Allen at the three‑point line or Battier or Chalmers.   We have to account for him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT