NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 30, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Indiana Pacers79
      Miami Heat90 
   
 Q.   Frank, when LeBron James decides to play at that level, is there much anybody can do about it?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't really know.   He was pretty special tonight.   There's no question about it.   This whole team is special.   They're one of the best teams this league has ever seen.   We're enjoying competing against them.   We know we can beat them, but we have to play better than we did tonight.   
   
 Q.   In the third quarter I think you guys only had two points in the paint, which is obviously not to your identity.   Were they just taking away the post entry?   Were they fronting the post?   What were they doing to take it away?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   I have to look at the tape.   We were a little out of sync in that quarter.   A lot out of the sync, actually.   Certainly that's where the game was decided.   
   
 Q.   Frank, you guys have had an answer each time they had an answer for you guys.   What more have you learned about your team right now facing elimination than you did a year ago when you guys were down in the series?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think this is a different team than a year ago.   We've got a great deal of resolve and a great deal of belief that we can win this series.   Our backs are up against the wall again.   Theirs were, they came back and responded.   Took care of their business on their home court like they were supposed to.   And it's up to us now to come back and get Game 6, see what happens in a Game 7.   
   
 Q.   Frank, you guys got to this point by having a tight end starting five that played well the entire season.   How much of an uphill battle do you face when you don't get anything from your starting backcourt like you did tonight?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's on me.   I have to make sure those guys are involved and getting better looks.   And if they're out of sync, we're going to struggle.   I have to get them more involved.   
   
 Q.   When Miami was making that run in the third, when LeBron was making his run in the third quarter, what did you see out of your guys offensively?   The flow you guys had in the first half just seemed to disappear.   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   George Hill was on the bench, and whether he's scoring or not, he sort of helps us get organized.   Other than that, I really got to look at the tape, to be honest with you.   
    Obviously we were out of sync in that quarter.   To pinpoint it would be premature without studying the tape.   
   
 Q.   Frank, what was your view of the Hansbrough‑Andersen deal?   Did you think Andersen should have been thrown out?   Do you think that should be a Flagrant 2?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't really want to say anything about any calls or any officiating.   I didn't see anything.   They watched it on the tape, so I'm sure they made the right decision.   
   
 Q.   Coach, a lot of the shots that the Heat were hitting were jumpers.   Do you say, those were the shots we want them to take, or were they more open than usual?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I thought they were probably more open than usual.   We did a better job; 34 points in the paint, something we'll live with.   But we have to get the shooters, too.   We can't just guard the paint.   We just can't guard the three‑point line.   We have to do both.   We have done both all year.   We didn't get the shooters well enough tonight.   
   
 Q.   From your perspective on the bench during that third quarter, when you stopped the game, what were you telling your team about how to stop that freight train that was LeBron James?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Most of the quarter we were hanging in.   
    It was still a four‑point game, five‑point game.   Then the last three or four minutes is when they took it over.   And we just got to weather the storm.   
    We feel like this is going to be a series for the ages.   And all series every time one team or the other has delivered a blow, the other team has responded.   I just kept reminding them of that, and that our response was the next one.   
   
 Q.   When you look at your first half, you guys executed very well.   Do you feel like you guys blew an opportunity to have a 10, 12‑point lead?   How often do you see David West miss three lay‑ups right underneath the basket?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   There's no question.   We blew some opportunities in the first quarter‑‑ not David West.   Our whole team blew some opportunities.   We had some opportunities to secure the loose balls on the defensive end that we didn't do.   Opportunities to prevent some lay‑ups defensively in the first half.   We had some breakdowns.   And obviously we missed some bunnies around the basket.   That's part of the game.   
    We understand that we've got to play a near perfect game to beat this team.   It's one of the best teams in the history of this game.   We believe we can reach that level.   We didn't get a good enough game from our side tonight to do it.   
   
 Q.   Frank, Paul and Roy had the first 29 points for you guys, and at one pointpoint in the third including David West they had I think 49 or 55.   Were you happy with that or did you sense it was troublesome?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I'm okay with those guys putting up those kind of numbers.   We wanted definitely to get balance.   We don't put a lot of thought process into who is getting the shots or who is getting the numbers.   We're a balanced team.   We thrive on a balanced attack.   And we just don't want guys‑‑ when guys are not going at all, it impacts their whole game.   
    I have to do a better job of getting Lance and George going.   But I was certainly pleased with how the other three guys were stepping up.   
   
 Q.   When Haslem goes 8‑for‑9 and makes his last eight, do you throw up your hands a bit?   Are there certain things you have to concede to this team at times?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.   I think our defense can guard the big three and limit their role players.   But we've got to be better than we were tonight.   And certainly you have to tip your hat to those guys.   Haslem and Andersen in those two games where they were‑‑ second game out of the last three where Haslem was 8‑for‑9, that burned us.   I said it the other night, if he's going to go 8‑for‑9, it's going to be a long game, a long series for us.   
    We have to contain the big three and still get to those guys.   And I believe we can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT