NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 30, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Frank, the thing you don't like talking about, flopping.   Do you have to prepare your players, warn your players, don't be caught up in that and focus?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, we talked about all series that all we're worried about in this series is basketball.   Put everything else out of your mind.   
   
 Q.   Frank, what you said this morning about not having thoughts about it, do you take it almost as the League telling both sides knock it off when they come out with penalties this morning?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't have anything else to say about flopping.   Sorry.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) How much emphasis are you putting on him to go full speed?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Every chance I get.   I specifically told him I want to see him grind his teeth, when he gets a rebound, put his head down and get that look in his eyes.   That's been so potent for us this year.   
   
 Q.   What you are emotions like when he goes to the rim?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I feel really good that somethingreally good is going to happen for us.   I'm willing to live with some (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   Frank a lot has been said about the physical nature of this series, is that just a by‑product of two defensive teams just putting their identity on the floor?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think so, just two extremely physical basketball teams.   When you have teams like that collide, that's what this series looks like.   
   
 Q.   Frank, is there a moment during the season when you saw the beginning of the progression that Lance started to make throughout this year, a game or a couple of games where you started to see that?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think it was a gradual growth.   Obviously a lot of ups and downs along the way.   There was a situation in Utah, when we were playing at Utah, and he really wasn't playing at the level that we needed him to, effort‑wise, focus‑wise.   And the message at that point was sort of, "You need to realize that you're not just a Danny Granger filler.   That you're a major part of the success that we've had up to this point and we need you."   
    And he put together a string of games after that that really displayed what he's capable of.   And maybe if there was a turning point, that was probably it.   
   
 Q.   Frank, when a series is tied at two, the Game 5 winner wins 86.74% of the time and all that good stuff.   Does that ever permeate in the locker room at all or are you just taking 5 as just another game?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't talk about it.   I don't think it's just another game.   But I think when you're in the final three games of the series and you can't look at Game 6, there is no Game 6, there is no Game 7.   Your only focus has to be on winning this one basketball game.   Take all the pressure off of what you have to do beyond tonight.   The focus is on right now.   
   
 Q.   Last year's Game 5 was not kind to your team.   Can you take anything out of that?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Honestly, I haven't thought about last year one iota this whole series.   I think we're a better basketball team.   I think we've grown.   Not just in our own personal individual maturity, continuity, but just‑‑ I just think we're a different team, even though there's a lot of the same faces.   
    I don't think our guys are really thinking about last year too much.   
   
 Q.   Frank, with Lance, how important is it that he get the ball in some aspects of the game early on?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think it's important.   There's been times where he hasn't gotten off to a good start and finished strong.   And there have been times where he got off to a good start and hasn't finished strong.   
    I don't think it's everything.   It's always important to get all of our guys going a little bit early.   
   
 Q.   Frank, have you figured anything at all out about stopping LeBron James' penetration and ability to hurt you inside the paint?   
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Not really, no.   We've got an idea what it takes, but executing that is a whole different story when you talk about the best player in the world.   Our guys are just going to try to do their best and see how it shakes out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT