NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 29, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Each game now has a new level of importance to it.   And your team to this point has shown a pretty good capacity to respond to those.   What will it require in this next one? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We have to be at our best.   We've got to‑‑ our intensity, our determination, our focus has got to just keep getting better and better each game in this series. 
    And we're going to need to be at our best if we have any chance to beat this team. 

Q.   You know the adjustments made by the Heat.   How do you make sure you don't overthink that? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's part of who we are.   We're not a big adjustment team.   We don't change a lot.   We don't change our lineups.   Don't really change our defensive scheme very much.   We just‑‑ when your identity is that way, it's easy not to overthink. 

Q.   After a team wins, how difficult is it to keep the edge going to the next one?   We've seen a lot ofthe desperate teams have won. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think early in the playoff series there may be a lull on occasion.   It's rare.   Everyone knows how important the playoffs are.   But I think late in the playoff series, I don't think that even comes into play.   Every game is an elimination game at this point.   Or close to it. 
    I think the desperation for both teams is going to be very high. 

Q.   So elimination is something that's going in your mind here in Game 5 here in Miami? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah.   We have to win a game in Miami.   It's either Game 5 or Game 7.   When you only have two chances to get one win, it's a very important game. 

Q.   Given the way they've defended Paul, obviously it's going to be a challenge for him to put big numbers up.   To that extent do you want to try to find a way to try to beat that to get him more opportunities?   Or as it's been, you've gotten it from Roy and gotten it from other places? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   The most impressive thing I've seen about Paul George is his ability to look up at the scoreboard, or whatever, the boxscore, and see he's only got six points or this many shot attempts, and when he attacks the basket, help comes, he doesn't force.   It's a remarkable attribute for a young player. 
    Yes, we want to continue to put the ball in his hands and make him an attacker and a creator.   But I love that he's continuing to make the extra pass and to make the right basketball play. 

Q.   It's very, very rare for NBA teams to begin the second half at the bench at the basket where they're shooting at.   Most teams prefer to be on defense.   Why have you and the Pacers decided to go this way? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Well, we weren't a very good road team a couple of years back, and Jim Boylen, my assistant coach, came in and shared a lot of ideas from their championship days with the Houston Rockets.   It's something Rudy Tomjanovich really believed in. 
    To be a good road team, you have to be able to score at crunch time.   The best way to do that‑‑ communicate with your team from coach to your team ‑‑ is to have your offense in front of you in the fourth quarter at crunch time. 
    So I sort of liked the idea.   We tried it the first year Jim was here, the last season, the lockout season.   We had a great road record that year, and we stuck with it. 

Q.   Does this feel different going down there for Game 5 this year than it did a year ago? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't even remember a year ago. 

Q.   Is there more confidence? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I guess last year we were what, 2‑2?   I don't know.   We're coming off a win, as opposed to coming off a loss.   So maybe we're a little more confident.   I don't really know.   I would say it probably feels the same, but I'm not really sure. 

Q.   How impressed have you been with Roy?   Another double‑double for him last night. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   He's played the best basketball I've ever seen him play.   So very, very impressed.   And very happy for him.   And very happy for our team that we're getting that level of play on both ends. 

Q.   Why is this team so resilient? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think you just have to credit the individuals.   We have a lot of guys that are really good players, that are really focused, and very determined, and   individually they are mentally tough.   And that contributes to your team resolve. 

Q.   Sam Young has played.   Ultimately it seems that yesterday's game was sort of the reason why you brought him in.   A couple of points, a couple of rebounds, and really, his defensive effort as well. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, just having a guy that can be a quality match‑up on any of the elite scorers, elite wing scorers in this league.   Carmelo Anthony, J.R. Smith, LeBron, Wade.   Nobody can stop those guys.   But you have to have somebody who has some defensive ability.   That's why he's here.   And he's filling out his role very well for us. 

Q.   Do you plan to use Lance the same once again on LeBron or even more? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, that was one of the shifts in philosophy going into Game 4, try multiple bodies on him.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT