NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 28, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   The controversial 24‑second shot clock roll off.   Miami went on that big spurt.   How were you guys able to maintain that and go ahead? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Just resiliency.   We've shown a great deal of resolve all year.   This is the first chance we've faced adversity this playoff season.   And our guys rose to the challenge to start the game, and then when Miami came and took the lead, they rose to the challenge again. 

Q.   Frank, two questions for you:   First of all, Lance Stephenson did so many things in this game, it's hard to even fathom and keep track of them.   But in your mind, when you think about what he did, what were the two or three or four most important things he did? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think he made some great loose ball plays in terms of offensive rebounding.   He had a big put‑back.   I believe the biggest play of the game Roy Hibbert's offensive rebound and‑one.   I think, I'm not sure, I think Lance was crashing, too, and occupied Roy's man, so he could get open.   Those were big plays.   And he made a couple of low‑clock shots that were huge shots at the end of the third quarter.   The three‑pointer and then a couple late in the shot clock. 

Q.   What about his defense against LeBron James tonight? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   He asked to guard him.   He asked to guard him.   He's a competitor.   We know Paul is getting worn out a little bit guarding LeBron the whole game that he's in there.   Lance said, let me share some of the load.   He wants to rise to the challenge.   And nobody can guard LeBron, but this whole team is excited about embracing the challenge. 
    This is a great basketball team we're playing. 

Q.   Finally, someone said he's a barometer for your team.   In what way is that true? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   When he's bad, we typically struggle.   But when he's good, we're pretty darn good.   I mean, that's the simplest way to put it, and it's very accurate, he's the barometer. 

Q.   You completely destroyed them 50 to 32.   Was that the game plan to feed Roy? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's always our offensive game plan.   Our defense returned to form.   We had a bad night the other night.   We all recognized that.   We were all disappointed.   We made some minor adjustments, nothing major.   Really just made an adjustment in our guys' effort and passion that they were bringing to the defensive end. 
    That was the biggest difference.   Offensively we always want to play smash‑mouth basketball, play through our big guys in the paint, kill the offensive glass, and‑ones, twos and threes, relentless driving to the basket and live at the free‑throw line. 

Q.   This game was so close in so many ways, what made the difference between these two teams tonight? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   It was, like this whole series has been, just great play after great play after great play.   They were making huge plays, Ray Allen is hitting late‑clock three.   LeBron was hitting late‑clock threes.   They were living at the free‑throw line.   They were attacking.   We were able to make a few more winning plays tonight. 

Q.   Frank, they made that run in the third quarter, take a six‑point lead, you take timeout.   What was your message to your team at that time?   It seemed like the game was kind of slowly slipping away from you. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Settle down on the defensive end.   We had a great deal of confidence in the adjustments we made defensively.   We were going to be able to do better than we did in Game 3.   And we had to tighten the screws on those and make some corrections to strengthen that plan.   And offensively we just got a little out of sync. 
    So we had to settle down and get back to moving the basketball. 

Q.   Another time the momentum changed, you were up nine, shot‑clock violation with the ball.   Seemed like it was pretty obvious it hit the rim.   They go on another run.   Did you have another message for your guys? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's the same message, really:   Have confidence in who we are.   Trust in our identity.   Win the war in the trenches.   Defensive rebounding.   That's how we've had success all year.   Keep playing that style of play and offensively keep moving the ball. 

Q.   You mentioned the resolve of this team.   When you first took over, how long did it take for you to get that resolve in them?   How much of that is on you and how much is on them? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Are you talking about when I first took over this job three years ago? 

Q.   The big picture.   Yes. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think our identity, our style of play is something that I tried to implement with this team even before David West got here.   And they've embraced it and run with it.   I just wanted to give them a spark at that time, my interim year.   Like I said, they love that style of play, and it's grown and grown since then. 
    It's manifested itself in mental toughness as well, not just physical toughness.   As we saw in the resolve tonight. 

Q.   Frank, it looked like both sides had to fight through some tough calls, some frustrating calls at the end.   I know you can't necessarily address that.   What did your team do to bottle them up in the last three minutes to slow them down? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Just compete.   Have a paint‑first mentality.   Do it without fouling.   That's all we talk about is, can't give teams free‑throw attempts and we can't put ourselves in foul trouble.   The fouling discipline that we talk about every single day was strong late in the game.   And they just buckled down and guarded the paint. 

Q.   You mentioned some defensive adjustments that you made.   Can you describe what some of those were in general or specifically or anything like that? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I would rather not get into detail about what our whole game plan is, but it was really just about protecting the paint more than we did. 

Q.   Frank, when exactly did Lance ask to cover LeBron?   And what did you see‑‑
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We were just talking.   Let's not make a bigger story than that is.   We were just talking about loosening the load on Paul.   And we used Sam some and Lance was like, "I'll guard him some, too."   We'll all share in it.   It wasn't about any major story there. 

Q.   You're down to basically a best‑of‑three series.   How good do you guys feel going down to Miami considering what happened in the first two games with you guys? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We're confident, but we know we have to be great to beat this basketball team.   This team is unbelievable, how they execute, how they share the basketball, how they space you out, how they guard.   It's just as complete an opponent as we'll ever face.   But we are confident that we can rise to the challenge.   When we're at our best, we know we can compete with them and we're going to have to play great basketball to win Game 5. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT