NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 28, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Frank, when Miami is clicking, are they the hardest team in the league to prepare for? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I think so.   Would you like me to expand on that? 

Q.   I thought we were going "yes" and "no" answers here. 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   They have three Hall‑of‑Famers and they have shooters everywhere and they have tremendous spacing and a great offensive system.   So they make it very, very difficult to help, and they are a great passing team.   So when you do help and get into rotations and chain‑reactions, they know how to make you pay. 

Q.   Have you seen a lot of changes in their passing, improvement over the years?   Keep getting better at it? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes, I think it's togetherness.   The more that a team grows together, and now in year three since they've been assembled, I think each of the last three years they've just established a stronger continuity and togetherness and passing and ball movement. 

Q.   When you look at Wade on their pick‑and‑roll, it's look LeBron is doing a lot of cheating, as far as trapping them, how do you beat them? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We have to see him.   We have to recognize where he is.   And we either have to hit his man for three‑point shots or be active cutting from the weak side. 

Q.   How many adjustments have you made from the last game? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   A couple.   I wouldn't say anything more than we usually make from game to game throughout the playoffs. 

Q.   Will you do anything differently against LeBron having the ball in the post again? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Not dramatically.   But really it comes down to doing a better job of what we do. 

Q.   What was your team's message going into this game? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   My message to my team?   Our backs are against the wall.   We saw how the champs responded when their backs were against the wall when they lost home‑court advantage.   We will respond the same way. 

Q.   What do you need to do to break Birdman's rhythm? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   As soon as he misses one shot, this whole series is going to change.   The whole series is going to change.   Brian Shaw always says, certain things, certain plays make the game turn on a trifle.   As soon as he misses a shot, watch the series change. 

Q.   Is it the kind of thing you might as well put him at the line the way he's going? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't think most of the time we're in position to.   He's getting put‑backs or catch‑and‑dunks. 

Q.   Coach, because these guys shoot so well, does that give you hesitation in terms of trying to double‑team LeBron? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes.   Absolutely.   We don't have to double‑team in the post all year because of our individual defenders are among the best in the NBA.   We haven't seen a situation like that‑‑ we're not supposed to give complete one‑on‑one coverages.   We're always supposed to have help positioning in the big position and at the rim.   Both of those areas broke down the other night. 

Q.   You were talking about Paul George being aggressive with the assists.   Is that enough to get out of him if he's creating for others or do you need point production from him as well? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We need both.   We need both.   If the right play is to make the extra pass, 95% of the time then he shouldn't force.   I don't think there should be one situation where he takes a shot on three defenders just to get point production.   If that's what the defense is dictating. 
    The defense dictates shots, not our offense or our offensive players.   However the defense is playing you, that's our whole offensive approach.   It's a team approach that's predicated on moving the basketball to the open man. 

Q.   Coach, you've put Lance in the pick‑and‑roll here and there in the series.   Is that a good way to counter LeBron, free safety? 
    COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We need to do that. Yeah, we need to do that.   But we have to make sure he's being effective with the pick‑and‑rolls. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT