NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 24, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That was a heck of a basketball game, wasn't it?   Go ahead. 

Q.   Frank, can you just talk about, you knew they were going to make a run.   They go on an 7‑0 run to close the half out.   Your team's ability to withstand the flurries every time, it seemed like they were trying to take control of the game. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Very, very proud of our resolve to overcome their runs in both of the first two games.   In fact, that was a major point of emphasis in yesterday's film session after the difficult loss in Game 1, just the guts to respond time and time and time again after they keep giving us their best punch.   And we're going to have to withstand that this whole series. 

Q.   Frank, with the way your team talks about David as a culture changer when he arrived and all that, how fitting was it that it was his right hand that got in the way of those two passes and essentially won this game for you tonight? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   The right way to describe David West's performance tonight and most of the time in Indiana is will.   He has incredible, incredible will to do whatever it takes to win a basketball game.   I'm glad he's on our side competing for this championship. 

Q.   Does it strike you as ironic you're in the same exact position virtually you were a couple of days ago, and oh yeah, this time Roy Hibbert was on the court?   Was there ever any doubt he was going to be on the court? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.   No doubt.   As soon as we came to the locker room the other night, I told the team, you know, we tried that way.   But he's going to be in there. 

Q.   Frank, Paul George has kind of struggled on the road a lot this year.   How big has it been for him to come to Miami and play this way?   Has anything changed this series? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I can't believe how much that kid keeps growing and growing and growing.   He's a third‑year player.   His third year in the NBA.   And he's going against the best player in the world in LeBron, and he's guarding him the entire night, guarding LeBron the entire night, and carrying an offensive scoring load and just making confidence‑building plays on the offensive end.   That's the only way to describe it.   He makes the extra pass always, finishes at the rim, and just confidence‑building plays.   He's giving us a huge, huge lift. 

Q.   Did you tweak anything on those last couple of plays against LeBron?   And what was your vantage point from what you saw? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   The last couple of plays where they had the ball?   We stuck with the scheme that we've been playing most of the night, except we removed some of the switching that we were doing earlier, so we could try to keep Paul George on LeBron. 

Q.   I know that Roy was great offensively the last two months of the season, but he seems to have taken another step forward in the postseason.   What have you seen from him that impresses you in terms of his growth? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   This whole team is showing great desire and great heart and great belief.   And that's the only way to put what these guys are doing right now, is they believe we can win this series, and they're giving it all their might, all their might.   And they're playing with confidence and they are rising to the challenge.   I'm very, very proud of them. 
We still have a lot of work to do.   We all understand that. 

Q.   Frank, you talked about how LeBron James reads defenses.   How do you explain how your defense was unreadable twice in the last 42 seconds and forced him to make mistakes that we haven't seen him make in a couple of years? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's not unreadable, our defense.   I think he made the right reads.   We made‑‑ look, this game was about them making great plays and us responding with greater plays, and then them responding with even greater plays.   It was one of the best basketball games I've ever been a part of.   It wasn't about LeBron making mistakes down the stretch.   He played one of the best basketball games I've ever seen anybody ever play. 
We were able to make a couple of plays late in the game. 

Q.   Can you just talk about Roy Hibbert's play tonight and also just the way he just kind of shook off any controversy from the other night and just came out and did his job tonight. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's what this series is about for our whole team.   That's all we've talked about.   It's not about talking, it's not about hard fouls, it's not about nonsense, it's not about anything after the whistle.   It's about playing the game of basketball as physical, as hard, as clean, as focused, as determined as we possibly can.   Because we have an incredible opportunity here, and we're going for it.   And Roy just falls into everything I just said. 

Q.   (No microphone). 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   He's giving great efforts on the offensive glass; six offensive boards and he goes every single time.   He doesn't take a possession off on the glass.   Gives us a lift in the post.   Efficient scoring.   Great extra passing.   Just making winning plays. 

Q.   Frank, obviously everybody is talking about LeBron, Wade and Bosh.   Can you talk about your starting five, the fact they've carried you guys as a unit and you never know who is going to step up.   Obviously Paul the other night, Roy tonight.   You have a team that is tied together. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's how Larry Bird put this team together, to be a true team, to share the basketball, to communicate on defense, to play together, to tie the strings together, to work together, to figure things out on the court, and to have five guys and a bench that anybody can make a play at any time.   And it's balanced and it's difficult to guard, and when everybody is clicking the way they were tonight, and I thought everybody had chances to step up and did step up for our team, we looked like a true team.   It's fun to be a part of. 

Q.   Coach, you were talking a lot about beliefs.   Can you talk about your beliefs, Lance, especially he got hit in that transition.   And after that apparently he played a little bit hurried. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   His play in transition? 

Q.   He got hit. 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We're going to play through that.   We know we're going to get hit.   This is the playoffs.   We're competing for a conference championship and a chance to compete for the championship.   So we're not paying attention to any of that stuff.   We're going to get hit, it's going to be physical.   And we're going to play the game of basketball with great determination and great force, and Lance is doing that.   Lance is making the extra pass.   He's giving all his effort.   And he's making winning plays. 

Q.   Frank, when LeBron has the ball at the top of the key and he can see the entire court, how difficult is it for a defense to stop him from doing what he wants to do and get the ball to the right player the way you guys did twice in a row? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's near impossible.   It's near impossible.   I'm not really sure how we did it, other than just exhibiting great will. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT