NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We had a good session.   Cleaned some things up.   Participated on the defensive end and we shot a lot of free‑throws today.   Guys who didn't play a lot will get some shots up.   Guys who did play a lot will just walk through some things.   
   
 Q.   What was your best assessment (Indiscernible)?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Very encouraged.   Our belief in our ability to beat this team is strengthened after Game 1.   Our familiarity in the playoffs, in the playoff series grows with each day, grows with each game, and there's a lot of things we can definitely do better.   And our belief has strengthened.   
   
 Q.   Did you have to boost spirits or are you worried about that with the demoralizing type of loss?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't really feel like I have to boost this team's spirits.   I think they've got a strong belief already.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the criticism on you was fair after what happened in the last play?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think it's natural.   I think when you make a coaching decision and it doesn't work, you're going to‑‑ you know, you're going to be second‑guessed.   So that's part of the business.   
   
 Q.   What is it that you saw that strengthened your confidence?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We didn't play a great basketball game.   We played a good basketball game.   But I believe that we'll do much better in keeping them out of the paint, which we didn't do a good job last night.   60 points in the paint is not winning basketball in the playoffs.   
I like the way we moved the ball.   I just feel good about our plan.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're the better team in this series?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   I don't think you can say you're the better team when that team has done what they've done.   But I believe we can beat them.   
   
 Q.   Coach, are you okay with the fact that some of your players after the game yesterday maybe had a different feeling about how they would have liked that last play to go from a personnel standpoint?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   In terms of having Roy in there?   
   
 Q.   Sure.   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I'm okay with them feeling whatever or saying whatever they feel.   Absolutely.   We're a together group.   And we challenge each other.   Coaches challenge players.   Players challenge coaches.   I'm 100% fine with that.   
   
 Q.   In your final analysis, did you review it differently or is that just the job of the coach in the sense that you look at something that goes well, I do that again or change it, something goes bad‑‑  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   You always evaluate your decisions and what you would do next time.   All I will say is it was a sound plan.   When you have five three‑point shooters on the court, to have a switching lineup out there with five guys that are great ball containers and ask your team to try to force the jumpshot, that's a sound plan.   
   
 Q.   Frank, how much‑‑ it's one thing for us to second‑guess you.   How much have you second‑guessed yourself?   And has your opinion changed a little bit from last night?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't second‑guess myself.   I just evaluate what happened in this situation and what I would do in the next situation.   
   
 Q.   Have you had feedback, like other coaches or even (Indiscernible) in your decision, that type of thing, people supporting you or disagreeing?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I have a ton of support.   
   
 Q.   Would you have done it differently if the situation presented itself?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Stay tuned.   
   
 Q.   Frank, the TV cameras caught you in the huddle saying ‑‑ where you told your players "I told you yesterday that we would win this first game, and we're going to win this game."   I don't know if that was intrusive or not, but I mean, when you have a situation like that, you tell your players the day before they're going to win, you tell them in overtime they're going to win, and they don't win, are you sort of concerned about that when you come up short in that situation, some of that confidence might be lost?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   No.   Not really.   I think these guys‑‑ you give your guys a reason to believe they should win this‑‑ whatever game‑‑ this game or this series.   And when it doesn't happen, you talk about the reasons why   and you show them that they're controllable and fixable, and you maintain your belief.   
   
 Q.   Did you have to talk to Roy about‑‑  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I did talk to him.   I don't know if I had to.   He's been a great supporter of mine, and mine of his.   We had a good talk.   
   
 Q.   It seems like you had a little advantage around the front line (Indiscernible)?  
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Possibly.   I think you're selling Miami's front line a little short.   No pun intended.   Chris Andersen is playing as well as any center in the league, you know, when he comes in.   And Haslem is one of the all‑time hustle players.   Bosh is a sure‑fire Hall of Famer.   I don't think it's a crazy mismatch in the front court.   
   
 Q.   When there's a tough defensive job, Paul George against LeBron James, how would you evaluate his performance defending LeBron James?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I thought he was great but can do better.   I thought he was great.   LeBron James, I don't have words for him what he can do.   You make him a passer, he can get ten assists.   You make him a scorer, he scores 30 points.   You have to try to do both.   I think for the most part Paul George was exceptional.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT