NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 22, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Frank, you are one of just a couple of coaches in the NBA who in the second half of a game has his offense in front of his bench.   Why do you do that?   And what prompted it?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Rudy Tomjanovich won championships and always felt that that helped them offensively at crunch time.   And when Jim Boylen, my assistant coach, came in, he presented it to me as an option, and I come from the Rick Pitino and Jim O'Brian tree that I always wanted our defense in front of us.   I always recognized that offensively you have to‑‑ crunch time you have to score the ball.   
So just something we tried at the beginning of last year.   Had some success with it and stayed with it.   
   
 Q.   Just to follow up, Frank, when you're at home and the other team switches it up, are you comfortable about going that way?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   It's comfortable either way.   But just‑‑ especially when‑‑ on the road when you have the crowd working against you, I think those are the times where you need that offensive communication more than at home.   
   
 Q.   Frank, does not knowing their lineup yet affect you much?   Or do you have plan A, B, C, D, E, F, G?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We don't   really adjust to other team's adjustments.   We're ready for a big lineup, small lineup, so it has no big impact really.   
   
 Q.   Coach, is your approach to offensively rebounding any different against a team that's a lot more dangerous in transition than the Knicks were?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Yes.   I'm not going to say we're not going to crash at all.   But we have to be smart about it for sure.   We can't bring our wings recklessly in to crash like we were doing in the other series against a team that doesn't run as much as this team does.   We do want to have offensive rebounding balance on every shot, though.   
   
 Q.   To follow up on this question about the lineups, why has your mind frame always been that you're not going to adapt to what a team does, and you're going to stick with your big lineup no matter they go small or whatnot?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I think it strengthens your team's psyche a little bit knowing that you're going to do what you do rather than having some uncertainty at times.   But also I think the way this team is built factors into that as much as my personal philosophy.   When you have power forwards like David West and Tyler Hansbrough, you know, you want to utilize those guys.   You don't want to adjust game to game and go away from those guys.   
   
 Q.   Frank, how does the game change when LeBron switches to the four, to power forward, and other times when it looks like that's almost his natural position?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know if I would say it's his natural position.   You know, to me any position is his natural position.   He can play all the spots.   
The game changes for sure.   You have two different lineups you have to account for.   One is a three‑point shooting spread, pick‑and‑roll attack, and the other one is more traditional.   So the game definitely changes, and your defensive coverages.   But like I said, we're built to guard both situations.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT