NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 6, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. I know you have the ability to play with multiple looks defensively, just wondered what the differences are when you have Bam out there potentially for Miami versus more of a pick-and-pop big like Leonard or Olynyk, what the keys are.
 FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, it's a very different attack.  But obviously Bam's one of the best players in the world.  What he brings to the table with his ability to push the ball at the center position, his passing ability with all their cutting and movement is something that they have missed, and the lob threat at the rim that he brings to the table really puts a lot of pressure on your defense.  So it definitely changes them.
 The extra space for Butler, equally hard to guard.  So they have the ability to beat us with both attacks, and hopefully we're ready for both.
 Q. Prior to Game 1, you had said that the free throw line was going to be probably the top of the list as a key.  Is it the same thing tonight?  Is there something different you've seen over the last couple games?
 FRANK VOGEL:   In terms of putting him to the free throw line?
 Q. What's on top of the scouting report.  You said keeping them off the line was the main priority.  I wondered if that's evolved at all?
 FRANK VOGEL:   We've just got to be better on the defensive end.  We haven't been ourselves the last two games.  I thought the last game was a little bit better than Game 2 but to win in the NBA Finals, we have to be better.  I'm expecting a better defensive effort tonight.
 Q. Long, strange season but tomorrow is going to be a year since you left for China, and I'm just wondering, when you look back on that, I know you've talked about it before a little bit, but now that you're in this moment, how did that experience that you guys had help get you to where you are now, do you think?
 FRANK VOGEL:   Well, you know, your team always grows throughout the course of a season, and it especially grows through adversity and that was our first taste of dealing with adversity in a very unique situation in a foreign country.  It was a difficult circumstance for us.
 So I think that was just the beginning of us really building what our greatest strength is, is our chemistry and togetherness.
 Q. Happy National Coaches Day.
 FRANK VOGEL:   Thank you.
 Q. Now that I've buttered you up, do you have any lineup changes for tonight?
 FRANK VOGEL:   No.
 Q. Happy National Coaches Day.  LeBron talked I think it was yesterday, or maybe the day before that, about how good this team has been in the film room this year in terms of taking things and making changes maybe without practice time.  What are your thoughts about how they have handled the adjustments in these playoff series and what do you attribute it to?
 FRANK VOGEL:   It's definitely been a positive element of our team this year.  This has been a strong approach of mine, a strong part of my approach throughout my career.  Obviously starting in the film room, you learn how to use that to send messages to change what's happening on the floor.
 This group in particular, led by LeBron, has had extraordinary attentiveness and carryover in the ability to take what we are teaching in the film room, what we are attempting to change in the film room, and apply to the court without a lot of practice time and without a lot of reps and drills to make sure that it gets done.  They have had a unique ability to do that.
 I think that's so pivotal in the NBA, in the playoffs, especially in environment where you play every other day for the most part, and it's been a big part of our success.
 Q. Anthony has had a pretty good track record when it comes to bounce-back games.  What have you noticed in his mindset during those performances and how do you think it can apply to tonight?
 FRANK VOGEL:   He's a great player.  So obviously great players have great pride, and if they have a sub-par performance for whatever reason, they typically want to bounce back with a lot of assertiveness.  We've seen that from Anthony throughout the course of this season, and hopefully we'll see that again tonight.
 Q. LeBron arrived with a shirt with an image of Kobe celebrating.  Today will we see some Mamba mentality?
 FRANK VOGEL:   I certainly hope so.  We've tried to embody what he stood for all season with our group.  A lot of big shot making and killer instinct, trying to win games at all costs.  Hopefully we'll see that again tonight.
 Q. Last game Danny Green and KCP probably didn't have their best games.  What do you expect from them in terms of making threes and defense?
 FRANK VOGEL:   I thought they both played really well.  Didn't shoot really well, but I thought they both played really well.  That's the biggest thing is knowing that you can impact -- there's so many ways to impact the game, even if your shot is not falling, those guys have exemplified that throughout the course of the year, but they are going to continue to hunt open shots.  The law of averages will come back around.  If you have a bad night, typically you'll have a good night the next night.  We expect both of them to have strong nights tonight.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT