NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 22, 2013
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Indiana Pacers     102
  Miami Heat     103

Q.   Frank, could you take us through the final sequence.   2.2 seconds to go.   I guess Hibbert not being in there, and what your thoughts were they were going to do and why maybe you didn't have deterrence at the rim on that play? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   That's the dilemma they present when they have Chris Bosh at the five spot and his ability to space the floor.   We put a switching lineup in with the intent to switch, keep everything in front of us and try to go into or force a challenged jumpshot. 
We pushed up a little bit too much, LeBron was able to beat us off the bounce. 

Q.   Can you talk about the possession before that where LeBron gets by George, A, why Paul and George switched on the screen?   And then again Roy wasn't in on that possession either? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   They're hurting us on the small pick‑and‑rolls where we're trying to blitz and get back.   So you have a couple of alternatives.   The intent is to try to switch and just, you know, hope that a point guard can keep him in front of us, and both situations we just pushed up on him a little bit too much, and he was able to beat us off the bounce. 

Q.   Frank, did anything about Miami's last play catch you by surprise at all or did pretty much you guys know it was going to get to LeBron? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   We expected it to be to LeBron.   We expected Bosh to be a spacing option.   If Roy were in the game, he probably would have been first or second option, if it didn't come to LeBron, if LeBron could one‑bounce, draw Roy to the rim and have Bosh spot it up. 
So it's the dilemma that they present.   Obviously, with the way it worked out, you know, it would have been better to have Roy in the game.   But you don't know.   If that happens, maybe Bosh is making the jumpshot, and we're all talking about that. 

Q.   Frank, when they scored on their second‑to‑last possession, were you tempted to put Roy in the game for that last one?   And if you're faced with a similar situation, do you think you'll do it the same way next time?
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I don't know.   We'll have to evaluate and see what we'll do the next time.   I would say we'll probably have him in next time. 

Q.   Frank, there was so much build‑up for Game 1.   The stakes are so high.   It's obviously such an emotional series.   What do you guys do to bounce back?   What was the mood in the room like? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   The mood was good.   It was a terrific basketball game.   If I was sitting in you all's seats, I'm sure you all enjoyed a terrific game.   Two great teams throwing punch for punch.   Our spirit is very high and very confident.   And we know we can play with this basketball team. 
We got to play better.   We can't have 20 turnovers and give up 24 second‑chance points and miss eight free‑throws.   You have to play a near‑perfect game to beat this team.   We played a very good basketball game, but we have to play better. 

Q.   Frank, you haven't talked about Paul George yet.   He had a slow first half and then kept coming on, making big plays for you.   What did you see from him? 
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   I grabbed him after the game and told him to quickly forget about the last play.   He's a third‑year player, and he's playing the best player in the world, someone who is going to go down as arguably one of the best players in the history of the game.   He's playing him toe to toe and just competing his tail off and doing a great job. 
Very, very proud of his whole effort, his whole game in the first half defensively, and the way he made big shot after big shot down the stretch, and particularly those three free‑throws.   Those are pressure free‑throws and big‑time plays. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT