NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 4, 2020
Frank Vogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Miami Heat 115, Los Angeles Lakers 104
Q. I know you talked about this in the first quarter interview, the 10 turnovers in that first quarter, how did you think that was emblematic of just the general effort, if at all?
FRANK VOGEL:   It wasn't about effort.  It was just about execution, but again credit their defense.  They played a terrific game, forced a lot of those turnovers.  We'll look at the tape and see how we can be better.
Q. You mentioned the turnovers.  Does it feel like a different series now?  Obviously they got their first win on the board, but with the looming potential return of Bam Adebayo, what does it feel like preparing for Game 4 as you turn the page?
FRANK VOGEL:   Well, we've had great respect for this team from the start.  That didn't change after Game 1 and that didn't change after Game 2.  Even with guys out, we still have great respect and we saw that in Game 2 what they are capable of from an offensive firepower standpoint and defensive competitiveness standpoint.  So they are going to be a great opponent with those guys or without them.
Q. It's another tough night for Danny and KCP, obviously in that starting lineup, they held space and it's a dangerous weapon against the zone.  What do you see out of their performance the last two games, and they have been through slumps before, but is there a way to get them through that?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, just stay the course.  Those guys have been fine.  They have been great for us all year.  We have to execute as a group better.  If we execute as a group better, have more intent to get higher shot quality, then those guys will be fine.
Q. Did it bother you at all that a couple of your players walked off the court before the game was over with?
FRANK VOGEL:   I think they thought the game was over.  I don't think they realized there was point-whatever still on the clock.
Q. Did you think you got thrown out rhythm by the early foul trouble?  I know LeBron came back in pretty quickly.
FRANK VOGEL:   What was the question?
Q. Did you think you never got a rhythm with the Davis early foul trouble in that first quarter?
FRANK VOGEL:   Yeah, I mean, I think that impacted us some but we've been in foul trouble before, and you have to play through it.  That's part of the game.  We see that all throughout the course of the season and in the playoffs, and you know, you have to be able to adapt and adjust.  Probably had a small factor on our offensive rhythm, but we've just got to be better overall on both ends.
Q. Jimmy Butler in his walk-off interview mentioned the key to this series is keeping you guys off the boards.  How do you guys play the way you want to play while also limiting Jimmy Butler?
FRANK VOGEL:   We definitely have to do a better job on Jimmy.  What did he have, 40 and 13?  Identifying the right situations to help, the right situations not to help.  We didn't do a good job in those situations, but obviously we'll look at the tape and see ways we can be better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT