WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2005
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  You must be pleased to get that over with before the rain came so you could have a clear weekend.
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, it was great because I saw after the first rain delay, you know, the sky was pretty dark and some drops were coming down.  So I was really pleased the way we finish the third set.  That was great. 
 

Q.  How did the first delay affect your game at all?  Did it?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  No.  I mean, you know, from what I played after it showed up, it didn't really.  Because I came out and broke him twice, twice in a row.  So that was a great, great start.  I think I played really good after to finish it off. 
 

Q.  What do you feel about Lopez in the next round?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Well, little bit watch today because he played the match before me.  So watch his -- I mean, he's already been couple years here.  He had some good results compared, you know.  He's lefty, big serve.  I mean, he beat Marat.  So expecting really tough match. But now it's I have two days off, so is plenty of time to think of that match. 
 

Q.  How will you spend the weekend?  I mean, having the two days off, what will you do?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Just, you know, hit easy, you know.  I been playing, you know -- basically I came here, play straightaway.  So these two days is good.  Hit easy, relax and massages and just wait the match, wait till Monday. 
 

Q.  Enjoy yourself, see the sights?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, just enjoy, relax, hit a little bit and stay in form and just wait Monday. 
 

Q.  In this country you're still best-known for having beaten Roger, the last man to beat Roger Federer on grass.  Does that sort of annoy you that you're known because of his achievements?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  After that I beat some good players on grass, so... 
 

Q.  Yeah.  You beat Tim last year.
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, beat Tim also. So, no, I mean, I'm not worried about what people recognize me.  It's most important to come and watch.  I feel there is a lot of people behind me here.  You know, I feel, I mean -- I feel great here, so I don't -- I don't really care how that they remember me by winning first round here or by winning Roger.  You know, when I see a lot of people cheering for me and want me to win, it's a great feeling. 
 

Q.  Your opponent talked a lot about what he had learned in the match.  I was just wondering, what have you learned out of the match about your play and his play?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  About the next match or today? 
 

Q.  Coming off this match, what have you learned about the way you play and what you need to work on, what you do well?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  No, I think I, you know -- second round was a little bit struggle, so I was really serving well today.  Really controlling the games on my serve really good. I don't think -- he didn't have really big first serve percentage in, so that gave me a lot of opportunities to play and, you know, to hit and go in and make pressure.  You know, that's what I did really good.  He's, you know, I think talented player with a lot of skills.  He's unbelievable fast. No, I think I played a really, really solid match. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you can achieve what Goran did?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  (Smiling). 
 

Q.  Or is it too early?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  I think it's still too early in the tournament. 
 

Q.  There are a lot of seeds that are going out, some big names going out.  Doesn't that give you...
 
MARIO ANCIC:  No, I mean, I'm playing with a guy who is still, you know, Top 20, Top 25, who beat Marat, which, you know, I thought Marat -- was first -- I think this is the year, you know, when I was watching the matches, he was playing the best on grass.  So lot of, you know, lot of -- I mean, he played some good match to win. So, you know, he's a good player.  He likes grass.  He's been I think last year also fourth round, Lopez, here, you know.  And he's a lefty, which is a pretty nice advantage here on grass. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT