DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND, CROATIA vs. USA
March 4, 2005
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Mario, you got out to a good start, then Roddick seemed to pick up his game pretty well.  Talk about the match and how you felt it went. 
 
MARIO ANCIC:  I think first set I was returning, I was reading his serve a lot, he was putting a lot of returns in.  It was, you know, basically better from the back of the court.  You know, I was pretty solid all first set, putting a lot of returns in.  Yeah, but from second, third and fourth set, you know, my serve, I wasn't getting too many free points on serve.  He went couple meters back, you know, was just playing solid, putting the ball in.  I should also, you know, see something, adjust little bit better what I did, you know, but it was too late, you know, mixing up more, serve and volley, just come in.  But you all do some stop just because he went back up more a couple meters, you know, and just played solid.  And I didn't adjust quickly, you know, to adjust my kind of game.  
 
Q.  Nikki, could you give us an overall assessment of the day, and in particular Ivan's performance? 
 
CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, obviously, Ljubicic played very good.  I think he know exactly what he's doing on the court.  He was mixing up and down.  He was serving good.  He never give a chance Agassi to get in rhythm, and play very cleverly.  I mean, there's no doubt about that.  I didn't expect that he's going to win in three sets.  
 
Q.  Nikki, how do you feel going into tomorrow, Saturday, the doubles? 
 
CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, we are 1-All.  As Mario said, my wish was that Mario was serving a little bit better, then maybe he had a better chance because the first set was that he played very solid, and Andy make mistakes.  Then he get in rhythm, he didn't make mistake, and Mario probably changed too late a little bit of tactic, going more on the net.  Is 1-All.  Well, we have doubles tomorrow.  I guess the doubles is pretty open.  It's very important point.  Whoever win doubles obviously need only one singles to win.  But, as I said, I didn't expect that it would be 2-0 for us.  That would be very nice.  But 1-All, now we go.  I mean, I think we are at this moment 50/50 and then we'll see what's going on.  
 
Q.  Did you suggest to Ivan that he serve with a lot of spin more of a priority than serving with a lot of speed? 
 
CAPTAIN PILIC:  Yes.  That's very important to mix, especially kick that second serve or even first one.  Kick is bouncing very high.  It's very difficult to control that ball.  Especially after you make two or three kicks, then you hit one flat one, then you losing little bit rhythm for return, which is biggest -- I mean, Agassi was known last 10, 15 years one of the best returner in the game.  So that's exactly what he was doing very good.  
 
Q.  Would it be fair to say that the slow court helped Croatia more than the United States? 
 
CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, could be.  But let's say -- I would say for Mario was much better that the court is a little bit faster, then he could play much more serves at the net and more volleys which he is very good.  So, I mean, somebody helped and somebody is disadvantaged.  I would say I would like for Mario that that court will be little bit faster.  So, you know, after matches, you can find all excuses in the world, if you want to do it.  
 
Q.  Nikki, your comments about the crowd?  What were your thoughts about the crowd? 
 
CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, this crowd comparing to Hartford 1987 is beautiful.  But I am disappointed what somebody was yelling down there about Agassi.  They shouldn't do that.  I mean, guy have respect everywhere in the world, and he should have also respect at home.  I mean, that yelling, "Make a double-fault," I don't think so it's a fair.  You can yell when you win the point as much as you want, it's okay.  But on the second serve, you don't call a double-fault, I don't think so.  But crowd is a crowd.  I mean, more or less it's okay.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT