WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2004
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How much did the rain interruption break affect you and did you think it was necessary? 
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Well, obviously the first rain delay from yesterday to today helped a lot - I broke him straightaway, broke him second time, win a set.  You know, I was up Love-40 the next game.  So, I mean, that was good.  But I don't think why it was the second rain delay.  I watched, all the courts were still playing.  But rain came later.  You know, I mean, doesn't really matter.  I was get out and just started to focus again.  That's it.  I mean, doesn't really -- I was just trying to stay warm.  Didn't really affect me too much.  
 
Q.  What was the difference in the end between you and Andy in this match?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  I mean, it was a pretty big match, and I think in those kind of matches, it comes down to three, four balls.  I really have to congratulate him.  I think he played better.  Like I said, I mean, I had Love-40, I had couple breakpoints - didn't use them, which he did.  I was a little bit struggling with my serve fourth set, but I was fighting good with my volleys and everything.  Just like couple breakpoints I didn't use, he did really good.  Some unforced error, unnecessary.  I was enjoying playing in this kind of matches.  I have to say today he was a little bit better. 
 
Q.  How much confidence are you going to take away from what you've achieved here?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Well, I think I'm already improved from when I played Queen's with him because now I was rallying much better from the back.  I knew what to expect.  I was returning way better than in Queens, volleying, serving and volleying better also.  It's great to see I already improve in last three, four weeks.  It's great that I, you know, manage.  Also help me a lot that I went through, you know, first two rounds couple tough matches.  I think that is what's going to give me confidence.  It's nice to see that I'm still improving.  
 
Q.  Having done so well this year, do you think you can go further over the next few years and emulate what Goran achieved?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Well, I mean, for sure I think I played a great tennis this year.  Also two years ago I beat Roger on this kind of court.  So, I mean, I think I'm playing good here.  You know, fast courts are good for me.  But I think, like what I said, you know, last year, I think I improved a lot.  I was hardly serving and volleying, and this year I was much more aggressive.  But, you know, now is going to come to a couple small details and I'll try to even improve there.  So, you know, these kind of matches I'll win in the end - maybe not next year, but over the years. 
 
Q.  Were you happy to play on Court 1?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, it's a big court.  It's a nice court.  I mean, Centre, Court 1, it's great to be out there.  Crowd was really spectacular today.  I was really enjoying it.  
 
Q.  When was the decision made?  Do they come to you and ask you if you're happy to play on Court 1 on Friday?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, didn't really -- Roger was already 3-2 up or something with a break.  They didn't want like for two of us that, you know, Roger is maybe finished and we didn't even started.  So I think it was a good move from them.  Otherwise, you know, they both finish.  You know, Andy won it today, so they're both fresh for tomorrow.  So I think it was a great decision.  
 
Q.  You seem to be getting quite a good read on Andy's serve, even right down to the final game. 
 
MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah.  I was, you know, like I said, much better returning.  I was putting much more returns in, playing I think pretty good from the baseline.  I mean, in this kind of matches, it's just like two,  three -- I had Love-40, I had a passing shot, he did a great volley.  Love-30, I had to make a slice.  It was like this out (indicating a small amount).  I had a couple passing shots 15-30.  I felt really till the end that I'm in this match and, you know, I believe I can win it.  I was really fighting, fighting till the last point.  You know, I cannot say anything.  I gave this tournament all, so.  
 
Q.  Will you watch the final?
 
MARIO ANCIC:  I mean, I don't know when I come back.  I think I'll watch it to see, you know, how I can just learn from watching the match.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT