WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. ANCIC/F. Verdasco  
3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 13-11  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Looking at the statistic sheets for the match today.   
 MARIO ANCIC: Me, too.   
  
  Q. The line that says, "61% effectiveness at the net," is that going to be enough to beat Roger Federer?  
 MARIO ANCIC: To be honest with you, I haven't think one second about Roger Federer yet.   
  
  Q. So let's talk about the match you just played. Could you talk about this match.   
 MARIO ANCIC: Yes, like I said, I think the match by itself was unbelievable, was dramatic. I mean, the best way to say is it was dramatic.   
 First two sets I have to say, you know, it's not too many times that I really feel that somebody's playing unbelievable. I mean, whatever I tried, whatever I was trying to do, he was hitting me off the court.   
 From the returns, he was serving great. I mean, I was struggling a little bit with the returns throughout the whole match. I mean, he's a lefty. I return good, but when it's a different spin, the way he was putting -- he was placing the serve good. I was really struggling with that.   
 You know, like I said, I really felt after two sets, you know, there is nothing wrong I did and I'm two sets to love down. I just said to myself, Keep on fighting. Maybe something can open up like it can on grass. Doesn't matter actually which surface.   
 I got the break, and I think from there on the match started. I think I was better player in the fourth set. He went down a little bit, which of course it's easier to play when everything is rolling. That's actually what I wanted, you know, to maybe get the break up so he can maybe start thinking a little bit in the match.   
 And then the fifth set, I mean, it was a fight. 13-11, I mean, of course it could probably go either way. But, you know, I felt a little bit I was having more chances. I felt that, you know, I was the one who was all the time putting the pressure on his serve.   
 Actually, I was serving for the match 7-6. Even that I felt he hit three great returns. But, you know, like I said, in the fifth set my percentage dropped. I didn't see it yet here, but I think my percentage of the serve dropped but I played better.   
 I got a little bit better rhythms on the returns. Like I said, a little bit I felt more comfortable, and I felt each game I have a little bit more chances to break him than he could break me.  
  
  Q. Was the leg bothering you?  
 MARIO ANCIC: Yes, it was. It was. It was throughout the fifth set. But, you know, it's one of these things that you don't think about.   
  
  Q. Could you give us an impression of what Wimbledon does for you. It has an effect on certain players. Clearly I think it has an effect on you and your game. An impression of what it means to come here and play well?  
 MARIO ANCIC: Like I always said, Wimbledon means so much to me. Actually it feels maybe even a little bit more because I missed it last year and I didn't know -- you know, like when I remember last year where I was, and this year, straightaway for me I feel like a winner.   
 You know, doesn't matter what happens at the end of the week. I really feel, you know, for me this is the tournament I grew up with. This is the tournament I always felt great and always great memories.   
  
  Q. At some point you're going to have to turn your attention to the quarterfinals. Judging yourself by the way you served and volleyed today, are you satisfied with that? Is that going to be good enough?  
 MARIO ANCIC: I don't know. I don't know is it gonna be good enough. I mean, I think I served better, if that was your question, I think I served a little bit better against Ferrer than today.  
 But like I said, I think most important for me at this moment, I play plenty of time with him. The only thing I'm focused is getting this afternoon and today as smarter as I can and treat my leg as best as I can and be well prepared for Wednesday.   
  
  Q. It's so unusual for a tennis player to go to law school. Could you tell us a little bit about that. Certainly in all the hours of studying law there must have been one thing that has helped you with your play on the tennis court.   
 MARIO ANCIC: I don't know. I mean, of course for me I think as soon as you're a top player or sportsman you have one university done. I mean, you worked your whole life and you are good at something.   
 But also, on the other hand, I wanted to have something else except tennis. Law was something that I felt can give me a lot of possibilities later after my career. At this point when I'm finishing, I'm really happy that that was my decision to go for law school.   
 Also, to be honest, it helped me so much last year. In this year when I didn't play tennis, I think it just help me to stay mentally strong, to be positive, because I think it would be much tougher if I didn't have it so I would sit whole day, you know, at home and hit myself, you know, hit my head through the wall all day. You know, nothing to do.   
 Maybe watch tennis, and you get even more crazy. Why I'm not there? I'm going to be stressed. I felt this was really something that, okay, now I don't have tennis, but I have something else equally maybe as important in my life.   
  
  Q. And your favorite part of the law?  
 MARIO ANCIC: I think civil law.   
  
  Q. When you beat Roger here six years ago, where did you think your game would be six years from then and where did you think Roger's would be six years from then? Where did you think you would be today with your games?  
 MARIO ANCIC: I think we are both six years better players. I mean, like I said, he was not Roger Federer at that time. Of course, I mean, I can sit here and talk stories about how great win and how I beat Roger Federer, but actually it wasn't Roger Federer as we know him today.   
 It was the up-and-coming, top 10 player who was at that moment struggling on Grand Slams. I think from year after when he won Wimbledon he explode, and today he's completely different player.   
 I mean, we played I think three or four times after that. He beat me. Of course it's unbelievable, because since then he hasn't lost on grass. But, you know, if it was not for that, I think people would pretty much forget about that win.   
  
  Q. We all know the story of the illness, what have you. When you were suffering, maybe at your lowest moments, do you imagine something in tennis that will inspire you to come back? I'm hoping you're going to say Centre Court. Is there something you really focus on to help your recovery?  
 MARIO ANCIC: Well, it's not a cliché, but it was really to play again on Centre Court in Wimbledon. It was something that I really felt passionate about. I said that is for me like for a footballer to play on Wembley. It's Yankee Stadium for baseball, Madison Square Garden in basketball, New York Knicks to play there.   
 I mean, it's almost like a holy place. That was really something what is inspiring me. I mean, of course the goal was try to come there, because I know then I am playing big matches. I mean, I felt what it means to play late in the tournaments, late in the Grand Slams, winning tournaments, and my goal was to come back to play these big matches.   
  
  Q. Roger has said before and reconfirmed to us today that he underestimated you back in 2002 and it was his own fault. Does the fact that you beat him six years ago on grass, and you're one of the few guys that knows what it feels like to beat him on grass, is that going to help you not to overestimate him, not to give him too much respect?  
 MARIO ANCIC: Well, I mean, we play quarters two years ago. I think he played a brilliant match. For me, I go on the court and I don't play the name; I try to play the best as I can play that day.   
 I mean, that was same case two years ago, but it was just on the other side of the net was somebody who play better than me that day.   
 But what I'm really focus is I don't play the name; I just focus to try to get on the top of my game. Whoever I have to play in the quarters, doesn't matter is it Roger Federer. I mean, is eight guys still left in the tournament, and against seven of them you have to play top to have a chance to win.   
 Doesn't matter is it Roger or somebody else, that is my goal.   
  
  Q. 13-11 in the fifth. Where do you stand on whether it should be a tiebreak to end it in the fifth or whether we should continue playing out like this?  
 MARIO ANCIC: Well, I think it was pretty entertaining for the crowd. No, I think the system is good. I don't have anything against it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT