AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2007
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Could I just ask how you felt about your first game?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  I think it's right exactly where I want it, straight sets.  You know, I think for me set play better tennis, and that's good for confidence, good for my game.   
 Of course it's first round.  You don't expect to play the best.  But I think it was a great start.  Maybe a little bit slow the first couple of games, but from there on, I played really solid, served well, and like I said, very happy to go home quickly and to win in three straight sets so I can relax and then focus for a second round.   
  
  Q.  There was some trouble with some Croatian fans outside.  Is there anything you'd like to say in terms of respecting players and other fans?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  When was that?   
  
  Q.  While you were actually on court.   
 MARIO ANCIC:  No.  The only thing I can say, we have the best fans, and they're well-known for their good supporting, correct supporting.  And I've been here many years.  They were great to me.  They said especially in last year's finals, Davis Cup, it was all the time saying in the press how good the supporters were, no incidents at all.   
  
  Q.  You didn't notice them getting up to leave during your match?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  No, I had no idea.  The only thing, if I can finish my thought, we are well-known for great support but correct support.  I don't know for any excess ever.   
  
  Q.  Any thoughts about repeating great success with a Croatian team with a Davis Cup as you had in Bratislava two years ago?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Yes, that's a big goal.  This year, of course, we're going to not only try to play good but there will be luck needs.  We are better on the ranking, as well, than we were two years ago.  But of course it's for me playing for Croatia and trying to win a Davis Cup again would be a great achievement.   
 We have a tough first round playing Germany away, so looking forward for start of that campaign and try to repeat 2005.  It make me unbelievably proud and made me unbelievably happy to be a part of the team.  Since the first time I played at 15, it's the same feeling, so I want to still keep on continuing playing on high level.   
  
  Q.  What do you take out of today's game that you're focused for round two?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Of course, match situation is different than practice, and I think you could see it from the first ball to the last.  I was -- some things was getting better by each set, and that satisfied me.  I started to return better.   
 I have to say I was serving really good throughout the whole match, won many easy points, and then from the groundstrokes I was playing better as the match was progressing.   
 So, like I said, I'm going to need to do that.  Next match is a great groundstroker.  So I'm satisfied with the way that I played today from the back.  As well as being aggressive, and the things that I'm working on, that's the most important thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT