WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Mario Ancic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Are you looking forward to playing your next round?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Of course.  It's great to have a chance again on such a big stage to play against Roger.  You know, we played last Grand Slam in quarters in Paris, and it's nice to -- I mean, for me it's great feeling that I showed again that at the end of the tournament I am playing with a great player.  That's my main goal.   
  
  Q.  You were the last man to beat him here, I believe, at Wimbledon.   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What do you remember about that game?  What will you take from that going into Wednesday?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  It was four years ago, so I think we both changed a lot.  You know, he won three times Wimbledon, so I don't think -- it's just a new match.  I was happy that I played in Paris against him, so it's more I'm looking to that match what I can take, some positive, than what happened four year ago.   
  
  Q.  What can you take positive from the match in Paris?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  I think it what a great match.  I had for me, first two sets were great tennis.  I had lot of chances.  It's -- I mean -- it's very easy to say be aggressive, be in charge but, you know, it's obviously very hard done than said.  But I just try to keep my -- you know, play my game.  It's serve and volley.  I'm gonna see how much mix it up or stay or then go.  But obviously have to play my game.   
 I came so far to quarters like that, and I don't see a reason to change it.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you've got more chance against him on grass at Wimbledon than you had on clay in Paris or is it the other way around?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  You know, I don't think it's -- for me, I think we are both all-around players, and I don't think it matters too much where the match is played.  You have to come up to your level, which has to be big, I mean, for me.  That's the only matter.  Doesn't matter you play on clay, hard, on grass, you have to play your best tennis.   
  
  Q.  You must be delighted with the way you're playing on grass, this serve-and-volley game, 31 aces.  You must have rarely sent down that many in a match.   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, I think I served really well today.  Like you said, had many aces.  I was more struggling with my returns.  But, you know, he was serving big percentage today.  Court 2, as well, it's much harder than the other ones.  You know, the ball is bouncing so much higher, so it's, you know -- it was little bit tough in the beginning to adjust.   
  
  Q.  Novak says that on grass you're up there with Federer and Hewitt as one of the top players in the world on this surface, definitely in with a chance if you play like that of winning the tournament.  Would you agree?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Like you said, you know, you just mentioned one name who is put there by me, it's Roger Federer. That's the only focus.  I mean, it's I think enough to focus on that guy than the rest of the field.   
 I'm looking forward to the match and happy to be there again.  That shows that, you know, again, I beat a lot of good players to come and  played very solidly, came through a lot of tough situations to be there.   
  
  Q.  Can I ask you about Novak, what you thought of him.  He seems to be improving tournament by tournament at the moment.   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, he played quarters in French, came to fourth round here.  I think today was a great match.  Could go either way.  Like I said before, great up-and-coming player.  I think he has a great future.  I mean, he's already here.  It's not that, you know, he's coming far back.  With these results I think he gonna very soon be Top 20, Top 10.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything specific in his game that has troubled you today?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  Yeah, I mean, he has everything.  Serving, I think he improved a lot his serve, first and second, and mix it up great.  Then from the backhand returning, he's so solid.  He doesn't miss.  Play very close to the line, take it early, has both sides he can hit a winner off.  I think, you know, just being here and playing, I think he gonna come in soon, gonna have a great results.   
  
  Q.  What's the most difficult thing when you have to play against a guy like Federer?  Is it mental?  Is it technical?   
 MARIO ANCIC:  I mean, I would say again what I say.  Depends who I play, is focus on my game.  I think that's most important.  You have to come up to your level.  You know you gonna have some unbelievable shots against Roger if he gonna make something like you -- most of the guys not expect, you know, like I had in Paris 2-Love, Love-40, chance to go double break and he make five winners.  So you just have to try to get in much more situations like that and hope he can miss, but play your game.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT