THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 28, 2011
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very nicely done to open. Only one bogey. Got around it really nicely. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Yeah, I did. I hit the ball very well today, hit a lot fairways. I hit it in the fairways where I've had a chance to get it close to the greens. Greens were a little bit softer this morning than they will be this afternoon. 
 You know, that's the whole key to this golf course right now, is getting the ball in the right spot. Hopefully the ball will get pretty close to the hole. 
 The greens are very firm.

 Q. Yeah, all the talk earlier in the week is about how firm the greens were. But they were receptive? 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: They were very receptive. I think as round went along they got a little bit more firmer and a little more bumpier and all that. 
 So tomorrow we'll have to contend with that, but I took advantage of it when I could.

 Q. You got to make birdies here when you can. You got a good run going early and then you kind of went for a dry spell until 9. Tell me about the wedge.
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, the wedge at 9, I hit a good drive right down the right-hand side; I wanted the angle a little bit. Kind of had the ball a little above my feet, so I aimed a little bit right. 
 I had a perfect yardage for just a good, hard sand wedge about 109 yards. Just flew it just beyond the hole and spun back about eight feet and made it.

 Q. You're finding it in spots, aren't you? We talked at John Deere where you had it going for a couple rounds. Now it's just a matter of putting four together?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Just putting four together. I hit the ball very well last week when I was home and I hit it very well today, so hopefully I'll get a few more days.

 Q. Tell us about the round. Obviously you hit pretty well today. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Yeah, I did. I hit it real solid. I drove the ball well and got a lot of balls on the fairway, but... 
 Had a lot of good approach shots and hit the right club and allowed for the firmness of the greens. They were very receptive this morning. They'll get firmer this afternoon, so we'll have to contend with that tomorrow. 
 Took advantage of it when I could.

 Q. I know a lot talk out here on TOUR about the young guys, but your round today may be one for the older generation. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, now, (indiscernible) turns 50 in four days; I've still got five more years. I'm not quite that far yet. 
 But, you know, you need to drive the ball well out here. It stills comes down to chipping and putting - that's how you score out here - and I putted very well today.

 Q. Just talk about the golf course and how it plays. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, the golf course is playing a lot longer than last year. It is drier though. I played here on Tuesday and it was really playing long. 
 Now the ball isn't, you know, plugging in the fairways or anything like that. I think the golf course is playing great right now. The weather is perfect. It's warm. So there will be some good scores this afternoon.

 Q. What was working on your first 9 for you today?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I made some good putts. I had some wedge shots in. I think I made two putts over 20 feet. When you do that, you just kind of get some momentum going. 

 Q. Talk about your year so far. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: It's been a disappointing year. After winning TOUR School in December, really kind of was hoping to get off to a good start. 
 But as we all say, one week out here can change a lot of things. I'm still in the in FedExCup race. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT