QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2010
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, I was disappointed. I got off to a good start, made a few good pars, made a great par on 4; and made a bad putt, three-putted on 5 for bogey on the par-5; and then made a birdie right back on 6, the par-3, hit 4-iron into the green and kind of got my momentum going; and then kind of caught a flier from the left rough. I missed the fairway with a 7-iron laying up and caught a flier and nailed it over the green and made double there.  
 After that I just kind of got out of my rhythm a little bit, got it back and eagled 14 and hit a real good shot into 15 and the ball stayed in the lip of the bunker, which I don't see how it could have, but it did, and I was able to get it up-and-down and just got a little tired, I think, coming in. One of those things.   
 Disappointing finish, but all around it was a great week.  
  
  Q. You needed to win this to get your TOUR card back, so do you walk away feeling good that you got your 14th, or was it all or nothing?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I don't want to say it was all or nothing. If I couldn't have won, I wish I could have finished a little bit higher so it was a little bit easier to keep my card. I have a lot more golf this year to try and keep my card and all that stuff. But it's a learning experience, take one week at a time, and hopefully I'll be in two weeks in Texas, and we'll go from there.  
  
  Q. After the eagle you got to 8-under and I don't know if you watched McIlroy just sort of take off --  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I was coming down 16 and I heard the roar, and I knew it was his group, and I could tell by the roar it was probably him. But he had a great round today. Shooting 62 out there, my goodness, I hope they don't try to take the golf course and make it any harder because they don't need to do that, but he played a great round today. That's for sure.  
  
  Q. Is that when you knew that there was little hope?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: No, I pretty much knew. You get a sense out there how things are going and all that stuff, but I was very disappointed with my finish, doubling 16 and bogeying 17 and having a good birdie putt on 18 and not making it. If I could have gotten in at 7- or 8-under par, it still would have been a great week.   
  
  Q. Just think about where you were a week ago, and then here you come in, you were leading into the final round. I mean, it's still a phenomenal week.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, thank you. Yeah, it was a good week, and I'm hoping a lot of tournament directors saw this week and hopefully will maybe give me a sponsor exemption later on so I don't have to do any more Monday four-spotters. Hopefully I'll get into Texas in two weeks, and who knows, maybe the Byron Nelson will be nice enough to let me in, and I've got Colonial and Memorial. I've got some golf coming up, so hopefully I'll just try to keep riding it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT