QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2010
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Another 68 for you, 8-under par for the tournament, real nice finish. You got that birdie at 7 out of the bunker on the left side and then sneaked one in at 9. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Yeah, I made two really good putts there. I kind of had an odd -- I had like 210 yards on 7 there, and it was either a hard 3-iron or a cut 4-wood, and I hit the cut 4-wood and hit it a little too straight. I knew I'd put it in the bunker, can't put it in that water. 
 I hit a pretty good bunker shot to about ten feet and I was fortunate enough to make it.

 Q. Beautiful shot at 9 into the green; that was a 15-footer you made?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Yeah, that was a good shot in there. Playing downwind I just wanted to carry the bunker. I think I hit the fringe just over the bunker. I had that putt before and I knew it broke a lot, plus I hit the right line and speed.

 Q. Did you do any scoreboard watching today? At one point there were eight players at 6-under par. There's been a real logjam but you've kind of climbed right up there. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: No, I don't watch the scoreboards very much, not today. It's too early on Friday. I can tell by what's going on just by the atmosphere, how I'm doing. I'm playing well, and I'm in good position for the weekend. 

 Q. Talk about the weekend because the more you play, the better you play, people are catching onto this, the flight from New Orleans, the Monday qualifier, and here you are now. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, I'm very happy to be here. Late tee time tomorrow on Saturday and giving myself a great chance going into the weekend. Sometimes you've got to do what you've got to do. A lot of guys will say they had to Monday qualify and they've been a long time on TOUR, but when they did Monday qualify they were hot coming in and just kind of kept rolling away and rolling away, and that's what we're trying to do.

 Q. Do you like your chances on the weekend?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Absolutely. I feel like I'm hitting it pretty good, I'm rolling the rock pretty good. A lot better than if I was not making the cut, then I wouldn't qualify. Any time you get in contention, I love being in contention, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Another great seven-birdie day. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Yeah, I played real well today. The golf course was a little bit different than yesterday morning. It was a lot warmer and played a little bit faster and a few more 3-woods off the tee. But I've played this golf course when it's fast and firm, and you just have to know the places where to hit it and where it lay off and have a lot of uphill putts.

 Q. Is next week on your mind as you're making a run here?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, obviously I know how I need to get in there. It's real simple, pretty cut and dry what I need to get in next week, but I'm just going to concentrate on tomorrow and keep playing like I am and we'll go from there.

 Q. There doesn't seem to be a lot of low scores out there. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, again, I made a lot of good putts. I drove the ball very well. When you play in the afternoon here, the golf course gets fast and hard, and I had -- did a couple good things. I chipped one in on 4 from behind the green which probably could have turned into 6 real quick. I had some good bounces, too, which definitely helps in the afternoon.

 Q. Having to qualify for this and being where you are, does it kind of surprise you?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I wouldn't say surprised. I played well last week, I played real good on Saturday last week, shot 1-over on Sunday in the wind and all that, so I knew I was playing pretty good. If I was surprised at anything, it was shooting 65 on Monday. Like I said, just kept riding that wave and got here and just tried to keep my confidence going.

 Q. Did that give you kind of a carryover effect, what you did on Monday?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Oh, absolutely. Any time you can go out there and shoot 65, which I think is my lowest round this year, it gives you confidence. You can hit the ball as good as you want and putt as good as you want, but if you're not shooting the numbers, the confidence isn't there, and I'm starting to shoot the numbers.

 Q. Tiger is going to miss his sixth cut in 250 events or whatever. How amazing is that?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: It's absolutely amazing. Give this guy a chance, though; he'll bounce back. We all know that, everyone on TOUR knows that. By him missing a few cuts here and there, it's just going to make him come back even stronger. I don't think anyone out here is worried about Tiger, and I'm sure Tiger is not worried about it right now, either.

 Q. What was the best part of your game, strongest part?
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Strongest part right now has been my putting. I made the putts I needed to, I've been lagging it well, the speed on the greens has been good, so I haven't had to work too hard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT