PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about your opening 69. What was working for you today?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I drove it well. I drove it in a lot of fairways and hit a lot of good iron shots. I made a lot of good putts but I had two chip-ins, one for par and one was for birdie. When you chip them in, even when they are for par, it keeps you going. It keeps the round going and all that, and I made a nice birdie on 2 and on 5 and 6 out there on the front so, it kind of helped me along. Made a few bogeys, 9 and 1, but I think a lot of people are going to make some bogeys out there. The golf course is playing tough. The wind is blowing. It's a different golf course than we saw in the practice round, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. Is there a particular part of the course that's playing tougher?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: The greens are getting very hard and very crusty and it's hard to stop the ball close to the hole.  
  
  Q. A bunch of guys have mentioned that; is there a universal request because of the dramatic shift?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, there has been a dramatic shift, 18 green and 13 green, they are getting dried out. 13 is a difficult pin but if it's hard and crusty, there's no way you can stop the ball there. I just hope they don't lose the greens, because if the wind stays up and the sun stays out and we don't get any rain, we're close.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised by the change in the course?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: No. This stuff happens in major championships. Augusta National is famous for that, drying the golf course out on Wednesday afternoon. I don't think the PGA tried to do this. I think they tried to make it a little harder than it was in the practice rounds and might have gotten a little away from them. It's still playing but not the same golf course we had in the practice round.  
  
  Q. You've been playing good golf of late; any particular reason?  
 BILLY MAYFAIR: I feel confident. Playing good, shooting low scores breeds confidence. I feel very relaxed and like where my golf swing is and just feel comfortable.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT