THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2017
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Level par round of 71, your thoughts?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Tells you how hard the golf course really is.  We had a lot better weather today.  We had some good scores but no one tore it apart.  It's a major championship and making pars and shooting level par means a lot out here.  I'm happy the way I played today.  I really made a lot of putts the first two days, par putts and all that, and hit it better today.  Hit more greens but just didn't putt quite as well.  I'm still looking to do well tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  On that first tee, did you think a score was out there and does that make it slightly frustrating?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: No, not frustrating.  I can't speak for the guys in the morning, but I know the scores were pretty good this morning.  And even at home getting ready, I could tell weather was definitely better than yesterday.  It's still a hard golf course out there.  You've got to drive it well and hit a lot of good shots and make putts.  It's a good one.   
 Q.  How do you feel about going into tomorrow?  Do you feel you can win this championship?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Oh, absolutely.  I feel great.  I think I hit it as best today that I have, and if the weather gets a little bit rougher tomorrow and I can make some putts, you never know what might happen.   
 Q.  And the challenge of Bernhard Langer?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, he's been there many times and he's done it, but hopefully there's a new breed coming in.   
 Q.  A lot of players have been talking about the fact that today's conditions were more scorable.  In your opinion, were they, and was today more about missed opportunities for you?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Definitely more scorable out there.  The wind wasn't blowing nearly as hard.  We played in quite a bit of rain, and I did hit the ball much better.  I hit a lot more greens but didn't quite putt as well.  Sometimes that happens when you hit more greens than when you don't.   
But overall, I'm not disappointed with the round.  I left some out there but I think we all do that at times.  You know, I gave myself a good chance to win tomorrow, and that's all I can ask for.   
 Q.  After a day like today, do you stick to the game plan?  Is there anything that you change going into tomorrow?  How do you feel about Sunday?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, I don't think you change anything.  I think you wait till you get to the parking lot and you see which way the flags are going and how hard they are blowing and what the forecast is and go from there.  I'm not going to change my game plan.  It's a great golf course and I've played well for three days and I don't want to change anything now.   
 Q.  When you see Bernhard Langer at the top, how difficult is it to beat him?  
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, you know, I'm going out there trying to play the best I can and make as many as I can.  If he plays well, then probably nobody will catch him.  But all I can do is take care of my business.   
If you don't want to see someone up on top of that board, because he's probably the hardest to get, it would be Bernhard Langer.  He's playing great and he loves playing over here and he's got the experience.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT