FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 21, 2007
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What a finish you had.  You must be delighted.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I really am.  I struggled there in the middle holes and was struggling with my putter and just stayed patient.   
 Birdieing 15, 16 and 17, especially the bomb I made on 17 and to get up-and-down from that bunker on 18 was a great finish and I'm real happy with the week.  I'm thrilled.   
  
  Q.  The bomb on 17, ShotLink had it at 57 feet, multiple tiers.  With the wind was blowing the way it was out there, does the game become even more mental than physical?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, it does and especially with the wind, and the golf course plays so different.  But I think I used my local knowledge of playing the golf course as many times as I have and being out here in this wind, I knew how the ball was going to react to it.   
 The funny thing on that putt on 17, I practiced it in the practice round, because I knew some day the pin was going to be back and I was going to be up front in that front level and I just hit a lot of putts and knew it broke a lot.  Luckily, it hit the right line and right speed.    
  
  Q.  Two of your best three tournaments, FBR and here; you're making a living at home.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I don't have very far to go tonight that's the best part about it, for sure.   
  
  Q.  Talked about your course knowledge, does that help?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I think so.  Especially when the conditions change like they do.  Obviously if the wind would have probably not blown today, I think everyone would have been more on a level playing field but knowing the golf course and knowing the greens and the way they roll and just the way the wind affects the ball here in the desert was a big advantage for me.   
  
  Q.  Pair of 68s on the weekend, did you think that could get you third right now?  Going into the weekend, you probably didn't think it would be good enough.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  We knew Friday that Sunday was going to be a bear out here.  We didn't think it was going to blow quite as hard as it did out here, but we knew it was going to be tough on Sunday.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT