WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Let me see the 64 finish, including the hole-in-one.  What a good round? 
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I played good, solid round today.  Hit a lot of good shots, was aggressive, made some good putts on the greens. 
 You know, I knew that's why No. 8 it was one of those that plays five yards more than it usually does.  I teed the ball up a little higher and tried to hit it straight up in the air.  Cleared the hill and rolled down in the hole. 
 Just one of those things.  It's been about five years since I've had a hole-in-one out here so you never know. 

 Q.  And the funny thing at home, people who don't understand, at 8th tee is a little bit lower than the green.  You actually didn't see it go in the hole. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  No.  I knew it cleared the bank and all that, probably trickle down there, probably go by the hole.  All of a sudden the guys behind me put their arms up in the air. 
 That shot is going to cost me a lost money out there. I know the members are all having drinks on me right now.  Everyone remembers the number out there.  I'm sure I'm going to get a tab when I get home.  That's okay. 

 Q.  It was nice but you still shot 64 on the day.  Is this course really that getable? 
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, it's probably a little different today.  The wind is blowing from the north.  Number No. 9 is really hard to get home in two. 
 The golf course is playing a little different than it has the first two days.  It's a little cooler.  The greens are very receptable.  Being the first group off the front, perfect greens on the front, not too bad of greens on the back.  I was able to make a lot of putts. 

 Q.  Does this change things for you going into tomorrow because I mean coming into today you thought, "Let me just put a number up and see if I can position myself." 
 Now you're up there close to the lead. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, no.  That's why I need to make as many birdies as I possibly can.  Probably two, three shots, four shots behind.  Got to go out tomorrow and try to make some birdies. 

 Q.  There's three other par-3s out on the golf course. 
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I definitely will.  Thank you, guys. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT