JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2007
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You hit the ball good today, you just couldn't seem to squeeze anything out of it early in the round, and then all of a sudden Thunder Road starts at 15.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, it did.  I mean, I just tried to stay patient all day.  I hit some good golf shots but kept hitting it to 15, 20 feet, and as slow as the greens are, I just couldn't quite get the right speed on the right line and just did not make anything on the front side and just kind of stayed patient and finally made a good putt on 15 and then hit a great shot into 16 about three feet and eagled 17, and came pretty close to birdieing 18.  It was a good finish and hopefully it'll just continue tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Often when good players play well, the other person in the pairing plays well, too, but early in the day just seemed like you guys couldn't get any putts to go, but when they started falling, they started falling for both of you?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, they did.  That's kind of how it just goes.  Like I said, the golf course is in great shape.  The greens are a little bit slow right now, but you've got to get that ball in inside of 10, 15 feet to give it a good whack to try and make it.   
  
  Q.  They're slower but are they much firmer than they were on Thursday?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Oh, yeah, but the whole golf course is much firmer.  It's completely -- it's night and day compared to Tuesday what it was out here, but from Thursday it's a lot firmer, yes.   
  
  Q.  About Nathan Green playing so well out there, what do you have to do tomorrow to bring a victory home to the Mayfair household?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I'm going to go out tomorrow and try and get off to a good start and keep staying patient.  Just like today, you never know when you're going to get hot.  You can get hot in the front or the middle or the end or something like that, and you've just got to keep hanging in there all day.   
  
  Q.  Red hot there towards the end.   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, I got it going towards the end.  I didn't play bad the first 14 holes, just didn't really get anything going, just kind of stayed patient and birdied 15 and 16 and eagled 17, and that kind of gives me a good taste going into tomorrow.  Kept me in the ballgame.   
  
  Q.  How does that follow through for you tomorrow?  Can you carry that feeling?  Does that make a big difference?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, yeah.  Obviously starting a few closer to the lead than I would have, but hopefully I can just continue the run on the front nine tomorrow and kind of get it going and continue it all day tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  From the crowd reaction on 18, sounds like you might be the favorite now?   
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  I've been out here long enough, I should have some fans out here.  But the fans here are great.  They really cheer everybody on.  They're great, they're very golf knowledgeable and all that.  Every time I seem to come to Illinois, golf fans seem to be really great.  They were really great last year at Medinah at the PGA after I came off of cancer, and it was probably the greatest fans I've ever seen in my career.  Fans here in Illinois know how to cheer for golfers.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT