PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Phil told us to take it easy on you so you can get inside and get some rest, but how did you feel out there today?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I got off to a good fast start.  I hit the ball very well out there today but putted well on the front side to shoot 4 under.  I got tired coming down the stretch.  Didn't really hit many good shots but came up a few yards short on 16.

Overall just being here at the tournament after what happened two weeks ago to me and the diagnosis, I'm thrilled to be here and almost had tears in my eyes today.  To all the fans across the country who well wished me and sent me messages and to all these fans here in Chicago who were just wonderful for me today and clapped for me and cheered me on, it was a great place to come back to.
Q.  How difficult was it to keep the emotions in check today?  How difficult was that?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  It was hard at times, but I knew    today was still Thursday.  If we get in this way going into Sunday or something, that might be a different story.  It's still Thursday, and the momentum was still kicking in.  The greatest thing out there all day was probably the fans and just all the encouragement and everybody rooting me on really made a difference.
Q.  When you say tired, is it a physical fatigue or sort of concentration, getting back into the groove on every shot?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, probably both.  I wasn't able to work out, get into shape and do my usual exercising that I normally do before I come here.  And then of course not playing for a month because I took two weeks off before I was even diagnosed, so to not play for a month, mentally and physically wore me out today.
Q.  Is there a particular shot that comes to mind, just standing with a club and going, if I had a chance to work out or had a little bit better focus
BILLY MAYFAIR:  My biggest thought of the day was I was just so happy to be on the 1st tee.  The sun was out and it was just a beautiful sight and I know where I was two weeks ago.  I can't explain how great it was just to be here.
Q.  What were you thinking when you got to like 6 under, your mindset then?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I tried to kick back in just like I normally do and I tried to keep on playing aggressive.  I tried to keep hitting good shots and try and make as many birdies as I can, keep the ball in the fairway.  I really didn't want to change my strategy.  I got to 6 under playing that way, and when I got to 6 I tried to keep on making more birdies.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT