VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2006
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Billy Mayfair in with a 3-under par 68 today and 11-under par total.

Billy, the statistics show that you're driving the ball well, 14 of 14 fairways in Round 1, 13 fairways yesterday and 13 fairways today.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I really feel like I'm driving well.  I'm putting ball -- not only am I driving the ball, well, I seem to be putting them in the fairway.  The one I missed today was on 12.  I had to hit to on the left side of the fairway to have a shot at the pins.  Sometimes you take it into the rough to try to get to the pins.  If I can -- I felt I hit a lot of good shots into the greens.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Is this the best you've driven the ball in a while?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I always considered myself a pretty good driver of the golf ball.  I'm not one of the longer drivers out here on the PGA TOUR.  Probably average or something like that.  This golf course you need to drive it straight and keep it in play.  That's probably more important this week than any other week.
Q.  Is this a holiday week for you, do you have your family here?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, unfortunately my family is home.  My son, Max, has been missing a lot of school.  I'll have Easter with him when I get home.
Q.  For so many of the players it's a holiday week.  What's it like for you not to be?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Every week on the PGA TOUR is a holiday for me, seems like.  I'm staying right here next to the golf course.  I walk back and forth every day.  These late tee times I get to sleep in.  It's been nice.  I miss them, absolutely.  I love my family, I miss them a lot.  I wish they were here, but school is school and he needs to be in school.
Q.  If the situation holds and you start off two or three shots behind Baddeley and Furyk, with them in the same pairing, are you going to try to make some noise early and get their attention?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I'm going to go out and try to play my game and make some birdies.  And get off to a good start tomorrow and maybe if they don't have quite as good a start I'll maybe catch them right away.  It's 18 holes and that backside will get hard and tricky, and the winds are going to be blowing tomorrow.  I want to give myself a good chance going into the last nine holes tomorrow and have a chance to win.
Q.  When you've been in a tournament like this, five hole playoff and not won.  How long does it take you to come back thinking I should have won this already?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  The five hole playoff, I look at times I didn't get it up-and-down, he did.  I look at it every time I play.  But I just love playing here.  This is one of the my favorite golf courses.  And past history is past history.  Maybe tomorrow luck will be on my side and I'll be there.
Q.  A fan said he found 50 to 1 odds on you this week, and jumped all over it?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I hope he gets a rich man like I'll be on Sunday, maybe.
Q.  How do you like the odds yourself, knowing how well you play the course and how much you like it?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  That would be a good bet.  That would be a good bet.  I played well last week at Augusta and love coming here.  I would have put something down on that, yeah.  I didn't do that, and I'll repeat, I did not do that.
Q.  After 2004 you used the top-54 money exemption.  You had a great year last year and this year.  Other than switching to the belly model, what's responsible for that?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I changed instructors, I started using Rick Smith, Phil's coach, and he and I clicked really well.  I think I know more about my golf swing than I ever have.  If I hit a bad shot I know how to correct it.  I hit a bad shot and I have to get to the range to correct it, instead of doing that.  I'm more consistent.  And making more putts has given me a lot of confidence.
Q.  You mentioned you drove from Augusta out here?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes.
Q.  What was that drive like?  Were you by yourself?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I was by myself, I had XM radio and listened to music and the comedy channel, and I tried to keep my speed down, I've gotten two tickets driving from Augusta to Hilton Head.
Q.  Do you think much about the tournament you just played or the tournament you're about to play?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Monday is just a relaxation for me, it's a travel day.  It's my Sunday.  Mondays are our Sundays out here.  I had a good time listening to the radio.  I was proud of myself for the way I finished at Augusta and get back the next year.  I just felt real good about myself, and knowing I was coming to a place I really liked.
Q.  Do they give you a caddie for the week there?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes.
Q.  You leave it there?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, I drove it down here.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Birdies and bogeys.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I hit a good wedge in from about 130 yards, it went over the back of the green and chipped it five feet short and missed that for bogey.

Birdied 3, up iron from about 150 yards, about six feet behind the hole and made that.

Birdied 5, the par-5, I hit a 4-iron in for my second shot for about 230 yards, and it was downwind about 30 feet from the hole and 2-putted from there.

Bogeyed 10.  I hit -- I had a good 7-iron -- I did birdie 9.  I hit a sand wedge, 56 degree sand wedge from 9 from about 109 yards, about 20 feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

Bogeyed 10.  7-iron just left of the green, about 30 feet and 3-putted from there.

Came right back and birdied 11, 8-iron from about 160 yards, about five feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

Birdied -- I bogeyed 14.  14 was weird -- 13, had 130 yards, hit a 9-iron, and came up short and hit off a railroad tie and fired it across the cart path.  I chipped it back over the green, and got it up-and-down from there.  Another two feet and it probably would have been perfect.

I birdied 15.  4-wood just right of the green for about 220 yards and chipped up to about five feet from the hole and made that.

On 17 I hit a 6-iron from about 140 yards.  The wind was really blowing, just left it short of the green, a little right of the green, and used a Texas wedge probably 40 feet from the hole and made that.

Had a good 8-iron on 18, 15 feet for birdie, it was downgrade, downwind, hit it right on my line, and didn't get it right to the hole.  I was real happy with it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT