VERIZON HERITAGE
April 13, 2006
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Billy Mayfair, 6 under, 65, no bogeys today.  Obviously a pretty good day for you.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Absolutely.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Coming off momentum after last week.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  It was nice trying to make birdies out there today instead of making pars.

I played well at The Masters.  I was real happy finishing 14th, played solid all four days, and kind of carried it into today.  I got off good today.  The greens are perfect, they're soft.  You can fire at pins.  There are some good numbers out there.
Q.  Obviously making some putts?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, I'm making some putts.  I really putted well last week, all four days.  I love these greens here.  I'm driving the ball well right now, and making putts.
Q.  Do you know how many putts you had today?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I can't think offhand, but I want to say 27.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  This says 235.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  25.  I like that better.  25 is better.
Q.  Quick putter question.  Furyk was in here a while ago, he said he's been using the same putter since January of '05.  Do you change putters often?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  The putter I've had right now, I've had two and a half years.  So just about the same amount of time.
Q.  Is that the    do you try to change your putter?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I went to the bully putter.  It happened to be the first putter I tried.
Q.  Trevino's statement is    it's the Indian, not the arrow.  Do you believe that?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  If you putt well, you should keep what you're doing.  I don't change very much.  But I think if you get tired and maybe something with a different weight or a different look could be awfully good for you.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  They said the key around here is fitting a lot of fairways.  You had 14.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I didn't miss one.  I really drove it well and worked the ball right to left and left to right when I needed to.  I tried to give myself good positions to go for the flags.  I was fortunate enough to make some of the putts, too.
Q.  Which begs the question, which one did you miss?
JOE CHEMYCZ:  He didn't.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I didn't.
Q.  Do you have good feelings when you come to this particular golf course?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I love this golf course.  This is my favorite golf course on Tour, that's for sure.  Obviously I've played well here, which obviously helps.  Even when I played The Masters, coming here is a thrill, and all that stuff.  I like playing here.  This is a great golf course for me.  It's not that long, you have to drive it straight, hit a lot of greens.  If you miss it you manage to putt well, and that seems right up my alley.
Q.  Do you like it better than Augusta?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I've played better here than Augusta, so, yeah.  But you can't say that.  Augusta is Augusta, it's the The Masters.  It's a major.  This is a golf course and it's another Tour event.  But like I said this is my favorite one on Tour.
Q.  A lot of process when he go some place they won, they say they draw on the good memories from that.  Your feelings are mixed from the playoff.  Do you draw from that?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Absolutely.  I love coming here.  I love the way the golf course sets up for me.  I hit small greens, and championship and put around.  Links is not a big issue around here.  I think the golf course, the way it's set up right now, I don't think they can get much more yardage out there than what they already have.  Length isn't that big a deal as it is some place else.
Q.  2004 you struggled.  Was that the reason you went to the longer putter or was that the first year you started with the putter?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  2004 was when I struggled most with my putter.  I went with it at the end of the year, but the damage had already been done.  I just lost my confidence with it.  Like you said, putt with 1 putter for so long, I just lost my confidence and started working with Rick Smith and we went to the long putter.  I practiced with the long putter a lot, to keep my tempo going, my timing and all that.  When I got here I just started feeling pretty good.

I got to a point when I went home I wasn't thinking about it at home.  When I would leave the putter at the golf course and that was huge.
Q.  Is that the sole reason you've turned it around, 22nd on the money list last year?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I've always considered myself a good ball striker and all that.  Obviously working with Rick I think I've become a little better.  I think my golf swing is a little better.  When I do hit a bad shot I know how to fix it a lot quicker than three or four years ago.  I think the biggest thing has been my putting, no doubt.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Take us through your birdies starting on 2.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  2, I hit a 3 wood over the back edge for about 235 yards, and chipped it up about six feet and made that for birdie.

On the next par 5, on 5, I hit 3 wood from about 240 yards, just on the front edge of the green.  And hit a sand wedge, chip and run about five feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

Next birdie came on 10.  I hit 3 wood off the tee, and had 140 yards, 9 iron about 12 feet, made that for birdie.

1, I hit 7 iron from about 120 yards, about 12 feet and made that for birdie.

13, I hit a 3 wood off the tee with a pitching wedge from about 117 yards, about three feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

And then on 15 I laid up short, had about 108 yards to the hole with a sand wedge, and hit it five feet from the hole and made that.

I played the par 5s awfully well today.
Q.  Any good saves with the putter today?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I hit it left of the green on 14, the par 3, just off the edge.  And putted it from off the green up to about three feet from the hole and made that for par.  I think that left edge of the green is where everyone is aiming on 14.  It was a good, solid 3 and that's all you want to do on that hole.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT