THE INTERNATIONAL
August 6, 2005
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Billy for joining us.  Solid round today.
Q.  What's your history on 36 hole finishes?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I think the last time I did it was in Atlanta.  I think we had a 36 hole finish before The Masters.  It was wet, and that was a long golf course, too.  It's probably as long as this one.

You know, it's what we stay in shape for, it's why we work out.  We'll probably have plenty of bars and Gatorade in the bag tomorrow, and just try and stop from being dehydrated out there and keep going.
Q.  Is it an advantage getting done early today?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, definitely, it's a big advantage for me.  A lot of these guys aren't going to get done tonight until 6:00 or 7:00 o'clock tonight.  Yeah, I think it was a big advantage.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, I did putt well.  I didn't hit it quite as well today.  I didn't drive it as well.  I don't think I hit a fairway on the back side, and the front side was my back side, and I just never really had a chance to get many shots close.  The par 3s is when I hit it close and made birdies.
Q.  Is it your birthday today?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes, it is.  Today is my birthday.
Q.  So are you going to stay up late tonight and celebrate?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, at least until 8:00 o'clock tonight, yeah.
Q.  Because of the 36 hole finish, will you maybe shorten any things that you were going to do to celebrate your birthday?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, my wife and my little boy came out this morning and got crazy and shouted it at me this morning at 4:00 a.m.  They started my birthday earlier than even I thought about my birthday.  This afternoon we'll go back and rest and have a little party tonight and get ready for tomorrow.
Q.  Are you feeling your age?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Right now I am, yeah.  I get up some of those hills on 8 and 9, I thought, I must have turned    (inaudible)    something like that, so I've got to turn around and play 36 tomorrow.  No, not yet.
Q.  I don't know how much of a scoreboard watcher you are, but is it a little bit early for that now because we've got it only halfway?  Usually we'd be three quarters of the way.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, with the point system we have, with 36 holes tomorrow, someone just posts a good round and gets in it right away.  There's a lot of golf out there, and I can't worry about what the other guys are doing or what the scoreboard says.  I've just got to keep playing aggressive and try and make as many birdies as I can.

JOAN ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your round, your birdies and bogeys?  You started on 10.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  On 11, I hit an 8 iron about 154 yards down the hill ten feet right of the hole and made that for birdie.

13, I hit a sand wedge from about 109 yards, about ten feet just short of the hole, made that for birdie.

Bogey on 15, I hit a real good drive down the middle of the fairway and tried to force a little wedge in there and hit the green and spun back and went back in the water, got up and down from there to save bogey, so it was actually a pretty good bogey.

On 16, I hit a 7 iron from about 190 yards about four feet above the hole and made that for birdie.

17, I hit 5 iron, just hit it on the front edge.  That's a tricky pin there today on that far right side if you get it above the hole at all.  I hit it just short of the hole and hit a little chip shot about five feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

Bogey on 18, hit a 6 iron from about 190 yards just to the left of the green, which is the only place you can't miss it.  I was just off the edge and couldn't stop it, ran it ten feet by and missed it coming back.

Birdied 1, hit a pitching wedge into 1 for my third shot from about 110 yards, about 20 feet from the hole, made that for birdie.

3, I thought I hit a real good drive on 3, kind of downwind but I hit it down in the ditch.  I hit it right where I wanted to, just didn't carry the ditch, and I hit a wedge about 120 yards to about four feet and putted from there.

On 4, I hit an 8 iron downwind.  It fooled me again, I had like 190 yards, I hit an 8 iron over the flag in the back bunker.  Hit a pretty good bunker shot about eight feet and missed that.

7, I hit a good 8 iron from about 190 yards.  I had about 12 feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

Then 9, hit a good tee shot just in the left hand rough, hit a 7 iron from about 190 yards, got the club kind of caught, hit it to the front of the green and three putted, so kind of a disappointing finish.
Q.  Is there any change in strategy when you've got 36 holes?  Other sports you would say I've got to pace myself.  You can't really do that in golf.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I don't think you want to pace yourself.  As long as you just go out there tomorrow and play like you do every other day, and know when you get done with the first 18 you're going right back out there.  If you get off to a good start and start playing good, 36 tomorrow could be a big advantage.
Q.  You talked about physical exhaustion.  How do you avoid mental exhaustion?  You have well over 100 shots tomorrow, all high pressure.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  And very little oxygen going up there on top, too.  Again, it's one of those things, we play 36 hole qualifiers for the British and U.S. Opens, and my last 36 holes was in Atlanta.  We had to do the same thing there to get done on Sunday before The Masters.  Atlanta was wet that week, so that was a long day.  You just try to stay in position and try to stay in shape and you just try to pace yourself.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Billy.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT