BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 27, 2005
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Billy, congratulations, 64 at Bermuda Dunes.  Why don't you just talk a little bit about the round and then we can go into some questions.
 BILLY MAYFAIR:  Obviously it was a great round.  I played really good.  I shot 30 on the front side and was kind of rocking and rolling along.  I hit it out of bounds on the par 5, 13th, and I ended up making a 7 on the hole which kind of knocked me back to reality, but was fortunate enough to birdie four of the last five holes coming in.  I was proud of myself after making double bogey to come back and make some birdies.
Q.  You say you hit it out of bounds on 13.  Did you hit a cart path or just knock it into somebody's condo?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, it ended up in someone's condo, but I think I had some mud on the ball.  I hit 3-wood, was trying to get to the green in two.  It hit the cart path three, maybe four times, I don't know, but running up there it was out of bounds, but it did hit the cart path like three times.
Q.  In this tournament double bogeys are normally bad, and you came back and went birdie, birdie, birdie on your next three holes, so clearly you didn't get down on yourself.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I think I was playing good and making a lot of putts, and I just knew that if I could just get back to even par for the back side and make a couple more coming in, I'd be all right.  Fortunately I made four birdies coming in.
Q.  With the way the scoring is in this tournament, does it ever feel like you guys are playing poker with everybody having aces and deuces and 6s wild?  Seems like you can't get low enough on this tournament.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, you can't, especially when the weather is as nice as it is.  It's perfect today and no wind and the ball is going a little bit further.  Before you tee it up you just think you have to keep making birdies and birdies and birdies, and hopefully you'll have more than anyone else by the end of the week.
Q.  Do you like that?  That's not always the way it is, obviously.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  That's part of playing in the Bob Hope.  You just know that's the way it is and you accept it.  If you don't like playing that way then you probably should play another tournament.  It's just one of those things.  You just go into it knowing you're going to have to shoot some low numbers to stay in it.
Q.  In that regard, I mean, you're 13-under, which is awfully good golf for 36 holes, and yet you find yourself looking up at somebody.  Is the pressure to just go as fast as you can, as hard as you can, or do you try and pace yourself knowing that it's five days?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, obviously -- I don't know if pace is the right word.  You've got to know five days is a long tournament, and usually out of the five days you're going to have one day that maybe not everything drops for you.  If you have a pretty good score on that day, you're right where you want to be.  It is different than a normal tournament because you have that extra day, but you're playing four different golf courses, so you just try to make as many birdies as you can on each course, and just try to go from there.

You never know where the person is right in front of you or right behind you, so you've got to try to make as many birdies as you can.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Billy.  We appreciate your time.  Play well the rest of the week.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT