DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2004
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Billy, we'll start off with just talking about how you played today.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, first off, it's my wife's birthday, so I gave her a pretty good birthday present for today.  I told her I didn't want to shoot her age because that would have been only nine holes.  But I really played well today.  I played pretty well last week at Hartford and felt like it was getting better every day.  Went down to Detroit on Monday and played in Arnold Palmer's deal and had a good time there and got a few tips from Phil and that helped me out a little bit today.
TODD BUDNICK:  A round like this must be nice for you today; looks like you've struggled this season.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Has not been a good year for me. I struggled this year with my driver and my putting, and to get a good, solid round under my belt today gives me a lot of confidence.
Q.  Can you talk about how the course is playing?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I felt the golf course was set up really good.  I played yesterday in the Pro-Am at 1:50 so the greens were really getting firm yesterday.  It was fast, the fairways were running out a lot.  This morning, it was a lot colder; the ball wasn't flying as far.  The greens were a lot softer and a lot more puttable.

So it was a different golf course, but I think the golf course was set up very well.  They have a lot of pins that you can get to.  They can't tuck them too much here because the greens are so firm.  I think I hit a 7-iron into one hole and the ball released probably about 15 feet.  So they are definitely firm out there.  They are a lot firmer this year than they were last year, that's for sure.

Overall, I think the golf course is set up very well.  I think the wind is going to dictate a little bit this afternoon, but, you know, the greens dried up yesterday afternoon.
Q.  What was the tip you got from Phil?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yeah, Phil and Rick Smith were down there Monday and we kind of worked a little bit together and they just gave me some tips.  Just made a little change in my golf swing and kind of changed my putting grip just a little bit.  Not any real big change or anything like that, but just a little bit of different swing thoughts.
Q.  Was it a major change --
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, you hope not.  It wasn't that big of a change.  It was just a little swing thought on top of my golf swing.  Like I said, I just changed my hands a little bit on my putter grip.

You know, playing yesterday in the Pro-Am was important for me to get out there and hit some balls on the golf course.  But I hit a lot of balls on the range.  But you never know till you get on the golf course.  Playing yesterday in the Pro-Am helped a lot.
Q.  You played here last year?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes, I did.
Q.  Can you talk about the changes they have made to the course since last year?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I'll be honest with you, last year I enjoyed the golf course a lot.  I did not go up to Canada last year.  I was not at the players meeting when they started complaining about the golf course and this and that.  I knew there were some spots.  Yeah, it's a new golf course and some spots you have to change here and there.  I was happy with the golf course.  There were some other TPCs that have opened up in worse condition and not as fair this one, so I was very happy with it.

The changes they did make I thought were very, very minor but very, very good changes.  A couple of the greens where the ball doesn't roll away from you -- I think 14 they changed the back of the green; so the ball doesn't run away from you there.

Overall, I think the changes were real good and I think it's very fair for everyone.  I only hit one 3-wood today.  I hit driver on every tee but one, and I hit 3-wood off of 17.  It's a long golf course, that's for sure.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's just go through your card, starting with the birdie on 2.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Birdie on 2.  I had to lay up.  I hit it in the fairway bunker on the right and had to lay up about 110 yards from the hole and hit a pitching wedge in about seven feet from the hole.

6 was my bogey.  I hit 5-iron from about 15 yards, and just came up short in the front rough and chipped it up there about six feet from the hole and missed that.

7, the par 5, I had 82 yards in for my third shot and hit it about 12 feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

On 12, I hit a real good 4-iron from about 190 yards, about 15 feet from the hole and made that for birdie.

On 15, I hit driver off the tee and had 102 yards to the pin on 15.  I hit a hard sand wedge, probably about 15 feet from the hole and then made that for birdie.

And then my birdie on 18, I had about 225 to the hole on 18.  I hit a 4-iron downwind and it was pin-high, but it was about 30 feet left of the hole, and I hit a real good putt down there about a foot from the hole and tapped that in for birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT