FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 8, 2003
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  Billy, we would like to thank you for coming by the interview room.  7 under 65, outstanding round.  11 under 205 for the tournament.
BILLY MAYFAIR: I made a nice birdie on 1.  I made about an eight-foot birdie put there for birdie, and then parred 2, and I actually bogeyed 3.  I drove it down the right-hand side in the rough and laid it short of the water and actually missed the green and chipped up there ten feet for bogey.  I wasn't too sure how the day was going to go.   I started hitting the fairways and knocking it close.  I birdied it all the way in with an eagle on 8.  I hit a 4-wood 240 yards with little wind on the back edge of the green in the rough.  I used a 3-wood.  It came out like a putt.  I hit the flag and it went right in.  It was a good way to play that hole.
JOHN BUSH:  Can you take us through your round?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Sure, on No. 1 I hit a little sand wedge from about 80 yards in there about eight, ten feet from the hole and made that for birdie. 
On 3 I hit it right in the right rough and had to lay it up 100 yards from the green and missed the green right, chipped that back up about six feet from the hole and made that for bogey. 
5 I hit a pitching wedge from 115 yards about 20 feet from the hole and made that. 
On 6 I hit a pitching wedge from 120 yards about ten feet from the hole and made that for birdie. 
On 7 I hit a 7-iron from 155 yards from the left bunker in there about 20 feet from the hole and made that. 
On 8 I hit a 4-wood from 24 on yards and used a little 3-wood from off the edge of the green was 15, 20 feet and made that for eagle. 
9 I hit an 8-iron from 150 yards about three feet from the hole and made that for birdie. 
On 10 I hit a 3-wood, from about 246 just to the back edge of the green and putted it down about three feet from the hole and made that for a birdie. 
I think 14 I hit 3-wood off the tee, had 125 yards to the hole, had a wedge ten feet from the hole and made that for birdie.  It was kind of really had some changes coming in again. I had a sand wedge in on 16 and 17 and didn't make birdie there. 
On 18 I had a 5-iron a bit fat, left it three feet short and 3 putt from there.  I'm not going to be disappointed with my finish.  I wish I could have got a couple of more coming in. 
JOHN BUSH:  Questions.
Q.  How do you explain your turnaround from the West Coast to here?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Warm weather.  I like warm weather for one.  I felt like I have been playing good.  I haven't been able to get it going well.  I worked a lot this week with my psychologist,  Dr. Rotella, just keep being patient, get results, keep going until it finally happens and today it finally happened.  I knew this was in me; I didn't know when it was going to come out.

Q.  You are even par through four holes now.  Everyone is going low today and you go 7-under in that stretch.  How does that click in?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, again, I mean, I was hitting some good shots.  Even on 1 and 2 I hit some good shots and made birdie on 1, but I missed a short birdie putt, fairly short on 2.  3 I got it up and down for bogey which was good.  I didn't feel like I was struggling or had to change anything.  Again, I was hoping I could get it going and I did.  It was one of those things where you start getting it going, the hole gets big and that's kind of what it looked like to me.

Q.  What was the thrust of Rotella's tutelage?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Basically we just talked about trying to not change anything, just staying patient and getting out of results.  I got into too much of results from changing my irons this year to putting to feeling like I could shoot 65 and wasn't able to do it and going out and doing it and enjoying it.  That was my biggest thought today, going out and having fun and being in a good position out there.  Things started going in.

Q.  He said you were too result oriented score-wise?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I think we got into that.  I played good the first day.  Yesterday I had 16 pars, a birdie and a bogey and I felt I was trying too hard.  He thought I was getting too much into results.  Maybe I was.  I don't know.

Q.  Did you see any leader boards going off, Faldo, 6-under through 6, Kendall 4 under through 3...
BILLY MAYFAIR: When I was walking on the range I saw the score board; I saw 6 unders, 5 unders.  I expected that.  When you walk out here and it is dead calm, guys are going to get it low and guys that go off first because the greens are so good  - that didn't surprise me.  I just was hoping that maybe I could get it going and move up that leader board a little bit.

Q.  Where does this leave you do you think by the time you wake up tomorrow?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Obviously that bogey on 18 hurt me a lot.  Hopefully I will stay win 5 shots of the lead.  I know they got two par-5s coming up on the backside, 12  -- 10 and 12.  12 is playing a little bit shorter now than it was this morning.  There is more downwind there.  You can still make birdies on 16 and 17, if you hit good drives there.  There is some birdies  out there for those guys.  If you can stay within five shots you never know.

Q.  When did you change your putting stroke to what Johnny Miller just called close to conventional?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I didn't hear Johnny Miller say that.  The only change I changed in my putting stroke was my putter.  I changed from my Ping putter to that Scotty Cameron putter.  Did I change my stroke?  No.  Not at all.

Q.  You were known for having a bit of a big cut?
BILLY MAYFAIR: A cut.  After I trademarked it, I guess I'm not doing it as much.  I don't know.  I haven't videotaped my putting struck in a while.  I don't feel like it's anything different.  I don't really.  The only thing I can say that's been different, I did change putters. 

Q.  Are you a little longer now off the tee?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Yes, I gained at least 15 yards off tee with the new ProV action ball from Titleist and the new driver I got from Titleist I am hitting it further.

Q.  To get back to his question some people have marvelled at your putting stroke because it is unique.  Did you ever feel like it's something you wouldn't change or should change, did you ever (Inaudible) --
BILLY MAYFAIR: I think it's one of those when you are not putting good you think about doing something different.  As for changing it, I tried to do that back in '91 and got the yips really bad from doing it.  The only thing if I changed anything in my putting stroke has been the putter and not so much the stroke now.  The putter has a smaller head.  My other one is heavier.  Maybe that makes it look different going back and through.  I have been using it since San Diego this year.  It worked great on those spongy slow greens at San Diego and L.A..  I just have kept it in the bag. 

Q.  Going into tomorrow you talk about Rotella and not being resulted oriented; obviously it's been a while since you have been in this position?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Since Anheuser Busch.

Q.  How do you equate what he told you and try to put it into practice tomorrow?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, I think the first thing is just don't look at the score boards.  Don't pay attention to what anybody else is doing out there.  Go out there and try to get it going again and play my own game and not worry about if someone two hours ahead of me gets 7- or 8-under par after nine or ten holes and catches us.  The biggest thing is going out there and taking care of my business and not worry about anyone else. 

Q.  Billy, when people talk about depth on the TOUR, can you speak to it as it relates to a day like this when you weren't close to missing the cut (cell phone rang) Do you want to get it?
BILLY MAYFAIR: No.  I can tell you who it is.

Q.  Let's see who it is.
BILLY MAYFAIR: It's my wife.

Q.  You just talked to her.
BILLY MAYFAIR: She probably thought you guys wouldn't need to talk for me this long.  You are talking about the depth out here on TOUR.

Q.  It seems every week the guys who narrowly make the cut are only 9 or 10 strokes out of the lead.  Do you remember that being the case when you first started?   Is that what the depth shows?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I think it's gotten better.  I think if you look at Mike Weir came back from 7 shots from L.A. to win.  I think when we start going off in twosomes out of one tee someone who makes the cut has a better chance, they are the first ones back.  They get the golf course in perfect shape.  You can do it more when we are on the East Coast.  On the West Coast if you barely make the cut you are in the last group off of 10, it's a lot harder to catch up is what I've seen.  These guys out here.  These guys have gotten better year after year since my 15th year out here.  I think this is definitely the best TOUR school coming out.  We have a lot more guys that play the European TOUR that are out here now, this TOUR has gotten, in depth, or better players than we have ever had.

Q.  You talk about kind of getting adjusted to your new equipment at least the beginning of the year irons and things like that.  Do you wonder looking at it why it took you so long to make a change?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, the change really wasn't what I wanted to do.  I wanted to stay with my old company.  I wanted to continue to play the equipment that I had.  Unfortunately, because of business we weren't able to stay with the same company.  But I'm thrilled to death to be with Titleist now, I think there equipment is wonderful.  Like I said, I think I gained a lot of yardage with the new golf ball and new driver.  Any time you go from hitting irons since you have been a sophomore in college which is, what, 17 years ago to new irons, it's going to take your time to get adjusted to it.  That's what I had to do the whole West Coast.  This is the first week where I felt comfortable with what I was trying to do.  Not only with my irons but golf swing.  I knew I was playing good.  Making cuts, I just needed to get it going and finally today I did.

Q.  Did you make adjustment with them during the West Coast swing at all?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I was putting lead tape on my irons Sunday night after Tucson before I came down here to get the weight right.  It's been real unique for me because I played with the same irons since college.  I haven't had to adjust them or change anything.  This year I have had 3 or 4 different sets.  I started out with different irons than I have now.  It's been a learning experience for me.  In the   long run  it might be better for me because I know more about my game and about my swing in the long run. It's just getting that confidence back which is starting to come back now.

Q.  What is your putter?
BILLY MAYFAIR: I have got a Scotty Cameron Titleist putter.  It's a proto type model.  I don't know if they really named it.  It's an older model.

Q.  It doesn't look like Phil's though?
BILLY MAYFAIR: It does not look like Phil's.  I have putted with Phil's a lot during the off-season and could not get it in the bag.

Q.  (Inaudible)
BILLY MAYFAIR: Tammy, my wife, has talked to Amy and to the house.  I haven't talked to Phil myself.  They had a few false alarms and all.  Every time my wife's phone rings I think it's them.  I know it's time.

Q.  Maybe that was it?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Maybe that was it (laughter).

Q.  Was that the only logical business move for you, you kept with the Ping irons all last year?
BILLY MAYFAIR: Yes, I stayed with the Ping irons all last year and I had a blank bag for almost all the year.

Q.  You had to go to a full equipment line?
BILLY MAYFAIR: A full equipment line.  Yes, that's correct, not doing anything worthwhile for me.
JOHN BUSH:  Anything else?   Good luck tomorrow.
BILLY MAYFAIR: Thank you, guys.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT