MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 4, 2002
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  Welcome Billy Mayfair, co-leader
at nine under, 133, eight under 63 today, no
bogeys, your best opening round of the year and
your best opening two rounds since the 2001
WorldCom Classic.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Best everything, period.  It's
been a tough year.  Actually besides finishing
fifth at the U.S. Open, it's been a hard year for
me.  I just haven't played long enough to get in
contention.  I haven't played bad, just haven't
gotten low enough.
Q.   Tell us about today.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Birdied all four of the par
3s.  Having a lot of 4s on the card was fun but I
hit the ball well and made the putts when I needed
to, so that was important.
Q.   Let's go ahead through the birdies if we
could.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  The first birdie was on No. 2.
I hit a 5-iron from about 205, about 20 feet short
of the hole, made that for birdie.

On 3 I hit a 4-iron from about 210 yards,
about eight feet.  I missed that but tapped in from
a foot for my birdie.
On 5 I hit a 5-iron about six feet from
190 yards, made that for birdie.
On 7 I hit a 3-wood from about 240 yards
just right of the green about pin high, and I
chipped it down there about six feet from the hole
and made that for birdie.
I birdied the 11th hole, I hit a pitching
wedge about 135 yards about 12 feet from the hole
and made that for birdie.
On 13 I hit a 6-iron from about 180 yards,
about eight feet from the hole and made that for
birdie.  On 15 I hit my second shot from about 240
yards, a 3-wood, pin-high, just left of the green,
probably 12 yards off the green, and I putted that
from about 25, 30 feet, lagged it up about two feet
from the hole and tapped in for birdie.
On 17 I hit a real good 5-iron from about
170 yards just left of the hole, about five feet
from the hole, and made that for birdie.
Q.   Best putting round of the year?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Best putting round of the year,

probably my best iron play round of the year.  I've
had some good putting rounds out here.  I'm driving
the ball well this year, I just haven't hit my
irons close enough to the hole like you need to
with certain irons.  It doesn't matter how good or
bad you're putting; if you're putting 35 or 40 feet
from the hole you're not going to make a lot of
putts.
Q.   Everybody keeps coming in and talking
about how the rough is like a Major.  It's a pretty
good place to find your irons.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  It is a good place.  Like I
said, I drove the ball well and was hitting irons
into the greens.  The rough is higher than I've
ever seen, it's very consistent and it penalizes
you.  I think I've had a few good lies in this, but
if you can get it up by the green anywhere you can
have a pretty good shot.
Q.   Your history here, especially in the fall,
hasn't given any --
BILLY MAYFAIR:  My history here the last couple
of years has been real scary.  My dad had a heart
attack here three years ago, was in the hospital,
and then last year my wife's grandfather passed

away on Friday, so if I would have made the cut I
would have had to have gone home anyway.  It's been
awful.  Between there, too, my wife had a migraine
and I had to take her to the hospital, so I know a
lot of the doctors who are members here.  The last
three years have been kind of rough here.  I've
always enjoyed coming here, I've enjoyed the
tournament a lot since they moved if from July.  I
hate to see the tournament go, that's for sure.
Q.   Did you watch the scoreboard at all?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, I really didn't.  I kept my
eyes off that scoreboard most of the day.  You
know, you can just tell by the atmosphere and by
the TV phone that I was playing good.  I knew David
was up there, too, and I wasn't sure what he was
at, but I knew if I kept trying to make birdies I'd
be okay.
Q.   Is it surprising for you to put such a
good number up and see that none of the guys that
were significantly ahead when the day started
didn't really move much?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No.  I mean, it's tough out
there.  The rough is so high, the greens were
bumpy, I thought pretty bumpy this afternoon, but

this is the type of golf course that you can either
get it really going -- if you can play the par 5s
you can shoot a good number, but it's definitely a
hard golf course this week.
Q.   When is the last time you can remember
throwing up a score card that had four 2s on it?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  First time ever, first time I
birdied every one of the par 3s.  When I hit my
shot in on 17 about five feet, I kind of chuckled
with Duffy and Kevin Sutherland that I've never
birdied all the par 3s on the golf course, so
fortunately I made them all.
Q.   That's a lot of golf not to do that.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  This is on the Tour.  I might
have done it screwing around.
Q.   It's still a lot of golf.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Still.  If you look at my
stats, my par 3 stats aren't all that strong.  This
definitely helped today.
Q.   So you were cognizant of the fact when you
got to 17.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes, I was.  After I had hit
the shot -- you know, we came around 16 and got
there by the green and you could tell the wind had

switched, and that water was starting to get little
whitecaps out there and I knew it was blowing
pretty good.  All my concern was was just trying to
find the green actually on 17, and then the ball
kind of rolled up there by the hole after that and
I started thinking about, wow, I could birdie all
four of the par 3s.
Q.   Even you guys remember writing down 2s,
huh?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Absolutely.  2s are really
good.
Q.   Have you made any changes to get your iron
play more in order?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  No, not really.  I just started
feeling my golf swing at the end of last year, and
besides a few good weeks in and out of here,
especially at the U.S. Open, I haven't hit the ball
as consistently as I have in the past.  Normally if
I don't have a good year on the PGA Tour it's
because of my putting.  My putting this year is
good but I'm not scoring because I haven't hit the
ball close enough to the hole.  I'm doing the same
thing, it's just starting to work a little bit
better, I think.

Q.   When you went out to start off the round,
did you have a feeling early on that this was going
to be something, or about when did it click to you
that you were hitting the irons well?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I made a nice putt on
No. 2, about a 20-footer up the hill, and then I
actually made a good birdie putt on 5, the par 3,
but I made about -- on 6 I made about a 20-footer
for par, and when that went in, it went in right in
the heart with some authority, and I knew I was
kind of clicking.  I guess you could say I was in
the zone.  I think that really turned my round
around, my whole round, that hole right there.  I
was going good, and then if I missed that I would
have kicked myself, but by making the putt it kind
of kept it going.
Q.   What let to the 20-footer?
BILLY MAYFAIR:  I hit a 9-iron into the green
and pull hooked it left to the green and had a
really bad lie and didn't quite get it up the hill
there.  Actually it was more like 15 feet.  I made
that, but I just hit a bad iron shot.
Q.   Does that happen a lot where it's not even
a birdie but it's par --
BILLY MAYFAIR:  Sometimes a par is the biggest
score you can have out there.  If you've got a good
round going, which I did at the time, to save a par
putt can really keep it going, even more than
making another birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  All right, everybody good?
Okay, thanks, Billy, for coming in.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT