INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 1, 2002
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Billy for joining us.  Great round today, ten points.  Good start.
BILLY MAYFAIR:   Yeah, thank you.  Real good start.  The guys this afternoon had a big break with the weather.  Based by the scores that I saw and in the scorer's tent, a lot of the guys I think that played this morning, I think it was cooler and breezier and greens were probably faster and harder than what we had this afternoon. 
I don't know what the weather will bring us tomorrow, but I think the guys here this afternoon, this was definitely -- in the afternoon, it was a better chance of scoring better.  
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Question why don't we start with your birdies and bogeys.
BILLY MAYFAIR:  My first birdie came on the par 3, 6-iron from 190 yards about 12 feet from the hole and made that for birdie.
Next birdie on 8.  I hit a sand wedge from about 90 yards, left it about eight feet from the hole and made that for birdie.
On 12, I hit a 7-iron just about pin-high about 12 feet, just off the edge of the green and I chipped it in with a lob-wedge, just off the edge.
Next hole I bogeyed.  I hit wedge in from about 150 yards, about 30 feet by the hole and I 3-putted from there.  Missed my second putt from about eight feet. 
Then on the par  5, I hit driver, 3-wood just on the front edge from about 270 yards out, left it up there about four feet from the hole and made that for birdie.
On 15, I hit a sand wedge from about 110 yards, about 20 feet from the hole and made that one for birdie. 
16, I hit a 6-iron from about 190 yards from just to the right of the green, almost an impossible chip shot, and chipped it by the hole about 20 feet and 2-putted from there for bogey. 
Hit a good drive off of 17.  I had about 190 yards in, hit a 6-iron about 12 feet from the hole and 2-putted from there. 
Then I made a par on the last hole. 

Q.  Usually it's the opposite, it's the guys in the morning that have had a little easier than the guys at afternoon.
BILLY MAYFAIR:   Usually because of the conditions of the greens, and I think that was probably a disadvantage.  I played yesterday morning at 7:30 in the shotgun, the greens were much firmer, much faster than they were this afternoon.  I don't know if they just grew more today or not. 
There were still some fast greens out there, but coming down the stretch on 15, 16,  17, 18, they were much  -- I thought, much more receptive to shots than maybe they were yesterday morning.  The greens were still bumpy and all, but I think the speed was down a little bit more in the afternoon so you could definitely have a chance of scoring better.

Q.  Seemed like you guys were out there a long time.  Was the pace of play a little slower than you expected?
BILLY MAYFAIR:   We were out there for a little long time.  I think the TOUR just really set the golf course up very difficult today.  They had the tees way back.  They had the flags either at the very front of the green or the back of the green.  I don't know if the tournament committee wanted it set up harder or not but the PGA TOUR set it up more difficult and that's what caused round to be longer.  More guys were making bigger numbers and not shooting as well as normal, so it takes a little longer.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
BILLY MAYFAIR:   No.  It's a hard golf course to walk.  No matter  -- the walk from like green to 9 tee if you're first up you have to take a few minutes to catch your breath.  So it's a hard golf course to watch, and then the worst walk is from 18 to 1.  That's the worst one of them all right there. 
No, this is probably the hardest one.  And obviously, the altitude has a lot to do with it.  But this is probably the one we all talk about as the hardest one.

Q.  With three people only in the double digits, but a lot of people sitting right back there, what in your mind are you looking to do tomorrow to maintain that lead? 
BILLY MAYFAIR:   Well, in this format you've just got to keep trying to be aggressive, make birdies because bogeys don't hurt you as bad here.  You can make a few bogeys like I did today on the back side and still have a good round and everything.  I think I shot 4-under  -- if we would have counted it in strokes, that would have been probably Top-10 or something out there, who knows. 
But for this format, the more aggressive you can play, the more birdies you can make.  You don't have to worry if you make a bogey; you just keep going on.
It's a fun format and it's a fun format for this golf course.  There's other golf courses on TOUR if we played this format, it probably would not work as good.  But because of the altitude and finishing holes, I think it's a great system to have.  I don't want to play it every week out here, but I think the format is good. 
I think coming in with more guys on Sunday and not losing your points has really helped.  Took them a few years to get it right, but I definitely think they got it right.

Q.  How do your feet feel?
BILLY MAYFAIR:   They are sore, no doubt about that.  This is the first 18 holes I walked, yesterday was, since the British Open.  So this golf course certainly is a little more difficult to walk than Muirfield. 
Caddie held up pretty good. He had three weeks off.  He didn't go over to the British Open with me and he was moving, so this was probably a holiday for him compared to moving.

Q.  Can you just talk about the way your game has been last couple months, probably not what you want or expected?
BILLY MAYFAIR:   I played real well at the U.S. Open, I finished tied for fifth there, played four really good, solid round there and since then I just haven't been able to really get my putter going.  I've driven it okay and hit some good iron shots, but just haven't made the putts when I needed to make the putts. 
Putted real bad on Friday at the British Open to miss the cut.  Really worked hard this last week at home, and then I got here to work on my putting a little more and obviously it paid off a lot today.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
BILLY MAYFAIR:   No, it's just I think anyone out here says the difference between playing really good and playing average is just making a few putts here and there. 

Q.  Do you play around with putters a lot?
BILLY MAYFAIR:   I don't, I really don't.  I've had this putter that's in my bag right now for four years, and I kind of think it can't be the putter because I've made some putts with it.  So usually it's either me or my setup is not right. 
I like a putter that has good weight to it and I've putted with it for four years, I've won a tournament with it, too, so that helps. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT