WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 15, 2001
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILLY MAYFAIR:  First off, before we start, I think Lee, I'd just like to -- I am sure Jose might have said the same thing, I apologize to all the fans, to everyone who came out here today.  I am sorry we couldn't get a winner, but when you can't see, you can't see and it is pretty important what we are doing out there. I think by the time we would have gotten to the 18th green it really, really would have been hard to see.  It was even hard to see when I was putting on 18.  So Jose and I both agreed on the 17th tee that we were going to play one more hole.  That was it.  And we tied and we get to come back tomorrow.  I know we messed a lot of people up and all that, like I said, this is pretty important to us. 

Q.  Kind of wild round out there?

BILLY MAYFAIR: Oh, wow.

Q.  Involved in this kind of jam --

BILLY MAYFAIR: I have never gotten outplayed in the backside the way I did and still had a chance to win the golf tournament.  Normally, if you don't - if you go out and shoot even par or over par on the backside of the last nine holes, after the golf tournament you don't have a chance to win, to go out shoot 2-over on the backside, hit a ball out-of-bounds, still have a chance tomorrow morning to win.  I mean, I am thrilled to death to be in my position.  It was also difficult, you know, to stop after 13 and to go back out there. My first shot was that tee shot on 14, which is not a very comfortable shot.  But you know, like I said, again I didn't play my best on the backside but I still got a great chance of winning tomorrow.  We will see what happens.

Q.  Were you able to keep it together?  I guess you got to 11 on 16, then you stayed that way get to the playoff.  You made the big save on 18.

BILLY MAYFAIR: Like I said, I was really playing good and I just made a bad swing on the 11th tee box is all I can say.  I don't know if it was pressure or what.  I don't think it was; little bit too early in the round for pressure, but I made a bad swing and it went out-of-bounds, but I hit the next drive good, made a good double-bogey. I kind of forget about it, just kept on going from there.  Fortunately, like I said, I  still got a chance tomorrow.

Q.  You had a long approach on 18 in regulation.  What happened on your tee shot there? 

BILLY MAYFAIR: I had driver in my hand.  I kind of wanted to -- kind of -- I knew the way the wind was blowing and hard as the green was, that I really wanted a shorter iron into that.  I kind of came off my driver a little bit.  Ended up having 199 yards and it was a 6-iron, both my caddie and I both thought we had to kind of kill it to have any chance to clear that bunker.  We knew if we got it over the bunker the ball would work its way back to the hole.  I killed it all right, I guess the wind was blowing just a little bit stronger than we thought.  It landed hard, went in the back bunker, worse part obviously was it was in the back of the bunker.  But by being in the back of the bunker, really couldn't put any spin.  All I was trying to do was wanting to get out of the bunker and  leave myself for the putt, fortunately I did.

Q.  Did you think that putt was going in on 18?

BILLY MAYFAIR: When it got close to the hole it did, yeah.  I knew I hit it pretty firm after leaving that putt on 17 short.  I hit it pretty firm and probably foot from the hole I knew it was in.

Q.  Given all the circumstances have you ever had a harder up-and-down?

BILLY MAYFAIR: In the circumstances probably not.  Probably under the pressure of trying to win a golf tournament that was a pretty hard up-and-down.

Q.  Why do you think everybody like all the leaders were going back and forth backing up, up and down, why do you think it was that way today?  Why did nobody just kind of grab it and take it?

BILLY MAYFAIR: I don't know.  I mean obviously it was calm as it was this morning, most of the afternoon.  It wasn't blowing as nearly as hard as the other three days.  If you would have told me 11-under par was going to win I didn't think there was any chance.  But I guess it is just Harbour Town, I guess, you know, there is -- you have got to position the ball right here; got to hit it in the right spots.  Very small landing areas and when it comes down to trying to win a golf tournament, sometimes that gets tight.  It crazy this Tour.  You can go birdie the last four holes after the turn  and lose ,or you can shoot 2-over on the backside and still have a chance to win.  That is what golf is all about.  But I do know -- I know everyone was pretty much bunched up, and you know, being 11-under par going into the last hole you know, was actually kind of surprising to me.  Because I didn't know until I stood on 18th tee how I stood.

Q.  Did you watch the score board at all?

BILLY MAYFAIR: No, talked to my wife during the rain delay and she told me I was tied.  I think Vijay might have been one shot ahead of us at the time, I don't know.  But I knew I hit it making double on 11 I hadn't kicked myself out of the tournament yet. 

Q.  How long was the putt on 16?

BILLY MAYFAIR: I'd have to say at least 30 feet. 

Q.  18?

BILLY MAYFAIR: About 15, 20 feet.  About 15 feet I'd say. 

Q.  What happens now?  Obviously you come back tomorrow.  Do you change your approach at all?

BILLY MAYFAIR: Not really.  We will go back and get a good night sleep, get up in the morning and, you know, more than likely it should be-- hopefully it is not raining not tomorrow, is it?   We should have very calm conditions.  I am sure that Jose and I probably will both be attacking 18 pretty hard. 

Q.  Your last playoff win over Tiger --

BILLY MAYFAIR: Who? 

Q.  Are you going to use that in your thinking tonight by how you are going to play tomorrow?

BILLY MAYFAIR: Not really.  I am sure I will think about 18 quite a bit more times and all that.  Like I said, all I can do is go out and just play the hole the best I can and you know, if I make 3, 4, 5, whatever, but I am not -- I don't think really you can go back and look at other playoff experience.  This is completely different.  I have got to say I have never had this experience, I have got to go out and play one hole tomorrow.  Tomorrow is sudden death, no matter how many holes it takes.

Q.  Will your preparation be different tomorrow, practice tee or...

BILLY MAYFAIR: Not really.  I will still get to the tee my normal time and hit the same amount of clubs and the same amount of balls and chip shots, all that, and you know, just instead of going to the 1st tee we will go to 18. 

Q.  Do you like the idea that even though you say every playoff is different you like the idea that you have been in playoffs before?   Apparently Jose has not.

BILLY MAYFAIR: Oh, I should know more about Jose's record, all that, but I am afraid I don't.  I didn't know it was his first.  Obviously I think by maybe having more playoffs I maybe have more of an advantage but obviously he is playing very well and so am I.  We will see what happens tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT