WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 14, 2001
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: Today was kind of -- I don't want to say started out slow -- I made 13 pars in a row, made two birdies on the par 3s in the back.  I just played really solid all day.  I didn't hit the ball as close today.  It was kind of hard to get the ball really close out there on some holes.  But I just stayed patient and made a few birdies coming in; made a good par-putt on the last hole, but I love the position I am in.   Obviously, Vijay is playing very well right now.  He is going to be hard to catch.  But maybe I'll get something rockin and rollin.  We will see what happens.  
 
Q.   Scoring conditions more difficult?
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: Well, I don't know.  I think it was more difficult today.  The fact that the wind was blowing from different directions so really I don't think we are -- none of us were really quite sure which way it was blowing out there.  I think it was straight down all week on 18 and today it was kind of cornering from the right a little bit, but I woke up early this morning it was blowing really hard north to south and then by the time I teed off, it totally switched around, by the time I made the turn it had gone back to the other way.  The winds were definitely swirling a lot more, I think, today than just being one consistent wind all day like we had the first two days.  
 
Q.   In that same line, there were a lot of really low numbers other than Jose Coceres.  What, you know, can you explain that?  Is it just--
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: I think it was firmness of the greens, I think the different directions in the wind and Harbour Town is definitely holding up.  No doubt about it.  It is hard to go out and shoot a low number out there. Only 3 par 5s, you are not going to make too many eagles.  It is a great round that Jose shot today, that is for sure.  I don't know what time he went out - pretty early, probably.  But it is a great round today and I like I said, we will see what the weather brings in tomorrow.  And go from there. 
 
Q.   What type of weather are you hoping for tomorrow?
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: I'd like to just see it like it has been the last three days, sunny and breezy and, you know, nothing tricky or anything like that, just go out there and keep playing, playing like we have, and see what happens.  
 
Q.   Is it hard to stay patient when you are going on 13 pars in a row like that and nothing is falling?
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: No, not really.  I think it would be harder to be more patient if you are making birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey, I was hitting good shots.  I had a lot of 25 -, 35 -, you know, foot putts just off the edge of the greens, all that, just wasn't really hitting anything close.  Tom was pretty much doing the same thing.  I think he and I made one birdie going into 13 between us.  So neither one of us were really tearing it up but we knew -- I knew that in the back of my head, I was still close and wasn't out of the picture yet.  If we could make a couple coming in we would still be in there for tomorrow.  Even if I didn't, I still had a chance for tomorrow.  I just had to keep as patient as I could. 
 
Q.   I don't know how much you watched the leaderboard, knowing that nobody was getting too far ahead of you (inaudible) --
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: It was funny, before I teed off I looked at the leader board a few times.  I think the guys who went off early had -- there was a lot of guys that were 2, 3, 4 under par.  There was a lot of good scores, I think, in the middle of the field there, and seemed like when the leaders went off everyone just kind of just stayed hovered around in  that position except for Vijay and I knew by going out there and seeing the way the golf course was playing that it was playing difficult.  So I knew the fact that if I could keep it right around 10 -, 11-under I would have a good shot going into Sunday.  
 
Q.   How much effort is there mentally between two or three shots back going into the last day; consequently how big does that make the save on 18?
 
BILLY MAYFAIR: Obviously, like I said, biggest thing about the save on 18 it makes you feel better about your day and all night you are not thinking about it.  But you know, two shots, three shots, whatever, I just got to go out tomorrow and play the best I can, play my own game, try to make birdies, make good pars, whatever it takes, and you know, if Vijay plays really good, he is going to be hard to beat.  If I can go out and play good, I might have a good chance of winning too.  I have just got to go out and mind my own game.  I can't worry about what Vijay and Jose are doing behind me.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT