WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 13, 2001
Billy Mayfair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BILLY MAYFAIR:  I was real happy with it.  I was kind of surprised this morning that the golf course was actually a lot firmer than I thought it was going to be.  I hit a shot into the first green, it kind of hit the center of the green, fired over the green.  Kind of got a little --  I kind of got a little defensive when that happens right away, but I think when you came out this morning you kind of thought it was going to be softer and the wind wouldn't be as strong and I really don't think it happened that much today.   I think the wind was down a little bit more, but the greens are definitely getting firmer out there and they are getting fast -- interesting to see what the guys do this afternoon out there.  Overall, I was real happy with it, only hit one bad drive on No. 8, driving the ball really good and making the putts when I need to make them.  Making some birdie putts when I need to, making my par-saving putts when I need to.  I am real happy the spot I am in, and look forward to the weekend.

Q.  Today is Friday the 13th.  Are you superstitious?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Didn't even know that it was until you really said it.  I guess we were looking at our watch yesterday, it was the 12th so I guess  -- yesterday, so today would be the 13th.  I am not a superstitious type of guy.

Q.  (Inaudible)

BILLY MAYFAIR:  I am kind of glad we waited until after the golf course.  I do some little superstitious stuff, I carry certain change in my pocket, walk a certain way everyday if I am playing good, all that, but I can't worry about something as big as Friday the 13th.  At least there will be some good movies on tonight.

Q.  Any difference between playing this morning as compared to yesterday?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Not really.  I think today -- this morning was probably maybe playing a little bit easier just because it was in the morning; the wind hadn't come up yet, the greens hadn't got chewed up a little bit, or as firm as they were yesterday afternoon.  I think they are as firm if not firmer today than they were yesterday, but obviously I think anyone out here would rather play in the morning than in the afternoon.  I think it was definitely more of an advantage to play in the morning than in the afternoon.  I am happy to be in where I am at.

Q.  What did you do last week?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Went to baseball games.  Went to three Diamond Back games and worked on my game a little bit, and just worked out, did my normal routine during the week, except for my wife Tammie and my little boy Max went to the baseball games every night.

Q.  Are you a season ticket holder?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Yes, haven't seen a win at home yet; which is not good they got swept by the Dodgers last night again, so they are hurting right now.  

Q.  Does finishing up like that today heading into the weekend feel good?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Obviously you don't want to put a Bandaid on coming in confident out there.  I was swinging the club really good, played aggressive and that is what I want to continue to do the next two days and see what happens. 

Q.  Talk a little bit about the greens firming up, if the wind doesn't blow is that going to be enough to maybe hold the scoring down a little bit or do you feel the course is still out there for the taking?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  I think the course is out there for the taking not just because the greens are firm but they are rolling so good.  I mean they are really rolling nice, even like I made comments yesterday that usually -- when you play in the afternoon out there on the week  -- on Thursday or Friday the greens get to be almost dirt out there, and they had a lot of grass on them today.  I mean yesterday, and today they should just stay just as well even though they are staying firm, I think you are going to see a lot of guys making putts.  If they do miss, they will make par putts and if they do hit it, you will see a lot of birdie putts made.  I think the scores will keep going down unless we get a real hard wind. 

Q.  Did you get the sense that maybe the firming up today was the first step, getting progressively harder next couple of rounds?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  After that first shot on No. 1, is -- yeah, be interesting to see how many guys  -- what shots are like this afternoon on No. 1.  Kind of going away from you, I just hit a little 8-iron in there, hit the pin.  I had -- didn't really think about it, just fired over the green, yeah, they are getting firmer.  Once again I just think the greens are just rolling so good even with the firmness, the players are allowing, you know, we have enough holes where we are hitting 9-irons, wedges and sand wedges that we can get some of them close still make birdies, rolling a couple of long putts because the greens are so good. 

Q.  Does it change your mindset in a tournament where so many people are going low?   Is it hard to -- I mean, you have to settle for par maybe on the hole that you think you can birdie?

BILLY MAYFAIR:  Well, I try not to pay attention to what other guys are doing.  Obviously I can see by the board now that even yesterday that we are kind of all bunched up.  Only thing I can worry about myself is myself going out making as many birdies and pars as I can see how I finish at the end of the day.  It is not unusual for this type of golf course to have a big bunched field, I don't think.  I think when you see tomorrow someone can make the cut right on the nose, go out and shoot 5-, 6-under par tomorrow and be in contention for Sunday.  So it is never over with, that is for sure.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT