ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 5-under, nice playing today and keeping the momentum going.
 BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I played great.  Actually the last three days I played great, I just got off to a bad finish at the end on each day, which cost me dearly.  But, yeah, feeling good.  I can feel the fumes are going a little bit, the batteries are going down a bit, but, yeah, playing well and excited to be here.
 Q. What was working good today?
 BRANDEN GRACE:   I think momentum was really good.  The first I want to say five or six holes, they're not really birdie opportunities, from the 1st hole I had driver, 5-iron into the 1st and 3-iron into the second and managed to make about 60 foot of putts on the first two holes and then made a good 25-footer for par on the 3rd.  So the putter was hot today and the momentum just kept going, just kept the round alive.
 A couple of bad breaks on, I think it was 14 -- 13 and 14 -- sorry, 14 and 15, just bunker shots, I thought it was going to go like into the middle of the bunker, ended up on the sides and not really giving myself anything.  But it was good otherwise.
 Q. What did you hit in on 16?
 BRANDEN GRACE:   16 I hit 7-iron.  Actually it sets up so nicely for my little fade off the tee.  I hit it up there, with the low ball flight it ran up there and I think I had 205 flag or something like that.  I think it was 190 to fly all the water.  So it was just a good 7-iron was enough at the end.
 Q. When we talked to you on Sunday on the heels of the win it sounded like were you headed for a week off.
 BRANDEN GRACE:   I was, I was.  Obviously I asked for an invite, before I won, to be considered for one and I didn't get it.  It's one of the events I love playing, I haven't played it in the past two years, just because I never qualified.  And then obviously I've got the WGC and the Masters in the back of my mind.  Obviously the win last week opens up a lot of more thinking of possibilities and so I know if I can get a couple of good weeks coming in, after next week I might get a spot in the Match Play, so that's a big one.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT