BMW MASTERS
October 30, 2014
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on 4‑under around here?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was good.   Obviously this is I think one of the longest courses we play all year.   The last couple years, it's been firm and running and this year's been wet and really long. 
So you know, it is a tough track and you really have to be on top of your game and take the birdie chances when they come, and that's what I did today.   I missed a couple of short ones but made a couple of long ones, which cancelled the others out.   But I think it was a good start. 

Q.   The upside of being wet is a bit more target golf presumably?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it would be nice if you can call it far get golf if you're going with wedges and gap wedges.   But if you're going in there with 6‑irons and 5‑irons, then it's just trying to hit positions and give yourself the putts and the chances.   It was a good day, a good start. 

Q.   I have to take you back a day.   You did something spectacular at the 17th?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I got on to the tee yesterday with me and Zach in the Pro‑Am and told the guys, I said, you know, this is quite a nice car this.   I said, Well, if I hit it in, I'm not going to say I'm not going to take it, I'll definitely take it.   As it is, hit 7‑iron, one bounce in, and you know, I got there today and I thought, it's happened before that the guys can do two in a row.   Keith Horne did it at Dunhill a couple years ago. 
I got up there today and I thought, maybe it can happen again.   And I kid you not, I hit it, and my ball stopped right behind yesterday's hole again.   So if the pin ever moved, it probably would have been two in a row. 
But that's a good start to a good week and hopefully it's a little bit of a good thing for what's to come. 

Q.   And it is that sort of thing that just gives you that smile, that confidence, the impetus sometimes?
BRANDEN GRACE:   It is.   Yesterday and coming into the week, I've been hitting the ball and playing really nicely the last couple of weeks. 
But I think this week with the jet‑lag and stuff, didn't feel on song really.   I was a little bit iffy until I got to that hole and I had that one good swing and made the shot and afterwards I felt tine.   So it's a good omen for the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT