MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRANDEN GRACE:   Well, my coach has been with me the whole week.   And he kept on saying 65, 65, 65. 

Q.   How do you prepare for this?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I was here last year.   Obviously this place is so different than tournament mode.   I played last year in Houston.   And we decided to come over earlier.   We came over on Sunday.   I think the rain delay on Tuesday did good for us.

Q.   I hear all of you guys talking about you've had eight months preparing for this Major, and then you have this good round today, but because of yesterday it's like, okay now I've got to prepare for the‑‑
BRANDEN GRACE:   That's the thing about golf that just doesn't always go your way.   Sometimes you get out to events like this and you try too hard.   Maybe that was the big reason yesterday.   Today was more relaxing play, more like playing with myself. 
Just one of those things. 

Q.   Were your spirits high at the beginning of the week?
BRANDEN GRACE:   It was.   Actually I played a couple of practice rounds with Louis and Ernie and the guys and actually really hit it well.   I actually hit it like I hit it today.
And yesterday was a surprise to myself.   But that's just golf.   Like I said, I'm just happy that I had a good round today. 

Q.   Who do you have with you this weekend?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I'm with my parents and my friends.   This tournament only comes once a year, so make the most out of it.   

Q.   Will you follow it?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I will.   I'll come around maybe tomorrow and maybe sit on a hole and hopefully at the end of the week it can be a South African.

Q.   What hole would you sit at?
BRANDEN GRACE:   If I could choose, probably 16.   I think 16 is pretty awesome.   But 15 is not a bad hole, either.   That's really where things can turn around.   If you can go, you go for it, or you're going to hit it awful and hit it in the water and things will get awful out there.

Q.   You will just sit in the bleachers on 16?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I think I might buy a little chair and put six in a row for the family and take it from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT