VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2014
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on shooting such a terrific second score after the first day?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yesterday wasn't as bad as the score.   I had it going 2‑under at an early stage and like to say I played well the tough holes and badly the easy holes.   But maybe just slip a bit of concentration there but today was good. 
I had a good start with the eagle on the third, a little chip‑in there so that got the round going, and I missed two short putts for the bogeys after that, and then the back side, just didn't make the mistakes that I made yesterday.   I kept the ball in play in the tough holes.   The wind is the total opposite to yesterday so the easier holes yesterday is the tough ones today so managed to finish strongly.

Q.   Another eagle on the back nine?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I did, and that was a nice one, I must say.   It's a long hole.   I think it's like 350 or something and I managed to drive it up to 15 or 16 feet and managed to hole the putt and that was a big bonus. 

Q.   I'm sure this is a scenario that happened pretty much last year, didn't start at your best but moved through the remaining three rounds. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely, the guys are a little bit ahead at the moment but the finish is really tough today.   So you never know what's going to happen over the last couple, but I'm just happy that I've played myself into the swing of things again today and there's two good days left. 

Q.   Makes the days longer, but have you enjoyed the format, playing with an amateur?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was nice.   I think we touch and go there to win it today, but it was nice.   We had the first hole, not the best of drives, not the best of seconds and then he chipped it in from nowhere and we thought, geez, eagle start, here we go. 
But it was nice, a gentlemen and knew the rules and what to do to pick up and that makes it extra fun out there.

Q.   Chance of a car?
BRANDEN GRACE:   We hope so.   I told Julian as we were walking up 18,   I said let's just make two birdies and then hopefully we've got enough, so hopefully one is enough. 

Q.   Exactly the way you want to come back from an opening 74. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was.   Yesterday was tough, today was tough again, but I just didn't fall asleep on the back nine as yesterday.   It was nice to have that strong finish on the back side and nice to finish the tough couple of holes coming in with good, solid holes.

Q.   Two eagles out there, pretty special, as well? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was.   The first one was nice, a nice little chip‑in, pretty straightforward chip, but it's always nice to hole a chip.   And then the one on, I think it's the 13th hole, you need to hit the drive in the perfect position and I was screaming for it to bounce and it did and managed to run up to 15, 16 feet and managed to roll it in.   That's a big bonus and a big turnaround on a day like today.

Q.   The wind perhaps not as bad as yesterday but still pretty interesting out there. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   You know, it's playing stronger than what you think.   It's just the whole front nine is pretty much downwind.   You know, that was the brutal side of the golf course yesterday. 
When the guys hit the turn, when they are going to get to 11, 11 is playing brutal.   I hit driver, hybrid into that par 4, and then when you get to the other par 5 coming in from 15 inwards, it's tough.   Even 18, it's short, but it's vicious.   So you have to be on top of your game. 

Q.   What has today's round done in terms of getting rid of any possible holiday rust? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   You know it, was good. Yesterday wasn't as bad as people may think.   I started off well and kept it together.   Just lost a little bit of concentration around the edge.   I thought the tough part is over and I can relax a little bit and that's when this golf course bites you.   Today was special and the swing was there and the putting stroke kept up today.   If it was like today, hopefully the next two days can be the same. 
I played myself in there again.   I'm definitely going to be behind after today but on a golf course like this, there's a lot of birdies out there, but there's also a lot of trouble out there.   If you can keep the ball in play over the next two days, you're going to be pretty close. 

Q.   Do you enjoy it out there with your amateur today?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was good fun.   I like this format.   It takes your focus off your game a little bit and you can enjoy it.   I had a Japanese guy today, so didn't really speak a lot of‑‑ sorry, Korean guy, didn't really speak a lot of English, so it was a pretty quiet round, but at least he knew what it was all about and he picked up when he had to so it made it worthwhile.

Q.   And I'm sure he can spell Volvo because you're both in the driving seat. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   I'm sure he can.   I'm sure he's a big supporter of Volvo just like I am.   They have treated me well so far and hopefully we get another tour at the end of the day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT