ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on the playoff? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Well, you know, I hit what I thought was a great third.   I hit it a lot firmer, probably less yards than the regulation hole.   You know, you can just imagine he's going to do something special with the lob‑wedge in the happened and that's what he did.

Q.   And you have an appreciation of that shot when you are standing at such close quarters? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, you think‑‑ you never know what's going to happen but with the touch he's got, you can just think he's going to do something spectacular and that's what he did, so all the best to him. 
I still did everything I thought I did well.   I hit it down the fairway.   I didn't hit a particularly great second shot but the third shot I thought was perfect on target and I thought it's there and came up short once again but just one of those. 

Q.   Commiserations, but a wonderful week for you. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, thanks, it was good.   Unlucky there with the playoff, but I hit a couple of good shots in the playoff.   I hit a great drive. 
The second wasn't really the shot that mattered but the third shot I actually thought I pulled it off.   Hit a great shot, thought the distance was there and clearly it didn't.   Surprised it didn't skip up coming out of the rough, the ball coming as low as it did, thought it was going to skip and it didn't.   The touch he's got, you just imagine he's going to do something special. 

Q.   It's been a difficult day for everybody; to shoot 69 and not win, are you disappointed thoroughly or are you quite pleased with your play?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Obviously you're going to be disappointed missing in a playoff but just one of those.   I played great and the confidence is there, so, you know, it's nice getting this confident heading into next week, that's the main thing.

Q.   Fancy your chances next week?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I hope so. 

Q.   Do you hope it's windy like this?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I've looked at the forecast, it looks very good.   It's a nice warm‑up, even knowing if the wind is going to blow that I can get it done and that I can hit the ball in the right spots, and that's what you need to do on those courses. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT