ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Looked as if nothing was happening and suddenly you find yourself right in the thick of it toward the back end of your round. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I just couldn't get the lob‑wedge and gap wedge going the right distances.   I quite like going into the wind but I struggle a bit going downwind, especially out of this rough, the ball jumps so quickly and that was the case the beginning of the round. 
I thought the big turning point was the birdie on 10 and obviously on 12, and then 14, I thought, that is a big one.   So a couple more coming in, you never know.   But just disappointed with 18.

Q.   Where were you with all the to‑ing and fro‑ing at the top of the leaderboard?
BRANDEN GRACE:   It's one of those days where you have to keep an eye on things, especially with this weather, anything can happen.   Mickelson is a great player and he's not going to mess it up on the last.   I'm still pleased, played well, put myself in contention and it's a good week heading into next week.

Q.   Great putting week, as well, topping the stats before we came into today; is it a confidence you'll now take to The Open Championship?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely.   I think a day like today just helps a lot.   Obviously you don't know what type of weather conditions you'll get out there next week but the ball‑striking was on, the putting was on; so a couple of work to be done on the chipping and things like that, and you never know next week. 

Q.   Your thoughts on this final day in the context of a good week?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was great.   Just nice being in contention again.   It's been a while.   You know, the swing kept up, the putting kept up, as well, which was nice, and in the conditions today, I'm really pleased with how things went.

Q.   Looked like it wasn't going to happen for a while and suddenly you got it going and you were right in the mix?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I'm actually blaming Billy a little bit‑‑ only called four on the back, should have said five from the start.   It's one of those, I played well, it's just nice to know that I switched it on when I needed to on the back nine, and it's a good confidence boost going into next week.

Q.   Were you conscious of the leaderboard and your position on it? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, on day like this, you have to really keep your eye on it.   The leaderboard changed so much and Hansen was shooting up the leaderboard for a while, and then Mickelson came up, as well.   So you never know.   I'm probably going to be one too little, but still a good week. 

Q.   Changes so much with so little; one birdie and you're suddenly right up there. 
BRANDEN GRACE:   Definitely.   I was thinking I was playing maybe for third or something, and just shows how quickly things can change out there.   But I'm happy, vibes are good, playing into next week, British Open is something to look forward to, and I just hope I can take the quality of golf into next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT