ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is it about this particular style of golf that appeals to you?
BRANDEN GRACE:   You know, back home, I grew up where the weather is not always great, as well and the wind blows a little bit.   I feel very comfortable in this state, if I can put it this way.
And obviously I had my second win last year at Fancourt Links, the links is just in me for some reason, and obviously with Dunhill last year.   I just feel very comfortable out there.   I'm very the type that I like visualising a lot of shots and you need that around a links course.   It's just working out so far.

Q.   You had a meteoric rise last year with five wins around the world and you're still waiting to land your first this year, but wonder how impatient you're becoming because you're really in the hunt for this one?
BRANDEN GRACE:   I've actually stayed pretty patient so far.   I've been out in the States for the majority of the year, which is a tough one.   It's new, everything is new; same as last year, last year after my first win, I got thrown into the deep side here in Europe and made the most of it.   I got thrown into the deep side in the States, and played solid, but like you said, not had those finishes I was hoping for.   I feel right back at home now in Scotland and this week's a good week, and all the prep for next week going, so I'm looking forward to what's to come tomorrow and next week. 

Q.   You knew you needed a low round to give yourself a chance to win tomorrow; how do you feel to get it? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   It was good.   Ball‑striking was on again today.   Putter was a little bit cold.   It just nice hitting the ball in the spots I had to hit it.   A couple of sucker pins out there which can get you like on 9, 12, a couple of those where you have to take your medicine and go to the open side and try to make the putt from there. 
The putter wasn't as hot as yesterday, but still managed 6‑under which is pretty good.

Q.   You won at St. Andrews at the Dunhill Links; what is it about you and links courses? 
BRANDEN GRACE:   I don't know, if you look at all the other wins, Fancourt was also very linksy and the one in China was playing pretty linksy, as well, firm and hard.   It's just one of those where it suits my game.   I like shaping shots and things like that, and I think that's when I see the shots a lot better, as well.   But I just have good memories from Scotland I guess.

Q.   Five wins around the world last year; have you got that feeling again?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it's been good to be in the States but it's nice to be back home if I can put it this way, back on The European Tour.   But the feeling is there.   I had three weeks off now and I'm raring to go, so one more round tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT