VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the verdict?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Good golf on both sides.   He made eight birdies, no bogeys and I made five birdies, no bogeys.   Some good golf out there, he just played a lot better than did I at the end.   It was a good match.   
   
 Q.   Feeling like banging your head against the wall‑‑  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Not really.   I did play well.   You know, I think if I‑‑ I still played well.   Obviously we both missed a lot of stuff out there.   Even though he was 8‑under, there was a couple more putts he could have made and a couple more putts I could have made.   He was just the better player on the day and all the luck on the next one.   
Maybe on Sunday if you're tied for the lead, 5‑under was good enough.   On a day like today, you can either play bad and win or play good and lose.   It's one of those days and that's match play.   
   
 Q.   Elaborate, third place at a tournament as prestigious as this.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Obviously finishing third was pretty good but I'm just happy the golf game is going in the right direction.   And I'm looking forward to Wentworth now tomorrow, flying back down there tonight and get a little bit of rest before the big week starts again.   
I always like to play the second week, this is my first bogey‑free round in a long time so things are looking in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   What's your view on golf in Bulgaria now that you've had your first visit here?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   It's been great.   Obviously didn't see too much of Bulgaria but it's been nice.   I mean, this golf course and this venue and everything has been great so far and they really looked after us well this week.   
I can definitely see us maybe coming back here in the future, if it's anything like an event like this, well organised, I don't think anybody will miss out on it.  
   
 Q.   Would you recommend it as a golfing destination?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Definitely.   Obviously this is a great golf course.   I think when all of these things are going to get finished with the clubhouse and all the development, it's definitely going to be a great destination to come on holiday and obviously with the two private beaches down here as well, it's something special.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT