VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on that victory?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   I can't remember the last time I played 36 holes in one day, but you know, it was good.   I must say, we still had a decent ball‑striking day out there.   We gave ourselves plenty of opportunities but just couldn't finish it off with the putter.   That works both ways.   
Unfortunately for him, the short miss on 16 and another 3‑putt on 17, and I did what was enough at the end.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to have a golden patch in the middle of the round.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I think so far this week, I've always got off to a good start the front nine, which has been key so far.   
Today was a little bit different in the afternoon.   I think it was a little bit of a tiredness from the start, but I managed to hang in there and a good stretch there in the middle was really key.   
In the end, I could see he was also getting tired with some of the shots he hit, he striped it all day actually, and myself, again just getting a little bit irritated and things like that, and that happens when you're tired.  
   
 Q.   Probably the heat, as well; beautiful sunshine but it gets to you after a little while when it's beating down on you.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I think it actually got easier.   If the wind kept on blowing the way it was this morning it would have been a very long day.   We have been fortunate with the weather so far, I don't know what is in store tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   And tomorrow, McDowell or Colsaerts?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Any game like I said is a tough game out here.   I know Graeme came up one game short last year and he's going to be tough and he's not Top‑10 in the world for nothing.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be stretching your back.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, a little aches and pains, a little stiff.   It's been a long day, and like I said, I can't remember the last time I played 36.   Maybe something cool, maybe a little ice cream and just chill out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT