ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2013
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDEN GRACE:   It was great.   It was one of those rounds where everything got together.   The putter was hot.   I think that was the big difference between me and many today.   You could say we hit it the same, if not better, but I just made everything I looked at.   I think that was one of the best putting displays I've had to date.   
   
 Q.   Including that finish, you must have been chuckling to yourself, birdie, birdie.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   I looked at one of the guys yesterday, finished birdie, birdie, birdie with, those three holes, that will be some finish.   I just kept on hitting the balls in the right spots the last couple of holes and like I said, the putter was hot, so the last one was actually the longest putt I had to make.  
   
 Q.   Why leave it so late, because in Durban last week, a lovely finish for a prominent position and you've done exactly the same here.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   I don't know, I think it's just one of those, I'm a little bit of‑‑ not a slump you can say in that way, I just need to step the one gear up and make it four rounds.   
Again, if I had a good third round, then what would have happened; but I'm still chuffed.   It is a big week.   This is only my second time here, so after last year, I will take this finish.   
   
 Q.   And slump most certainly isn't the word, is it, because you're racking up the consistent results, if you like, which you've certainly got to do?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I think that's something I've wanted to work on.   Last year, I had four wins, but obviously I had some nowhere finishes, as well.   
I think this year, obviously try to keep on winning, but I want to get the consistency up.   I kept on looking at George's results last year, and although he didn't win, I think he had like ten Top‑10s, and that's something you need to improve on‑‑ well, I need to improve on at least.   
So it's nice to have probably two Top‑10s in the first two events of the season, so it's something good.   
   
 Q.   Did you take a sneaky look at the leaderboard now?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   I did on 17, actually and I told myself, listen, on 16 green actually, when I made the long putt, I said, nice finish with two more, just don't get ahead of yourself and just keep it there.   But it's nice to finish on a good putt like, that as well, on 18.   
   
 Q.   Now you can look and see yourself in the top four; I don't know where it will be the end of the day.   Have you got any thoughts on that?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   I know it's probably not good enough for a win or something.   I can't see those guys falling back with the ball‑striking they are putting out there but a Top‑5 or Top‑10 is something good and there's good World Ranking points up for grabs this week, so I'm sure all those things help.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT