ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2012
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about winning this championship at this iconic venue?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   It feels awesome.   I really dreamt of this moment my whole life.   I've got goosebumps this morning when I think about and look at what Louis achieved here, winning the British Open.   
I just thought lifting this trophy on that little bridge later on is going to be amazing.   It was a tough day but at the end, the nerves and the things stick down a little bit and the putter started working and managed to roll a couple putts in and that's what I needed to do.  
   
 Q.   You were four shots ahead at the start of the day, they had caught you by the 12th tee, how much pressure were you feeling and was the putt on 12 the key to the turnaround?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   I was hitting the ball actually really well getting off of the blocks.   I made a good birdie at the first.   I kept hitting good shot after good shot for the first eight holes, I just never made a putt and then I told Zach, listen, just jump in, was reading the lines, I need a little bit of clarification there on the lines, and then I just felt good again.   
   
 Q.   You started the year 256th in the World Rankings, you've won four times in the European Tour; you're now in the Top‑40.   Why?   What's changed?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Just the first win and getting my card at tour school just did me the world's best.   I think the confidence that I got after those and getting my card back just lifted me up sky high, and everything has just been going my way.   I've been working hard, I've been really working hard on my short game and I think that's been a little bit of the down fall, and getting the right equipment, Callaway has really helped me out with that.   I have a new driver in the bag this week, which my driver actually cracked before the week, so that was a big help, so thanks to all those guys for what they are doing.   It's just been one hell of a day.  
   
 Q.   You're up to third now in The Race to Dubai, focused on catching Rory?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   I am.   A couple of days ago in the interviews when they asked me, I said, you know, let's just get over this, over and done with, and try to get in the Top‑10, now that I'm third, first is definitely on my sights.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT