WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2012
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was the day?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was good.   I played really good.   I got it going there on the front nine, just every time I had it in the rough I just pictured the right shot, and every time it came off.   It was nice to roll in a couple of putts, as well, and to go 6‑under through the first nine was the start I had hoped for, but obviously I ran into a couple of errors on the back nine.   But that's going to happen around this golf course.   I'm still happy with the way I played. 

Q.   A little bit more relaxed today after getting two rounds under your belt out here even though you still have the circus around with Tiger?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely.   I think yesterday was pretty much all right, as well, just the first day was a little bit hectic.   Obviously the first time playing with Tiger was an experience of its own.   Obviously the crowds and everything has been great. 
But like I say, this golf course, you need to get to know it.   Yesterday I played a lot better.   Obviously I didn't make a birdie or a bogey yesterday, but it was nice to go out there today and know that the birdies were there for the making, and I made a couple. 

Q.   What did you think of the draw for the third round?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, when we signed the scorecard, we thought, it's going to happen.   You know, so far I haven't played with him before, but now to have three‑‑ I've played with him three days in a row has been unreal.   I've learned a hell of a lot from playing with him.   The way he plays shots, the way he handles himself and things like that has been great.   He's there because he is the best in the world.   I've seen it now, and I think people really criticize him‑‑ that criticize him is wrong.   He's one hell of a guy, and he's pretty much the nicest guy I've ever played with.

Q.   Is it fair to say you were a little bit nervous the first few holes on the first day?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely.   I think who wouldn't be.   The first two holes was a little bit nerve‑wracking, but I think it would have been a lot worse if I got off to a bad start.   I think I got off to a par‑par start, which was nice, and then you can just settle down and relax and play golf.   And then when things happen, the type of player and the type of guy he is, it just made it nice to play with him.

Q.   How full was your inbox on your voicemail and email?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Very good.   Everybody wants to know how it is and how he is as a player and things like that.   It's nice to know that he's everything that I hoped he would be.   He's been my idol and my role model since I started playing golf, so it's nice to put himself next to all those that I hoped it would be. 

Q.   If someone said you were going to play three rounds in a row with Tiger at Firestone, would you have been surprised?
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I would have said they're nuts, especially with the draw.   You never know after you make the cut and things like that what you're going to get.   But especially getting that draw, just being the only guy that won three times this year, is pretty special, and I'll remember that for a long time.

Q.   You've been playing very well all year.   Do you think it's nice you get introduced to a different audience this way with so many cameras on you?
BRANDEN GRACE:   It is, definitely.   Europe has been good.   Obviously they've pushed on‑‑ I've been getting good draws and things like that, playing with Rory and things like that.   So it helps.   It makes it‑‑ it makes it a lot more better and a lot more motivating that you need to keep playing well.   Being over to the States, I think this is my fourth visit, so in the past I never really had great draws.   I've had good draws but never really like a Tiger Woods from the get‑go.   It's just nice to get that for once. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT