WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2012
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Playing with Woods is an awesome draw for you?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   It is, definitely.   I've heard a rumor at the beginning of the week that that's what they're going to try to do because we're the only two guys that's won three times in the year.   But I didn't really think it was going to happen.   But it's unreal.   He's my idol.   He's been my role model since I started playing golf.  
Tomorrow is a little bit of a dream come true.  
   
 Q.   Probably be a bit of a different experience?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   It is, I think the last couple of weeks have done me well, especially like the U.S. Open that I've played in front of them.   There was huge crowds and things like that.   Obviously I played with Mickelson there, as well, so I think the experience is there, and obviously you're going to have a little bit of pressure playing with Woods, but something you just have to deal with.  
   
 Q.   Is it one of those things where you think what a difference a year makes?   How did you feel at the end of the Grand Final when you finished 35th, and what were your emotions then?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Just one of those things where you worked hard really the whole year and you just came a little bit short, and then you‑‑ obviously you're going to be a bit disappointed and things, but there was Tour school around the corner, but it just shows you how much a year can change in such a short while.   I promise you at the end of the last year I wouldn't have dreamt of playing with Tiger first two rounds in the Bridgestone.   It's one of those.   But it shows you if you stick your head down and keep grinding and keep playing, you never know what can happen.  
   
 Q.   And from all of your success this year with the three victories, does that change how you approach a tournament at all?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Not really.   I've been trying to do things exactly the same as I've always done them.   I think that was a key when I won in those three events.   Obviously the bigger the events, the more you want to do.   But you automatically put in more without even noticing it.   But just try and stick to the same thing and stick to what's working.   
   
 Q.   And also what are your thoughts on the week in general?   Do you like the course?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   It's good.   I think the course is only going to get more and more trickier as the week goes on.   It's still pretty wet out here, but I think if it firms up‑‑ the greens are, I think, running at 13 and a half already, so they're lightning out there.   If you get on the wrong side of the pin, you're dead.   But it's good.   I've been playing in good company the last two days and in the practice rounds and things, so trying to get a little bit of experience out of that and try to enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you came through the Els Foundation.   A few reflections about his victory.   
BRANDEN GRACE:   That was unreal.   I mentioned Ernie in all of my press things at the Open saying that I think he's got a chance.   I'm delighted.   He's been there.   He's been knocking for a long time.   He came short at the U.S. Open.   I knew that gave him a little bit of a knock as he really wanted to do well there, it suits his game.   But coming through and winning in that style, knowing that he made those putts to win I think can only do the best for him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT