VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 21, 2012
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE GREEN:   Brendan, 10‑under par heading into the final day; bit of a yo‑yo round, five birdies.  
BRENDAN GRACE:   Yeah, I played really well today.   Conditions were tough out there.   We always knew there was going to bebogeys on the card; nothing you can do about it.   But just a couple unlucky shots that didn't bounce anyway in the fairways and got into pot bunkers and it happened on the tough holes which is a bit unfortunate.   
But otherwise, I'm still really happy with the way I played and I thought I handled it really good.   But, it was a long day so I'm still pleased to be at the top.   
MIKE GREEN:   Those opening holes are really tough.  
BRENDAN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely.   I actually played really good I thought the first five holes.   I missed one shot in five holes which was on the second hole, which I just miss‑hit an 8‑iron.   
Otherwise, I struck my drive on the first and unlucky it bounced right into the pot bunker which is unfortunate.   
On the third hole, I had a distance, I thought it was a good 6‑iron and I flushed it and I can't believe it didn't get there.   It was a bit unfortunate.   But I still played well to keep the damage low.   
The same again on 12.   I hit a great drive and just had a big bounce right on one of the slopes and ended up in a pot bunker.   Then the hole gets very long, because you can't really progress forward.   You have to go sideways, and left myself with a very long club in and I managed to hit a good shot.   
17, I just maybe went for it a little bit more than I should have.   I just over‑trusted a wedge and pulled it a fraction.   I thought the wind should have pushed it a little bit.   
But I'm still happy, I'm still in there and it was a tough day, 2‑over before the day I would have taken it.   But looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What sort of conditions will you be hoping for tomorrow?   
BRENDAN GRACE:   I haven't really looked at the weather.   I think a nice day tomorrow would be awesome.   But the end of the day, you know, if you get a day like today, you never know what's going to happen, it could be either way.   Maybe a tough day might not be the worst thing.   
   
 Q.   With the conditions on the putting green, did it help you get your pace?   
BRENDAN GRACE:   Not really.   The greens are really good and there's a little bit of grain on the greens and I think that's the only thing that makes it tough on the speed.   
The weather conditions I don't think played any factor today.   Everything happened before we teed off; taking it from there, it was pretty normal and just the grain.   
   
 Q.   On 17, was the wind very strong behind?   
BRENDAN GRACE:   Yeah, the wind was down off the left.   Luckily straight down but not across, as well, so a little in between.   It was one of those where I knew it was a big wedge.   Could have hit a soft nine but thought, didn't want to play on the back of that green, because everybody knows where it's going to finish.   I just hit it maybe hit it too hard, harder than I should have and finished there.   One of those things, I picked what I wanted to do, I did it and it didn't work so one of those things that you have to live with.   
MIKE GREEN:   You'll be playing with Nicolas Colsaerts tomorrow.   
BRENDAN GRACE:   Yeah, we had a good laugh yesterday when we played.   I think we really enjoy each other's company out there.   He does hit it a long way.   I think tomorrow is going to be a day where I just stick to my own game.   I think he does give me quite a few yards when he let's one loose, but it's going to be a long day tomorrow.   
MIKE GREEN:   Remind him the last time, he shot 76 last time you played with him.   
BRENDAN GRACE:   I might (laughing).  
MIKE GREEN:   Thank you so much for coming in.   Good luck for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT