VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 20, 2012
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Branden, thanks, as always, for coming in and joining us and many congratulations on an excellent first couple of days.   We spoke on Wednesday about if there's a player coming into form this week, it's you and you've shown that, haven't you.  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it's been good.   It's been an amazing start here.   I must say, I've been really calm the past couple of days, which has been a big relief.   It would be nice just to keep the nerves down, and just allow me just to play golf and enjoy it, the same as last week and fortunately it's been going that way.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   You've obviously carried that form; sometimes players dip a bit, but you haven't.  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Haven't really had time to sit down and really think about what I've done and what I've achieved, but I think that has been great, but just I've been really hitting the ball unbelievably.   Last week starting the African Open, first few days, just put myself into the right spot and the right places, and I've been taking what comes my way.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Has that been the key, Branden, just a solid all‑around game or is there anything in particular that's pleased you?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   On this course, you really have to drive well.   I managed to do that today.   The driving wasn't really on, but I still kept the round going and I missed a lot of fairways.   My iron play has been superb so far.   My short game has really kicked in, as well, so overall I'm really on top of my game.  
BRANDEN GRACE:   The more you play, the better you get, the more relaxed you get out there.   For me, it was a big help playing with Retief last week in the third round.   I think I was more nervous playing with Retief in the third round than I was in the final round.   He kept me calm; I was really calm out there and it's helped coming into this week.   I'm enjoying it out there, and like I mentioned before, Zach has been a good help on the bag, been amazing working with him so far.   So looking forward to the next few days.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:   A few family and friends today but hopefully a few more tomorrow?  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, definitely.   They have been‑‑ every day, there's been about 20 of them out, but grateful they have come out to support.   The next few days, looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   You were noticeably calmer and slower in your game; was that a decision that was made?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, I've just been changing my routines a little bit.   I think that's how I want to do it now.   Like I said the first couple of days, I've been really, really relaxed.   It's been a nice feeling.   Zach has really helped with that, as well, giving me the right words at the right time and it's helped, and just taking it from there.   
Overall, just trying to stick to my game plan and try to do what I do and mind my own business.   
   
 Q.   You've won here before at Montague, your first victory‑‑  
BRANDEN GRACE:   This is awesome.   The Links is probably the most favourite course in the whole world.   I like coming back here.   I love playing here.   I've grown up playing here on the links and these courses, but coming back to Fancourt is just an unbelievable feeling.   Especially now I'm playing well and giving myself chances and putting myself in contention just makes it all worthwhile.   
   
 Q.   Are the greens a lot more receptive than they normally are?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Not really.   When I come out here and play, they keep the greens a lot slower.   It's nice to get a course that it's the way it should be and the way it should be played.   You know, I think they have been really nice to us the last couple of days.   They have pushed a lot of the tees forward.   If you put it back on almost all of the holes, it's a real slog out here.   It's really long.   
You know, it's going to be tough.   The weather has been hot and I think that's why the scores are as low as they are.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDEN GRACE:   Yeah, it was nice.   We had a guy who was really nice, really enjoyed his company and he played off of scratch.   It was an awesome format and he showed us a couple of things out there.   I don't think he missed one fairway during the round which is incredible for a guy who has played this course before.   It was a nice time and made a new mate.   It's been a good day.   
   
 Q.   It was down that you were the marker‑‑  
BRANDEN GRACE:   No, I would have supported the guys out here.   I definitely would have come out to support them but fortunately I'm here this week and making the most out of this.   
   
 Q.   You said the other day that you were feeling a little tired, obviously mentally going well, but physically how are you going up?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   Mentally I'm feeling good.   The body is a little bit aches and pains around there.   The physios have been there and they have kept me up to form and kept me feeling great so far.   But otherwise, I think I'm just enjoying being here and enjoying playing and I'm really looking forward to the end of this week and the next three weeks coming up.   
   
 Q.   As the last player to qualify‑‑  
BRANDEN GRACE:   I don't play it that often.   Played last year‑‑ it's not a course that I really want to come and play a lot because I think it can hit your golf motivation and self‑esteem, it can get it pretty down sometimes.   Always when I come down here, I try to play the course as tough as I can find it, play the tees off of the back and the pins.   But I know if I can shoot under par that I'm ready to go.   It's a nice feeling to know that I'm playing well and under par and looking forward to what's to come.   
   
 Q.You mentioned a change in the routine, would you like to explain a little bit further?   
BRANDEN GRACE:   It's just I'm really taking my time.   I used to be a very quick player.   The not that I'm over‑thinking‑what I'm doing, but just I put myself out there and the previous Branden, we‑‑ well, myself, I would change the clubs and those things, and the last couple of weeks have been a big key to me, what I hit off every tee and I take it from there.   
Obviously the conditions, you have to change your game plan but I've tried to keep it as simple as possible for myself and give myself the opportunities.   
   
 Q.   Qualifying school, the pressure a golfer faces ‑‑  
BRANDEN GRACE:   That's hectic, six rounds of golf takes a lot out of a player.   I remember myself this year, when I went in December‑‑ after three rounds, I wish I was done, and then it's just a grind, a grind in from there.   
I think when you play in a Major, it's a whole different feeling.   I remember when I played in Turnberry a couple of years ago, I never experienced anything like it.   I think those things, you just take all of the positives from those things.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Thank you very much.   Well done today.   Good luck at the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT