SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 2008
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously getting your European Tour Card for next year, that's what you worked for on the Challenge Tour. 
 BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.

 Q. And it's nice to get off to a nice solid start at the beginning of the season. 
 BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it been good. The whole year has been absolutely amazing, with ISM, as well. Fortunate for me I was there and I got off to a good start on the Challenge Tour. It was good. 
 Going into Tour School, I was very positive I was hitting the ball well all week and the putting was getting there, and yeah, so it's my dream come true. It's my year's highlight, as well, and coming into these events, it's nice playing at home because I haven't been here for a long time and it's obviously always nice coming back and having a good start. 

 Q. Are you satisfied with last week?
 BRANDEN GRACE: No, not really. Since Tour School I've just been hitting the ball best I've ever hit it and my putting let me down over the weekend last week. Fortunate for me, I saw my putting coach back here the day before I had to qualify for the event and it's in shape and it's working. 

 Q. Who are you seeing?
 BRANDEN GRACE: I'm seeing Wayne Farrell from here. He's from Cape Town itself and he's been helping me a lot with my putting, so it's been working out.

 Q. A little bit of a drag to have to qualify for an event that you won the leading amateur for? 
 BRANDEN GRACE: It was, but that's how it goes. You can't ask for everything in one week, but fortunately for me I did make it and happy enough to be here for the weekend.

 Q. Bite it and grabbed it by the throat. 
 BRANDEN GRACE: Well, I just told myself, you know, because it happened to Tim Clark as well a couple of years back. I thought, well, good, if I can do exactly the same. And obviously you come out every week to win and I'm hitting the ball well, so it can go anyway any time.

 Q. Course-wise, any comparisons or differences from yesterday?
 BRANDEN GRACE: Obviously the golf course is awesome and awesome condition as well. Yesterday I think I was a bit unlucky in the morning because the wind was blowing in the morning, but fortunately I played better when the wind was blowing than when it stopped. 
 Today was nice because the long holes played shorter and the easier ones played a bit longer, so it was nice. It was really good out there. 

 Q. How many Challenge Tour events over the past year have you played?
 BRANDEN GRACE: I think I played 20, if I'm not mistaken. Might be just more than that. 

 Q. Do you remember how many countries? 
 BRANDEN GRACE: No, well, every week is a different country. So it's a lot of travelling and it's also nice because all of the preparations for the main tour now have helped, as well. 
 So just getting used to all of the different places, different food, different people. So it's been a good step. 

 Q. And the putting is working now, so like you said the only bad shot was your tee shot?
 BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, that was it. Otherwise I've been playing really good and the putting feels better. Hopefully just keep it going for the weekend.

 Q. Have you decided after the new year if you're going to stick around? 
 BRANDEN GRACE: I haven't decided yet. We'll see how it goes but I should stick around for the Joburg Open and a couple after that and depends also because there's a rearranging on The European Tour which I'm part of. So hopefully I can have a good week and get a good step up in that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT