BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good week here last year, finishing in the Top-10.  You started well, two 69s.  Give us your thoughts on today's round?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, today felt awful to be quite honest.  I'll take the 3-under but the ball-striking wasn't good at all.  I got it off the tee pretty well and the putting, the short game is there but the irons, you know, on 17, missing the green with a sand wedge on your hand, that's not some good ball-striking there.  Definitely a range session needed this afternoon.   
But I'll normally play well around this place.  I like it.  I think it suits my eye pretty good and obviously just hoping for a strong weekend.   
 Q.  The par 5s are good chances here.  You eagled the 18th yesterday.  Nice knowing with the last two par 5s there's always a chance of picking up shots on the way in?  
BRANDEN GRACE: It is.  I think obviously with the weather, as well, it can play a lot different.  I think 17 the last couple of days, I didn't really like the tee playing from all the way back.  It takes all the danger out of the hole, really.  It actually forces you to lay up.   
18 obviously is a great golf hole.  You need to hit the fairway and then it gives you a chance to go for it with a long iron in.  But you can finish strong like I did yesterday, and you know, sometimes you can finish really strong and it can really push you right up that leaderboard.   
 Q.  Great crowds today.  How much do you enjoy playing this golf course?  
BRANDEN GRACE: It's been phenomenal.  I told Zach on the golf course there, through nine holes, I said it's remarkable for a Friday morning how many people are out here.  The crowds have always been great around here, and it's really good.  You know, they are behaved well, as well, which is quite nice.  They are all here to see some good shots, so it's great to be out here and I'm really enjoying myself.   
 Q.  Just finally, you were a winner on the Rolex Series last year in your home country.  What's it like and how would you like to pick up another Rolex Series win this year?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, big time.  Obviously it was great to win at Sun City.  I'm not playing that many of the Rolex Series Events, so I think I'm most probably going to have to win with this one or the Nedbank again to give myself some chances.  But it's good, it's good for Rolex to get behind the whole series and it's good for the guys to come out and support the Tour.  It's great, all those events.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT