AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Branden, good start to the week, 5-under, 66.
Pretty happy with that round?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was good.  Ball striking, like I said earlier, last week it was a little trying to get the baby swing out of the way a little bit.  Today was good.  Put a new driver in the bag, new shaft.  That was really a big key for today.  I didn't miss a fairway out there.  I hit probably most of my target that I tried to go to and kept it in play which gave me a lot of opportunities, especially on the par 5s.
I think on the par 5, especially under conditions like likes this, that's where you need to be aggressive and really get your birdies.  So, I think I birdied all of par-5s today.  That was a big up.
But, you know, I left a few out there.  The greens are not the easiest.  A little bit bumpy because it's so new.  All in all, on a day like today you need to take advantage of the conditions.
Q. You mentioned the newborn.  How has it been scheduling, changing, all the adjustments?
BRANDEN GRACE: It's been good.  Been great.  He's been phenomenal.  Him and the mom is doing awesome.  It's amazing how you can love a little man like that so much.
It's hard to be away from him but obviously at the end of the week you make the most out of things like that, like a good round today and maybe a good week and go back and enjoy the time with him.
Q. Is there anything out there that surprised you, either good or bad, any set-up or anything like that?
BRANDEN GRACE: No, not really.  I think it played really good.  I mean obviously they could have made a couple more trickier pins but I'm sure there's three more days to go, I'm sure the scores keep going the way they are today, you know, they might trick things up.
Don't get me wrong, it's still not playing easy.  There's a lot of guys shooting 1-over, level par.  You still have to do the work.  The greens are quite tricky.  Lot of times you're trying to hit away from pins and give yourself a 15, 20-foot birdie putt because a lot of times you can't get close to the hole.
You have to take your medicine and be patient.  Hopefully you'll make some.
Q. How is your sleep these days?
BRANDEN GRACE: It's been good the last couple days since I've been here.  Back home, you know, fortunately, we've got a nanny helping out.  The little one stays with us until midnight or 1, 2 in the morning and she takes over to give us a little bit of time.  I wouldn't change it for anything in the world.  It's great to have a little family now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT