NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2017
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Three double-bogey sixes in your first nine yesterday, out in 42; how have you bounced back?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I'm a grinder.  Today wasn't the best of stuff.  The first nine didn't really feel too good.  Then mind over matter a little over that, and told myself, if I can get it to under par finishing the day yesterday, I'm still in this tournament.   
I knew I had to grind out a score today.  It's a lot easier conditions but not easy to get all those birdies out there.  I gave myself a chance and hopefully I'm in with a good shout tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you set yourself a target today to shoot a score?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I think 5-under was my target but obviously disappointing bogeying the last.  I think that was the only poor shot I hit all day off the tee.  Those things happen.   
But it's still a good round.  Tomorrow, anything can happen.  You've seen some good scores and some bad scores on this golf course, and maybe I can pull an Alex off tomorrow.   
 Q.  6-over on the front nine, 11-under for the back.  If you get a good start tomorrow, watch out, field?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Hopefully.  I spoke to my coach last night and he said, listen.  Just get the first 9-under control and you can give yourself a push on the second.  I managed to do that today with 1-under, which was great, and pushed on like all the other day.   
 Q.  How excited to win Africa's major tomorrow?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, big time.  This is my third chance so hopefully third time lucky.  Still a long way to go.  I have to go out there and grind away and make some putts.   
 Q.  You've played these nines almost as two different golf courses for the week:  6-over for the front nine, 11-under for the back nine.  Do you try and work out why that is?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Not really.  To be quite honest, like I said, I wasn't feeling too got front nine yesterday.  I had a slip before I went out, and I maybe got a little bit of a shock to the body.  Those things happen.  I didn't read too much into it.   
But I had those goals and I am a grinder and I am a fighter; I thought that if I can put it back, I can do it.   
Obviously 11-under on the back nine is a big difference than maybe 1- or 2-over on the front.  But I don't feel I've played that badly on the front.  The scores are just not happening.   
I gave myself chances on the second almost every day -- well, the first day and today, but just didn't make those.  Those are those momentum things you need to do:  Make the birdie, get off to a good start and then you go into the round, and as soon as you come to a bogey, you catch up and I feel like that's what I've been doing.   
 Q.  Overall you must be very pleased with the way the overall round went.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  I hit it great again today.  From the back nine yesterday, leading into today, I was quite on song.  A couple of bad shots, but those things happen.   
It's still tough out there.  The wind is not a big factor today but it's swirling a little bit, so it's really hard to commit and trust yourself and what you're doing and hitting the shots.  Hopefully I can do a couple of good birdies tomorrow and be in with a shot.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to tomorrow in contention for this big tournament?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, big time.  This is one of those events you grow up watching as a South African and this is probably the event as a South African you want to win in South Africa.  It's Africa's major for a reason, and it's one of those you're going to have to play well to win, and hopefully I can do that tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT