THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 30, 2017
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Half a point, great match.  Tell us about that.
BRANDEN GRACE: It was tough.  It was always going to be a tough game, especially after yesterday.  They played a little bit better yesterday.  We had a couple of bad breaks coming in, so it could have been different.
It's always nice to get at least half a point out there, especially the rest of the team struggled out there today.  But I'm sure the guys showed some character out there.
Q. How important is it for you all to get together now and get it together and say, come on, let's get this back to respectable.
BRANDEN GRACE: Big time.  Have to go into the team room now, sit down, have a proper heart to heart.  We must go out there this afternoon and get four points.  That's the main thing.  If we get two points or something like that, it's useless.  But we have to go out there and grind hard.
Q. You're one of the -- with your record in this great championship, you, are one of the seniors now.  You have to get in there and start whipping some butt?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  It feels weird.  I told the guys the other day, I would have thought I may be played one and this is my third one already.  We have to get out there.  I think like you say, we have to maybe have a heart to heart with the guys and really try to motivate them and say, it's not over yet.  There's still 16 points to play for, so there's still a long way to go.
Q. Been a hard-fought day for you.
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was.  It was up-and-down.  We would have loved a win but to get half a point after that grind was worth it.  We got a little bit unlucky towards the end.  Louis hit some superb putts on 16, 17, and they got a little bit lucky there with almost going in the water on 15.  On a day like today, you have to make the most out of your lucky bounces, and they did just that.
Q. The Americans are in the lead but it looks like your team spirit, looks like it's still there.
BRANDEN GRACE: The guys are still there.  They still want to play.  We are still fighting our hearts out.  They are just out-playing us.  I don't think any of the games, the guys are particularly playing badly.  It's just they are making a few more longer ones.  They are having a chip-in every now and then but those things happen.  We need to go out there this afternoon and really dig deep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT