THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 26, 2017
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some opening thoughts on being here in New York and with the enter team?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it's awesome.  My first look at the golf course, as well, today.  It's in phenomenal shape.  I think it's one of the best that we've played condition-wise, and it's not an easy walk-up.  You still have to hit some proper shots out there.  It's going to be a proper test for both teams, and you really have to plan your way around this golf course.  It's not just a hit and hope and you're not just going to make some putts.  There's big slopes on the greens, as well, so you really have to place it well, but this place is great.  What a view.  Every tee box and wherever you stand on the golf course, you get the great view of the city and Lady Liberty, and it's awesome, I must say.  So far on the practice day out there to see so many people coming out to support, and that's pretty special.  You know, then to get on to the team, the team is awesome.  I think we've got a great team.  We've got a good chance.  We've been playing well, I think, and the team has grown over the last couple of years.  Obviously we've got I think for the first time ever almost less rookies in the team than the American team.  You know, that is a big plus for us, as well, although they might be informed a little bit more than what it would say on paper, but team spirit is there, as much as we want it, is definitely there.   
 Q.  Can you embrace the underdog role and make it a positive thing?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I mean, we want to have that upset more than anything else.  You know, and we've got a great chance.  The guys have been playing well.  The guys that actually haven't been playing well have actually stepped it up recently, and I think the guys like Jason, those that need to play a very important role, him and Scottie and Leish and those guys, are stepping it up at this stage, so I think it's great to see them back playing well and lifting the spirits of the rest of the guys.   
 Q.  From what you saw today, do you like it as a match play golf course?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I think it's -- it plays a little bit different.  I think it's -- depending on how they play the par-5s, some of them are -- two of the three were reachable.  The one wasn't even close.  I would like them to play it a little bit risk and reward, move those tees forward, make the guys take some chances going for them, and even the drivable.  We play it off the back, and in a foursomes way, the guys are seldom going to go for the green unless they move it up and try to give the guys a proper chance.  But I think it's a good course.  It's a good track.  We played well as a team today.  We had a good practice out there, so yeah, like I said, we're ready to go.   
 Q.  When you said that you're more of a veteran team than more of a young team, do you think that's a key to your approach this year?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  I think if you look at the last couple of years, the two previous ones, my first one in Ohio, that was a young team.  We had a lot of rookies.  You get nervous.  You don't really know what to expect.  You don't want to let anybody down, and I think we've progressed well.  We've definitely progressed in the right way the last couple ones.  Especially in Korea, we came so close.  I know there was a point change, but I think the point change was for the better of the tournament, getting things closer, but that was what we were fighting for.  I think now, you know, guys are getting used to each other.  Guys are really clicking.  The team spirit is there, and any of us can play together at this stage.  You know, there's not a lot of guys on the team which we don't know and we haven't played with.  Like I said, everybody wants to play and contribute.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I feel it's good.  I had a couple of weeks off.  I had, I think, three weeks off, so had some relaxing time, some time with the family coming over, my folks and my best mate from South Africa and obviously my wife, and really just been chilling a little bit, and then the last couple of weeks just putting some graft in, just kind of getting some rounds under the belt, especially with three weeks off, hitting the range, and those rounds are important.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll have a lot of support given the fact that New York is kind of a cosmopolitan city, that you might have a little more support?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, this is a -- you know, the New York fans are pretty big.  You don't really know what to expect from them.  They're going to be loud.  They're going to be cheering for the U.S. Team.  But like you say, there's a very international crowd in New York.  A lot of people from all over the world are here.  I hope they're going to come and support the guys, and we've seen a lot of them already today, and then also, you know, we've got -- I think there's a lot of -- I think between the whole team, we've got maybe like 100 people just from our side, as well, to try and give us a little bit of extra spirit, a little bit of backing from behind us.  An event like this, we always rely on the fanatics, as well, like in the past.  But it's great.  You know, I think it's going to be awesome.   
 Q.  How much did the support two years ago -- obviously you had a great Presidents Cup.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I mean, it is going to be a hard one, obviously to follow a 5-0 is really tough.  But you know, it just kind of shows you that you've done it and you can do it again.  But you know, you still have to go out there and play.  A lot of times maybe Louis and I played -- I mean, we played  three or four of us the whole week a couple of years ago.  I got lucky in my singles against Kuch.  I think he didn't really play particularly well in the singles game.  So there I maybe got a gift if I can call it.  But sometimes you play well and you lose and sometimes you struggle and you win.  I just have to go out there and really play.  I know what I can do.  I know what I'm capable of, so if I can stick to the guns, and like I said, around this place you just have to work on your game plan.  If you can get that properly and stick to that, and you have to go and take it to them.  You can't go and wait for these guys to make mistakes.  You're not going to win games.  You have to go out there and try to make the birdies and force them to make mistakes.   
 Q.  Why do you and Louis seem to pair so well together?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Well, I think we play a very similar game in general.  You know, both hit it very similar distances.  When the wind comes up, we play a similar wind game, as well, especially from where we grew up, and I think that helps that we're good friends, as well.  We're both characters on and off the golf course, so I think when the one gets down, it's pretty easy for me to get him lifted up, and reversal there.   
Yeah, you know, we really clicked in Korea, and hopefully we can go out there again this week and hopefully get paired together and get on.   
 Q.  Has Nick said, hey, it's going to be you two and I'll figure out the other 10?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I think we're going to keep it as a little thing and see how it goes on Wednesday.  But you know, like I said, I think we're all in a really good frame of mind coming into the week, everybody as a team, and like I said, everybody is just ready to go.  We desperately want this one, and I think with them being a team so new, so young, you know, like I said, a lot of rookies, you don't really know how they're going to handle it, how they're going to take it all.  But like I said, we can only do what we do best, and that's play golf and let the golf do the talking this time.   
 Q.  As a veteran, have you talked to some of the rookies about what to expect and how to prepare for --  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  You know, the good thing is what was tough in the past was a lot of the guys, a lot of the rookies on the international team wasn't always playing in the States full time.  I think it was really hard for us, even being a captain's pick, to pick guys that's playing in the States full time.  They're used to the crowds, they're used to these atmospheres, they're used to the big stage.  You can't really get a guy -- it's always hard to get a guy who's maybe played in Europe or Asia and then he comes over here and you really get put under the gun having to fire and really bring your side.  So I think this year it's a little bit different.  Obviously being one of the older guys, the veterans on the team now, it sounds weird, but just telling these guys, it's all for the team.  The guys are behind you.  Whether you hit a bad shot or not, we know you're not trying.  The main thing about this type of thing is not to apologize.  If you get into trouble, you go out there, you take a drop, you take a penalty, you carry on.  You try and make the best from that.  Sometimes guys get overaggressive but sometimes guys get over-safe, as well, and I think that's maybe something we've done in the past is get too tentative out there and not being aggressive.   
 Q.  I think you made a good point what you said with the veteran guys coming over here and playing more in the States more so than over in Europe and Asia and getting comfortable, because as you know, being in New York, you know how the crowds are going to be --  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, we're going to get some schtick this week.  Left, right and center, we're going to get it.  We all know what to expect, as well, but like you said, being a team that plays here week in and week out and know what it's all about, we've played in New York numerous times, and we know what the crowds are going to be like, and we just have to take it on the chin and go with it, smile at them and hopefully win some crowds over, as well.   
 Q.  You mentioned the guys returning to the team.  You've got a captain now that's returning for the third time, as well.  What have you seen maybe that's the same and consistent with him, and then also what has he learned do you think?  What have you seen different?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I think the first year you're kind of trying to learn a lot about the players as people, not just players on the golf course, and it's hard to really put the teams together.  I think Korea we were very close to having everything perfect the way that maybe he visualized it to be.  I think this time we're even closer.  Like I said, because the guys played together for so long, you kind of get a way of who belongs kind of with who and that sort of stuff.  But then again, people play so differently from foursomes to better ball that the teams might switch again.  You know, we don't know, obviously, the captain, he makes most of the calls, as well, but I think he's been getting closer and closer, and I think he wants it even more and more after each Presidents Cup has gone past.   
 Q.  Foursomes has really kind of been the bane of your problems here against the U.S. Team --  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you put your finger on why and how you rectify the situation?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Like I said before, I think it's one of those things where you don't want to make mistakes.  You think foursomes is a tough format because you only control one shot at a time, and you don't want to make mistakes and you don't want to let your partner down.  I think that's the thing, I think in the past, like the States boys, they got out firing.  Whether they hit it in the water or whatever they do, they're still going out there to make birdies, and I think the prime example was the Zurich Classic when they brought the new format in being a team event.  Louis and I played great, we played great.  A couple of rounds we were 4- or 5-under and lowest round was 10-under, and you don't expect to see those scores in a foursomes format.  5-under is a great score.  And I think that's in the past -- like I said, now you have to go out there and try and make a birdie and try and win.  Just trying to protect a score and be safe isn't going to work out for you.   
 Q.  The more comfort players have like what you and Louis have with one another --  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, 100 percent.   
 Q.  I think that's what it comes down to, I believe, is that having these guys play over here a lot more, being more familiar with one another, and you don't mind making a mistake.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, 100 percent, and also we made a point out there the last couple of events to play practice rounds with the guys that could make the team, just so you get used to the guys.  You know, you get used to the type of guys that are on and off the golf course.  A lot of guys are maybe more quiet than the others or maybe a lot more fiery than the others, but it's been great.  I think we've got a great team.  All the guys' heads are in the right space, and we've got a lot of great guys and a lot of good players that's on form, and that's always a positive.   
 Q.  Looking forward to 2019, have you been over to Australia much --  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I actually have.  I've played a few times over there.  I've done a few events.  Melbourne is great.  If I'm fortunate enough to make it for the fourth time, it'll be great.  I'll definitely be there in a heartbeat, I'll tell you that.  But Australia is a very South African crowd, as well.  We've got a lot of South Africans over there.  We're very similar to the Aussies.  I think to be playing in a place like Australia with the crowds getting behind us most of the time would be awesome.  And then obviously on those golf courses, it gives us the chance to do to the golf courses exactly what we want, especially with the sand base and all that sort of stuff.  You can really turn a golf course around to how you want to play and kind of play it into your hands.   
 Q.  Anirban Lahiri had a tough finish but really handled himself well in South Korea.  How excited have you heard from him as he's been back on the team?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, you know what, he's stoked, I must say.  He's been great.  I think he maybe stressed a little bit making the team.  I think it reflected on his golf.  I've played with him numerous times back in Palm Beach.  We've both got homes there.  Played a lot of practice things together.  He's been playing well, but the scores just haven't been there.  And now after getting the pick, the last couple weeks he's been playing great.  You know, so I think it's going to reflect into this week, and I think he's learned a lot.  I went 0-4 my first Presidents Cup, and you learn a lot going into the next one, and you definitely want to make up for some wasted time, I think.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the first hole, the nerves going up there, the first tee shot and just the difficulty of this hole specifically?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it has a brutal start.  It is a tough one, especially with the crowds.  They're going to be so pumped up and ready to go, and obviously they're going to be chanting USA.  But it kind of gives you the same feeling as a major.  When we get up there, you're always going to be a little bit nervous and things like that, but as soon as you get into things, you get into the vibe and into the rhythm and into the moment, but it also depends on what you make of it.  If you're going to go out there and feel nervous and scared, you're going to have a long day.  We just have to prepare ourselves for everything, for -- we're going to get some schtick from the crowd and that sort of stuff, and we're going to hit some bad shots, as well, so you just have to take it on the chin and keep going with it.  But if it's going to be tough for us, it's going to be tough for them, as well, so it kind of cancels out.   
 Q.  What will you hit off the first tee?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, you know, today driver.  I think that's just something I hit.  I kind of have a little go-to shot that I go to.  I'm not quite sure if I'm going to have 3-wood in the bag this week.  Going off that tee with a hybrid is going to leave you quite a long shot in for the second shot, to a particularly small green, small target.  I have a little cut that I like to hit.  Even if it goes in the rough right, you're still going to go in there with a wedge or a gap wedge, so you're going to give yourself a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT