WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your match today with Andy.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was good.  I think we both played steady.  I played really well.  I think I went through a good stretch from 9 onwards.  Actually from 7, I made a good bunker shot.  I think that really got my round going.  Then bogey on 8, and then from 9 onwards I made, I think, four birdies on five holes, which is great.   
It's pretty hard to keep up with something like that.  When someone gets on a run, it doesn't matter who it is, you have to really force it with birdies from the other side as well.  I played nicely.  I'm really happy with the start.   
 Q.  You don't play a lot of match play, but you played really, really well in Korea in the Presidents Cup.  It was a year and a half ago, two years ago, but certainly you have good vibes on match play.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  I love it.  It sets up for the type of golf I play.  I am a very aggressive player in general.  I think that's what you have to do in match play.  Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.  Like you said, I had some good results in the Presidents Cup.  A lot better than my first one.  It's a lot of positive memories to things to relive and feed off.   
My golf is heading in the right direction, so this was a good start and a good round of golf today.   
 Q.  I think you were 3 up for the most of the back nine or whatnot.  Is there any kind of pressure of just wanting to close it out quickly?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, you get it a few times.  I think what happens most of the time is people relax.  And you open the door to any of the guys out here, all these guys are good.  They deserve to be here.  They can easily go on a stretch any time in the round with three or four birdies.  So 4 up doesn't really mean a lot out here.   
Fortunate for me that I played solid enough.  I kept the pressure up the whole time.  I think that helped.   
 Q.  How does this course set up for your game?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I think it's great.  It's a great match play golf course.  I'm really stoked that they came back here after last year.  Lot of birdies to be made out there, but there's also trouble off the tees.  You have to be on top of your game, so it's a great match play course.   
 Q.  Are you staying downtown, enjoying anything down there?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Not this year.  So far we've been -- the missus got us some really good fried chicken last night.  It was amazing.  It was a best chicken I've ever had in my life.  We've had a couple barbecue things as well.  I think we'll make a trip to the rodeo.   
 Q.  Where was the chicken from?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Oh, man, I can't remember.  Where was my chicken from?  Gus's Fried Chicken.  It was phenomenal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT