NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 12, 2016
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDEN GRACE: The wind was playing quite a bit stronger than it was the past couple of days, but I was able -- it was a grind out there.  I didn't get off to the best of starts.  Actually, I hit it pretty good, just two silly wedge shots cost me two bogeys.   
But I played the back nine pretty steady.  I went on a run of a few birdies in a row, which was helpful and I managed not to make any mistakes coming in.  So I know I'm quite far behind, but anything can happen on this golf course.   
 Q.  That back nine is far from steady.  It really does keep you involved.  
BRANDEN GRACE: You just want to be at the end with a sniff and I think I've done that so far.  Like I said, the guys have been putting out some good scores today, as well.  And I don't know which shot, I think it's 6 or 7-under.  That's remarkable in a place like this, on a day like today.  So big opportunity.   
 Q.  Or even 8?  
BRANDEN GRACE: That's remarkable.  That's what I need tomorrow, I suppose.  At least you know it's out there and you can do it.  Nice to see it.   
 Q.  You say it's brutal.  Have you ever seen it quite like this?  
BRANDEN GRACE: I haven't.  I haven't.  You normally come down here and you think it's nice, you are going to get calm conditions.  I think it was a three-club wind at a stage.  It's not fun at all.  The golf course plays completely different.   
A couple of tucked pins which normally you could go for.  On a day like today, you can't go for them.  You really just have to stay patient, play to the fat side and try to make a putt.  And that's not easy on these greens.   
 Q.  Do you feel the love out there?  People are willing you on.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, the fans have been great.  I don't really get a lot of goose bumps anymore, but every time I tee it up at this place it's phenomenal.  Walking up 18 and getting on the 1st, the crowds have been great all week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT