PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone)?
BRANDEN GRACE: It was good.  It was obviously nice coming, starting the final round and I managed to make a couple birdies and give myself a chance coming down the stretch.  It was fun.  On Friday, kind of looking like missing the cut at some stage.  It shows I'm capable of fighting back and playing some great golf today just to finish the way I did.
It's great major.  A lot of positive to take from it.  It was pretty much one of my best ball striking performances from tee to green this year, so there's a -- like I said, there's a lot I can take from this week.
Q. (No microphone)?
BRANDEN GRACE: I don't really think there's anything waiting.  It's just one of those things.  I played well, I gave it a go.  I'm sure the guys are going to push in, make a couple birdies coming in.  There's some great birdie chances coming in, and then you have the stretch finishing as well.  You need to take advantage of those things.
I thought I hit a good pop out on 16.  I didn't take advantage of 18.  I really had to get aggressive and it backfired.  Still managed to make a good par.  All in all, it was still a good week and a positive note to finish the major season off.
Q. Where are you in your head with dealing with majors?  It seems like you are starting to be one of those guys that plays well in every major.  Do you feel that way?
BRANDEN GRACE: I feel I'm progressing pretty nicely.  I think I'm getting more confident as the majors go on.  It was a little bit tough.  I was a little bit disappointed with The Open this year.  I thought I played some decent golf, but it wasn't one of those golf courses that really suited me.  I couldn't get my eye around the place.
I came here this week, I thought this is a place I can do well.  Played great the first day, was just unlucky, maybe cost me.  When I tee it up now, I feel I can win a major.  That's what I think if you are coming into a major with that mindset, you know you are going to do well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT