THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was a completely different day, wasn't it?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was tough.  It was brutal.  A couple of silly shots which are going to happen on a day like today.  Next thing you know, you're staring at almost missing the cut.  Then it's just a grind.  I really had to put my foot down on that back nine.  After I made a double and tried to get some birdies somewhere.  So I actually played some great golf the last five holes.
Q. (Inaudible) you come back?
BRANDEN GRACE: Big time.  Like I said, it's a big grind.  It shows a lot of character and shows some big motivations going into the weekend as well.  So I'm keen.  I should be safe to make the cut, and anything can still happen.  So a good one tomorrow and I'll still be in it.
Q. Did you have any experience in majors to get into those positions?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  It was one of those things you know you learn as the majors go on every year, year in and year out.  I think I just had this thing in my head where I haven't missed a cut in a British Open yet as far as I know, I might be wrong, but as far as I know I haven't missed one yet.  So I wasn't going to miss one today.
Q. When the conditions are like that, do you have to adjust expectations accordingly?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  I think the last two weeks I've pretty much been screwed with the weather conditions a little bit with the draw.  But you know, it's easy to say the guys that played late early had the best side of the draw.  But it's just tough.  That's when you win majors.  You're going to get things that go your way.  The rest is about grinding it out.
It's still fun.  I still played decent golf.  So hopefully tomorrow everything can come together a little bit more.
Q. What are the positives you take out of the first two days of the week?
BRANDEN GRACE: I feel I didn't hit the ball the best.  I didn't hit my irons closely as good as I normally do.  The fairways were pretty fine, and today the putter was cold the first 15 or first 13 holes.  Couldn't make anything.  I had some decent chances on the first, on the third, onwards, and I just didn't make anything.  And if you don't make those putts, then the days just get longer and longer.
Then, again, a couple of bad bounces don't go your way and it gets even longer.  But I had a good finish.  Little bit knackered now, but it's a proper grind out there.  But I'm excited for the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT