WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2015
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know we always say it's hard to back up a round like you had yesterday but is this one of those occasions where it just didn't quite gel?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was tough out there.  The wind was blowing.  It's hard, as you know, most of these holes are tree-lined, so it's tough to really trust the wind.  I think that's one of the things I struggled with in the back line and I played pretty good through ten holes and didn't really make mistakes, and maybe lost a little bit of concentration and then you're going to let a couple slip out there.
Still up there.  Would have been nice a couple of putts to go in towards the end but I think it's only two back.  It's still I long weekend ahead.
Q. Unlike you to lose concentration out there.
BRANDEN GRACE: Obviously with the winds going all over the show, hard trusting your lines and not doing what I have to do, and then you let things slip.  That was the case on two of those bogeys, just terrible swings, just concentration.  But still hanging in there.
Q. Presumably when you're making those birdies early on, you're flying once again.
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely.  Through ten holes, I played some great golf.  The ball-striking wasn't as good as yesterday but I got it around.  Didn't really make putts today, but it was all right.  I know there's still two rounds to go.  You never know what Mother Nature has got in store for us.  Might be a couple of low scoring over the weekend or might be a tough one.
Q. Presumably there's a great deal sense of excitement when you find yourself in that halfway position?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, definitely, just want to be there or there about.  Obviously tomorrow is moving day and try to get yourself in a good position heading into Sunday.  Do a little bit of work this afternoon on the putting and see what it's got in store for us.
Q. Hard to know what a winning total might be with the weather changing?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, started off raining this morning a couple of holes and now the sun came out and now it's pretty much blowing out there.
You know, we'll never know what's going to be in store for us tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT