WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just like yesterday you looked awfully strong.  This time you made it to the 18th hole.  What's it say about your game that you're able to take the No. 1 player?  
BRANDEN GRACE: There's a lot grafting after last weekend, I didn't play too well last weekend.  Grafted it away.  Grit's always nice to beat the No. 1 player in the world.  I knew it was going to be a lot of solid golf.  And he obviously made a couple of birdies here and there, obviously with the power that he can get on the golf ball.   
 Q.  When you have an off-week normally you go right back to a stroke play event.  This time it's a match play event.  What's the difference week to week when you don't play great and then you have a format like this the following week?  
BRANDEN GRACE: This is fun.  Obviously I wish there were more of these events in a year, even if there's just one more.  But I think it's tricky around a golf course like this because it's elevated.  There's a lot of wind.  It's open.  You still have to hit it in the fairways and things like that, you can't always just play the golf course and try and make birdies.  You kind of have to keep your eye on what your opponent is doing, and feed off of that and make decisions according to that.   
There were a couple of holes where you go pretty much more to the safer side than what you would have liked, even in a stroke play.  But you do what you have to do against these players out here.   
It's tricky, I mean, the wind, especially with the elevations and stuff it's really tough to get the ball close to the hole.  I don't think either of us putted really too well today, but it's one of those days you have to grind it out.  But like you said, we went through probably nine holes there just fighting for pars or halving the holes with pars.  And then when the birdies opened up there were quite a few.   
 Q.  Tell me about the putt at 17, turned out to be the one that really changed things.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, 100%.  Like I said, just my speed was out.  I missed a couple of short ones in the beginning, hitting them too firm, actually just going after the putting instead of letting it happen, you know.  And then actually got a little bit tentative and I think that's my range.  35, 40-footers are in my range the last couple of weeks.   
 Q.  So you're now at two wins, you know what you need to do tomorrow to advance into the weekend.  Your thoughts going into Friday?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Do the same thing, obviously there's no easy game out there, we all know that.  I don't know what's going on behind us or what happened there, but I need to go out and play solid golf and try to keep the bogeys off the card.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT