WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2015
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Enjoyed a few good months over the summer.  Give us your thoughts on starting The Final Series and ending the season.
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it was good.  It's been a great year so far.  Had a nice break after The Presidents Cup coming into last week, and last week was good.  Bogeyed the last hole to finish not as good as I wanted to, but I think the form was still there, some good putts went in.  For me, that was the start of The Final Series but obviously heading into this week, a bit more confidence coming into this week and hopefully can start it off with a bang.
This is only my second time around this place, but I like it.  Course looks in great form, so you never know.  See how that goes.
Q. How much confidence did you take from The Presidents Cup?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, that week, you have to really step it up.  It's nice knowing that when you have to step it up, I can.  I played some superb golf.  When I had to do things, I did.  But it was a team thing at the end.  There's a lot of pressure, a lot of pressure to perform, and I did it, so that was good.  So probably just taking all of that momentum into these Final Four events.
Q. And your individual performances in the majors this year have been fantastic.  How much confidence does that give you coming into contending for a WGC?
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it's nice to get the first one.  I think when you've got the first one, then it led to all of the others.  Nice knowing that I can do it.  Got close and then gives you that feeling to just want to grab the next one and I think that led into the British, which I may be tried a little bit too hard.  But the PGA, a bit more relaxed again and went for it from there.
Coming to these, it's pretty much the same.  This is for us almost as big as a major, so you definitely want to contend here.  And you've got the best players in the world again.  If you can beat them on a world stage like this, then you know you're doing something right.
Q. Only three events left on The European Tour season, but with the points on offer, still plenty to play for and the position you're in, as well.
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I think I'm sixth at the moment, so there's still a good chance of getting it done.  You just need one good win or one good finish and then you're right up there.  Then all to play for for the last two.
I'm excited.  I like actually all three courses going in now and had a good start last week, so hopefully just take all of that in the next three weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT