CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2015
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Branden, thanks for joining us.  Branden is making his first start on the 15-16 PGA TOUR season this week.  Last season he had four top 10s including a T4 at the U.S. Open and a solo third at the PGA.  Also he's coming off a stellar Presidents Cup performance, 5-0.  If you could just some opening comments about what you've done the last few weeks and maybe talk a little bit about some Presidents Cup experience.   
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, just got home, obviously.  The Presidents Cup was a very big week.  It was close at the end but not as close as we would have liked, but it was nice to head home, spend some time with the family and friends, and just relax before a really busy stretch to the end of the season now.  I think I've almost got seven in a row coming in now, so it's a hectic part of the season for us, but it's been a great year.  I'm excited for the year.  I'm excited to start the year here at the CIMB, and obviously next week, and then hopefully get the season going with a strong week.   
THE MODERATOR: Just a follow-up about the Presidents Cup.  Was there any disappointment for you guys who played that well to come up short?   
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, you know, there's disappointment because you didn't win, but you know, it was just so nice to be able to play well and contribute to the team.  You know, I made 5-0, it was 4 ½ out of 5, which is great, and the last Presidents Cup I played in '13, I had 0 for 4.  That's a big improvement, and it was a big step in the right direction, but it's hard -- it's a tough pill to swallow.  When you come that close -- after the first day we were pretty much out of it, and then the guys really got together.  We really stood tall and grabbed with both arms the rest of the day, with both hands, and then come Sunday, when I teed off, I think there was only one yellow mark on the whole team.  It was only, I think, Jason that was up -- not Jason, Adam that was up, and then we had 10 other games that was all down.  I really thought, geez, are we going to get a hiding, but then the guys showed character and they fought for it.   
Obviously everybody was disappointed, but I think the way that the tournament is going and obviously the point structure that's changed, I think the tournament is definitely going to go in the right direction going forward now, and I think that was a step that needed to change, and it was definitely a step in the right direction for the tournament.   
I spent with Adam nine holes a day, and we were really excited for the next one.  I think with it being so close, even he's getting excited.  I think for the last couple of times where he was chosen for the teams and things, you know, fair enough, you're representing your country and the rest of the world, but if you step up there and you know you're going to lose, it's not always fun being there.  I think this was a big step in the right direction.   
THE MODERATOR: And then moving on to this week, your thoughts about the golf course and Malaysia.   
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I love it.  This is only my second visit to Malaysia.  I've been here a couple years back for the Maybank Malaysia when it was here, the one that we actually won, so I've got some fond memories.   
The golf course, I think it's a ball striker's golf course.  If you can get it going, hit the fairways, hit the greens, then you'll do well around this place.  The greens are tough.  Everybody is going to miss putts, and everybody is going to make putts.  But the golf course is in great nick; it's wet.  I've seen the weather forecast; there's going to be some rain coming every night.  You know, placing it is always a little bit in our favor.  I'm excited.  It's a great golf course, a new season, and my first event of the year, so I'm excited to get started.   
 Q.  Lahiri missed that putt, obviously that short putt at the end.  Were you able to talk to him after that?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, he was very hard on himself after he missed the putt.  Obviously anybody would have been.  But you know, it depends how you look at it.  I still look at it, we had opportunities prior to that.  You know, Bubba missed a three-foot putt on the last hole, as well, to lose.  If he never missed that putt, Lahiri's putt wouldn't have made a difference.  They would have won it there already.  It goes both ways.  I think it's going to be a tough pill to swallow, but he played well last week, and I think it will only make him stronger, and obviously when he gets there next time, I'm sure he'll do something different, but that was the case with me this year.  Being 0 for 4 in 2013, I really wanted to get out there and really perform, and managed to do almost the impossible, and I'm sure he's going to try to do the same the next time around.   
 Q.  With the way you played in the majors and then the way you played at the Presidents Cup, your confidence has to be at another level now, being able to perform on the biggest stages.  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it is.  You know, it's nice knowing that I can do it.  That I think is the biggest thing.  You know, we all play to try to win a major, but if you can't get yourself in that position, you never know what it feels like.  The U.S. Open was a big step for me, and I think everything has just kind of fallen into position after that.  I've been more relaxed this year than I've ever been, and I think it's worked.  When I've had a number of times where I've had two or three weeks off, which I never do in the past, I'll try to play four events, week off, three, especially I've had the three weeks off and the two weeks off, and I think that's helped.  When I've taken time off, I've really taken time off, put the clubs in the cub board and just don't even touch them.  But I'm excited for this year.  I'm in for the majors, I'm playing well, and like you said, the confidence is at the next level.  After the Presidents Cup, knowing that you have to pull off shots at a specific time, that also just contributes to hopefully what's going to be a good year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT