THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've played some phenomenal golf these last couple days.  You're 4-0.  What is it about this pairing that has proved so difficult for the American side?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know, this afternoon, I give everything to this man.  He was unbelievable.  To pull that shot off on the last, I felt I hit a pretty good shot.  But Branden was unbelievable, and then with that chip-in on 16.   
 Q.  Looks like one of the best chances the Internationals have to win The Presidents Cup going into the singles tomorrow the way things are playing out.  What's going through your mind now?  
BRANDEN GRACE: We came into the week very positive.  We knew we had a good team.  We had a great chance.  We're in a great position.  The guys are playing well and we've had a great couple of days.  Playing together, we clicked and it was a great team effort, and come tomorrow, you never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  How to you guys continue to get it done?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know, we play really well together it looks like.  Whenever someone made a mistake, the other one was there.  I wasn't sharp this afternoon.  I had a few good shots but Branden was unbelievable.  He started with three birdies in a row that got us going.  I think we were about 10- or 11-under the two of us.  He played great, just hats off to him today.   
 Q.  I asked earlier in the week why this partnership and he said you're very, very good, as we all know and you're easy to get along with; you're very positive.  From your perspective, why does this partnership work?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I think we know each other's game inside out.  We're great mates and we come from a similar place back home.  We play a lot of golf together, so we know each other's game really well.  It's just a great team effort.  Every time, like Louis said, when one was in trouble the other one stepped in.  Louis also made a couple very important putts when he had to to get the game on.  There was no one on the team today; it was both of us with a great effort.   
 Q.  What are you going to do tomorrow?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: We're going to miss each other.   
BRANDEN GRACE: Hopefully they put us close to each other so we keep on eye on each other.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: (Laughing).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT