THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 8, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER: We want to thank Branden Grace and Louis Oosthuizen for joining us in the media center at The Presidents Cup 2015.   
Branden, and Louis, if you could, opening comments from each of you, and how important was it to get the International Team a point in your 3 & 2 victory.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, we knew the Americans were going to be strong.  They were going to come out firing the first nine holes.  We saw Adam and Hideki in front of us, and the two of us really fought hard to turn it around and to try to motivate the guys at the end, or behind us.  But we knew it was very important.  Jason and Steven hit unbelievable shots at the end there to try and fight it.   
But when we're playing against a proper American side, so we need to come out strong tomorrow.   
BRANDEN GRACE: The same, exactly what Louis said.  We knew they were going to come out strongly.  Every point is so important out there that you really have to grab it when it comes your way.  I think that's what we did.  Kuch was a little bit unlucky once or twice and we grabbed those opportunities with good putts, and every time one of us made a mistake, the other one picked it up and corrected it.   
It was a very important day.  I know we're behind, but the team is in good spirits and we'll see what happens tomorrow.   
CHRIS REIMER: Speaking of, I know you just got out of a team meeting.  Any comments on the mood of the team or maybe something that was said in the team meeting?   
BRANDEN GRACE: It's tough.  Foursomes is a tough format.  It's hard to get the pairings right.  It's one of those days.  I think the rookies might have been a bit tentative, not going for shots as much as they would have liked to.   
But it's just one of those things you have to get past.  Obviously there's another foursomes round coming up on Saturday.  Tomorrow is the big thing.  I think we are in a good frame of mind.  The team spirit is still high, and tomorrow we are going to go out firing.   
 Q.  We don't really have audio in here, but there was some footage of you where you seemed to be very animated with the group, including with Nick, about I'm not sure what.  Can you explain what your thoughts were after the match and what you were talking about?  Seemed like you were kind of pointing and --  
BRANDEN GRACE: I don't really know what you're talking about (laughing).  I was laughing quite a bit today.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He's just like that.   
BRANDEN GRACE: I can't remember exactly where you're coming from, but I'm sure we were just talking about game plan for tomorrow and things like that.  It was just one of those, decide what they think is best.  Obviously there's a couple of guys, the majority of the guys are playing well and in good form, and hopefully tomorrow with a good couple of pairings, we can turn things around.   
 Q.  How is your leg?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm still walking (smiling).  No, it's good, all good.  I didn't feel it at all today.  I didn't feel it Tuesday.  So I'm doing well.  I think Saturday might be a challenge, but I'm willing to putt everything on the line for it.   
 Q.  Can you talk to Nick about possibly going two on Saturday?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think we are probably going to take it one day at a time, see what I feel like Saturday morning.  At the moment, there's no problem whatsoever.  I walked 16 holes and a few more with the guys today and didn't feel it once, so I don't think it's going to be an issue.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to keep your spirits up, considering this event's history, considering what's happened today, and considering that team that you're facing?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, the team spirit is great.  I always say we don't play enough of these events as professionals.  It's so great being part of a team and there's always guys that lifts others to feel better and feel great for the week.   
Obviously we knew coming in, the Americans are a great side.  They are stronger than us on paper, and a lot of them are in great form.  We need to play better.  We today slacked a little bit, but there's four sessions left.  You know, we can turn this thing around tomorrow.   
Yes, we have the history not in our favor, but that's why we play.  We play to change that and we are playing for that trophy at the end of Sunday.   
CHRIS REIMER: Louis, Branden, good luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT