ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Branden, fairly quiet today but this is all very good scoring, isn't it, to move into this position on Sunday?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, it is, you get one of those days going where you shoot 8- or 9-under -- I hit the ball pretty good.  The putter was not going my way the front nine.  I think the little 20-minute wait there at halfway did me the world's of best.  Got to the 10th hole and made a long putt and the putter kept on going from there which was nice.   
In contention.  I don't think I'm going to be two back.  I'm sure the guys are going to make a couple coming in, and we'll see how far we are back, but we're in contention, so that's a good thing.   
 Q.  You really did some marvelous work yesterday laying a foundation.  What is it with you and Kingsbarns?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Just one of those courses I love playing.  It was like back home, Fancourt Links, one of those, I get on there and I feel comfortable.  I think with all the good vibes that I have from that place and playing well in the past, just the experience, I want to tee it up there.  Good vibes.   
And this week has been great, and a partner like Huey has been fantastic.  We've really had a good time.  It was a bit of a fun one today where he told me after a couple of holes he said, listen, I've held four times today, you've only helped twice, lift your game.  And I got it back to four and then he made that net eagle on 17 and that was done for it.  It was a great day.   
 Q.  Different dynamics playing with somebody like a superstar musician?  
BRANDEN GRACE: It is.  There's a lot of great people here, business people and sports people.  It's nice to hear their stories, what they have done and how they same things, and same as us.   
I think it's great for them seeing the way we hit the golf ball and they can pretty much relate to something like that playing golf and being so close to us inside the ropes.  It's great and it's what you make out of it.  It's one of these weeks I enjoy playing with new people and having fun and I think that's been a thing and that's been why I've been victorious here in the past.   
 Q.  Does the rhythm change for the final day when it's all at stake?  
BRANDEN GRACE: Not really.  The past in 2012 when I was hear I played with Mrs. Rupert and she was great.  They know what it's all about.  It's a big thing for them but it's a big thing for us, as well.  I think if the amateurs pick up when they need to pick up, then everybody's happy.  Huey has been great and I'm sure he's going to do that tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT