WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2019
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you ever think on the 13th hole you would be putting for the lead?
BRANDEN GRACE: No, not at all.  What was it?  Was it a six-shot lead, five-shot at the end of the day yesterday.  But obviously when you come out here and have a day like today, you never know what's going to happen.  It can either go your way or it could back fire, but big ups to him for hanging in there.  Around like he had through 12 holes can really get away from you and he dug deep and he pulled it off.  Obviously disappointed not to be the winner at the end of the day, but one bad shot cost me.  But after a missed cut last week it was a great decision to come out here and what a week it was.
Q. I don't know if we can appreciate the adrenaline that you must have felt on 17 tied for the lead on that tee shot.  It was a tough shot, isn't it?
BRANDEN GRACE: It is.  I think 16 is the first time in my life where I was booed to make par on 16.  But it's just how it goes.  So it's one of those things, but it was great, and then 17, I actually aimed exactly there, just didn't come off.
Q. At what point did you realize that you were now tied one shot back taking the lead?
BRANDEN GRACE: Obviously after 13, the birdie on 13, but then they said that -- they wouldn't show what was happening on 11.  But I played well, unlucky to have the one bad shot there on 17.  I thought I made the bunker shot and that would have been a lot better.  But obviously nice to finish with a par.
Q. Your first time out here at this event.  How nice did your game come together this week?
BRANDEN GRACE: It was great.  Obviously I really enjoyed it.  Obviously being in the final group yesterday with Rickie and them was awesome.  This place was nuts.  It's everything and more than what I expected and what a fun week it was.  I can't take anything for granted and I had to dig deep today and I did that, it's just unfortunately one bad shot.
Q. How much do you build on this going forward?
BRANDEN GRACE: Big time.  Obviously after coming off a missed cut last week, coming out here and finishing second and having a chance to win a golf tournament, just a big improvement.  It shows that I played some good golf and I'm really looking forward to the rest of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT