THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Branden Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Super round of golf today, always nice to have that little kick-in birdie on the last hole.  Take us through the day, because you had two birdies early and then back to back bogeys and then that great eagle at 16.  BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I thought that it would have been a nice day to start off the way I did.  2-under for the first three and you think that's just what you need to get the round going.  And just bounced back with two silly bogeys.  Not really bogeys you should be making. Then everything turned around on 16.  I hit a great drive, good 7-iron to 15 feet and rolled it in. Then I think a big key for today was the birdie on 18.  I hit a great drive down there, good 6-iron to three feet and made that.  Then you got your round going and you know there's a couple of birdie chances on the front nine and then you know you can make them.   Q.  Course conditions today, how did they compare this morning with what you had yesterday afternoon?  BRANDEN GRACE: I think it played the same.  Greens were still fairly soft.  With the rain you get at night, that helps us a little bit.  But the greens were a lot quicker today.  This morning they were running a lot quicker than yesterday afternoon and rolling a lot truer as well. But it was nice.  It's nice also to have a round where I was 5-under for the par-5s, which I haven't done for a long time.  So, that's most what I'm pleased about.   Q.  You played here one other time, 2013, what did you take from that experience that's helping you this go round?  BRANDEN GRACE: I had actually a good tournament back then as well in 2013.  I just finished off badly the final day. I was laying Top-10 with three to go and finished in the 30s.  But that happens.  I think I learned something from those mistakes. I enjoy this type of golf course.  You have to play, not really safe, but hit it in the fairways and take the opportunities when they come, and stay patient, and I managed to do that so far.   Q.  It's a lot to go from Match Play to a big event like this.  But it seems like it's working for you right now.  BRANDEN GRACE: Yeah, I had a couple of days off.  I was ill over the weekend, so I couldn't do anything until Wednesday.  I only played nine holes. So I think it's helped to my favor this week.  So it's been good.  I had a good rest for a couple of days and grinded a bit on Wednesday and it's paid off so far.  So hopefully it will pay off for the weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT