OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You've been here a few days now, what's this experience been like for you? 
KARINE ICHER: It's huge. I like it a lot. It's very special to be considered like an athlete. Usually we're just golf players. And sleeping at the village, hitting with them, going to the gym, you see like crazy people and things you've never seen before, and that's fun. Fun to see and fun to watch. 
It's a special spirit, like you can feel it, all about sports. In the France building, everybody says hello, how are you, and you don't even know them or what they are doing. If they are not very famous, you don't know their sport, but there's like a respect between people. It's fun.

Q. You've seen some of these other athletes on television at home, but now you're rubbing shoulders with them and you're out here with the best athletes in the world. You've been in golf for awhile; is this a pinch‑me moment?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, you realise when you're at the village, like every best athlete in the world are here. There's no one else is somewhere on the planet. Like everybody is here. And it's special, yeah. 

Q. What would be the dream this week for you? Did you see the podium? 
KARINE ICHER: No, I haven't seen it, but I've seen other sports on the TV, and obviously to get a medal, it would be a dream. Not only for me but for my country, because here, you're not playing just for yourself. You're playing for the whole country, and to try to get gold for the biggest stage in your country. 
France, we need that, because there's not many golf courses. Golf, it's a small sport in France. And to bring a medal means a lot and can bring so much young girl and young boy to the sport. So that's definitely something we are looking for, me and Gwladys. 

Q. What's your take on the golf course? What are your thoughts? 
KARINE ICHER: I'm very surprised by the golf course. We heard so many things since two years: Oh, it's never going to be ready; the greens are going to be bad. But it's perfect. It's perfect shape. 
It's a great design, very smart. You have long hole, flat greens; short hole, hilly greens. It's fun to play. You can really see that they consulted some players to design the course. It's not made just by an architect. It's made by players. You really can see that, and it's smart. It's fair. There's some holes very difficult you have to play safe. Some of them, you can be a little bit more aggressive. 

Q. What do you think this will do for women's golf?
KARINE ICHER: I think it's going to help women's golf for sure. I've read in the newspaper that golf in the US for the men's was the highest audience, and it's funny, because when you are thinking the top four or five players in the world were not here, and still, the highest audience during the year. 
So hope it's going to be the same for the girls. I think so, because people are curious to see the medalists and the whole Olympic Champion and the National Anthem. People love that. So it can be just positive for women's golf. It can only bring positive things and good spirit for what we are trying to do every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT