SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 4, 2016
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What stood out today in the 62?
KARINE ICHER: My second shot was pretty good.  Like I said, I made a lot of second shots close to the hole, so made some birdie easier to do.  The greens are difficult to read, and to get the right speed with the right slope; so the closer you are, the easiest it is.
No, it was a good round.  I putted well.  I had good wedges.  So quite happy.
Q. What would you say your longest birdie putt was today?
KARINE ICHER: Well, I don't know, maybe ten feet.
Actually, no, I had a chip on No. 6.  I had to do like a rescue -- hybrid around the green.  That one was lucky because it was quite hard, and dead straight in the hole, but yeah, that was the longest one.
Q. How far was that chip?
KARINE ICHER: I was off the green.  So probably ten yards, ten, 12 yards.
Q. When did you kind of realize that you were kind of, quote, in the zone today, or things were going good for you?
KARINE ICHER: I don't realize.  I just like try to play easy and not look at the scoreboard, because it doesn't serve me.  I know that.  So try to play shot after shot, and then it's become like a game to make as much as birdie as possible.
Q. Does the course play any differently today from yesterday?
KARINE ICHER: Different wind a little bit, yeah.  Not completely different but a slight difference.  I played that course like in hardest condition with the rain, with the wind, so it's just like a wonderful day today with the sunshine.  I think every player is going to enjoy it to play it.
Q. Did you sneak a peak at the scoreboard?  You must have known the birdies were mounting up.  Did you know you were coming close to the close record or you were going very low?
KARINE ICHER: No.  I just tried to keep playing and tried to keep playing well, that's it.
Q. What's your history like on this course?  Have you played well here or not so well?
KARINE ICHER: I've played many, many years here.  I can't remember like off the top of my head right now.  But I have a really nice souvenir, actually.  I made a 2 on No. 3, my first 2 ever on a par 5.  Each time I play that hole, it remember me that.
Q. What year was that?
KARINE ICHER: Not last year, two years ago.
Q. Where do you feel you stand now for tomorrow, just try to keep doing what you're doing?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, I think maybe a good score is coming up this afternoon for sure.  There is good players going to play.  If I have the lead, fine.  If not, fine, too.  I'll try my best tomorrow.
Q. Have you been in contention this year going into the final round?
KARINE ICHER: Not like that, so first one.
Q. You've got the Olympic tournament coming up in a couple of months.  What do you think that experience is going to be like?
KARINE ICHER: It's going to be fun.  First time at the Olympics.  I think all the players have to take it like as a normal tournament.  It's just four rounds.  Nothing special.  Obviously this is the Olympics but on the other part is not to put too much pressure on you because it's hard.
So it's going to be fun.  Try to stay away from the bug.  It's a good practice this week.  Try some bug spray, if it works.  Other than that, yeah, exciting.
It's a normal tournament in Rio, four rounds, on a new golf course, that's it.
Q. When you're making a lot of birdies like you did today, how do you sort of not get caught up in the moment and get carried away?  How do you sort of keep your emotions kind of under control and stay going shot-to-shot?
KARINE ICHER: By playing on Tour with experience, you know if you start to rush or start to look at the leaderboard or if you miss a shot, like get upset, it's not going to serve you for sure.
So I tried to play shot after shot, and if I miss a green or if I miss a drive, fine, I can always like do a recovery and that's what I did.
Q. When did you realize you had a 62?
KARINE ICHER: On the green here, once it's finished.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT