CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Yesterday you talked about the hole looking really big.  Did it look not quite as big today or how could you characterize it?
KARINE ICHER: No, my putting was good, but pin position on top, it's tough. It's super hilly on the corner.  You have to choose the right club, and with the wind, it was more difficult today to find the right club because of the wind.  You have holes into the wind and then the hole will change, but it's still a good day.
Q. Nice way to end it with a 2-putt?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, I thought it was going to be downhill and it was going to be super fast because the green looks like almost brown.  But no, in fact, it was normal speed.  So you have to judge the green really carefully this week I think because that's where -- the key on this golf course is the greens.
Q. You have to be pleased where you are after two rounds.  You should be at or near the lead.
KARINE ICHER: Sure.  It's four rounds, so a lot of work to do for the weekend, but I'm quite happy with this, yes.
Q. I forgot to ask you yesterday, you finished second at this tournament in 2013 but you got the first place one.
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, because the leader was amateur, so I took the check.  She won, but I took the check.  Now she's pro, so I think if she wants, she takes the check.  She is not going to give it to me.
But yeah, it was a good memory, just after the Solheim.  It was a good tournament.
Q. I guess you'd like to win the trophy, though, right?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, that's what I'm here for.
Q. You've won several times in Europe but not yet on the LPGA Tour.  Does that bother you or is it a motivation?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, sure, it's my goal.  From the beginning I want to win here.  It's completely different level between European Tour and the LPGA.  I think we are not competing on the same stage.  It's good to win in Europe obviously, but as soon as you come here, I mean, you have the best players in the world.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT