CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2015
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What kind of clicked for you today?
KARINE ICHER: Well, my putting was very good, and I think today I've seen the hole bigger than the other days.  So sometimes you have days like that where everything works, so I'm quite happy with this one.
Q. You kind of got it going at 8.  You strung off four birdies in a row starting at No. 8?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, it was a good strike there.  I had four birdies, and then it's not an easy course.  I mean, you have to be very precise with your first tee and then the greens are fast and kind of hilly, so it's a good challenge.
Q. When you get like that with the confidence, does it keep building?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, yeah, when you make some birdies like that in a row, you have more and more confidence and build some confidence through the round.  Then it's good for the tournament, for the season, for everything.  I mean, it's always nice to have some rounds like that where you don't have so much questions.  You know the club, you take the club, you hit the shot, and it's close to the pin.
Q. So you feel like you had sort of all the answers today?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, pretty much.  Yeah, I'll take it.
Q. Did you feel like you had a round like this coming?
KARINE ICHER: No, you cannot predict.  I mean, it would be nice to be able to predict that, but, no.  I just hit well the ball yesterday and gained confidence for the practice rounds and that's it.
Q. Do you feel like you're due for a big tournament?
KARINE ICHER: I hope so, yeah, that's why I'm here (Laughing).
Q. What about tomorrow?  How do you approach tomorrow now?
KARINE ICHER: Same as today, just try to put my ball on the fairway off the tee shot and then be close to the pin and then put the putt in the hole.
Q. Simple?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah, just simple.  I mean, golf should be simple.  Sometimes it's not, but golf should be like as simple as that.
Q. How would you describe your year so far?
KARINE ICHER: It's been average.  Always can be better.  I'm still looking for a good result like top 10, top 5.  So I hope it's going to be the week.
Q. So Solheim's coming up.  It's the last week to qualify for that.  Is that something that's been in the back of your mind?
KARINE ICHER: Sure, sure.  I think everybody, like all Europeans and Americans have that in their head, and on top of the tournament and it's a big tournament and everyone wants to perform here.  But it's the last chance to get some points and try to be on the team.  So I think everybody's looking for that, yeah.
Q. You've played on Solheims before.  What's that like?  What is that experience like to you and what's it mean to you?
KARINE ICHER: It's such a good experience.  You have a lot of pressure and you want to play just not for yourself but for your teammate, and it means a lot.  I mean, I would be super proud to be on the team.  It means like you have to give the best of you, everything you have.  I mean, it's a good experience to win it, of course, obviously it's fantastic.  But you learn a lot during the Solheim Cup because it's extreme conditions, like the course is difficult, the pressure is a lot.  It's huge.  So it's a good test of golf to see where you are under pressure.
Q. You were born in France.  Now you live in Orlando?
KARINE ICHER: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT