JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2015
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had a brilliant round going and then unfortunately the end, a little bit of trouble.   What do you say to yourself to composure yourself and finish things off when you make a big number?   
KARINE ICHER:   Well, my name is in place so I'm going to stay focused on that.   I'm putting well, driving well, good shots.   I just missed a shot and then, you know, on this course, if you go too far over the green, you are kind of dead.   I had a bad hole, but happens in golf.   More golf to play Saturday and Sunday.   So that's a lot of things to do.   
   
 Q.   And you have a little bit of time now while things finish up in the second round.   You started working with an instructor last year.   How has that helped you and given you some new thoughts and inspiration this year?   
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, it's going good.   I like it.   It's more like a player, like not too much a coach, not too much focus on technique, so that helps me a lot for sure.   I start last year with him, and I like it.   
   
 Q.   So you're in the hunt, obviously going into the next two rounds, what's your approach going to be on the weekend?   
KARINE ICHER:   Same as the first two days.   I mean, you cannot approach differently.   Have to be a little more aggressive on a few shots, a few holes.   But it's the kind of golf course you play like driver has to be in place and then second shot.   
So I'm going to attack next two days exactly the same.  
   
 Q.   On 16 you had the lead and then had that triple.   What went into you decide to go play that shot out of the woods?   
KARINE ICHER:   I had no other choice.   If I declare it unplayable and go back in the bunker to drop my ball in the bunker, it will plug.   So I mean, it would be probable the same number at the end.   So I tried to be smart and drop far back, but in this stuff, I don't know how to play that.   I mean, it's hard.   It's not the bunker.   It's not the fairway.   It's in between.   So maybe I'm going to practice that the next few days.  
   
 Q.   Solheim Cup year, obviously you've played in it before; how much of a motivating factor is it to make that team?  
KARINE ICHER:   For sure, it's motivating.   It's a long way from now to the selection, the team selection, to we'll see.   We'll see what's going on and how I play.   
I say to myself, if I play well, and if I am consistent and do good finishes, I'm probably going to be in the team.   So it's just a result of a good season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT