LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2014
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Karine Icher, our clubhouse leader, a very solid round today.   Not a lot of low scores.   What was the key to your 4‑under today? 
KARINE ICHER:   Well, today was a completely different course than yesterday.   It was like completely different.   It was funny to play because we were all laughing, my caddie, for example, like No. 1 yesterday, I hit a driver and two and today was driver and wedge.   It was kind of funny, it was less wind today, so I'm surprised there's not much low score, because I thought the course was easier today. 
But it's always a pleasure to play here.   The course is in really good shape.   Probably one of the best greens we play all year. 
THE MODERATOR:   This is your third Asian event.   Coming into this stretch of the final stretch of the season, did you have any goals or any mind‑set, things that you wanted to achieve throughout this final stretch of the year? 
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, it's the final four or five tournaments for us, so I'd like to win one.   There's nothing else I'm looking for.   I pretty much in every tournament want to make sure so there's no deadline for me to be good enough to be able to play CME or whatever.   So now it's just go for it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything in your game you've been working on, anything in particular that's been a hindrance, anything that's been strong?   Just overall aspects of your game? 
KARINE ICHER:   Well, this week my coach was here, so we practiced a lot like low shots because we knew it would be windy. 
So we practised a lot of that and seems to pay off, because here, I mean, it's always windy.   I never played in Korea without any wind.   So the low shot is very strong in my game right now. 
THE MODERATOR:   Who is your coach? 
KARINE ICHER:   Brian Mogg. 
THE MODERATOR:   How long have you guys been working together? 
KARINE ICHER:   One year.   I started last winter. 
THE MODERATOR:   And how often does he come out.
KARINE ICHER:   He comes a little bit, yeah, because there are five of us with the same coach.   So he comes quite a bit, yeah. 

Q.   This tournament has expanded to 72 holes for this year.   How do you approach it? 
KARINE ICHER:   It's the same.   It's nice not to have really four rounds to play an event‑‑ before, three rounds, we don't have lot of three‑round tournaments right now.   We probably have one or two tournaments, even less than that.   So I mean, three rounds, you have to be really ready and shoot three days really low. 
Now, four rounds, you have a little bit more time and I think it's more fun for everybody.   We have one more day and the fans have one more day to see each player they want, so it's good. 

Q.   You had a birdie on No. 15, and it seems like a relatively short par 4?
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, it's downwind and seems easy, but then when you realize you have to hit your driver really in a narrow place to go to the green, and it's just to know that you need driver when you are hitting downwind and probably a 7‑iron and a wedge, but probably maybe you can birdie doing that, maybe 7‑iron and a wedge.   I pushed a little bit my driver. 
I was in the rough on the right side of the green and still had a good lie and I had a good shot.   But I mean, if you hit a really good drive, you can go like all over the green on the other side and then the 2‑putt par is tough. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take us through the final two birdies, how those played out. 
KARINE ICHER:   17 was looking short.   It's still a tricky hole but I had just a 7‑iron into the wind.   It's only like 145 to the pin and have to hit a 7‑iron.   Then 18, again, completely different hole than yesterday, and I had to hit wedge.   Yesterday most of the girls hit it in two and today there was no way.   It was a three‑shot hole.   So hit a really good wedge and almost a tap‑in for birdie, so a good finish. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT