SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC
April 25, 2014
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Karine Icher into the interview room.   Karine, obviously weather played a big factor in play today.  
Take us through what your strategy was knowing that the rain was coming ahead of time.  
KARINE ICHER:   Well, everybody knew that today was going to be rainy and wet, so basically there is no really strategy.  
It's like staying dry as much as you can, and then try to hit the fairway and then the green and then putt in the hole.  
It's a tough golf course.   You can be quick in trouble, or if you're playing well, like yesterday I did think it goes pretty well‑‑ but today with the wind and the rain it's definitely a tough day.  
But the green are softer, so it's a little bit easier to stop the ball, especially when you chip.  
THE MODERATOR:   Yesterday you were saying the strategy was to stay short of the hole.   Was that what you used today as well?   
KARINE ICHER:   As well, yes.   A little bit less, because with the soft greens you can be a little bit more aggressive.   But stay short of the hole, it's definitely the key on this course.   Yeah.  
MODERATOR:   So when the horn sounded, what do you do during the delay?   
KARINE ICHER:   Eat a little bit and then try to dry the clothes, and that's it.   Rain delay is never fun, but happens a lot of times when LPGA is in town.   It's amazing.   It's rainy or cold or windy.  
So we're used to it.   We have to play with it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Is it correct you had two more holes to play when you came back on?   
KARINE ICHER:   I was on the 17 green, so I had one and a quarter.   (Laughter.)  
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions.  
   
 Q.   Just wondering how this start factors into some of the other starts you've had at other tournament?   Is this one of the better starts you've had in a while?  
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, yeah.   I can't remember exactly, but being within the top 5 to start the tournament, it's pretty good.   It's better than to be 20 or 30.   
So far this year was my best start, yes.   
   
 Q.   Is there something in your game that's taken it to another level?  
KARINE ICHER:   Maybe putting this week is a little bit stronger than the past week, and this is the key I think for everybody.   When you start to putt well, you gain confident.   That's how you make a score.  
So yesterday I made really good putts, and today I made some good putt for pars, too.   I think this is the key, yes.   When you're putting get stronger and improve, you can shoot low.   
THE MODERATOR:   You have your son out here with you, right?   Son and husband?   
KARINE ICHER:   Daughter and husband.  
THE MODERATOR:   What have you guys been doing this week?   
KARINE ICHER:   It's hard.   We found a playground, so we go there when we have a little bit of time.   Today I think it's going to be hard to go there.   
So just spend time together and be parents.   Other than that, she's at the day care with the two nannies we have on tour.   She get used to it, too.   
   
 Q.   I don't know whether you're aware or not, but this winter is one of the worst droughts we've had in history.   Couldn't tell it this week.   Were you aware we've had no rain all winter?  
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, I think this is the worst weather we had so far.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, but locally we have had no rain all winter.   
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah?   Really?   We should go and play in Africa.   To have the LPGA in the middle of Africa Kay, we can bring rain.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you, Karine.   
KARINE ICHER:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT