CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2013
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KARINE ICHER:   I had more putts get in today, so definitely better than yesterday.  
   
 Q.   It's just strange.   The conditions are a bit more challenging than they were the last few days?  
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, pin position, they're always in the corner of the green and you have to make sure you're on the good side on the right side otherwise you get in trouble quickly.  
   
 Q.   What do you make of Lydia Ko winning this thing twice?   
KARINE ICHER:   It's incredible.   As an amateur and so young, it's great for women's golf, but it's not so great for us.   No, she's amazing.   I mean, 16 years old and to win twice, she has no fear, I guess.   I mean, she's just playing golf and going through everything, the pressure, media, everything, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   You're saying not so good for us, but not too bad for you.   
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, no, not too bad for me, obviously.   But I would love to win one one day, but it's nice for her.   She deserves it.   I'm sure she's a hard worker, and especially in Canada for her it's special.  
   
 Q.   Is that a good consolation prize if it stands up to get first place money?   
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, of course, Of course.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel guilty at all?   
KARINE ICHER:   No, no.   I'm sure she's going to have some one day.   She's going to have her turn.  
   
 Q.   Everybody kept asking you about Solheim.   People say it can make or break people's career.   Obviously, it's been a boost for you?  
KARINE ICHER:   It's been a boost, but I'm very tired and next week I'm not going to play in Portland because it's in two weeks in a row like this it takes a lot of energy and play under pressure.   But definitely to win the Solheim on U.S. soil was fantastic.  
   
 Q.   Perhaps your best finish so far?   
KARINE ICHER:   Second, I've never won, so maybe one day, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're still kind of going up in terms of improving in the game?   
KARINE ICHER:   I've improved a lot my putting.   My putting was good this week, but too short to win the tournament.   So I guess I have to improve again and more putts, more driving on the fairway, and that's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT