CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2013
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KARINE ICHER:   I missed some fairways, but I mean, on this kind of golf course you expect to miss some fairways.   I had good recovery, good wedging.   The greens were slower today, so it was very difficult to find a good speed, and with the slope on the greens, especially the slopes are difficult to read, and the ball never took off. 
But even par, it's still a good score on this course.

Q.   How important was that to still kind of stick around and be within stroking distance?
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, yeah, three shots behind, so everything is possible tomorrow, and we'll see.   Try to play my best golf, but I think everybody is in the same case, and it's really the kind of golf course you'll have to stay patient, and even if you miss a drive, put it in the rough, you lay up and then you can still make a par.   Just maybe be more focused on the first shot on every hole to put the ball in play, and then it's a little bit easier.

Q.   You didn't make up a whole bunch of ground but you didn't lose a whole bunch of ground.   Are you kind of happy with where you are right now?
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, I was pleased, too, at one point of the course.   I made a birdie on 14 and 18, so I take what I can take and turn the page, and we'll see tomorrow.   You know, in golf it's never finished until the ball is in the hole on the 18th hole, so we'll see.

Q.   I know you're just focused on your game, but all three of you seemed to struggle a bit today. 
KARINE ICHER:   Yeah, it's a hard course.   The fairways are really tricky.   The rough begins to grow.   I don't think they're going to cut it tonight, so the more you go in the week, the higher it is, so you have to make sure you're not missing any fairways.   And then always the same, make some putts.   Putts make all the difference.   You can be like 20 feet from the hole and make the birdie.   It doesn't matter if you were close or not. 

Q.   Cristie at the end there kind of, she kind of took ‑‑
KARINE ICHER:   She had a triple on 17 and double on 18.   I think 18 was a consequence of 17.   She's still a good player.   She hit the ball really far, very straight.   I'm sure tomorrow she's going to have a better day.   But 17 was a difficult hole with the pin back left, and these greens were quicker than the other ones, so we all like were past the hole, and then you have downhill putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT