LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2009
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Karine, another nice round. Now you've got the lead by yourself, at least for now, at 14-under par. If you would, just talk about your day. Not quite as good as yesterday, but still pretty good.   
 KARINE ICHER: Yes. My driving was not so good as yesterday, so I missed some of the fairways. I did good today from the fairway, so I'm happy about that, but still a good day. I had good putts, and it was a good round.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?   
  
  Q. It sounds like you're mentioning your irons and your putting. Has that kind of been the key, that both of those are working for you?  
 KARINE ICHER: Right now, what is working right now is more my driving and then my putting.   
 Typically, on this kind of course, if you drive in the middle and then you putt well, obviously you're going to make some birdies because it's not a very long course. So you're going to have some short irons to play.   
 So I think this is the key, to hit the middle of the fairway and then try to work the ball on the greens. But this course still demands a lot of thinking about the slope on the greens, and where you have to meet and where you have to be to get good putts, because you can be like five feet from the hole and be dead because you're downhill and you have no putt. So it still demands a good strategy.   
  
  Q. I'd like to get your thoughts on the fact you set the all-time record here for low score over two rounds. Just your thoughts on that, or is that just a number?  
 KARINE ICHER: Well, I'm proud of me, and it's nice to get the record for two low rounds. So maybe this afternoon some girls are going to shoot low also, because the course begins to be dry and we have good conditions. So I'm trying to get in the present and don't be in the future, and I have two more rounds to play and we'll see. But I'm going to try to stay to the game.   
  
  Q. Much has been made over the few years here over the south Koreans dominating, but right now it looks like it's European players on top of the score list. Just your thoughts on the type of talent coming out of Europe.   
 KARINE ICHER: Well, like I said yesterday, it's more like a European golf course, so I'm not surprised that all the Europeans love to play this course and score low, because in Europe we have a lot of these kind of courses, tricky, and you have to work on the ball.   
 So I don't know, maybe it's good memories for us, but it's good to get the European in front of the leaderboard. It's a change from Korean.   
  
  Q. So many players towards the top of the leaderboard, did that help you focus going into today that obviously you didn't have much room for error and you had to put together another pretty solid round in order to stay in this thing?  
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. I tried to make as many birdies as possible to save points, because there's some low scorers today, so it helps to see that the players are doing well, and it's positive to see the leaderboard with low scores. That means if the other players make birdies, I can do it, too. So yeah, it's good.   
  
  Q. Just looking at, you know, your scoring today, you put yourself in pretty good position, maybe not a lot of incredibly long putts. I mean I'm guessing just from -- I think the longest putt was you said five yards. So just your thoughts on that. It seems like you put yourself in pretty good position to score today.   
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. It was the goal this morning to keep playing well, and trying to follow. That was the goal, so I'm okay with that. I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. Just talk about your level of confidence now as opposed to when you were -- you've been in the hunt here in the past. I imagine obviously it's helped to string together two rounds like this, not only the first two rounds, but I think it was a record for also tied a record for back-to-back rounds at this tournament in any round.   
 KARINE ICHER: No. It helps. It helps anyway. I know that you learn more from your mistakes than from good things. So you learn from playing well, obviously, but when you make some mistakes, you learn more. So I did a lot in the past, and I was short to win some tournaments in '05, '06, and I hope right now it's going to help me to go forward and don't make the same mistakes.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thank you so much.   
 KARINE ICHER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT