LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2009
Karine Icher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we go through your card? Birdie on 2.
 KARINE ICHER: Yes. I had drive and a 5-iron to maybe six feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Eagle on 5.
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. Driver, rescue number 5 and six feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 6.
 KARINE ICHER: 7-iron. It's unusual to hit a 7-iron on a par-4, but 7-iron, wedge and one foot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie, 9. 
 KARIN ICHER: 3-wood, 9-iron and five feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 14? 
 KARINE ICHER: 14, I hit driver, 5-iron, 54 and one foot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 15? 
 KARINE ICHER: 8-iron, and I had like maybe 12 yards. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 12 yards? 
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Nice. 18.
 KARINE ICHER: 18, driver, wedge, and four feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Great round out there. Late round, and now you're tied for the lead. So we were all waiting to see if you were going to do it. If you would, just talk about being at 8-under at the Corning Classic and being tied for the lead right now. 
 KARINE ICHER: Well, I love this course, and I would say it's a course that reminds me of like some European courses, like tricky course with a lot of birdies. 
 It's funny because you can hit the par-5 in two, not all of them, obviously not the 14, but No. 2, No. 5. So it gives like more friend of the game, and I think for the fans it's fun to watch because it makes some eagles possible, and it makes sense.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. Always nice to at least share the lead, but is it particularly satisfying to be in this position when you saw a lot of the afternoon scores kind of trailed off, and mostly your top scores came in the morning?
 KARINE ICHER: Sure. Because we had a little bit of wind this afternoon, so it was maybe a little bit more difficult to make a good score this afternoon, so I'm pretty happy with this score. 
 I mean I didn't have a good beginning of the season, so it gives me some confidence, obviously, and I'm hopeful the rest of the week and the season also. 

 Q. Aside from the wind, some of the other players were commenting about the greens were a bit bumpy. Did you find that to be the case as well, or at least bumpier than normal?
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. When you play, especially in the afternoon, they are a little bit bumpy, but we still have very good greens, really good fairways, and it was very much enjoyable to play here. 

 Q. What was your thought process when you started? And I don't know if you noticed that so many scores were going low. Did that put a little bit of the heat on?
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. With this kind of field, because it's almost a full-field event. All the top players are here, and with the good weather and with the fairway dry, I mean everybody knows that the scores are going to be low. 
 So I said, okay, just try to hit the middle of the fairway and put it on the green and then it'll go. So I think everybody knows that the scores are going to be very low and be for sure, I think, but under par. But it's fun. 

 Q. Remember a few years back you were in this position through I think the third round. 
 KARINE ICHER: Yes. 

 Q. Does that experience give you confidence going forward?
 KARINE ICHER: Yeah. Yeah. I remember a few things here, and I remember to share the lead and to get a lead after -- I don't remember, maybe after 55 holes or something like that with Annika, so I'm going to try to don't make the same mistakes. 

 Q. Getting back to that, over the past couple years, you've been in the interview room several times. You've been on the leaderboard, I think it was 2005, may have been a couple years after that. What do you think you can do now that you weren't able to do those past couple years to maybe seal the deal? And I mean I hate to look ahead to Sunday when we haven't even gotten through Friday yet, but it is a long tournament. Do you feel like maybe you're more equipped to go through a full four rounds and play well instead of maybe having two good rounds and two rounds that maybe aren't so good?
 KARINE ICHER: For sure, I have more experience, so it helps. 2005 was my really first year on the Tour, so it was hard to be leading the tournaments, a few holes at the end of the tournament. So I made some mistakes. 
 Now I'm five years older, so it helps a little bit, but I'm going to try to keep my game like it is today and good driving, good putting, and we'll see. I mean we have a lot of good players over here, so I'm not going to be surprised if tomorrow or Saturday we're going to see some 10 or 11 under on one round. I mean it's possible. 

 Q. A lot of people who were leading were talking about it's going to take at least a 20-under to win this. Is that something you see?
 KARINE ICHER: Well, if the weather stays like that and maybe a little bit less of wind, for sure. For sure we're going to hit the 20-under. Maybe more. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thank you so much. 
 KARINE ICHER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT