U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 29, 2012
Rebecca Soni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   It sets me up good.   It hurt nice and good so hopefully tomorrow I will be faster and I'm happy with it. 

Q.   Is it tough when you're that far ahead and you don't have someone to push you? 
REBECCA SONI:   It's kinda nice.   I can't complain about that.   I think I just need to find a nice, smooth stroke for tomorrow and maybe got hopefully some of the nerves out tonight and will be able to relax tomorrow. 

Q.   Back off a little? 
REBECCA SONI:   No, I was trying hard.   I'm still playing with when to flip the switch to take it to the next gear, usually it's the last 15 meters, maybe tomorrow I'll push it if it feels good, but definitely gave it my all tonight. 

Q.   Is there pressure being the Olympic Champion? 
REBECCA SONI:   Yeah, there is pressure with that, but the point of this is to make the team and the real show is in a month so not too bad. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   I had my times in mind for this meet.   Like I've been saying, it's making the team; that's the plan.   I'm just happy with the time.   It was a lot faster than the morning, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   So you will open up the throttle and see what happens? 
REBECCA SONI:   Definitely.   You know we have a whole 24 hours; it's not like prelims/finals.
So I definitely gave it my all, a full effort and tomorrow hopefully I will have a little more. 

Q.   A little bit of elation, sitting in that ready room when Ricky made that relay, too? 
REBECCA SONI:   Definitely, you know, sitting in there they don't show just the first person who finishes, so I was like, what place?   What place?   He did really well and it's awesome for him to be able to swim two events. 

Q.   You will probably get this before tomorrow's finals, do you have your eye set on a world record? 
REBECCA SONI:   I can't really focus on that because I don't want to push it too early and fall back, so I just want to swim well for me, whatever that is.   If that manages to be a world record, that would be amazing, but I'm not focusing on it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   I'm really excited.   I didn't have any times in mind for this.   I just was focusing on making the team, so that's still the focus.   I'm happy with the time.   It's close to my best.   Every time I like to get a little closer and we'll see tomorrow. 
I'm not thinking about times or records, I just want to see a 1 or 2. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   I don't know.   I'm not one to really like pay too close attention to all the details of swimming. 
All I know is when I dive in usually the 200 feels nice and smooth, and that's where I'm most comfortable and I just take care of myself. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   The men's race was pretty crazy and I'm excited for those guys that made it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
REBECCA SONI:   I'm sure.   Butterfly and backstroke is difficult, to me.   I think everybody has to find their own way to do breaststroke and not follow somebody else.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT