AUSTIN REGIONAL NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 14, 2019
Hugh McCutcheon
Adanna Rollins
Alexis Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Minnesota 3
Louisville 0
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: Good evening, obviously very happy with the win tonight, with the performance, and obviously extremely happy to be moving on in the tournament. So just very proud of our team and excited for the next match. Thank you.
Q. How complete of a match was this? How would you rate it?
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: I thought it felt for the most part pretty good. I thought, you know, offensively and defensively, we were feeling balanced. You know, we got a fair share of blocks tonight, and we were digging at a pretty good rate.
I thought our serve was really the key to the game, and that seemed to be a strengths of ours all weekend, and offensively we got production from a lot of different people, and that's also been something that's been fairly consistent for us.
Q. The team is known for consistency in serve, not so much aggressiveness. How would you describe the kind of serves tonight?
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: I thought they were tactical and intentional, I guess are the adjectives I would use. It seems like there's a fine line being aggressive and being reckless. We're trying to be more assertive I guess. We have an idea of where we want to go and where we're trying to stick it, and we were really trying to hit a good serve in that spot. But you know, maybe that's semantics, but that's how we see it.
Q. Alexis, what was it like, Final point and everyone comes out, knowing you were going to the semis?
ALEXIS HART: It was a good feeling, especially after last year. Overall we're just glad that the team did well and that we were very consistent.
Q. Talk about the final four in 2015 and 2016.
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: For me, yes, that's correct. It seems like for the program, maybe there's been a shift since those first couple in 2015 and 2016. I think you're managing a lot of unknowns relative to the event. I think now that we've had the opportunity to be there a couple times and we get to go again -- not that it still won't be a ton of really cool stuff that we have to watch out for, but we can be a little more focused on who we need to be and not get caught up in too much of that other stuff.
ALEXIS HART: I think the biggest thing is that like this year, the team has grown and matured.
Q. Having been there before, how would you educate and prepare your teammates?
ALEXIS HART: Yeah, just like what you said, just make sure we stay focused and not playing to expectations I guess and making sure we're playing one point at a time.
Q. Is that something you would tell the others?
ALEXIS HART: Yeah, for sure. We tell each other a lot.
Q. How do you feel you played tonight?
ADANNA ROLLINS: I played good. Really excited. I love this group.
Q. What do you think is the secret that Adanna's success?
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: She's good. That helps. I think over the last few weeks in particular, her out of system range has really been something that she's been working on and has improved significantly. You know, she carries a significant -- six-rotation outside hitter, and I think she just does a really good job. You know, most people don't understand the way of that, but the fact that as a sophomore she's able to do the things she does consistently, night in, night out, I think that speaks to the calibre of volleyball player that she is.
Q. What did you see from Louisville last night against Texas?
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: We knew that the key for us was just to be consistent. You know, Louisville is good, right, no question they are good. But we knew if we could consistently keep it on them, we thought that would be the best way to try to have a tactical advantage.
So we are trying to be, you know, pretty low error. Like we said, be intentional, but be really focused on trying to make a play, and you know, force them to beat us, I guess, is the way we were thinking about it.
And obviously within that, there's things that we're trying to exploit, as well. There's weaknesses that we're trying to leverage, but really, just from the defensive end, making sure that they had to earn it.
Q. What were you trying to do out there on the floor against Jones?
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: 15. We're not on a first-name basis.
ALEXIS HART: Make sure we're very disciplined blocking.
Q. In the first set -- how do you rate how you played in that one?
ADANNA ROLLINS: I thought I did fine. I don't know, I'm just playing to win. I guess that's the key to my performance.
Q. Was there any extra satisfaction tonight knowing what you went through last week?
ALEXIS HART: I'm just proud of this team for just pushing through and doing what we had to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT