AUSTIN REGIONAL NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 13, 2019
Hugh McCutcheon
Alexis Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Minnesota 3, Florida 2   
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: As we would expect at this stage of the tournament, it was a heck of a battle. We're certainly happy with the result. I thought Florida played a really good match. They had a good plan, and you know, it took everything we had to find a way to win, but I was really proud of the team for hanging in there.   
I thought we maintained our composure at a really solid level throughout the match, even when it wasn't going our way, I thought our athletes were still present and in it and engaged and working hard, and at the end of the day that paid some dividends. Happy with the team and happy to be advancing.   
 Q.  You mentioned composure. Do you think what happened last week helped along that way?  
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: Sure, yeah. I think there's probably some benefit having already gone through a close match in the tournament, but you know, we also get to play in the Big Ten where you get to play in a lot of close matches all the time. I just think there is something to -- yeah, what happened last weekend, sure. Just the rigor of the schedule that we end up playing helps us, as well, I think.   
 Q.  Was it kind of a strange match the way the score turned out, where one team would dominate and the other team?  
ALEXIS HART: Yeah, I think both teams were pretty consistent throughout the match. Like hue said, Florida is a good team, and not just people be consistent, but just one set was towards one team and one set was towards the other.   
 Q.  I guess there was just one set you guys hit great, every set except one. What happened there?  
ALEXIS HART: I think maybe we weren't as assertive, but I think overall, we did pretty good.   
HEAD COACH HUGH McCUTCHEON: Yeah, we're slugging it, hitting .200, that's not that bad, right. If that's the outhouse, I don't know want to know what the penthouse is, right. Yeah, we were struggling in that set and they head for a nice clip, 441, and kudos to them. They played well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT