U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2019
Matthew McCarty
Derek Ackerman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Derek, let's start with you.  Sometimes it's tough playing a team that comes out of a playoff because they've got a little momentum.  How did that fare this morning?  They jumped on you right away.  
DEREK ACKERMAN: They did actually.  They made a 30-foot kind of ridiculous putt on the 1st hole.  All right.  Might be going their way today.  I didn't have the best start, but Matt kind of kept it in there for us, and we kind of got in a groove come the par 5 -- 5, I think.   
 Q.  6.  
DEREK ACKERMAN: 6.  That kind of started us on a little bit of a roll because early on we didn't have that many birdie putts.  Then come later, throughout the round, we started hitting greens and hitting fairways like we were doing in stroke play.  We kind of stopped thinking about we have to do this and have to do that, more just play like we have been, not really force anything.   
 Q.  Matt, tell me about the birdie at 6, since he referenced it, the par 5.  That was a tough hole location.  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Yeah, that was.  He hit a good second shot in there, had about -- he was just down the hill and had a good two-putt from there.  But, yeah, 6 and then 7, we birdied 7 too.  I made like a ten-footer after he was in with three.  That was a good momentum a booster too.   
Then I think, like, they played really well, though.  Like from there on in, it was pretty much a grind all day.   
 Q.  You were halving holes?  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Yeah, we couldn't really get anything going on them.  They couldn't really hit anything on us.  They made a few good par putts.  We didn't have too many tough looks to stay in there, but we didn't really have many birdies drop either.   
 Q.  Then you guys took a hole on 14, another birdie there.  
DEREK ACKERMAN: Yeah, I drove the green there and two-putted.  Then on the next hole, I also reached it in two and then two-putted there.  Had a nice birdie there.   
 Q.  14, how did you play the drive?  
DEREK ACKERMAN: It was a little downwind.  It was 280 to the pin, and I hit a pretty good, really good 3 wood right at it.  Landed just short of the green, bounced up, had a 25, 30 footer coming down the hill.  Rolled it four feet, and I made the come-backer.   
 Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you played today?  Still where you want to be?  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Yeah, I think it was good.  I don't think either of us played extremely well today, which I think was good for us to kind of grind it out there and get a win, maybe not being at our best, because we're probably not going to play perfect every day.   
But I think, yeah, played well.  They had some of the harder pins out there that we'll probably see in the next few days.  But I think we handled them well and were able to --   
 Q.  What's your mental focus?  Because now you know the next two days, you're scheduled to play 36 holes.  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Yeah.  I think it's pretty normal for us.  Playing in college, you're used to playing 36.  Just same thing.  Come out in the morning, take it one hole at a time with the match play, and try not to get ahead of ourselves, I guess.   
 Q.  Derek, same thing with you?  
DEREK ACKERMAN: Same thing, yeah.  Hopefully, we don't have to play 36 holes tomorrow.  But definitely like playing collegiate golf and everything has helped us out with 36-hole days.  I don't think that will be much of a physical or mental grind for us.   
 Q.  Do you do anything special to get ready to play 36 holes?  
DEREK ACKERMAN: Sleep a little bit extra, like an extra hour or two.  Other than that, same routine, same warmup, everything.  Nothing really changes.   
 Q.  Matt, do you carry anything in your bag, like some people have peanut butter and jelly sandwiches?  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Yeah, we've got sandwiches, and my dad is keeping the cart stocked all week.  Bag's pretty stocked.   
DEREK ACKERMAN: PB&Js, yeah.   
 Q.  Anything special on them?  
DEREK ACKERMAN: Used to be bananas, but we got rid of them.   
 Q.  Thanks for your time.  Good luck tomorrow.  
MATTHEW McCARTY: Thank you.   
DEREK ACKERMAN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT