TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2003
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It seemed like you were struggling more so on your backhand side.  Was it just a bad day in general or how do you describe it? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I think I started pretty well.  Then at the end, Carlos was serving much better.  He was putting more pressure on me with his forehand.  Yeah, he tried to play more aggressive on my backhand side.  Yeah, I missed a lot of backhands, that's right. 

Q.  So it was more a case of him just really bringing it than you having a bad day? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Uhm... As I said, I think I played pretty well in the beginning.  But then he was playing better.  He put more pressure on me.  Definitely it wasn't my best day; otherwise, I wouldn't miss so many backhand shots.  But, yeah, he was playing better at the end. 

Q.  Was it a difficult feeling knowing you're already in the semifinals if you lose?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No, of course I wanted to win.  I mean, I don't go on court and want to lose; I wanted to win.  But, yeah, today he was unfortunately too good for me. 

Q.  Can you talk about your semifinal, going up against Andre. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah, for me, it will be  -- I hope it will be fun.  I mean, he beat me twice; I beat him once in Montreal.  I have nothing to lose.  He's such a great player, he's playing home.  I didn't expect before I came here to be in the semis.  I was hoping that I can be in the semis but I didn't expect it.  Now I am in the semis.  Of course I want to go further but it will be a pretty tough match.  As I said, he's a great player.  I just try to go out there, I don't have any pressure, and try to enjoy myself.

Q.  Can you feel the home-court advantage here, he has a sizeable crowd?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  It's normal that whenever you play home that the crowd is behind you.  Andre is playing home, so the crowd would support him more than they would support me.

Q.  But nothing more out of the ordinary than that? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No, I think that's pretty normal, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT