TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2003
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  That seemed a very tactical match.  A lot of mental energy must have gone into that match.

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Hmm... Of course it was tactical.  But I had more problems with the wind to put the ball in court.  It was very windy today.  I think both of us, we made a lot of mistakes.  But at the end was a little bit better.  We got used to it but it was a difficult match for both.

Q.  When you play somebody who has such a good tiebreak record, as he does, what's your strategy?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Do you know my tiebreak record? 

Q.  I don't off the top of my head.

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  It's pretty good, too. 

Q.  What's your strategy generally going into tiebreaks?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I just try to win every point.  I mean, that's the most important thing in the tiebreak; you just go out there and every point can make the difference.  I mean, especially against him, he has such a good serve.  He's a strong guy.  He can win easily all his points on his serve.  So it's very important to, yeah, maybe to get an early break, like mini-break.  And then, yeah, to play it from the top. 

Q.  Do you have a different strategy when you dropshot on hard court than on clay?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No.  Actually, I am not thinking about it.  I just  -- sometimes it feels right and I try it.  So I don't think about it. 

Q.  You've had some big wins this year, some big results.  Where would you place this one on the performances you've had in 2003? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I mean, definitely it was a big one.  It's always something, especially if you win against the No. 1 in the world.  I don't think we both played our best tennis today  - maybe because of the conditions, because it was difficult out there.  But definitely if you win against the No. 1 in the world, it's a special win. 

Q.  You obviously would have wanted to be in this position with two wins out of two.  Realistically, was this an expectation, to be undefeated after two matches?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I mean, I said before a couple of times, I mean, it's the Masters.  They are the best eight players in the world.  I'm very happy that I made the Masters this year.  It's the first time for me.  Yeah, I'm proud to be here.  But, I mean, after the group matches, it could be love-3, but it could be 3-love as well.  Everybody can beat everybody.  I was hoping that maybe 1-1 would be nice or that I have a very exciting match in the last group match.  But, I mean, 2-love is pretty good.  I'm very happy about that (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT