WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2003
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Okay.  Rainer advances to his third Tennis Masters Series semifinal this season, and he improves to 18 and 6 in Tennis Masters tournaments this year.  Okay.  Questions. 
 

Q.  It was great, just advancing this far is certainly nothing new for you this year.  Be nice to finish one of these tournaments off with a win?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Definitely.  I think today I played pretty well, and I was surprised because after the first round, I had problems with my back, so I thought the tournament is over already, and then I had a tough match against Nieminen, the Finnish guy, and I was really surprised that I won there, and then every day it got better and today -- I started with some problems, but I played pretty good tennis today, and I didn't miss a lot of balls.  And he had one break point, I made an ace.  So I was very consistent, and I was very happy with my whole game. 
 

Q.  What type of problems with your back are you having?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I have it sometimes.  It's like joints, when they are blocked, and the muscle, I don't know how to explain it in English, but the muscle gets stiff and there is no movement at all, so, but I have it sometimes and I'm a little bit tired, so I'll take next week off definitely, and then be fit for the Open. 
 

Q.  How important is it for you to not just get to the semifinals, but get to the finals and win this tournament?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Very important.  I never -- I never played a final in a Masters Series event, so I definitely want to go further, and I'm looking forward to the match tomorrow.  I mean today I -- as I said, I was very happy with my whole match, with my game.  Everything was pretty good, so I'm looking forward to the match tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about either Mardy or David?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah.  They have a different kind of game.  I lost last week in Montreal to David Nalbandian, and he's a very, very solid player.  I mean everything, from the baseline, he can play from the baseline.  He plays at the net.  Mardy is a little bit different.  He tries to, yeah, to go a lot to the net with a big serve, to take the balls early, and yeah, he's playing more aggressive than David, but he's making more winners, but also more errors, so it's a completely different kind of game. 
 

Q.  You're the first German to reach the semis here since '95.  Does that mean anything to you?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Of course.  I'm happy that I'm in the semis, but actually it really doesn't matter to me.  I mean I try to play good tennis, and I hope that I can reach the final here, so then I want to see the statistics when the last German reached the final. 
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER:  '85.  So... 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT