WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2008
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/R. Schuettler  
6-3, 7-6, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling after another long day on court?  
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: I don't know. I'm a little bit disappointed about the start of the match, the first set, because it was -- I mean, he started so well, to play so well.   
 I was not on court for the first 10, 15 minutes, so I'm of course a little bit disappointed about the start.   
 Otherwise then at least it was a close match. I had chances to win the second set 5-4 serving. But it's okay. I mean, that's why he's No. 2 in the world. He's so difficult to beat.   
 But it's okay. I mean, I had an unbelievable tournament, and I knew that it's going to be difficult today.   
  
  Q. Were you worried after 6-1 in the first set it was going to be all over in an hour?  
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: I was trying hard that it was not over. But, I mean, I don't know if he missed one ball or not. Just it was left and right and I didn't know what to do. I started to serve also better and I was more aggressive and I got used to his speed and the spin of the ball, and then I felt much more comfortable in the second and third set.  
  
  Q. A five-hour match the day before isn't exactly the ideal preparation for a match against Rafael Nadal. How do you think the match yesterday influenced today's match?  
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: I mean, of course it influenced it a little bit. I mean, I'm working also physically hard so I'm fit. But now I feel -- after I woke up my legs were a little bit tired. It's normal. I didn't sleep so much because there was the match going on in your mind.   
 Then, of course, the next day you play Rafa and you want to do well. I didn't sleep for too long. Anyways, was a great experience to go on Centre Court to play Rafa. Yeah, he just was better today.   
  
  Q. What do you put your success down to in this tournament?  
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: As I said, I'm working really hard. I know on grass court especially we change practice a little bit, especially for Wimbledon. We are practicing longer sessions. Yeah, I'm just working hard, and physically I'm fit again.   
 So when the physical part is right, then the mental part comes as well. And I was lucky that I won a tough five-setter against Blake and then the confidence came back. Yes, so sometimes it happens in one or two matches.  
  
  Q. How do you see the final going on Sunday?  
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: I mean, I don't know. Both playing extremely well. For me it's amazing how easy Roger makes it always look. I mean, I practiced with him here. He just seems that he's not even trying.   
 And Rafa is the opposite. He's like so pumped and always there. Yeah, I don't know. I hope it will be a great final. I would like Roger to make the six in a row. We are friends, so it would be really nice.   
 Rafa also, the way he played, would deserve it. For me, whoever wins will be a great champion.   
  
  Q. You say you've been practicing with Roger this week. Are you going to be hitting with him for the preparation on Sunday?   
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: No, I said I practiced with him during the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT