AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2003
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Did you feel like you had to do anything special other than your usual game to beat Agassi? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah, I tried to do something special.  I mean, from the first point, I was under pressure.  Yeah, he was playing very good.  I never had the chance to like play my game.  From the first point on, I was under pressure.  I tried to do something special, but it didn't work.  Yeah, it's a little bit disappointing to play a final and lose easy like that.  I mean, he played pretty good, then the result is okay. 

Q.  That first game by Andre, how would you describe that?  Very awesome statement, wasn't it? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  What do you mean? 

Q.  He came out to play, didn't he, his first game was so good? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  His first game? 

Q.  Yes. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I think he played the whole three sets pretty good.

Q.  He really made a statement early.  He won the first eight points. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  For me, he made a lot of statements actually.  He played from the first point to the last point the same way.

Q.  When you threw your hands in the air and gave the bow after you got a point, was that to ease your nerves?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No, I mean, I said I have to go out there and I try to be like 1-All, 2-All, to give him a little bit  -- to show him that it's not going to be easy for him to win.  I mean, I was a break down, two breaks down.  I mean, this is for sure the worst way to start a final like that against Andre.  So he was controlling the game from the first point.  That's what I didn't want to happen. 

Q.  What do you take out of the whole two weeks?  You had a fantastic tournament. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Even today it was a great experience for me to play my first final.  If you look, the  -- look at his results from the first two weeks, for him it was a normal result.  I think I played a great tournament.  I played two great weeks.  Yeah, for me it was a dream.  It's great to play a final in a Grand Slam. 

Q.  How would you assess what Andre achieved here?  Would you say he's taken hard court tennis to new heights over the past two weeks?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I mean, he played very good.  I don't know if he took it to a new level.  I mean, he's definitely in the moment the best player in the world.

Q.  What do you plan on doing over the next two weeks?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Actually, I have to discuss it with the Davis Cup captain because he wants me to go tonight to Florida. 

Q.  Tomorrow. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Tomorrow morning, sorry (laughter).  He wants me to practice there with the Davis Cup team because we play Davis Cup in Argentina.  But I'm not sure about that (laughter).  No, maybe I want to go one or two days home to see my family.  But we have to talk tonight about that. 

Q.  I'm booking it anyway. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Thanks for the pressure (laughter). 

Q.  Would you say that Agassi was the greatest player ever?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I mean, he's definitely one of the best players ever, that's for sure.  I mean, right now, Sampras hold the record still.  You cannot say.  I mean, they are different kind of players.  One is playing from the baseline aggressive, the other is play serve and volley.  So I don't know who is the better player.  But definitely both of them are great players. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT