WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 5, 2002
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about the match.  Seemed to have an easy time with him out there for the most part? 
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: No, it was not easy.  It's tough out there.  It was hot and I lost first round last week so had enough time to practice there in the heat in Toronto.  Yeah, I was in good shape and I think that was the difference, that I practiced a lot last week and that I played pretty good today. 
 

Q.  When did you get into Cincinnati?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: I arrived Saturday morning. 
 

Q.  You have been hitting around in this heat for a few days?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: Yeah.  I was in Toronto, practiced one week and then I came here on Saturday, so I had two days. 
 

Q.  That's two times this year you have beaten him now.  What has been the difference between your previous matches and this year?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: I think he improved during the last two years and yeah, I beat him in year in Doah in the quarters so it was the first time.  I was pretty confident that here in the heat that I have a good chance to beat him.  I started playing good, like aggressive from the baseline, made only a few mistakes, easy mistakes, and I tried to make him run and finally the tactic worked. 
 

Q.  Can you see in him when he starts fading and getting tired and frustrated a little?
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: No, with him I mean, I don't see it.  I think it's pretty tough because sometimes it looks like he's not trying, but he's trying really hard and you never know.  In the second set I was a break up and he really tried hard to come back.  And he had a breakpoint but I won the game; I think this was one of the keys.  So with him, you never know.  Maybe from outside it looks sometimes that he's not trying, but he's trying really hard.  And of course he doesn't want to lose.  So it is always dangerous to play against him.  You never know what is going to happen next. 
 

Q.  After that game 3-2 I think he had a couple breakpoints on you...
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: One breakpoint. 
 

Q.  Did you feel like after you got that out of the way that you were pretty much  --
 
RAINER SCHUETTLER: Of course and then he was a little bit frustrated, I won his service game and like he tried to go for the shots and yeah, I think he was tired as well.  The heat was bad for him as well.  So yeah, he tried to go for the shots and I was making only a few mistakes.  I think this was the key that I won the game at 4-2. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT