GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions for Rainer.

Q. You must have felt you competed pretty well?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: Yeah, I think I played pretty good. I was two times a break up, but
he broke me back. I think I played a good match. 

Q. What's so tough about playing him?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: I mean, he serves unbelievable. When he serves, hits the first in,
there's no chance to return the ball. I mean, he's the best player in the world, so I
think it's a very good match for me. 

Q. Was there any trace of nerves being out on a big court like that against the No. 1
player?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: No, I was not nervous. I mean, it was a great experience for me.
Yeah, I tried to give the best. 5-4 I choked a little bit in my serve. Yeah, I think I
played pretty good. 

Q. Did you feel there were times when he just kicked it into gear, just a little notch
up, played a little better?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: Yeah. I mean in the tiebreak he played really good in the second set.
I mean, he served pretty good, like three or four aces. So, yeah, big points he played
really good. 

Q. Did you learn anything from playing against him?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: Yeah, sure. You learn from every match. You can see that it's
possible to play against everybody and have a good chance. I mean, it's not if I win the
match or if I lose the match, but to play against the best player in the world, you see
can you play with him and play great shots against him, against guys like Sampras, Agassi,
whoever he is.

Q. When you were up a break in the first set, did you think, "I might be able to
beat this guy," or did you think, "This guy is probably going to come back and
beat me"?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: I mean, I just tried to hit the first serve, to hit the first serve
in. I mean, on the second serve, he always tries to get to the net. On the net, I mean, he
plays great volleys. I just thought about to serve good, but I didn't serve really good
like at 5-4. He made like two forehand returns, I think. He played straight winners. It
was okay. I didn't think that I have the chance to beat him. I just want to try to play
the service game good. 

Q. Was it a fun tournament?

RAINER SCHUTTLER: Yeah, sure, it's fun. I mean, play a Super 9 tournament on centre
court against Sampras. Yeah, to play good out there, it's for sure a fun experience. I
mean, for me, I was a little lucky in the first round against Johansson, but I played
pretty good there, as well. So in the second round I beat Larsson, it was a really good
win for me as well. Today for me it was a fun match. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT