WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. SCHUETTLER/J. Tipsarevic
6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Just an explanation why you are back. You are now in quarterfinals of Wimbledon. 
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: Because I'm healthy. Because I enjoy playing tennis. Because I work hard. So probably at some point I had to come back because I was always trying to work hard, trying to stay fit. I had a lot of injuries, as I said before. 
 Now for a couple of months I am fit again. I have no problems. At some point I knew that, yeah, it has to come that I have to play good again. 

 Q. I remember when you reached the finals of the Australian Open, you explained you were working many hours a day. Perhaps this was one of the reasons of the injuries afterwards, that you did too much?
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: No, I don't think so. I mean, for 10 years in my career I had nothing. I think I sprained my ankle once but that's it, so I had no injuries at all. And at some point it has to come. 
 I mean, I'm not the youngest any more. I was a little bit unlucky with mononucleosis. So it took a long time and I started too early. So I didn't give my body enough time to rest probably. I had knee surgery. 
 But that's in me. I don't want to just be at home and do rehab. Yeah, I get bored. So it's maybe a little bit bad for my tennis sometimes, but that's how I am. 
 Maybe now I would make some different decisions, but at that time I made them. Now I'm just happy to be, yeah, back and playing good tennis. 

 Q. How important is today's victory for you?
 RAINER SCHUETTLER: Very important, of course. I've never been in the last eight here before. I said after the third round I won, I said, I'm so happy I don't have to go to Cordoba to play challenger, because that was my schedule this week actually. 
 Now I said I just want to make the last eight club, because for me at least it would be nice at some point in my life to come back and have the opportunity to go in the players' lounge and see the young players and to watch how they play. 
 So definitely I made it in Australia and now I made it here, so I'm very happy about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT