TMS MONTE CARLO
April 25, 2004
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Rainer, what happened today? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I think he played a very good match.  I mean, he didn't miss a lot of shots.  I was trying to go for the shots.  And especially in the first and third set, I had a lot of break chances, but I just didn't make them.  That's the difference.  I mean, I had Love-40 in the third set, first service game I had 15-40.  So, yeah, I didn't make them, and that was the difference.  If I get more confidence with the way I am playing and then I make some of the important points, then I'm getting back into the match.  But second set was really not good.  And if you miss so many balls against a solid player like he is, then it's really difficult. 

Q.  What makes him so much more difficult to beat than players like Hewitt or Moya?  Is he more complete?  Is he quicker? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I think right now he's just playing unbelievable good tennis.  That's it.  I mean, if you see, it's not a big difference from the tennis point of view.  I mean, everybody in the Top 100 can beat each other.  So it's not a difference, I think, from a tennis point of view.  It's just, I mean, right now he's very confident.  Last year he had a very good season.  He's right now on top of his game, so that's why he's playing that successfully. 

Q.  Which is the best souvenir you take back after this week?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  The best souvenir, of course, are the memories.  I mean, I will never forget the way I played here.  I will never forget the experience to play center court with a lot of people.  I mean, even though I lost today, maybe it sounds strange, but I will never forget that.  I hope I will forget the result, but not the atmosphere out there (smiling). 

Q.  You said at the beginning of the year you lost very important points in matches.  Do you think that's what happened at the beginning of the third set? 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yes.  As I said, I had a lot of breakpoints.  I had Love-40 at the first game.  Then, I mean, if I am leading with a break, then maybe the third set can turn around quickly. I had another, I think, two breakpoints  - was at 2-all, I think  - yeah , so if I don't take the chances, that's what makes the difference. I mean, if I am leading 4-1, what could happen if I just make two more points?  Then it's 4-1 for me in the third set.  So then, yeah, maybe because he was a little bit -- he had problems with his leg a little bit, so maybe he's getting more tired, and the match can turn around. But it didn't happen. 

Q.  Physically, how are you feeling?  You called the trainer in the first set.

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah, just because on three fingers I had blisters, but that's normal.  That's not a big deal. 

Q.  Which present do you give to yourself?  Which present do you give to yourself now after getting in the final?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  You mean birthday present? 

Q.  Yes.

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  To be honest with you, I don't know what  -- if I could buy something, I don't know what I would buy.  I am very happy with the way I live.  I have everything.  The only thing I hope, that I have some time  - maybe tonight, or if not, tomorrow  - to spend with my family.  I invite them for dinner or for lunch or whatever, and then I am happy.

Q.  You are going back now?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I am trying to get the plane, yes (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT