TMS MONTE CARLO
April 22, 2004
Rainer Schuettler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What did he say to you?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No, I just said, "The mark is clearly out."  He didn't know I see it on the line.  Then on the big screen there was this replay, and, you know, in these days, they have the fantastic and new equipment, and they can see the spot perfectly.  So the ball was out, but that's just one point.  I thought it's pretty funny to make a picture, and he thought it's not funny, so...  Whatever. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah.  I didn't listen, I don't know.  Something.

Q.  Did you already done any photo in your matches before?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No.  But, you know, I think everybody's complaining that tennis has to be more interesting and exciting.  If you do something  - if you scream, if you take a picture, if you throw a racquet  - you get a warning.  So I think the spectators enjoyed it, I enjoyed it, my coach at least was laughing, so I think it was a good thing to do. 

Q.  Did you ever think about doing this or it just came like this..?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  No, it came like this (snapping).  I just took a picture, and I didn't think about it. 

Q.  Why do you think your form has suddenly come back this week, or is it a gradual thing for you, do you think?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I felt always that I'm  -- I mean, maybe I lost first-round matches in the past couple of weeks, but I didn't play bad tennis.  I lost in Australia 6-4 in the fifth set, so always close matches.  In Key Biscayne against Nicholas Kiefer, I had matchpoint, lost 7-6 in the third.  So I always played good tennis, but I just lost the important points.  This week against Kuerten in the first and today I made the important points, so I won. 

Q.  So your form hasn't really fluctuated that much, it just looks bad in the record books, doesn't it?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  Yeah, it just looks bad.  Of course when you lose matches, you lose your confidence as well.  If you win, your confidence is getting higher and you just go for the shots like at the important points.  That's the only difference.

Q.  You haven't played Tim for two or three years, probably before you made your breakthrough.  What sort of match do you expect it to be tomorrow?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  I mean, he was out for a long time because of his shoulder.  And since Paris last year he played  -- he plays very, very good again. So it will be tough match, of course.  But it's quarters, so I just go for it, I try to beat him, he tries to beat me, and I think, yeah, whoever wakes up in a better shape will win.

Q.  Is it any different playing in Monaco than at any other tournament?  You have a view of the mountains, the sea. 

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  If you have lunch over there and you walk back, yes, the view is very nice (smiling).

Q.  The courts?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  The courts, it's pretty much the same.

Q.  As to the spectators, does it make any difference?  Are they any different here than in Hamburg or..?

RAINER SCHUETTLER:  To be honest with you, no (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT