WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 25, 2005
Paula Marti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Great round today.  6 under, a 66.  A bogey free round, like you mentioned.  Just talk about your day, and then we'll take some questions.
PAULA MARTI:  It definitely was a nice day.  I haven't had a good round for a long time, you know.  So it's great to be    and took a lot of confidence coming in today.  And I just played very golf today.  I didn't miss a fairway, I didn't miss a green.  I missed a couple of pars, but I can't complain, I made another one.

So it was just easy (indiscernible) just everything.  Swing was great, and (indiscernible) the ball.  So, yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  (Indiscernible) say it's easy.  Why was it easy?
PAULA MARTI:  When you have the right tempo and you go to the driving range, and everything feels so good, the swing and everything, and that's what it was today.  I just stepped on the first tee and I just hit a great drive on the first hole.  So that really gives you confidence, you know.
Q.  Did you feel that tempo coming on?  Did you feel you were playing well coming in?
PAULA MARTI:  Yes, I did.  I hit a very good shot on 17    no, that's 8, on the par 3.  It was like (indiscernible).  And then I hit a great drive on 9 and I hit a 5 iron (indiscernible) and two putted.  So it was good.  I just hold, you know, the good tempo through the last putt.
Q.  I apologize for not knowing the Solheim standings, but are you playing this week, make a captain notice you?
PAULA MARTI:  (Indiscernible) playing to make Catrin look at me.  I'm just playing for myself.  If I play good then I might get a pick, and if not, it's not the end of the world.

I already played a Solheim Cup, and obviously it's a great feeling to be on the team, but if I'm not, then I'm not going to die.  I'm going to go home and enjoy my week there.
Q.  (Inaudible) Europe?
PAULA MARTI:  (Laughter).
Q.  (No microphone) you feel that it suits your game well?
PAULA MARTI:  I think it does.  I mean, you hit the fairway and you're hitting    I can't explain    because I know my driver very good, I'm hitting like short irons into the green and I'm very confident with my 9, wedge and, you know, and sand wedges.  So that's what I had today, and I hit a lot of close shots and I gave myself a lot of confidence.

And the greens are very soft as well, so you can really hold the ball on the greens.  I don't know how they're going to be by the weekend, but I hope (indiscernible).
PAUL ROVNAK:  You want to take us over your scorecard?  Start with the birdie on 3.  Tell us what you hit in and how far the putt was.
PAULA MARTI:  Okay.  I started on the back.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Oh, I'm sorry.
PAULA MARTI:  I hit driver and then I hit a wedge.  It was like a 5 meters.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And 17?
PAULA MARTI:  And 17 I hit a (indiscernible) meters.  And then third I hit a driver, wedge (indiscernible) meters.

And then the par 5 I hit it to the bunker short of the green.  And I had a great up and down, and I just hit it like this, like yards, so I just made the putt.

For the next    and then the last two I just hit a very good 8 iron 2 meters to the right.  And then on the 18 (indiscernible) and the 5 iron to the green two putt, almost eagled it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How far did you putt?
PAULA MARTI:  15 meters.
PAUL ROVNAK:  15?
PAULA MARTI:  Yeah.  15 high and just to the right.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.
PAULA MARTI:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT