THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2002
Laura Davies
Paula Marti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Paula Marti from Spain, Laura Davies from England, great victory out there. 
Q.  Can you tell us, Laura Davies, it's good for the rest of the team, as well, to see that Europe is off to a good start, and I have to say Paula's long game was good but her putting was unbelievable, and I thought if I can keep hitting shots into the green, and hope for a couple of good putts, but I thought if we shoot 66, that usually wins a foursome's match, so that was good.
MODERATOR: Do you have any questions from the floor?
Q.  Both of you talk about 18, the drive you hit and then your second shot in. 
LAURA DAVIES:  Obviously, being one up helped us, and I had hit a shot as hard as I could, straight up in the middle, 200 yards to the front, and she took over, so take over. 
PAULA MARTI:  I think I had the best one I had hit the whole year, so that was very good under the pressure.  Very happy about it.

Q.  3-wood?
PAULA MARTI:  3-wood.

Q.  200 meters?
PAULA MARTI:  200, yeah.

Q.  Paula, can you tell me what it was like to play your first match in the Solheim  Cup.
PAULA MARTI:  I mean, it's great.  It's a dream come true to be out here, and, as well, to play with Laura Davies, such a legend of golf, so I am very happy, you know, and I was a bit nervous at the beginning, especially when I had to tee off first, but then after that, she really helped me control my pressure out there, and we both hit excellent shots, and I was really doing my putting today, so that really helped, as well, my confidence.

Q.  Looking forward to the four-ball matches this afternoon?
LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah, we are off at 12:15.  I don't know who we are playing yet, so maybe you could enlighten us on that.

Q.  Actually, you two are paired together again this afternoon.
LAURA DAVIES:  We knew that, as well.

Q.  It should be exciting for you.  Apparently your captain thinks you are a good team.
LAURA DAVIES:  We get on well.  Paula's golf and my golf are very similar, we hit the ball hard, we go for the pins, we are very aggressive players, and I think if you put two aggressive players together, you can come out with the result we had today, so that's my thought. 
I was never going to hit that first tee shot this morning, by the way; she is the rookie, she gets the pressure.
PAULA MARTI:  My turn.

Q.  It was rather cool this morning from the start.  Did the weather affect your play?
PAULA MARTI:   Not really.  I don't think it was that cold.  I think it was perfect, the conditions out there, no sun, no rain; it was the perfect conditions to play golf.

Q.  Can you talk about what it's going to be like to play against Rosie Jones and Cristie Kerr?
LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah, I think they are a different style of play to us, so it should be quite interesting.  We will, hopefully, be hitting a lot of fairways and, hopefully, not missing too many greens, and it should be interesting.

Q.  How special was it to nudge past Dottie in the record with her watching?  
LAURA DAVIES:  Like I said all along, I, personally, wish Dottie was out here playing.  I could see how upset she was yesterday at the opening ceremony and you could see how much it means to her, and I think it means pretty much the same to me, and personal points, it's nice, it's nice to know that, but I have played every series of match since the start, so I think Dottie's record is actually better than mine because she has missed more series of matches, so I have had more chances.

Q.  Yesterday your captain talked about that Saturday was the most important day, yet your team, you won, you are ahead in two other matches, all squared in the third.  Did you look at it as a team getting off to a good start in the foursomes was going to be very important and might affect the eventual outcome?
LAURA DAVIES:  I think Friday morning is the most important session of the week.  It sets of standard, and, traditionally, we have to get a good lead.  I think it's slightly different this year because our team is so strong from number 2 to number 12, everyone is as good as everybody else. 
Annika is, like I have been saying all along, a little bit special, but the rest of us can hold our own in singles, whereas in years gone by, we have gotten beaten, for some reason, probably because they are such a strong team.  This year it's different, we are just as strong throughout.

MODERATOR: Congrats.  Thanks, girls. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT