WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2002
Paula Marti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations.  Maybe just start by telling us what this finish means to you.
PAULA MARTI:  It means a lot.  This is a dream come true.  When I came here the first day I thought, okay, top five will be really good.  And like this I will get Solheim points and everything, so I will take second place.

Q.   What were you thinking going into the final round?
PAULA MARTI:  It was tough out there today.  I can tell you.  The first three holes it was blowing and it was raining a lot.  I just told myself to be patient.  And as you can see I made like 7 pars in a row, Andy and I, we were just so patient today on the course today.  I knew I was putting good and I knew I was playing good.  I knew the birdies were coming, so I just needed to wait and don't rush, and that's what I did.

Q.   Did you look at the leaderboard out there?
PAULA MARTI:  Always.  I always do.  I like to know what the other people are doing, so if I have to make a birdie or something, then I have to do it.

Q.   Does this get you your LPGA card?
PAULA MARTI:  No? [snaps fingers in disappointment].  Doesn't it get me through the first days of the qualifying. [laughs]  No, I'm going to have to go, and I will go for sure.

Q.   Does this prove to yourself that you can play in America?
PAULA MARTI:  Yes, I think I just show myself that I can play with the big ones.  So if I can do it here in Europe, I can do it in America.  That gives me a lot of confidence in my game and I'm going to go for everything now.

Q.   And you've now secured a Solheim Cup spot.
PAULA MARTI:  Finally.  I got enough points to be there.  So another dream come true.  You need to be representing Europe and Spain at the same time, so I'm really looking forward to that week.

Q.   Were there any moments out there, where you felt like you really were getting close to maybe winning?
PAULA MARTI:  Well, there were a couple of putts that I hit really good and they didn't go in, like on 15 and 16 as well.  But that's golf.  Some days they go in and some days they don't, and maybe today wasn't meant to be a win.  But as I told you before, I will take second place.  I'm very happy about it.

Q.   I'm sure you would have taken four rounds in the 60s before the week even started.
PAULA MARTI:  I've been really consistent.  I never did it before, shoot in the 60s four rounds in a row.  So I'm very happy with my game or my  -- how do you say it  -- my game.

Q.   And to do it on a golf course like this, you must be very pleased?
PAULA MARTI:  Well, yes, the thing is I've been chipping and putting really good, so every time that I missed the green, I got up and down where you never would going to believe I had up and down.  I told you, that's a lot of confidence for me, so I'm very happy.

Q.   Why are you such an aggressive player?
PAULA MARTI:  Why?  Because I think I have hot blood, you know.  That's how we say it in Spain, you know.  It's just a game, and I think if you have a chance to go for it, then you have to do it.  Why you have to play for the middle of the greens if you can play for the pin.  That's my philosophy.  I think all the Spanish are like this.  They have a lot of character, like you can see Seve, Sergio.  I'm one of them as well.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT