U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Victor Estrella Burgos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  V. ESTRELLA BURGOS/B. Coric  7-6, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2  An interview with:  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  We saw some tears after the match point.  Must have been very emotional.  Can you talk a bit about it.  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: Of course.  Have a big emotion when I serving for the match, serving match point.  I cannot believe I'm in this situation.  Like I going to make the third round in US Open. Was little nervous and very, very emotional for me.  But thank God I got the point.  After that I get a bigger tear again.   Q.  How did it feel coming into the match knowing you were playing someone half your age?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: He have my half age, is true this.  But I know he's a very good player.  I check him some video.  I had to do some strategy how to play against him because he's a really good player, he have a very good future.  I need to see so much about how he play.  I change my game every time because I know he's younger.  But how I said before, the age is just number.  From his mind, is very older, I think.   Q.  I know your story for a long time.  Some visitors came to us, from the Dominican Republic.  They were celebrating your win as if they were in the finals themselves.  They told us you really came from the dust.  Do you know what I mean?  It's really an inspirational story you're coming here.  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: First, this is make me very strong because I know where I coming from.  I came from like very down.  I come from Dominican Republic.  I think I opening way to another player.  This make me more hungry to do better and better. I'm in the winner, not just for today.  I'm in the winner, I'm top 100, I have my enter to US Open.  I'm a winner already.  But now the winner is very different, it's bigger.  I'm in the third round.  I'm very happy. People from Dominican, I think they are in the party now.  They are very happy.  This is very special for me, to be came from very, very long way, you know, very down.  Nobody play -- I don't have any idea before when I have 18 years old about this tournament, this kind of tournament.  But now I'm enjoy so much. This make me like every day, doesn't matter if I'm 38 whatever, make me strong.  Every time when I get into the court, make me strong.   Q.  The crowd was crazy today.  Do you expect to play in the stadium your next game?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: Really the thing, I was talking with my physical coach, my physical trainer.  We talking about if you play again, I think I'm going to play stadium or grandstand, I don't know where.  I think going to be in bigger court.  We talking about like how many Dominicans going to come?  Today was full, the court was full.  I have like thousand coach because all of them, they coaching me, you know (smiling). We are in the game.  We going to take the towel.  We hear like what they say every time. I don't know.  I don't know how to word this, but I think they going to buy the ticket for sure to come Saturday to see me play in the stadium.   Q.  How much do you think these two matches have taken out of you physically and emotionally?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: First physically, too much for me is not nothing.  I feel like very good.  Emotionally really big.  I think is more bigger, emotionally is more bigger than physically.  I feeling very good. I think I'm going to be ready for Saturday.  I'm going to be so hungry to get into the court to play again.   Q.  You had a bad line call that got you a little upset.  Also when you took the injury timeout.  You stayed focus.  Is that one of your main strengths?  How do you stay focused with so much distraction between the crowd, the player, the bad line call?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: We are professional.  We working in that, you know.  He call the trainer.  He was up 3-0.  He call the trainer after I broke him.  The match was 3-2.  I get in very good time.  He call the trainer.  I don't think he have anything because he running like crazy. But I just keeping focus in the court.  I saw my coach.  He tell me, Move, get focus.  That's the only thing.  I don't thinking what he have, what he doing, just thinking I have to be focus on keeping warm for make the next match.   Q.  Why is it happening now at the latter stage of your career?  Is there anything different?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: I think is happening now because this had to happen now.  I think when I have 20 years old, I tell you before, I don't have any idea about the tournament.  Because in Dominican, we don't have this. I think for me this is the best time.  This happen now.  I had to get like very good, very simple for me.  I think now is now.  I cannot go back.  I cannot start to thinking why this doesn't happen when I have 20 or 22 or 24. Now it happening when I have 34, I very happy.   Q.  You reached the third round.  You're living the American dream in New York.  How do you think this will change your life and how do you want it to change your life?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: No, I don't think this going to change my life.  Going the same life.  Tennis player.  Different level now, of course, because I get my new ranking, going to get very good ranking. But I think going to be the same Victor, the same Victor working every day very hard, happy in the locker.  When I have challenger ATP, I going to be the same.  Nothing going to change.   Q.  I know you have quit your career already a few years ago.  Do you feel less used because you were not playing for some years?  Secondly, how far do you think you can go in the rankings?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: I stop, I quit to play I think for four year and a half, like professional.  I didn't traveling.  But I'm keeping in tennis because I play Davis Cup for Dominican. I think my dream was I want to make -- with my team we talking about which ranking I want this year.  I say I want to be top 50.  This is what I want now.  After that if I get, I have to start to next step.  Now I going to get to the top 50.  This is what I want now.  I just thinking about that.   Q.  Do you feel less used because you were not playing for those four years?  VICTOR ESTRELLA BURGOS: Yes, for sure, because I have like long time.  Just play two times per year, like Davis Cup.  Also physically I not used so much.  I don't have this before, like traveling 25 week per year.  I don't have this before.  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT