NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. May drag into next week --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I really don't know where that came from. That's fine, supposed to be meeting -- the Nuggets have not called me and said, you know, we are close to a deal in New Jersey or anything like that. I just read about it.   
  
  Q. Can anybody else get in there --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: There's a lot of teams that I'm pretty sure that's going to call. I don't really know how much interest the Lakers have or Dallas or anything at this point. Chicago has been there.   
  
  Q. Surprised a team, you think can slip in there and steal the show?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I don't know, man. I don't know. I really don't know. I can't answer that question.  
  
  Q. What about the Knicks? Have you talked --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: The day is still young. Like I say, I haven't checked my text messages or my voicemail yet, so a meeting that's supposed to be set with New Jersey, I'll know about it.   
  
  Q. Can you check your messages now?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: My son got my phone. (Laughter). I don't have my phone right now.   
  
  Q. What would you like to hear?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Well, it's just something that -- I want to see if he's really interested in me coming -- my team, I think and my agents are doing a great job with this whole situation. You know, they have information all around the board.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're suffering from scare tactics a little bit?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Me?   
  
  Q. To be paid appropriately this summer?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Yeah, maybe lose $40, $50 million.  
 I'm going to go to that meeting with Billy Hunter right now right after this.   
  
  Q. So much uncertainty with the new CBA and there could be a lockout --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Nobody knows what's going to happen with the lockout. At the end of the day, if I was to sit here and say I'm not thinking about that, I would be lying to you guys. I don't want to go into no lockout. I don't think none of the players want to go into a lockout, so I hope that we can just come to an agreement. But that is in the back of my mind.   
  
  Q. What do you think you need to tell the Nuggets if there's any chance of signing --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Just because the Nuggets know everything that I'm thinking.   
  
  Q. What have you told them, if you will sign an extension?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: You have to talk to them about that. They know all my thoughts.   
  
  Q. Is it still an option?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Yeah, I told you that a couple weeks ago, I told you that in the summer, I told you that during training camp.   
  
  Q. Hopeful for this weekend --  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I'm hopeful but I can't say I'm confident about it. I'm hopeful something can get resolved.   
  
  Q. Long-term about your career, and you're not just taking this whole thing lightly, you've been thinking about New York and New Jersey for months and know what each one has and what it will have; what's your gut feeling about where you want to go?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Well, I mean I don't think that that's the only two teams. I mean, obviously just because I said I love New York, I love the City of New York and New Jersey, I don't think that they are the only two teams that I can sit here and say I definitely want to be on those teams and nobody else.   
 Like I said, the Nuggets have to weigh their options. If it's a deal with somebody else that's legit, we all have to talk about it. But time is ticking, man, and time is money. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: You asked me the best question the other night. I don't know, I'm going to go with Blake.   
  
  Q. How are your nerves?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I'm cool, calm and collected. I'm not getting no sleep but my nerves are good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT