NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2010
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Can you describe what the talk was in the huddle on that final play and what the plan was and what happened?
 CARMELO ANTHONY: We wanted to go for the win. Tried to draw up a play but we wanted to go for the win. It was history tonight, you know. If I made it, I was a hero, and if I didn't, we lose. But it was fun, though. It was fun. Actually you know I thought I was going to make it. It was a little short. But overall it was a great game for both teams.

 Q. How did you guys determine who would get the ball? 
 CARMELO ANTHONY: They was all saying they wanted me to take the shot. So I felt good in that situation. You know, to have all them All-Star guys telling George they wanted me to take the last shot.

 Q. Just to make it clear, you were the first option to get the ball? 
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Yeah. 

 Q. Did Coach Karl emphasize to you to play a little bit harder and to try to get the MVP award? Was that something that he said before the game or during the game? 
 CARMELO ANTHONY: No, man. No, we never had no talks about that. 
 You know, as a team, we just wanted to go out there and play and try to win. We wanted to win the game. But I never had no conversation with George about going out there and trying to win the MVP or anything like that. 

 Q. Just talk a little bit about the outrageous scene with the people? 
 CARMELO ANTHONY: It was unbelievable for us to be a part of a moment like this, I don't think we will ever be part of another game or situation like this, for both teams. It was incredible. It was great. The fans was into the great. The lead got out of hand early in the third quarter but we fought back and got the fans back into the game. 

 Q. Earlier in the week George sounded like he might not play you that much because of your ankle; did it feel okay out there?
 CARMELO ANTHONY: It was all right. During the game, my competitive spirit came about. I was almost sitting down the whole fourth quarter, you know, and then as the game got closer, he threw me back in. I guess his competitive spirit came out, too. 

 Q. You talked about this being an historic night. How often did you guys have to take a step back and look at the crowd and amount of people out there and just realize how special this night was for an All-Star Game? 
 CARMELO ANTHONY: We were doing it the whole game. When we were on the bench, we were just looking around, talking about how many people it is and how excited we were, just to be a part of that situation. 
 We were on the court during free throws, waiting to come back from time-outs, we were looking and we were amazed by everything that was going on.

 Q. When you were growing up, did you ever imagine playing in front of that many people?
 CARMELO ANTHONY: No, never. Not in a million years. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT