NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CARMELO ANTHONY: We're feeling better. Still on the positive side of things, looking at the positive side of things. Of course, after any loss there's going to be a lot of thinking about what we could have did, what we should have did, what we didn't do.   
 That loss is behind us. We came here today. We watched some films, saw what we did wrong, seeing what we did good. And we'll be ready to go tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How do you guys find the energy again that affected you so much from last night?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: We're going to find it. It's going to be there. We're going to find it, regardless of what happened last night, how much energy we exerted, we're going to find the energy to go out there and try to win that game tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Did the Lakers do anything to keep you from making a lot of 3-pointers?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: We missed a lot of open 3-pointers, shots that Chauncey normally don't miss, J.R. normally don't miss. I missed some shots out there.   
 So we just missed a lot of open shots. I'm pretty sure we missed shots that we are capable of knocking down. We will knock them down. Yesterday I guess it was just one of them nights that the shots didn't go down. Like I said last night, Gasol was a big factor, alongside with what Kobe did, giving them that on the offensive end.  
  
  Q. Did they defense you differently during the second half last night?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: No, they didn't do anything different. They did the same thing. They stuck to their same schemes. They probably doubled me a little bit more. But they didn't do anything.   
  
  Q. In your mind, tomorrow night, what's the biggest thing you guys have to do?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Just come out and play hard, be aggressive from the jump and win the basketball game. All these games, the Game 2 games that we lost has been the little things.   
 Rebounding, take a chance. Defend. Fouls. Just little things. We know that this is a competitive series and in order for us to win this series we'll have to do the little things.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: This game tomorrow? Oh, of course. Of course. I didn't have a lot of big games. But this one by far will be the biggest.  
  
  Q. Now, were you a little overanxious to get the home crowd involved in terms of getting them back into the game?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: No. I think we played the way we've been playing. We took the same shots. We missed. We had some breakdowns defensively. But there's nothing that we can't get better at. Kobe came by and started performing, made some tough shots down the stretch. Gasol made some tough shots. Trevor made some big 3s in the fourth. We look at it. We know what we gotta do.  
  
  Q. Would you say you've been as confident as you have been throughout the playoffs?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: If we're not confident, we shouldn't even dress out tomorrow. Our confidence is still high. We've got a chance to win this game and we're going to go out there and do everything we can to win that game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT