NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was it like last night trading baskets and everything with Kobe?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I felt good last night in the rhythm. Got some easy baskets going. My shot was falling. I don't think too many shots didn't go in for me during the game.  
  
  Q. When you were one-on-one and he was guarding, you how different was that?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: How different?   
  
  Q. Yeah, just the way he guards you.   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I don't think he did anything different. I think Phil did a hell of a job seeing what was going on out there and putting the smaller guy on me where Kobe can have help putting a bigger guy on Chauncey trying to make it difficult. I think that was a better execution of Kobe. I don't think Kobe did anything different.   
  
  Q. I think most people would agree, you guys outplayed them for the most part last night. Were you at all discouraged or encouraged that you outplayed them?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Our heads are still high. We're still standing tall. We're still confident. We do agree that, I'll say we did everything but win the game last night. We take that as a good sign. And take that down into Game 2.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: A loss like that is always going to stick with you, especially a day like today when you don't have anything to do but come in here, you got a chance to think about it. I'm pretty sure tomorrow we'll be ready to go out and play.  
  
  Q. Looking back, what was the difference?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: What was the difference?   
  
  Q. Yeah, what was the difference?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Rebounding, no second chance points. On the road you can't win a game like that. That was the one -- coming into the game, keep them off the board, keep them from getting second chance points. I think we felt that.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: That last, the 32 seconds, it came down to that. Yeah, it was a bad play but it didn't come down to that. We missed 12 free throws. We got outrebounded 22 to 10 second chance points. You can't beat the Lakers like that.  
  
  Q. How much different is it in a game in this situation a playoff as opposed to a game in February?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: It's always different. This is a playoff. This is the Western Conference finals. It's more intense. It's more tough at the close of game, especially going up against like a guy like Kobe, with the ball in his hands down the stretch, making plays himself, getting to the free throw line. We gotta get better at that. We gotta get better as a team. As I said, we're still a confident team. We're going to be ready to play.  
  
  Q. How do you feel on this stage, you're a relatively young player (indiscernible). What surprises you?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: It's fine. It's fine for me. It's basketball. I love playing basketball. This is one of the biggest days of basketball. So it's exciting times for me.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I don't really think it's about me putting up numbers. I don't really think it's going to come down to that. I'm not going to beat the Lakers myself. Chauncey's not going to beat them himself. We need our bench, our experts to say, all right, okay, we need everybody like we've been doing so far.  
  
  Q. How much better are you prepared for this situation this year than the other years?  
 CARMELO ANTHONY: Me personally?   
  
  Q. Yeah, for being on this stage that you're talking about.   
 CARMELO ANTHONY: I was just ready. It was my time. I was just ready. Take advantage of the opportunity of the situation. I think it just came down to me just being ready for this situation.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT