NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2007
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us a little bit about this finally getting to the All-Star Game.  You're the last one from your class of the stars, everyone has been here.  What was the experience like for you?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  I had a great time this weekend hanging with the guys, playing in my first All-Star Game.  Just to get in -- they say your first time it's hard to get in there.  So I'm just blessed and happy that I got in.   
  
  Q.  You had that big smile when you came in, can you describe what was first like stepping on the court?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  I was happy to be out there.  Being on the court with all of those guys, that was probably the best pick-up basketball game you can possibly get.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your memories when you just first walked on the court, got the strong ovation from the crowd, finally stepped on the floor on an All-Star Game.   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  That's a big stage.  The whole world is watching you, and you can finally step up there and get out on the court, your teammates want you to get out.   
 They tell you, "You ain't coming out of the game."  It felt good to know I had the support from them.   
  
  Q.  Were you comfortable coming off the bench?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  It felt weird coming off the bench.   
  
  Q.  You had talked all week about hearing your name in the introductions.  When you finally heard your name how was it?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  When I heard my name I told myself this was the validation of all the hard work I put in.   
 Just to hear my name out there with all the other guys.  I was excited.  I don't think I -- I haven't been this excited in a long time.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about second half expectations, with AI getting his ankle right, what you're expecting to see from the team?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  Now that this is over with, I can focus on my season, the rest of the season.  AI told me today he'd be ready to play Tuesday, so that was a good sign.   
  
  Q.  What about the team, what are you expecting to see from them?   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  We need some wins.  This first half of the season was rocky for us.  Hopefully we can put that behind us and get better.   
  
  Q.  Did you get the sense that this crowd really had a thing for Kobe Bryant?  I think a lot of times the hometown crowd, the hometown MVP -- but there's no hometown team, so it seemed he was the adopted son.   
 CARMELO ANTHONY:  He played great tonight.  He deserved it.  He went out and played hard.  He scored, he did everything he could out there.  Plus we won.  I think he deserved it.   
 Kobe, regardless of how people feel about him, he's always going to be the fan favorite.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT