NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2005
Carmelo Anthony
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does it feel to get the MVP in your hometown? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  It's a wonderful feeling.  You know, this is another positive thing I can put on my resume.  It's a great feeling coming out here on my home court and getting MVP of the Rookie-sophomore Game. 

Q.  Any extra incentive that you were not chosen for the regular game; you wanted to really show your stuff in this affair?

CARMELO ANTHONY:  I play basketball, man.  I go out there and I play basketball.  I can't hold my head down because I didn't make the game.  Like I tell everybody, this is only my second year in the NBA.  I am going to be here for a long time.  I ain't going nowhere. 

Q.  For a guy who is not playing on Sunday, you've had yourself a busy couple of days.  Can you take us through it all? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  All I can say is I'm hosting the All-Star Weekend, so I don't think I've got to say no more about that. 

Q.  What was the difference between last year's game and this year's game in terms of the style?

CARMELO ANTHONY:  It's a little bit more competitive I think.  That's what I'm talking with, the Sophomores, we have one year under our belt to really figure out the game and everybody got better.  I mean over that one-year span everybody got better, and you could really see it in the second half.

Q.  The Commissioner said he was going to talk to you guys before the game about making it not like last year.  Did he end up talking to you guys? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  I think he sent some of us messages.

Q.  What did they say? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  They said, you know, make the game competitive.  He didn't want the game like it was last year.  Got a little out of hand last year, which we all agreed on. 

Q.  What do you like about playing with LeBron? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  That boy got eyes on the front and back and both sides of his head.  He got eyes everywhere.  He's always playing hard.  Only thing I like about him, he looks for his teammates first, then he goes out there.  He's not a selfish player.  I can play with somebody like that all year long, maybe in the future we can get him out here in Denver. 


End of FastScripts .

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT