NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 5, 2003
Carmelo Anthony
Jim Boeheim
Kueth Duany
Gerry McNamara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH BOEHEIM:  So much for the 2-3 zone concept.  I knew that, you know, it would be an offensive game.  Texas can score points against any defense.  We haven't really been sharp in the tournament on the offensive end.  And tonight we were right from the beginning.  We were able to maintain it the whole game.  Our offense was good.  Our defense picked up a little bit in the second half, but it was really our offensive game. 

Q.  You've beaten three of the best teams in the Big-12 conference, now you get the league champion.  Does that run through those teams, does that give you confidence against Kansas? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  Our confidence is pretty high right now.  We made it to the championship.  We're looking forward to playing Kansas in the championship. 

KUETH DUANY:  All teams are different.  It's not like we're facing the same team.  You know, it's just another match-up.  We have to change with whoever we play. 

Q.  Can you talk about the opportunity of playing in this game on Monday as a freshman? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  It don't get better than this, playing in a championship game.  The Final Four is the biggest event ever besides the Super Bowl.  Just being a part of the championship game.  Hopefully we get a ring, a championship out of it. 

Q.  Carmelo, before the start of the second half, it seemed like you had a little chat and a laugh with one of the Texas players, I think TJ Ford, just before the second half started.  Could you tell us what you said? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  He told me that I was only a freshman, I wasn't supposed to be getting all them calls I was getting (smiling). 

Q.  Carmelo, will you comment on your overall game tonight? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  I think  -- I'm not satisfied with my game.  I think I played pretty well.  I took shots.  My field goal percentage wasn't bad.  I got my teammates open.  That was the most important thing of the night, getting my teammates involved. 

Q.  Carmelo, you picked up your third foul late in the first half.  It didn't seem to bother you.  Did you just put that out of your mind?  At the end of the game, did you intend to dunk that breakaway? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  Yeah (smiling).  My leg kind of gave out on me.  I'm all right, though.  Once I got my third foul, Coach Boeheim took me out, told me to relax.  He told me at halftime don't pick up my fourth foul early. 

Q.  Carmelo, looked like you had a conversation going with Coach Barnes throughout the second half there, then at the end of the game you talked to him.  What was that about? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  We was just going back and forth about the game.  I don't really know what he was saying.  I was just laughing at him. 

Q.  Carmelo, talk about your experience at Syracuse.  When you signed with Syracuse, could you ever imagine you'd be in this position? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  That's what players come to college for, to try to be in a situation like this, to play in a championship game.  I mean, we lost our first game of the season.  Here we is playing the last game of the season.  So my experience has just been great. 

Q.  Seemed like you were smiling throughout the game, whether it was in the first half or later on.  Did you get the sense things were going well? 

CARMELO ANTHONY:  I smile all the time, even when I'm in a bad mood.  I try to keep a smile on my face. 


Q.  Could you imagine when you first started practice as a freshman you would be standing here on the last day of the season? 

GERRY McNAMARA:  Well, you know, it's hard to believe that we're at this point right now.  But we've worked hard all year.  We came down here for a reason.  That's to win a championship.  I think we worked hard for it, and it's paying off. 

Q.  Gerry, can you talk about the steals that you were able to make.  You were coming from the weak side, you made a couple of big steals down the stretch. 

GERRY McNAMARA:  Well, you know, coming into the tournament, I was kind of, you know, slacking off on defense as opposed to, you know, what I was doing during the season.  My steals went down a lot.  So, you know, tonight I knew I had to get the scrappy plays.  Whenever it came across that the ball was loose, you know, I tried to get to it. 


Q.  Jim, could you recount the conversation you had with Roy a couple weeks ago about possibly playing each other in this tournament and discuss the match-up against Kansas? 

COACH BOEHEIM:  It wasn't that long ago.  I think it was the other day.  You know, we just both said, if we both get there Monday night, one of us will not have to listen to you guys anymore (smiling).  And whoever wins, we'll give about seven or eight shots a side to the other guy. 

Q.  Understanding you're talking about one extraordinary freshman, one very good freshman.  Could you ever have imagined to start two freshman, playing in the final game?

COACH BOEHEIM:  Well, the problem when we had other great freshmen, we had too many great players, which I guess really isn't a problem, is it?  This year, these two guys got an extraordinary opportunity because we really, obviously, had to run the things that we do through them.  You know, they're unusual freshmen.  I felt that from the beginning.  Gerry won the state championship last year in Pennsylvania, 44 points in the first half against a team that I thought would beat them by 20.  I mean, he's a big-game player, wants to take big shots.  He has no fear.  The other guy, I don't think I need to say anything about him anymore.  I think he's shown what he is all about.  Texas is a very good defensive team.  They came at him with at least two guys on every play.  You know, he was really tremendous tonight.  Our other guys really picked it up.  This was our best offensive game.  We haven't played well offensively in the tournament.  You're not going to stop a Texas or Marquette or Kansas.  You're going to have to score.  I thought our other guys stepped up tonight.  We got the ball in the right places at the right time and made big plays.  We made a few good defensive plays in the second half.  Gerry was second or third in our conference in steals.  So, I mean, he's a pretty good little defensive player when he makes up his mind. 

Q.  I believe Carmelo had your first 11 points of the second half.  Then you go on a 15-4 run and he doesn't score.  Talk about his ability as a freshman to recognize when he needs to take over and when he needs to get others involved? 

COACH BOEHEIM:  Well, I told somebody I taught him all that this year.  He was really pretty raw when he came to Syracuse.  We have other guys that are really capable, guys that can step up and make plays.  We've done that this year.  You know, defenses look for him so much that we do give some opportunities for other guys.  Our bench has been huge in this tournament.  Josh Pace really made the key shot of the game tonight - real tough shot he made.  It really played well on both ends.  He's played tremendously in this tournament.  Billy didn't get it going tonight.  But he's a guy that's been good for us.  You know, Hakim stepped up tonight.  I thought he got us off to a great start, then he made some big plays down the stretch when they were really cheating to Carmelo. 

Q.  You and Roy have been so successful for a long time.  Can you talk about what it's like being a champion?

COACH BOEHEIM:  That's what you're in this game for, you want to win it, you don't want to just get there.  That's what we both want.  That's what all the players want.  This really comes down to, you know, a player's experience.  The first phone call tonight again in the locker room was Derrick Coleman.  He still remembers that one and one he missed out here.  He wants us to win this one so he cannot think about that one so much anymore.  But nobody's going to believe this, that's fine, but it's about what this is going to mean to these players.  I've had a great career.  If I never coached another game after tonight, I'd be very happy.  People won't believe that.  I don't really care, you know.  These guys have put their heart and soul into this season.  They want to win, and I want them to win for themselves because I know how tough it is sitting in that locker room when you lose.  I'm a grown man.  I've lost a lot of games.  So, you know, that's just the way I feel about it. 

Q.  You mentioned Derrick Coleman.  Wallace, Rony Seikaly, Sherman Douglas, you've had some great leaders before.  Would you compare those two national championship teams, that played for the national championship, to this one?  Personally, what is your mental approach going into Monday night?  Is it any different than the other two?

COACH BOEHEIM:  No.  I try to approach every game the same, whether it's Cornell or whether it's Monday night.  We try to get our players ready, get them loose, get them to understand what they have to do to win, and really go from there.  I mean, that's what you do.  And the players obviously are going to be a little bit more ready than they might be for Cornell.  But I'll be ready just the same. 

Q.  I think with 11:23 to go, you called a time-out, you were down 2.  What did you say to them at the time?  Is this team tougher than you thought?

COACH BOEHEIM:  They've been tough.  They've been behind 14 times in the second half and won all 14 games, so they've already proven that.  We were down 2, they switched to a triangle.  I didn't want to face it with the team we had on the court.  I didn't want to let this thing get out of hand.  That's why we took the time-out.  Somebody got fouled.  We got on the foul line, made a key -- I think Hak made one, then Josh made two.  It was big.  It was a big play.  They were coming back.  They had a little momentum.  I thought we needed to do something there. 

Q.  (Question regarding Brandon Mouton)?

COACH BOEHEIM:  We said, "Don't let this guy shoot it."  Said that after five minutes, but they didn't really hear me very good.  At halftime I made the point.  Him and Boddicker, I was worried about coming into the game.  I figured Ford is going to get what he did.  You know, Thomas, the other guys.  I wasn't really concerned about those guys.  We were worried about those two guys.  We didn't do a good job on Mouton at all.  We did on Boddicker pretty good till the end.  You know, the second half I thought we found Mouton a little better.  We did a much better job on him.  He was just killing us. 

Q.  I'd like to get your response on that earlier Big-12 question, the fact you've beaten three teams. 

COACH BOEHEIM:  It's irrelevant.  It's totally irrelevant.  You never hear me talk about which conference.  I don't care about that stuff.  We're playing Kansas.  Doesn't matter what conference.  They could be in the WAC.  It doesn't matter.  That's arguments that you guys can have and go back and forth on.  If you just understand there's six or seven really good conferences in this country and stop arguing about it.  I stopped 20 years ago.  I realized 20 years ago I was stupid because I was trying to say, "Well, we can do this, our conference won this game."  I woke up.  I figured that out.  Some other people should figure that out someday.  We're playing Kansas, that's all.  We're not playing anybody else. 

Q.  A lot has been said about your team's ability to score, Carmelo's ability to score.  In the first 10 minutes of the second half, he got some critical rebounds.  Talk about that. 

COACH BOEHEIM:  That's what he does best.  I mean, he beat I think it was Auburn in that triangle.  Got four offensive rebound baskets in the second half.  That's the only reason we beat Auburn.  He may be the best small forward rebounder I've ever seen.  He rebounds the basketball.  It was one of my best recruiting jobs ever.  We recruit a guy 6'8", 195 pounds.  He came in about maybe 12 months later at 6'8", 235.  That was a hell of a recruiting job. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT