WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND TWO
March 16, 2006
Jorge Cantu
Paquin Estrada
Oliver Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Regardless of the results -- this is a question for Paquin Estrada -- what does Team Mexico take away from this, and what does Paquin Estrada take away from this?   
 MANAGER PAQUIN ESTRADA:  I think that was, first of all, a very good experience, a very important experience, and a very interesting.  One, because everyone played well.  Although we didn't win all, we did give all, like I said the other night.  We were here to win, and that is how we performed this evening.  But it was a very -- it's all been a very positive experience.   
  Q.  This is a question either for Jorge or Oliver.  What is the message for the Mexican people in terms of sports?   
 JORGE CANTU:  I think there is talent in Mexico.  There are already 22 of us in the Major Leagues.  This is definitely the message that we have the talent, and proof of that is this evening.   
  Q.  Jorge, after the ball -- at the play where the ball went off the foul pole I saw you talking to the umpire the next inning when you took the field?  Can you tell us what you were saying to him?   
 JORGE CANTU:  I was joking around with him.  I was like just give stuff to the umpire, sometimes playing around.  I didn't see anything, no replay.  I was just giving him a hard time.   
  Q.  Senor Estrada, we have to say it was mucho gracias.  How do you think about the regulation of this tournament of three games?   
 MANAGER PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, we're here to play baseball.  Yes, there are regulations.  And if they are advantageous, well I don't know, but we're here to play baseball.  I'm here to assist my players.  Sometimes they ask me about the rules.  I don't really pay much attention to that because we're here to play.   
  Q.  The homerun, what was your view of the ball that Valenzuela hit?   
 MANAGER PAQUIN ESTRADA:  For me and for everyone it was a homerun.  The only ones that it was not a homerun was for the umpires.   
  Q.  I'd like to ask the players how in the world you got ready for this game, because the circumstances by which you could advance were so bizarre.  You had to one win a 14th inning one-nothing game.  How did you get ready for that?  Did you completely dismiss the possibility of advancement?   
 OLIVER PEREZ:  I think we're all professional players, and we wanted to end strong.  We wanted to end triumphant, and we knew yesterday that we were out.  But we wanted to end strong, and that's how we play.   
 JORGE CANTU:  This was for Mexico, so everyone can know in our country -- everyone can know what we're doing here so we can leave here with our heads held high.   
  Q.  This is a two-part question.  First, for Mr. Estrada, can you tell us how the homerun which wasn't a homerun, how it motivated your team?  Because we got the impression that it created union within the team.  And the question for Oliver Perez, how does this victory compare to the victory in the Caribbean?   
 MANAGER PAQUIN ESTRADA:  I think that when the homerun happened, everyone was paying attention, focusing on that.  And the important part here was that we were facing Clemens.  Clemens was pitching.   
 And for a guy like Valenzuela, this was incredible, and they had taken this away from him.  Naturally we did not -- we were not happy with the situation, and that was the sentiment that we all shared.   
  Q.  I made a mistake previously about the series in the Caribbean.  But I would like to know what your feeling is at this Baseball Classic vis-a-vis the Caribbean series?   
 OLIVER PEREZ:  Well, it was very different from the Caribbean series.  They have a lot of American players.  But here on the Mexico team, there were Mexican players.  And although everyone knows the quality that the Mexican players have, they were able to prove it.   
  Q.  I want to ask Jorge Cantu.  I think you faced a lot of star pitchers today.  You faced Roger Clemens, and also you faced Matsuzaka.  What kind of difference did you see in those two?  I mean, obviously they are different.  But did you see something similar?   
 JORGE CANTU:  Well, everybody's aggressive.  I think they're all aggressive.  I tip my hat to Roger, to Scott Sheilds, to Street, Nathan, the guys that threw today.  They're trying to get you out.  We tried to make adjustments at the plate.   
 Matsuzaka, he was thrown backwards the whole game starting with offspeed.  So that's a little difference about the Japanese pitchers and -- well, some of the US pitchers, too, or Mexicans or Dominicans or whatever.  But they are a little more sneaky, I think, like Matsuzaka was that day, but they're all great pitchers.  Us as batters, we just try to make the adjustment every at-bat.   
  Q.  I'd like to ask both players your thoughts on possibly appearing in the last game in which Roger Clemens pitched.   
 JORGE CANTU:  Well, the only thing I can say to Roger is congratulations on his entire career.  It's a great honor to be facing him if it's going to be his last game.   
 Well, I have no other words.  It's just a great honor overall just to play that game, if this is going to be  his last game.  I hope not, but if that's his decision, that's the way it is.   
  Q.  My question is perhaps a little bit of a reiteration, but I would like to hear an answer in Spanish on this for the two players.  How does it feel to have eliminated the United States for the second time and particularly to have won over Roger Clemens on this occasion?  I'd like to hear in your own words what it feels to end this way.   
 MANAGER PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, I think that the fact that we're here is in itself wonderful.  All the games that we've participated in in the Baseball Classic brought us very positive experiences, even the little things.   
 Today, when they spoke of Roger Clemens being here, I said I was interested in seeing him.  I wanted to see him, but not with negative spirit of wanting to win or cause harm in any way.  He's a person that I respect, and I've kept the lineup to keep as a souvenir to this occasion.   
  Q.  First of all, I'd like to congratulate you, baseball in this tournament, and tonight has been a breakthrough for Mexico in the world of baseball.  I'd like to hear from Oliver and Jorge their opinions on this and your opinion on the future of Mexico having recognized Mexico's great baseball.   
 OLIVER PEREZ:  I'd say that this is a very important step for Mexican players.  I think that we all know that they're great Mexican players.  However, they have not had an opportunity.  When they're not given an opportunity, sometimes they go back to Mexico, but I think that this is a wonderful way to open the doors for the great Mexican players.   
 JORGE CANTU:  He said it all.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT