WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 7, 2006
Paquin Estrada
Rodrigo Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  I have a couple of questions for Rodrigo and for the manager.  You had a really good game, and I would like to ask the manager what you think, what was lacking.  We know that batting was lacking, but was what is your impression?   
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  It was an extremely emotional game for us.  And I must say, I felt good.  The pitching was sort of -- well, sort of off.  But we're facing really strong U.S. players, and it is hard to gauge the exact strength of the U.S. ball players.   
 But I can consider that it was a pretty even  game.  The result was two single homeruns, and I think it was quite even, almost neck to neck.  Anybody really could have come out with a victory.   
  Q.  Rodrigo, I'm Allen Schwartz with Baseball America.  Usually this early in March, you would not be pitching in a competitive game.  How did it feel pitching competively today early on, and how did it compare to a regular season start for you?   
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  Well, as you say, it was somewhat early in the season for this kind of game.  But I knew the dates that we were playing.  So I prepared physically.  I prepared psychologically.  I prepared for total game.  And this was an exciting game I find, and I didn't feel tired.   
 And in general, I thought it was a very exciting and fun game, and it felt really good.   
  Q.  One quick follow-up.  Could you have pitched another inning had the pitch count not been in effect?   
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  Well, of course.  I mean, I felt good.  Usually when you're not in good condition, you feel tired or you feel you have a sore arm after finishing pitching.  But it's not the case today.  I felt really good.   
 On the other hand, I cannot really say, you know, this could have, should have.  I did what I was assigned to do for this game, and that's all there is to it.   
  
  Q.  Under the translation earlier, you said something to the effect it was hard to gauge strength (inaudible.)  These players you faced before, are you referring to their timing at this point in the season or something else?  Could you elaborate on that?   
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  I believe there was a problem with the translation, because I didn't meant it was difficult to gauge.  But these are really powerful players, strong players.  So it is difficult or -- I should say it has serious consequences to make a mistake because they're strong.  They're bigger and stronger than us, so these two pitching errors caused us two homeruns.   
 They're strong as batters.  Of course, we would face them now the same way we would do during anytime of the season, but it's just you cannot really afford to make a mistake because they're so strong.   
  Q.  Would you please go over the at-bat with Derrek Lee's homerun?   
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  A long ball.  (Laughter.)  Well, first pitch was slider, so he was right on the slider.  And the next one, I was trying to throw the same pitch but in the dirt, because it seems like he was sitting on the slider.  I missed it.  He took it.  So I was one-on-one on the count, and so I was trying to throw fast ball away.   
 I just leave it a little bit up and strike.  It was away, but a little bit up.  And as I said, these guys got tremendous power, and not much I can do.  I just can't take my hat off.  This guy is an All-Star.    
  Q.  What was it like hearing Mexico from the stands in the United States, and how did that compare to the Caribbean World Series, the atmosphere in the Caribbean World Series?   
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  It was very different.  I mean, it is the first time that this tournament is taking place, and it's taking place in the United States.  And we have incredible caliber of players.  We have major league players, and it's a tremendous satisfaction for me because it's the first time I'm here in the U.S. as a manager.   
 I was in Caribbean, but now first time here in the U.S., and I must say, as Rodrigo said, it was a good game.  But no room for mistakes, and there was two hits.   
 And it was just a matter of pitching, but I still think it was a good game.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT