U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Anna Newell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So are you about to fall asleep?  Are your feet about to fall off?ANNA NEWELL: My legs are about to fall off for sure.  My hips hurt a lot, so I'm ready to sit down.Q. Don't you want to play some more golf?ANNA NEWELL: No, I'm good.  I'm good until tomorrow at 11:55, so yeah, it's been a long day, but it was a fun day.  I really enjoyed it.Q. Had you ever played a 25-hole match before?ANNA NEWELL: No, I can't say that I have.  That was something else.  Just kind of missed a birdie putt on 1 to close out the match and just kept on going and going and going.  Neither of us would give in, and then I rolled in a putt on 7, and I thought, okay, that might have a chance to win it, and then she missed her putt, and I was like, okay, finally, it's over.  Yeah, it felt good.Q. Does anything change when you get into a long day like this?  What do you do for preservation?ANNA NEWELL: Keep drinking, keep eating for sure, put a cold towel around my neck, and don't get emotional.  Especially if you get emotional early on like the first match, then you're just exhausted for the rest of the day.  You're mentally exhausted, and throughout match play I've tried to just stay real calm, real relaxed, because it's like, okay, you win, you keep going on, you lose, you get to go home.  Just that type of thing.  So it was a good day.Q. Is this the first time your sister has caddied for you?ANNA NEWELL: She caddied for me in the qualifier, and I'm not sure if she's caddied for me in any other tournament, I'm not sure.  But yeah, we make a good pair.  It's good.Q. Where is she playing?ANNA NEWELL: She just finished up Q-school, but she didn't make it through, so we're still trying to figure that out.Q. Were you with her at Q-school?ANNA NEWELL: Uh-uh, no, I stayed at home, and then she flew up Monday morning right before my afternoon tee time to caddie for me.Q. Who caddied for her last week?ANNA NEWELL: My dad.Q. So those two have been out on the West Coast for like two weeks?ANNA NEWELL: Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  She's been gone from home for a long time.  I think we're both ready to get home for maybe like a day and then go back up to school.Q. Is this the most -- well, I guess the first three years she was at college you guys were away from each other, but for the last year you've been pretty close?ANNA NEWELL: Oh, yeah, we're like glue.  You can't unstick us.Q. She's done at Tennessee and you're going back for --ANNA NEWELL: My sophomore year.  She still has one more year of school to finish out her degree, but her eligibility is up, so yeah.  We'll be living together this last semester, and then I don't know where she'll go from there.  Hopefully on to bigger and better things.Q. How does this summer competition help you when you go back to play college golf in the fall?ANNA NEWELL: It really helps me kind of shake off the rust.  When I played my qualifier, that was my only tournament of the summer because I wanted to take it easy after playing nationals, a very hectic spring.  So I kind of shook the rust off, played well at the qualifier to get in, and then now it's just kind of like finding my game again, getting back in the swing of things.  When we're playing so many tournaments in the spring, it was kind of like automatic, like okay, I know what to do now, whether it was good play or bad, it was just kind of like going through the motions.  So now going back and starting into qualifying, it'll be like, okay, it hasn't been too long since you've been playing under pressure, so yeah, it's a good feeling to have that confidence going back to school.Q. After the NCAAs and you guys like kind of got to, okay, whoa, we made match play, like that was a great season.  What was it like coming down off of that and how long after that were you thinking, like wow?ANNA NEWELL: Yeah, we were really happy with the way we played NCAAs.  We knew we could have played better.  There's always room for improvement, but it kind of just shows us what we're capable of.  We're looking forward to the fall and the spring.  We've got a good freshman coming in, Shannon Brooks, and we're really excited just to see what we can do and keep motivated, keep pushing down the railroad tracks.  Hopefully we can do something just as good or better next spring, so we're looking forward to it for sure.Q. You had a little SEC match today out here, didn't you?ANNA NEWELL: Yes, we did, Tennessee versus a future Bulldog, so yeah.Q. Was there any smack talk in that regard?ANNA NEWELL: No.Q. Are you guys too nice to each other?ANNA NEWELL: We're too nice to each other.  I don't think girls really get into smack talk unless they really, really know each other well.  It would turn into a cat fight, so we avoid that at all costs.  No cat fights.  Yeah, there's a little bit of rivalry, but not really.  It's just fun, competitive, and I'll see her pretty much throughout the year, definitely at SECs.  Yeah, she's a nice girl.Q. This match was so close.  Were you afraid, oh, no, here we go again?  Did that ever cross your mind that you might get to play a few more extra holes?ANNA NEWELL: I tried not to think about it because I was just like, one shot at a time, one hole at a time.  I didn't think about it.  I didn't really think about it on the first match, too, this morning.  So yeah, it was just kind of like one shot at a time.  I didn't really think ahead.Q. And how did you close out the match?ANNA NEWELL: 2 & 1, parred the 17th hole.  We both parred it.  I guess that's the answer.Q. Julie tells me your nickname is Moose.  Why is that?  You're not very big.ANNA NEWELL: Well thank you.  My dad started calling me Moose when I was younger.  When I was younger, I was bigger than most girls.  Like we joked around when I was playing the Florida Women's that I was a Popsicle stick against the toothpick.  I mean, I take it in good stride.  I embrace it.  I love it.  Moose ball marker, moose head cover, moose sticker on the car.  I like it a lot.  I don't know, I've never seen a moose.  I really want to go to Colorado to see a moose, so I can be like, all right, that's me.  But I embrace it.  I love it.  Don't ask me how he came up with it, but he did.Q. How old were you when this started?ANNA NEWELL: I don't know.Q. Like a little girl or teenager?ANNA NEWELL: Middle school maybe, yeah.Q. When did you play Torrey Pines?ANNA NEWELL: We didn't play Torrey Pines.  We practiced there when we were in San Diego for that match play tournament.  Yeah, we went out there to practice, went in the pro shop, and I was like, wow, so I just bought stuff.Q. What are your thoughts about tomorrow?  What do you do tonight to sort of get ready for tomorrow?ANNA NEWELL: Definitely get some rest, get some mood in me.  I'm lucky to stay with a host family this week that lives just five minutes away, and they're super nice, super welcoming.  I feel super comfortable in their home.  I can't thank them enough.  Just get some more rest, just get my mind off of it.  I'm just lucky to make it this far.  I was just like, okay, make the cut, win my first match.  I just wasn't really thinking about it because class starts Wednesday for me, so I was just kind of like --Q. Next week?ANNA NEWELL: Yeah, so it's kind of like, well, get those couple days at home with mom and the two dogs on the couch, and it's pretty equal.  Just go out there, stay relaxed.  I didn't feel that nervous until I was playing extra holes in my morning match, so just kind of calm, relax, enjoy it, and then see what goes from there.Q. Do you think this championship will make you a better player when you go back to college?ANNA NEWELL: Definitely it will give me confidence, that's for sure.  This is like probably the best putting I've had in a very long time where I'm just seeing the lines and then hitting it there, and I think that experience is going to help me learn how to pick better lines and become a better putter because that's one thing that's held me back is making putts.  I think it's really good, and I love it.Q. Are you going to pray for less holes tomorrow or more holes because you know you can do it?ANNA NEWELL: I don't know, I'll pray for a happy day.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT