MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Lion Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Talk about the experience the first two days here and how you played today?  
 LION KIM: It's amazing just to walk 36 holes with Davis Love, III and Jose Maria Olazabal, me competing as an amateur, it doesn't get any better. Those two are clearly some of the best players in the game of golf and again it was just fun for me to just play alongside them.   
  
  Q. Talk about your game in general. Just how did you play today and what did you like about the course?  
 LION KIM: Obviously I scored better than I did yesterday, but I'm still disappointed with the way I finished there.   
 Obviously yesterday I was very disappointed because I had way too many bogeys, seven bogeys, I think. And that's not usually how my game is. I'm usually pretty consistent. And overall it was a great week, I cannot complain anything about this week.   
  
  Q. Did you pick up anything that you think you'll take with you, maybe some little tiny thing about something that you need to do?  
 LION KIM: Everything. I mean the experience, the way these pros interact with fans and just the way they prepare for each round, the demeanor on the golf course, the attitude on the golf course, just you can learn so much.  
  
  Q. The way they put on their shoes?  
 LION KIM: Yeah. Yeah. I think I was pretty solid on the shoes though.  
  
  Q. After yesterday's round you seemed pretty focused in today's round right off the bat, getting that birdie on No. 2. Did you think that helped you calm down?  
 LION KIM: That helped me calm down. I said it's too early to get excited, I said just keep plugging along and take one hole at a time and I tried to be as patient as possible out there.  
  
  Q. Would you break down that front side for us. The two birdies on No. 2 and number 8 and that miscue on number 7?  
 LION KIM: 7 I just wasn't that, it wasn't my favorite yardage, I was in between clubs, and I was in the rough too. So I figured I don't want to air mail the green, so I went with the shorter club.   
 But it was unfortunate, I just didn't like the yardage, I just didn't really trust my swing and that was really the only bad swing on the front, in my opinion.  
  
  Q. On the back side you played real great, missed two birdie opportunities right there after Amen Corner. Can you talk about playing even up until 18?  
 LION KIM: Yeah, like I said, I knew that if I shoot something under par on the back I would have a good chance of maybe playing the weekend. Who knows, it's far from over, but I just had a number in mind and for me to shoot the number that I had, I figured I would have to shoot something a couple under on the back. But unfortunately I wasn't able to do that.   
  
  Q. The key this week to you personally and to Michigan?  
 LION KIM: Personally it meant everything. I learned so much about myself, I learned that my game is good enough to compete out there, I just need to clean up every aspect of my game.   
 Just now I think what I'm truly lacking compared to these guys is just, in my opinion, experience. If I played in these types of tournaments, played on this type of golf course week in and week out I can definitely see myself competing on the next level.   
  
  Q. How about to Michigan?  
 LION KIM: It's really special. I think I heard, "Go Blue" about ten thousand times this week and just it's really amazing. It's a special we can hear for our golf program, a special week for our university.  
  
  Q. Did you hear about the hockey team?  
 LION KIM: No, but I did hear that they're in the championship game, so I will be watching.   
  
  Q. What's your plans, are you playing the next two days or not? After Augusta where are you going to go?  
 LION KIM: Well I have a month and a half left until graduation. My priority is getting my degree, graduating, and then after, yeah, I mean sooner or later I'll start fresh. Right now I just want to focus on finishing out my college golf career and getting my degree.   
  
  Q. What's your graduation date?  
 LION KIM: June.   
  
  Q. Would you try and stay amateur through at least --  
 LION KIM: I don't know. Like I said, I got to weigh my options out here. Maybe after the U.S. Amateur or before, who knows, I just don't really have a timetable of what I'm going to do.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT