WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2008
Dmitry Tursunov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You'll be taking on the nation tomorrow with our new kid on the block. How do you feel about that?  
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: You're putting a little bit of emphasis there. I didn't realize that the whole nation is going to be competing tomorrow. You know, it's nothing unusual. Everywhere you go each country has a player that -- a new kid on the block, I guess.   
 So it's nothing unusual, and I'm not going to expect the crowd to be behind me, because obviously I'm playing against a British player. It might be a difficult match simply because I don't really know how he plays. He has nothing to lose.   
 For him it's a new stage, so he's definitely going to be hungry. We'll see. Hopefully I have enough experience to deal with it.  
  
  Q. You've been public enemy No. 1 before at Wimbledon, haven't you?  
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: Well, Britain loves its yellow press, and yellow press likes to create public enemies, so it's not going to be anything new.   
  
  Q. Are you someone who can maybe turn that to your advantage? Or do you just not worry about it?   
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: I don't know, definitely it's hard to turn that into an advantage, because there's really no way of turning that into an advantage. But you're obviously expecting it as a player, and it's not going to be affecting my game.  
 Hopefully it's not, unless there's obviously somebody that's going out of control and just screaming personal insults. Then I guess you can be affected by it.  
 But in general you expect the crowd to be cheering for their countryman, and there's nothing unusual about it.  
  
  Q. What makes Wimbledon a different Grand Slam, or do you feel it's very much in line with the others?  
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: It's played on grass. Well, it's more traditional out of most Slams, and they like to stick to the traditions, middle Sunday off.   
 They're kind of forced to put the roof up because simply the money for the TV rights is way too much, so they're losing a lot of money because of that.   
 But it's also one of the oldest slams. I think it is the oldest slam, so there's a lot of history. You kind of feel like you're playing in a museum a little bit. I think that's why a lot of players enjoy it. Because you grew up as a tennis player knowing that Wimbledon is the most coveted title out of all slams, so I think it has that aura around it.  
  
  Q. How do you feel your game is shaping up generally at this moment?   
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: It's hard to say on this surface, to be honest. There are a lot of factors, the weather, definitely who you're playing and what their style of game is.   
 But I think I'm playing pretty well. I didn't have that many matches this year on grass. And in general, when I switched from clay to grass, I feel like it's a new surface for me.   
 I don't feel as comfortable on it, but I've done well on it. I think this year it's not any different than previous years.  
  
  Q. Have you noticed a changing speed on these courts this year?  
 DMITRY TURSUNOV: It's hard for me to say because you're comparing it to the surface from last year. But there are differences between grass courts, definitely, because we played in Germany.   
 This year I didn't play in Queen's, I played in Halle, and Halle seems to have a lower bounce than, let's say, Nottingham. So there are different bounces and speeds, and perhaps it's what they put on the ground; I don't know.   
 I haven't gotten that -- I can't figure out the specifics of that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT