SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2007
Melanie Balcomb
Caroline Williams
Christina Wirth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  Joining us from Vanderbilt, Coach Melanie Balcomb, players Christina Wirth and Caroline Williams.   
 COACH BALCOMB:  I think when you score a lot of points people are impressed.  I think one of the things we were disappointed with tonight was our defense, cutting off the drive and checking out.  Two of the things we better bring tomorrow.   
 But overall, I liked our effort and I liked our unselfishness.  Obviously, I like when we shoot the ball that well.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for coach or the players.   
  
  Q.  That's not the first time you've shot 70%.  That's kind of becoming more routine than the unusual.  Talk about that.   
 COACH BALCOMB:  Well, you know, when we take good shots, we do a lot of shooting, we're confident.  I think tonight we're just excited to play and we're confident.  I think we know our offenses really well.  When we execute them, we know the ball's going in.   
 These two people sitting next to me obviously shot it very, very well from three.  Our three-point percentage was as good as it's ever been.  I think that was the most impressive part:  We shot better from three than we did from the field.   
  
  Q.  Can both players talk about getting your confidence back after the last regular-season game, shooting it well and confidently.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Christina.   
 CHRISTINA WIRTH:  After the Tennessee game, we were disappointed.  Obviously we went in there confident we would win and we didn't.  We're the kind of team, though, that I never doubt we're going to come back.  We know that everyone's going to come to practice ready to play, come to this tournament ready to play.  So that wasn't really a problem.   
 I knew we were going to get it back.  Like coach said, we do do a lot of shooting.  We're shooters.  That's what we do.  We're just going to do what we do.   
 CAROLINE WILLIAMS:  I agree with Tina.  I think the way we practice, the way we focus a lot on offense and practice, it makes us confident in the game.  When we hit a couple of shots, I think it gets contagious with all of us.  I think you see it.   
 It happened tonight.  We hit a couple of threes.  Tina hit some threes.  Everyone starts feeling it.  I think we're confident.  We attribute that to practicing hard and shooting a lot in practice.   
  
  Q.  Coach, what are some of your concerns about Georgia?   
 COACH BALCOMB:  Obviously their high-low game is very good.  I think that's going to be a huge key.  Tasha Humphrey is playing really well, but so is everybody else.  I think they're executing as well as everybody I've seen.  They're running a lot of stuff and executing it well on offense.  I think we're going to have to do a much better job defensively and take them out of what they want to do.  We're going to have to dictate more on defense.   
 I think Ashley Houts is playing really well for them, too, in setting up the offense, running the offense with confidence as a freshman.  But, you know, they've got so many kids to go to and Andy subbing a lot.  You got to be ready to play and know the personnel, knowing who does what and taking their strength away.   
  
  Q.  How important was it to get off to a good start, considering you know they were going to be emotional with Coach Peck's situation?  Caroline, can you address that?   
 CAROLINE WILLIAMS:  I think one of the main things that we've been doing a really good job this last part of the season is we set a goal before we start the game.  We try to jump out on teams and make 'em call a timeout before the first four minutes.  I think we all knew they would be emotional.  It's her last game.  A couple of seniors.  All of them want to play hard for her.   
 But I think that was our most important thing, was we jump out quick.  We want to get a 10-0 lead if we can, make them call a timeout.  If you do that, it immediately can take some confidence away.  I think we did a good job of that tonight.   
  
  Q.  Tina, obviously the seniors get a lot of the pub on this team.  Your form showed how deep this roster is.  Talk about opponents can't key on one, two or even three people in your roster, players like you, the depth in this club.   
 CHRISTINA WIRTH:  I know I've said this before, but our three seniors are just great players and they're great leaders.  Other teams know they're our go-to's.  The rest of us, I'm not saying the rest of us aren't good players, because we are, that's what is so great about our team.   
 But it helps with other teams have to worry about Carla inside, and Dee just running everything, Caroline lighting it up.  That gives you opportunities.   
 Tonight, you know, a lot of people stepped up.  We are a deep team, and that's going to really help us down the road.  I think right now our freshmen are playing really, really well.  It's a team effort every game.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT