NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Cory Sarich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Yes, it was a bit of a surprise, just kind of parents and everybody was up getting drinks and all of a sudden heard the name and it was a surprise.  But glad to be a member of the Buffalo Sabers.

My aunt, she was around, and my dad was there, and my agent, but half my family was missing, so I had to make do with what I had.

Yeah, not quite.

I'd have to consider myself a defensive defensemen.  Well, maybe more so all around.  Really take pride in my defensive style of play, but can contribute offensively when I have to.  I like to play a fairly physical game.  Those would have to be a couple of my strengths.

I just -- pretty good passer.  I've always considered myself that.  And always heads-up hockey player, just always try to use my head and do the right thing.

No, not a lot, actually.  It's a lot of the teams are tough to get to know, you're going around visiting everybody.  You're hearing bits and pieces about them.  But I'll suppose I'll get to know a lot more in the  future, so...

Oh, I know quite a few of the guys on the team.  Pat LaFontaine and Hasek most of the stars.

Oh, personally?  No, never.

I'm from Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

Davison (ph) Saskatchewan, it's about an hour south of Saskatoon.

Actually, I'm closer to Bladworth.  I live on a farm, and it's a very small town.

Just grain farm.  All types of grain. No more animals, got rid of those.

I used too, but in the last couple of years hockey has become a priority, so I don't get home a lot.

Yeah, I'm living in Saskatoon.  I'm not sure if I'm moving home for the summer or not, I haven't decided yet.

Yeah, they did, they had season tickets.  My hometown is only an hour away, so they usually drove in for every game.

I don't think any team really says what they're going to do.  But they gave me a chance to talk to them and they kind of -- they seemed interested and ended up picking me, so...

Just one or two.  And I -- but I've known Ross Mahoney, one of the scouts, all my life, and talked  to him quite a bit.

There are basically a lot of interviews are conducted.  There's a lot of guys in there.  It was one of the first times where I had to talk to about ten guys at the same time, and that was a neat thing.

No, he coached me on Team Saskatchewan out at the Canada Winter Games when we won the gold medal.  I kind of got to know him when I was 15 years old trying out for the Team Saskatchewan and spent summers a couple of years getting to know him trying out for Team Saskatchewan.

Well, I've got to get a lot stronger before I think I'm going to be able to play in the NHL.  It will probably be a couple of more years in the juniors and then hopefully be able to make the jump in the NHL.

About 185, 186 pounds.


Q.  Are you glad it's over?

I don't know if I'm glad that it's over, but it's nice to finally be picked by one team and concentrate on that one team instead of having to visit everybody.  It's a bit of a relief.

They're great. I like them a lot better than the Buffalo gold jerseys, but that's my opinion of them.


Q.  Ever been to Buffalo?

No, I haven't.  Thank you very much.   


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT