THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Gareth Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GARETH WRIGHT:  Not too bad, quite pleased.  As pleased
as I can be.  I had a good start and then -- played quite nicely.
Probably one bad shot all day, that was it, down 4.  That's always
been my nemesis this week.  I would have been happy with a bogey,
but 5, it was.
I was really pleased.  Played good today.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Probably start to sink in now, probably
just reflect on it after I've tried to treat it as normal a golf
tournament as I can.  I'm probably going to have a few beers with
my mates.  There's a few people down here.  Maybe have a beer and
watch the golf and that's it.
Q.  You haven't played as much this season?
GARETH WRIGHT:  Not in Scotland.  There's been lots of
other things going on with Challenge Tour and the main Tour starts
that I've had.  And been a Europe pro, as well.  It's been kind of
playing here and everywhere.
Q.  What's next?
GARETH WRIGHT:  I think I'm meant to be at work, but I
think my dad might let me have the day off.  I'm pretty tired
after this week.  I think there's maybe a Pro Am this week and
then SPGA.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Yeah, whenever I've hit my driver, my
driver has been good.  Calloway made me a new driver this week,
and I've been struggling off the tee this week, which is not like
me.  Whenever I've hit my driver, I've not hit it in any trouble,
apart from when the last hit it in the crowd, but I got a good
drop.
But the driver has been working well.  I've been playing
good all season, but just not quite finishing things up.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  I think it does.  Obviously playing in a
Major, making the cut shows that you've obviously got the game to
play up there with the best of them.  So, yeah, probably hopefully
take a bit of belief from this and move forward at the end of the
year.
Q.  What was a highlight?
GARETH WRIGHT:  Probably playing with Poulter and Westie
on Wednesday.  They were great with me.  They've been great all
season.  I had a word with Ian, and he said I was more than
welcome to join the two of them.  So that was fantastic.
Q.  Do you think Westwood is the favorite to win?
GARETH WRIGHT:  I think you can always look at Westwood
and look at maybe a win.  If he has a good week with the putter.
He hits the ball so well, that if he's putting nicely, I think
he's always going to contend.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Yeah, yeah, I like it up at Gleneagles.
It suits my game.  It will be a bit nicer having wider fairways.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Yeah, although I shot over par today, I
played really nicely.  I think typical links golf, I missed a
couple of greens and the ball finished in the back of bunkers, and
you just have no chance of getting up and down, even though you've
not really hit a bad shot.
So, yeah, I'll be looking with a bit of confidence for
next week and see how we'll go.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Well, yeah, I think just another golf
tournament.  I don't think you can treat it any other way, so
we'll see what happens.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GARETH WRIGHT:  Yeah, really looking forward to that.
That's always been -- it was a goal of mine last year, that's why
I didn't go to Tour school last year.  I was pleased to get in
that, so I'm looking forward to that.  I can use some of the
experience here this week, and hopefully do well.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT