ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2015
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You played a lot of good golf at this course over the years.   How good does 3‑under for two rounds feel? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It feels good.   Obviously could have been better but I guess every golfer says the same after a round.   It's playing tough.   The setup is slightly different from the past few years.   The rough is not so thick, so you get shots from most of the lies but it's really hard to control it, and obviously the greens are firming up nicely. 
So it's still very important to hit fairways that allows you to hit more greens and have more chances.   I'm happy.   3‑under, I think it's a decent score, yeah.

Q.   As you suggest, it's known as a ball‑striker's course and you're the most accurate driver on the PGA Tour, second in greens in regulation.   Were you licking your lips coming in here thinking:   Yeah, this is right up my street. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, because you never know.   Golf is a strange sport.   I was looking forward to the week because I have played well here in the past, and I enjoy this course a lot. 
I'm starting to get a little tired to be honest because I've been playing a lot the last few weeks.   Going back and forth from the states is not easy.   But it's another two days.   I've got a week off next week, so I need to keep it together for a few more holes.   The game is in good shape. 
Yesterday, probably because we teed off so late, I think I lost a bit of concentration.   I didn't hit the ball so well.   But today was really solid, really nice, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   I take it there's satisfaction, isn't there, with a round like that to move up this leaderboard? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it was good.   Good round today.   I didn't play very well the last fewer holes, which were my last four holes of the front nine.   Obviously it's tricky there. 
I managed to get away with two bogeys, which is not too bright around here on those holes.   Then the rest of the round, I played nicely, putted nicely.   So very happy.

Q.   State the obvious, but always nice to finish with a birdie like that one at the last. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it was good.   I hit two great shots, tee shot and second shot, and that green is a really small target.   So it's hard to hit it.   It was nice to finalise the hole with a nice shot from the bunker, nice putt, and 3‑under for the last nine was very good. 
The breeze is picking up.   The course is firm.   So it's going to be interesting to see the scores this afternoon.

Q.   You've shot a round of 64 around here.   Do you sometimes wonder how you managed to achieve that? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, this week I thought about it.   I guess conditions was probably slightly easier because the course was slightly softer.   But yeah, I was playing the Pro‑Am, and I was thinking exactly that:   How on earth‑‑ especially because I started with double the first.   So I don't know what happened that day, but hopefully it will happen again some day in my career.

Q.   But does it mean that you have an affinity with the track; that you know some of its nuances?   You know it's going to be a patience exercise; you've got to stay patient throughout the day. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I love the course, but that doesn't stop you from making bogeys and more.   I love the course.   I know sometimes on this course when you're out of position, you just have to take the medicine, make your bogey and move to the next hole.   So that's what I tried to do today and yesterday.   It's been working pretty good.

Q.   I've got to ask about the start of the week because we feared we might not have you at this tournament.   Tell us about that being delayed and getting your arrival to Paris. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I was halfway here because I was at the bottom of The Chunnel, and some French protesters decided to stop us to get delays of the train, so we had to turn around and go back to London and spend a few extra hours at home, which was nice, and fly Wednesday morning. 

Q.   Not the ideal preparation. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, but you know, it was good.   I've been playing and traveling a lot, so it was not bad to stay at home a few more hours and sleep in my bed one more night.   Maybe it's going to be a good thing at the end of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT