BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2015
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A round of 69, started with a couple of bogeys, how do you feel about 69 at the end of the day?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I'm really happy.   The start as you said is really tricky the first three holes.   I think I played them okay.   My chipping wasn't good enough on the first and on the third to save par.   I managed to steady the ship and made a few birdies coming in at the end, so a good day.  
   
 Q.   Despite finishing second last week and coming close to victory, you chose to use a new putter.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's just a bigger face, more of a mallet shape.   I was struggling with my aim last week so it was to have an easier putter to aim with and the results have been good so far.   
   
 Q.   In your last five years here, we can see the last three years, all in the Top‑10.   What is it about this place?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know, I just enjoy it.   I think it's a great track.   The changes made it more difficult, so I think it suits my game better now.   I don't know, I just like it.   
   
 Q.   Not quite the fireworks of yesterday, but how satisfying a round of 69 with a couple of bogeys in the first three?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I think it was another solid day.   Obviously the start wasn't as good as yesterday but I managed to make a couple of birdies to get even par before the turn.   Then I think with this wind on the back nine, you get a few good birdie chances and I managed to take three of them.  
   
 Q.   I was surprised to hear despite finishing second last week, you included a new putter in the bag.   Tell us why.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   All the same specs, just a bigger mallet‑looking face.   I was struggling with my aim on the greens and the line is bigger on the putter and it makes it easier for me to line up correctly.  
   
 Q.   Talking to Paul McGinley before the tournament, he said, "Watch out for Molinari, the course really suits him."   Is that the way you feel here?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I enjoy playing here.   I've played well the last few years.   There's a bit of good Italian karma here with Rocca winning and Matteo winning a few years ago.   
   
 Q.   You said playing in America is helping your game; how is it helping?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's just after ten years playing pretty much the same courses in Europe, we play new courses in slightly different conditions, usually firmer and faster.   So I think, yeah, it was a good idea to go over there and challenge myself and try to get better.   
It was a shaky start and I did well to come back.   Again played well, putted well.   I could have probably chipped a bit better the first few holes but all in all, I feel good today.  
   
 Q.   Any reason for a shaky start?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not really.   I just missed a couple of greens.   Like I said, the chipping wasn't really good enough to save par.   But you know, it's a tough start here at Wentworth.   Yesterday being level par after three holes, I was delighted.   So I knew that I could have bogeyed maybe one or two of the first few holes but I had time to come back.   
   
 Q.   And you know Wentworth so well, you know you have to stay patient and opportunities will arise, particularly near the close?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, a bit like yesterday, I played very well the last few holes.   I think the wind we had yesterday and we have today makes the finishes a little bit easier than usual.   It was great to take a few chances near the end.   
   
 Q.   Is the course playing any different to day one?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was a little bit less wind obviously this morning.   The greens were probably rolling a bit better than in the afternoon, but nothing major really.  
   
 Q.   10‑under par is not a bad shout for the halfway mark.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it's a good score.   Obviously I'm delighted to have gone a little bit further under par from yesterday and just need to keep doing the same.  
You know, I know how hard I've been working the last few months, so it's nice to see that it's paying off on the course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT