WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was it that easy? 
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, it's never easy in these kind of tournaments.   I'm a bit surprised, to be honest.   I haven't hit a ball in the last three weeks because I was injured.   I guess I came in with a how expectations. 
    Adam had a tough day on the greens, which is always‑‑ you are going to pay in match play and I played solid.   I holed a few putts.   Hit a couple of shots close to the hole.   Obviously a good start.

Q.   What was the key to your round today?
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think I made one bogey all day.   It's a course where you can make birdies, but you can easily get this trouble.   The rough is quite strong, so you want to keep out of it.   Just staying out of trouble I think was the key today.

Q.   You beaten the 9th ranked player in the world.   How satisfying is that?
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's great.   I played solidly today.   I came in this week with low expectations.   I was injured after Houston.   I didn't really hit a shot until last Friday.   It's a great start. 
    Adam had a tough day on the greens, which is never great in match play.   But I managed to play solid, just made one bogey and a few birdies.   It was a really good day for me.

Q.   How is the injury now?
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's fine.   Not 100 percent yet, but it's getting there.

Q.   You're ranked as No. 1 in terms of accuracy of finding fairways.   How powerful a toll is that here? 
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think it can be.   The rough is quite severe and even if you hit it longer, you hit it in the rough, it's hard to control the ball especially if the greens are firming up nicely as they were today.   So I think it's going to be a big advantage this week.

Q.   How do you get to know a new course like this quickly and establish a game plan for the course? 
    FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think some courses are easier and some are harder.   I think this one is pretty straightforward.   It's a challenge, but it's in front of you.   So you have to hit fairways, hit greens.   Two days was enough really to get to know it.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT