WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   About 3 under, which puts you in pretty good position right now.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, very happy with the start.   Played very well on the front nine, maybe not as well on the back nine, but putted better, so made a few more birdies.   
Yeah, the course is always in great shape here in Akron.   So a great start.  
   
 Q.   A little bit of rain last night.   Did it affect the course at all?   Was it playing sluggish or slow at all?   Did it drain pretty well?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not slow, I would say.   We had rain on Monday.   It's been quite soft, even in the practice rounds.   It's playing a bit longer, but the greens are a bit more receptive.   So it's in great shape.  
   
 Q.   The wind kicked up a little bit.   Did it affect you at all the last few holes?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was a bit stronger on the back nine, yes.   So I guess starting early this morning, we had a little bit in the bunkers.   
   
 Q.   Having a nice little run?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah.   I'm playing well.   The Open was very good, obviously apart from the front nine on Saturday really, which affected my tournament, but still 15th in a Major is a decent result for me.   
I'm playing well.   I'm putting well.   Everything is in good shape.   So just a matter of putting four rounds together.  
   
 Q.   Had a good result last week, didn't you, in the Canadian Open?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I didn't play that.   It was a very good week.  
   
 Q.   How much is the Ryder Cup weighing on you?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I try to leave it out.   There's nothing‑‑ it's out of my control anyway.   So I can only try to do as good as I can this week and try to win or finish as high as I can this week and next week and the week after and the week after.  
   
 Q.   Until there are no more weeks left?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Exactly.   Obviously, I'd love to be there, but there's a lot of work to be done to make the team.  
   
 Q.   How many will you play from now until then?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I'm going to play next week, and then I'll play Wyndham here in the States, and then a week off before playing in Italy.  
   
 Q.   How much interaction, if any, have you had, or communication have you had with your captain?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   A little bit.   He's been speaking to me, but I think to all the players, more or less, involved in the run of the team.   
He's just been saying, You're playing well.   Just keep going.   There's still plenty of chances.   I know from experience the team is not done yet.   Otherwise, they would stop the qualifying period earlier.   
As I said, the only thing I can do is try to play good golf every day, get out, and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   You've showed what you can do, what somebody can do with a late run at Wales.   So it just shows it's never over, is it?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, well, I think it is something very special there to get on the team.   It's definitely doable.   I've got big tournaments to play in this week, next week.   
I don't know.   For me, it would be nice even just to get in Italy still with a chance to get into the team without having to wait for a pick or whatever.   That's still the goal.   Like I said, the main goal is to play good golf and then see what happens.  
   
 Q.   The captain's picks add an ingredient to the game that doesn't exist for you in any other realm in golf.   Any other instance is cut and dry, your score is what it is.   What is it like to all of a sudden have this gray area injected into the sport?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't personally know because, fortunately, I haven't had to wait for the call so far.   
I'm sure it's not a nice call to wait for, and I'll do my best to not have to wait for the call, but we'll see.   I'm aware at the moment that there are some really, really good players outside the team.   
As I said, it's early to talk about it.  
   
 Q.   How often do you look at the standings?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I've been looking the last few weeks, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember where you were last time you had a look?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, not really.   I usually look when I have a good week myself to see.   Otherwise, there's not much point in seeing you going backwards in the standings.  
   
 Q.   I would like to ask you about the story with your caddie, if you don't mind to talk about.   At The Open, you were supposed to play with him and caddie for you, and then Nick?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It wasn't really my choice.   We missed the cut in the Scottish Open, and we were going to meet on Sunday in Liverpool.   And he basically showed up and said that he'd had enough and he didn't want to caddie anymore.   
So I was without a caddie, and Nick was the first guy that came to my mind.   Luckily, he said yes for The Open week, and we had a decent week, and we decided to keep going together.  
   
 Q.   So you are going to stay with him?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   It surprised you, did it?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I was really surprised.   I didn't see it coming.   I guess he has two little kids at home.   It's not easy to be‑‑ I think he's been caddying for 20 years.   I don't think I'll be playing for much longer than 20 years before saying I've had enough as well.  
   
 Q.   [Inaudible].   How beneficial was that?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's been nearly a year now.   I started in September of last year, and it's been good, especially on fast greens.   I think I've improved a lot.   
I haven't looked at the stats or anything, but I'm sure that they're going to be better from last few years.   I just roll the ball better, and I'm not so worried about it, which is a big part as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT