THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. At some point you and your brother were in the top two places on the leaderboard, did you see that?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I didn't.  I wasn't looking at that particular moment.  But I saw he was doing well most of the day.  So it's great to see.  Obviously I was trying to focus on what I was doing more than anything else.  So, yeah, I'm happy the way I played.  And it's good to see him up there, as well.Q. Is there something specific the last few days that's worked for you here?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know.  Yeah, I've been here since Sunday and I like the course since I got here.  And I've been hitting the ball well.  I've been putting well.  So it's just about trying to stay in the moment and do my best.  Obviously it's not always easy in a major, but I've been doing it pretty well so far.Q. How did the conditions today compare to what you were prepared for today?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it was pretty much as we were expecting it, really hot and breezy.  I think the breeze kind of dropped down a little bit after we played probably 9, 10 holes.  But, yeah, it was a good test today.  Definitely more breeze for us, at least, that we played in the morning yesterday.  And as I said, I'm happy the way I dealt with it.Q. What is it like to see three Italians doing is so well?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's good.  It's really good.  Yesterday was I think an amazing day for Italy and for Italian golf.  So with the amount of golfers that we have in Italy, it's really an amazing thing what we did yesterday.  And hopefully they'll be proud of it back home.Q. Was that like Croatia getting to the final of the World Cup in terms of other sports, for example?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I don't know, to be honest with you.  It was probably like Costa Rica beating Italy in football.Q. We make a big deal of you and your brother (inaudible.)FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think we are really used to it more than obviously anyone else.  So yeah, you keep an eye on -- I keep an eye on what he's doing, and I'm sure he does the same.  But at the end of the day it's really tough out there.  So you need to be a hundred percent there when you're hitting a shot.  And that's what we try to do.Q. How difficult is chasing down Rory when he gets on a roll?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: He's obviously very good, so we'll see.  We'll see where he finishes today.  It won't be easy trying to catch him up.  But we're here to try and we'll do that on the weekend.Q. Did you feel like you were in form (inaudible.)FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I felt that my short game was in good shape since I got here, and my long game wasn't quite there.  But then I did some work with my coach and he got here Monday night.  So Tuesday and Wednesday we did some work on the swing, and it seemed to click pretty much.  At the moment I would think it's in good shape.Q. Did you play a practice round on Sunday with your brother?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yes, I did.Q. Do you see each other much away from the course?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not really right now because I live in London and he still lives in Turin.  So obviously we see each other at tournaments, and outside the course, but not when we're at home, obviously.Q. Are you staying together this week?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, we're staying in two different houses.Q. Is that by design or just worked out that way?FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Staying in different places?Q. Yes.FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, well, no, no, it's just he got in pretty much last minute.  So I had the accommodations already with other people, and he has his wife with him anyway.  We try to do each his own thing, really.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT