BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Knocking that in on 17, becomes a very special round?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I was going along nicely, and obviously trying to make something the last couple holes.   I missed a makeable putt on 16 and hit two really good shots on 17 just short of the green with obviously a makeable chip.   I have to say it came out a bit firmer than where I wanted but it hit the flag and went in so it was a pretty nice bonus, yeah.

Q.   When you find yourself a way fairway back at start of play, but there's two days to come.   Were you still very positive about action today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, you know, it's hard to be very positive, but you try to be, and you know, my thought today was just go out and keep the head down and try to do as well as I could.   I got off to a good start. 
Finally I didn't bogey the first for the first time in a week which is always nice.   Birdied the third, which is, you know, a tough hole, so it's a bit of a bonus again. 
And then just played solid golf all day.   Managed to play well in the rain in the wind and the sunshine because we've got a bit of everything, so really happy with today's play. 

Q.   And it really is a bit of everything.   How difficult is it out there to adapt like that?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's not easy, because sometimes it doesn't feel like the wind is blowing but it's just because you're in the middle of the trees and sometimes it's not really blowing.   It's not easy to get the right clubs sometimes, but obviously the course is playing softer after all the rain last night and that makes it a bit more forgiving than usual.

Q.   Lord knows what's going to happen in the weather, we are in loads of sunshine right now, but having completed the back nine what is your feeling about your position in relation to the leaders? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I don't know.   We'll have to see.   As you said, it's sunny now, but you know, we'll see what they get the rest of the day.   I just have to be happy with what I did.   I if not got back into contention, I at least got myself a lot closer than where I was yesterday, so really happy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT