THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It's got to be frustrating.   Tell us your emotions right now. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it looked like we could get lucky and finish the round, at least our group, but nothing you can do about it.   Just wait and see.   Hopefully we manage to finish tonight, and if it doesn't look likely, otherwise we'll just come out tomorrow morning and try to finish as strong as possible. 

Q.   So are you waiting for an update as we are, sort of nothing concrete there in the players lounge?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, they're just waiting to see what happens with the storm, if it goes away.   I think it's quite static at the moment, so there's really nothing we can do.   We see that there's not much daylight left, so I wouldn't be surprised if we have to come out tomorrow morning.

Q.   Well, the good news, you have hit your tee shot on 17. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it wouldn't be a nice tee shot to start your day with, even if the 18th is not a lot better.   I'm on the green, a bit far away, but still, it's a birdie chance.   It would be nice to hole that putt and maybe try to birdie 18, as well. 

Q.   How happy are you with the way you played this week, obviously getting in the top 50 to secure your spot here at THE PLAYERS, you must be delighted. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, today was great.   I putted very nicely.   I just missed a shot on 13 that was very important because it was to get to 12‑under, and then bogeyed the 14th.   I thought I had half a chance, but still, it's a good week for me, and I have to finish it off nicely the last two holes.

Q.   And then following that some big tournaments coming up for you. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, there's a good one‑‑ I'm down to play Spain next week, and then obviously BMW PGA at Wentworth, and then Sweden for the Nordea Masters, so there's a good run of events.   Obviously I'm in good form, and I'm looking forward to them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT