THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Windy conditions, you missed just two fairways the entire day.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I hit the ball very well.   I got off a perfect start.   Just a solid day.   Didn't make any long putts, but holed the 3‑ and 4‑footers when I needed to and just very happy.   It's been ‑‑ I didn't play very good on Thursday, but I seem to got it back yesterday and today.   So hopefully tomorrow will be the same.  
   
 Q.   Just a feel thing, a mechanical adjustment?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   A little mechanical adjustment.   Luckily, my coach was here, he left this morning, so we did a little bit of work yesterday morning before going out and it seems to be paying off.  
   
 Q.   You're going to be in good shape going into this final round, because I think it's going to be tough scoring this afternoon with the wind.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   We'll see.   I think there's still, if you play well, there are a few chances out there.   The greens are still holding more than what we're used to.   So we'll see.   I'm happy with where I am at the moment.   
   
 Q.   What are some holes that we should be looking out for as the round progresses here in the afternoon?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, 17 is a good one.   You can make birdie.   But if you get a bit too greedy you can get in trouble as always.   
16 is playing quite tough.   Straight into the breeze, so if you go for it in two, it's a delicate second shot.   
   
 Q.   Enjoy your afternoon.   Thank you.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   What was working for you out there?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I got off a perfect start, which is always good on a course like this.   Then I played solid, hit a lot of good tee shots especially.   I think if you keep the ball in the fairway, it's a great advantage here, especially when it gets windy like today.   
So I'm really happy the way I played, obviously I know that tomorrow's going to be another challenge, as always around here, so I'm looking forward to that.  
   
 Q.   Started off with three birdies, was that surprising to you and how does that set the tone for your round?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, not surprising, because I played well yesterday, I probably could have don't a little bit better yesterday than the 2‑under I finished with.   
But the first is playing downwind, so it's easier than usual.   
I hit two really good shots at the second and I was putting for eagle from probably 25 feet.   
I holed a very nice chip on the third, where I missed the green.   
So it's, on a course like this, where you know that you're going to lose a couple of shots here and there, if you start 3‑under after three holes, it takes a lot of pressure out of your shoulders.   
   
 Q.   So you're right in the mix now, we'll see how the rest of the leaderboard finishes, but tomorrow how aggressive do you start tomorrow?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think still the same.   I know it sounds boring, but you need to hit shot by shot and get the ball in the fairway, get the ball on the green, some holes you can be a little bit more aggressive, obviously, depending upon the pin positions as well, but I think the plan is to be the same.   First, stay out of trouble, and then try to get the chances when you have them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT