ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   For two days in a row, how pleased are you with your game right now?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, very pleased.   It's been very good yesterday and today.   It's been a few events this season already that started very well.   I haven't had a good weekend yet.   So hopefully it's coming.   Everything is feeling good.   Just go out tomorrow and try again shot‑by‑shot and see what I can do.  
   
 Q.   How much more difficult was the course today and the conditions compared to yesterday?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think a bit more difficult.   A bit more breeze.   Not much, but just enough to make you think about it.   And probably the flags are a little bit tougher today.   Yeah, but we'll see what the other guys can score.  
   
 Q.   You've established yourself on the worldwide scene, certainly Ryder Cup, European Tour.   How important would it be for you to win on the US PGA Tour?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It would be huge, obviously.   It's something I've not done in my career and I think it's something that is really hard to do for us Europeans.   It's very tough.   
Obviously I'm not really thinking about that too much at the moment.   It's just about going out tomorrow and do the best that I can do.  
   
 Q.   Growing up in Italy, was Arnold Palmer somebody you looked up to?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, well, to be honest with you it was probably a bit earlier than my generation when I was watching on TV.   But obviously him and Jack, they're the greats of the game.   So we read about them and obviously we saw some recorded tapes about them, so, yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the weather here, is there a chance you could be following in the footsteps of a lot of European players that moved here?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know, you have to have a chance to do that first.   But I like playing here.   I think it's taken a few years to kind of get used to come oversea and play here.   But I'm enjoying myself.   Let's see what happens the next couple of days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT