WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2014
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can't be too many occasions when you shoot 75 and feel quite good.   Do you feel quite good now?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I have to say, yeah,75 in these conditions, I'm quite pleased with it.   It's playing really, really tough, as tough as you can imagine.   I hit a couple of loose tee shots in the water, but every shot is really, really hard to judge out there.   So really happy with the score.  
   
 Q.   Almost became a game of survival at the end, didn't it.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, every shot, doesn't matter if it's downwind or into the wind.   It's just a really hard guess, and there's water all over the place.   So I'm glad it's over for me today and I get a rest before going out tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Are you more tired mentally than physically?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I actually feel pretty good but it is tiring mentally out there.   There's always a hazard in play almost on every hole, and you can't miss the fairway, you can't miss the green.   So really, really tough.  
   
 Q.   Have you had enough of the wind now?   Would you like it to go away for the weekend?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It would be nice to have some breeze but maybe not as hard as today, as strong as today.   I mean, at some points it was almost three clubs of wind.   So it's nearly‑‑ the ball is nearly moving on the green so it's probably as much as you can play with.   
   
 Q.   Obviously the wind was a huge factor but was it a six‑shot difference?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, it was definitely more difficult than yesterday.   I think I hit a couple of loose tee shots that I didn't hit yesterday, so a couple of penalty shots.   But, you know, it's really, really hard out there.   So I'm pretty happy the way I played.   
   
 Q.   Did the wind just magnify all your mistakes today?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, on this golf course as it is at the minute, there's no room for mistakes.   There's a lot of water in play, a lot of bunkers.   So I'm happy with level par for the first two rounds.   
   
 Q.   Your position from the rest of the field is pretty much going to stay the same between round one and round two; are you surprised by that?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not really.   I've seen how tough it is out there.   Obviously we were the first group out, so, you know, we could realize pretty early that it was going to be a battle for everyone.   So we'll see what the leaders will finish up this evening, but I'm sure we won't be too far away.   
   
 Q.   Could you describe the scene and the conditions of round two?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I was joking before, but it's almost become a survival test, because no matter if it's downwind or into the wind, it's really hard to judge the shots.   There's water pretty much on every hole.   So I think it's as tough of conditions as we can get during the season.   
   
 Q.   Is this more of the course setup, the course design or the wind?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think it's a combination of the course setup and the wind.   Obviously the new design is tougher than what it was before, but we played it at the beginning of the week with a little breeze and it was a good test but it was playable.   
I think right now, you know, it's almost three clubs wind, so it's nearly too much to play, so it's as tough as it can get.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT