SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 6, 2013
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Continental Europe have waited an awful long time, how does it feel now it's done?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, it feels great, for us, for Chema, for all the times that we have lost in the past; I played the last two before this, and it's never a good feel to finish on the losing side.   So we tried really hard, they played well, they played great yesterday afternoon to get back into it, and you know, it was all to play for today.   
It was funny yesterday when Olazábal was reading the list, I kind of knew I was going to be last, but I was waiting every name, hoping to hear mine, and I didn't until the 10th spot.   But it's great for us and for everyone.  
   
 Q.   When did you realize that your match was going to be the crucial one?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, you know, I tried to stay away from the leaderboards as much as possible, but then obviously you see everyone coming up to your match and watching you.   I tried not to do the math, so I just realized here that I needed a half a point, so I wasn't going to hit my putt too firm obviously.   But, you know, it's good to finish in style with two birdies.   
Chris played well today, played well all week.   
   
 Q.   How much pressure did you feel late on?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, it's a lot.   It's not like Ryder Cup but it's a lot.   You've got nine teammates here and the captain, and you don't want to let anyone down.   So I've done it twice now going last in the singles, I don't know if I want to do it again.  
   
 Q.   Does it strike you the irony, Woods and Wood?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I didn't really think about it but it's a bit strange really, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How will you celebrate this win?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know, I think we are just going to have a good laugh with the team.   We came here to do the job.   We were determined all week to do the job, so it's good to get it done in the end.  
   
 Q.   And your captain, how good a job did he do?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, he's amazing.   He's one of the most inspiring figures in golf, not only European, but in the world of golf.   Every time he speaks, everyone is listening carefully.   He's just as inspiring as anyone can be.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT