VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2013
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Third consecutive win, 2 & 1, 4 & 3, and 6 & 4, are you becoming more mercenary by the day?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   No, I think today was really tricky this morning when we started.   The wind was blowing quite hard and from a different direction than what we had in the last few days.   I had a good start and I was 4‑up quite early. 
Probably the difference was today I did many less mistakes, fewer mistakes and was just solid and holed a few good putts coming in to close the match.   So nice morning. 

Q.   You've been 3‑up after five in all three of your matches; how valuable is that early momentum? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, it's good, even it went back to all‑square and holed a long putt on the 10th to remain 1‑up.   Every match has its own story.   The good thing is that this golf course, if you hit fairways and hit greens and make a few putts here and there, you have a good chance?

Q.   You've been winning by good margins; you putted on those final greensafter your match.   Tell us about that. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It's quite early still in the morning, so I have two hours to go before my next match when I finish, and I thought it was a good idea just to have a look at the last few holes, the flags obviously for this afternoon are out there, so take a look and hit a few putts. 

Q.   Your thoughts on that demolition of Carl Pettersson, nice win, wasn't it. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it was a good win.   I played very well, very similar to how I played the first round.   I made a couple less mistakes, fewer mistakes.   It was windy this morning so it was tricky. 
So pars were on many holes good scores, and it's a good of scores really where you have no room to bail out.   So you have to hit fairways and hit greens, and if I can play well as I've been playing, it's good for me. 

Q.   And good control despite the wind? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I hit solid shots and I hit most of the fairways, most of the greens.   I was just really trying to play smart and play away from trouble.   We'll see what the conditions are this afternoon.   Might be the same.

Q.   It can be a learning experience when you come into a course for the first time but you've had presumably a nice progression over the days; certainly the scores suggest as much, as well. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it's a golf course that suit my eye as soon as I got here, the first round I played, I liked many of the holes.   But some tee shots are really quite scary because we are hitting from a long way into small fairways usually with side breeze, so it's not easy. 
As I said I'm hitting the ball well and I just found some confidence in these few days, so hopefully it will serve me well the next few matches.

Q.   For a couple of days, you have not had to see the final holes, so you made a point of looking at those. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, when I finished, I hit a few putts on the last few greens, because I didn't see them yesterday or today, so I wanted to have a look. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT