BMW MASTERS
October 25, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was a good round.   Bogey‑free is always good.   A few birdies here and there, and you know, I played very well.   I think I missed just one green. 
So, you know, happy with the game.   Putting was very good, as well.   I think the golf course was playing very nicely today and you know, just enjoy my time out there. 
It was really good today.   I think every time we come back here, there's a slight improvement and they understand the golf culture more and more.   It was good today, no phones or nothing like that.

Q.   And I think they appreciate the number of players that are coming here, because this is a terrific field, isn't it?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it is.   You know, next week is going to be, as well, so it's great to have two back‑to‑back events like this.   Obviously we have to thank BMW for putting on such a good event this week and you know, I think that they will appreciate, as well, that pretty much everyone that is a Tour Member is here trying to win this tournament. 
As you said, the field is really, really good and really, really deep. 

Q.   I take it with your success in Sheshan, you're very comfortable coming to this part of the world and the nature of the courses? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yes, I am, yeah.   I don't know exactly why but you know, I mean, to be honest with you, practising here, I thought it was more of a big hitter's course.   I remember thinking the same in Sheshan, so I don't know, yeah.   I seem to enjoy my time over here and play well.   So I hope to have another three good days.
I think the setup today was really smart and they moved some tees forward when the pins were a bit more tucked away.   I think they are going to do the same in the next few days.   The golf course is playing really nicely, as I said. 

Q.   I have to mention Ryder Cup simply because you're here along with ten of your teammates, as well as the captain who is playing well?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, you know, it's good to see everyone apart from Sergio here, and you know, just big smiles everywhere and good memories.   So you know, I'm sure it's going to last for a while.   It's really good to see them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT