THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2012
Francesco Molinari
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD:   They are both very straight, very solid players. So are we. Looking forward to it. You never have any easy Ryder Cup matches so we have just got to go out and play your own game and play well. 


LEE WESTWOOD:   Francesco brings a lot accuracy to the partnership. We are going to be very steady and consistent and hopefully very hard to beat. You can give holes away very easily in foursomes. Momentum can go your way or against you and it is important to get off to a nice steady start, get some holes up early and build some momentum.


LEE WESTWOOD:   I think we gelled well. Both of us a recognised for accuracy off the tee and hitting lots of greens in regulation and in foursomes that ’s important your games parallel each other as you have the same strengths. 


LEE WESTWOOD:   I ’ve been ready for a year!


FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It ’s fantastic for me and a huge honour for me to play with Lee, a guy playing his eighth Ryder Cup. He has more experience than anyone else and it is a great feeling to be paired with him. We played nine holes yesterday and it was great playing with his shots. I am really looking forward to it. I hope to live up to the expectations he has and everyone has on the team. I ’ll do my best to contribute to the team. It ’s a great honour and pleasure to play with him and I am sure we will have a lot of fun on the golf course. 


FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Zach and Jason are two steady players and they don ’t give many holes away so it might be another match which goes all the way to the last. As Lee said we just have to start well and keep the ball in play and do what we do ususally.


FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It ’s important for all the team to get off to a fast start. The pairings are all good, and there are no easy matches but we will all go out and try and win our match and do the maths at the end.
LEE WESTWOOD:   We have strength all the way through and they do too so it ’s important to get off to a fast start as a team and get a lot of blue on the board early to silence the crowd.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT