ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was a good week, positive.   So obviously disappointing at the moment not to finish it off.   The two putts at 15 and 16 that I missed made all the difference in the end.   You know, I did well to make par.   I thought 17 and 18 were playing tough with this wind.   
So I made a good putt to make the playoff.     So it was very close obviously even closer than last week, and obviously the closer you get, the more disappointing.   But tonight I'll just think back and try to draw the positives from the week.   
   
 Q.   Totally different scenario, last week in Paris, you pretty much did what Jeev did today, watched and waited and just wondered?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, exactly.   He had a very good round, 5‑under today, in these conditions was very good.   And you know, I thought after the chip at 16, I thought I had a really good chance.   I hit a decent putt but it didn't go in.   
Obviously, as I said, closer and closer after last week.   It's disappointing to finish two weeks in a row this close.   But, you know, it means that I'm playing well and just need to get the energies back for next week and try to do the same again.   
   
 Q.   Does it make it any easier to bear that you at least   sunk a very good putt to win the tournament?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, obviously I wish I hit mine a little better in the playoff to give it a chance at least, but it wasn't an easy putt.   Today, all day, with the wind, it was really tricky to hole putts.   And you know, fair play to Jeev making four at the first playoff hole; it was really good.   
   
 Q.   But it will look very good against your name, 2, 2, 1; you have to be positive?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   It's good.   It's another great week.   A lot of Ryder Cup points again, a lot of Race to Dubai points.   So you know, obviously right now, it doesn't feel as good as it will feel probably in a few hours.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT