ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We spoke after the first round, which was a 62 and put you on top of the leaderboard, but always I would have thought very satisfying that you can then come through the next two rounds and find yourself still in that position out in front going into round four.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, yeah, that was obviously the goal after the first round.   I knew it wasn't going to be easy to follow that round.   It was a bit disappointing for really one hole, 7, with a triple‑bogey.  
Today I went out just trying to avoid the mistakes.   I had a really good start.   Played well all day.   So, we'll see.   Looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   That was important to get off to a good start today, as well, just to lay down the marker, when you knew that players were scoring so low all around?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, there were a lot of guys going very low, so I knew that I needed to go‑‑ I needed a few shots under par, and I played very, very well on the front nine.   I had a lot of birdie and eagle chances, so it was good.   And then obviously it was solid and it wasn't maybe as good as the front but maybe coming in with no bogeys was important.   You know, it's nice to be in the lead.   
   
 Q.   Excellent with what you achieved last week, second place in front, scintillating finish there; to maintain that momentum, very, very satisfying?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It is.   And it's been a good season so far.   My golf and my form are getting better and better.   Obviously it's a very good time to be playing this well, and I'll just see how it goes tomorrow, but however it goes, I know I'm going to be at Lytham playing well and so it's just, you know, just a case of keep doing the same stuff and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Is that the main priority, to be going to Lytham knowing that you're playing well, and then anything over and above that by a victory is a bonus; or, is it I'm going for the win tomorrow?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think for the moment, obviously to win here is the first goal.   But as I said, it's good to know, not only from this week, but from last week, as well, that I'm playing well and putting well.   
Everything is pretty much under control.   Obviously you never know in golf, so maybe tomorrow I might wake up a different player.   But, we'll see.   We'll see what happens tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   And in terms of the setup of the course, the way that it's playing this week, the number of birdies out there, does that mean that you have to go into the final round with a very aggressive mind‑set?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, we'll see tomorrow.   You know, the forecast is for more wind.   So that might change things a little bit.   But yeah, I still think I need to go well under par tomorrow to win, and you know, the way I've been playing, there's no reason why I shouldn't do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT