ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well played today but how hard is it to follow a spectacular round like yesterday's and come out the next day and try to do the same? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It is very tough, and especially after what I did Sunday in Paris, obviously the last two rounds before today everything went my way and I kind of knew it was not going to last forever. 
I did well.   I made a big mistake on 7, but I fought hard to get some shots back, and you know, I'm still up there with the leaders.   So it's going to be hopefully a good weekend.

Q.   I was going to ask you about that triple‑bogey, it must have been unsettling when, as you said, everything had been going so well for you the last few days?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, but that's golf and I just tried to take it for what it was.   I just misjudged the lie in the rough and obviously I should have chipped out.   I'm all right now for the next few days, so things happen, but as I said, I played really well coming in and I'm happy with that.

Q.   When you went out about one o'clock this afternoon, you had already been overtaken, and I wonder if there is a danger in that circumstance of perhaps trying to push too hard and make up ground knowing that the course is so receptive.   How do you try to keep those emotions at bay?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it's not easy.   I tried to look as little as possible at the leaderboard and just do my own game.   But obviously, as we said, following a 62, it's not easy.   So I think going under par was a very good result. 

Q.   Obviously you're right in the thick of it, and as you look ahead to the weekend, what sort of conditions would you ideally like, because the wind is going to pick up, we understand, a fair bit over the coming days. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I think it's going to be fun for everyone if the wind picks up.   It's going to be tougher for us.   It's going to be probably a better golf course to play and it's going to be better for the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT