ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   They talk about being in a zone in golf, is that what happened with you today, and indeed in your final round last week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I think so.   It felt obviously quite easy today.   It's not as easy as it looks but I was feeling comfortable on the golf course and hitting the ball well and rolling the ball very well with the putter. 
So, you know, very happy, great start, and still another three rounds to go.   So it's a great beginning, but I need to keep my head down and keep doing the same thing. 

Q.   It always seems dangerous and rings alarm bells when golfers start using the word easy.   I suppose in your mind you don't want to text the golfing gods; but did you ever feel a 59 was within your grasp? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not really.   I thought about it on the 7th tee, because obviously I was 10‑under with three to go.   But 7, 8 and 9 are not that easy.   So I was just trying to play shot by shot, and there was a chance to do it.   So it's really, really tough to do. 

Q.   There was a 59 of sort, because your final nine on Sunday and front nine today made 59, so where does all of this come from? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know to be honest with you.   I just try to do the same thing over and over, and obviously, as I said last week, I had a terrible day on the greens Saturday in Paris and had a good session on the putting green Saturday evening. 
Sunday was brilliant, and today just they kept going in.   So I know it's not going to last for much longer.   It's not going to be like this forever for much longer, so I'll just try to enjoy the moment and try to do the same tomorrow.

Q.   Can you tell us what was in that putting session that changed things?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not much really.   I just worked a little bit on my rhythm.   I was struggling with the pace, controlling it in Paris on Saturday.   Just worked on the rhythm of the stroke and obviously I got a lot of confidence on Sunday, and the greens here are beautiful.   So if you roll the ball well, you're going to hole a lot of putts. 

Q.   That equals the lowest round ever score at The Scottish Open, and what a start for you at Castle Stuart.   Assess your round for us and tell us what was so spectacular for you. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Great start to the tournament.   I just played really solid and holed a few nice putts on the front nine, and just kept it going nicely.   Missed actually a couple of chances on the first few holes on the front nine but then again, you know, holing putts, they were just going in as easy as it can. 
So it was just fantastic to play golf like that.

Q.   A run of five birdies and four birdies and at one point we were all thinking 59, a definite possibility.   Were you? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not really.   I had a thought about it.   It was mathematically possible, but I think, you know, the last three holes, finishing on the front are not that easy.   So it would have been something fantastic but hopefully I get another chance in the future sometime.

Q.   What is the catalyst for all of this?   We saw a wonderful closing round for you at the French.   Is there anything that you've done or tweaked in the last few weeks to have basically sparked this run of form?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Not really.   I've been playing good golf all year.   Obviously I have good pace with the putter.   On Saturday on Paris I had a nightmare, really, on the greens and just had a good practise session in the evening and then obviously got a lot of confidence on Sunday and brought it over here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT