ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 8, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Crazy round really, I've been playing quite well all week.   Today I had a really bad start.   Obviously double on the first.   Two years ago when I finished second here, I doubled the first on last day, so I thought, you know, if I do it again‑‑ from then on, it was just great golf.   Had a couple of good breaks and finally a lot of putts going in the hole. 

Q.   What was your mentality standing on the second tee? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Just trying to stay calm and think, there's still 17 holes, you can make a few birdies.   I wasn't thinking about anything like this.   I thought I could make four or five birdies, finish under par for the week, it's going to be a good week.   And then everything was going in, and the iron shots have been good all week.   It's been just an unbelievable day really.

Q.   How do you see your situation now, given the weather, the weather could change one way or the other? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know.   7‑under, it's a good score.   Lots of trouble on this golf course but it's a bit softer after the rain yesterday.   So you can make some birdies, as well.   So we'll see what's going to happen.

Q.   Is it confusing as a golfer when the game plays tricks on you, and one day gives you all the good stuff and the other days not so good?   Do you ever get on top of that and know exactly where you are with the game?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, it's not easy.   Yesterday I wasn't happy out on the course and I wasn't happy when I finished.   Some of the putts that I struck yesterday I thought were decent putts, and just they didn't want to go in.   So I tried to stay calm and patient and it worked out well today. 

Q.   When you finished second two years ago, you had a double; is it a good sign or a bad sign?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yesterday I birdied the first and had the perfect start and then nothing worked out after that.   So today I thought maybe it's the other way around.   I started poorly and everything else is going to go right.   Unbelievable round out there, I was in the moment, in the zone and I wasn't really counting the birdies.   The game has been feeling well all week and everything was coming out perfect.

Q.   You've been playing quite well lately and today you started off with a double‑bogey and then nine birdies; how good of a round was that? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was really, really good.   I think it was one of the best that I've had in my career so far.   You know, doubling the first is never good, but sometimes it takes some of the pressure off you.   You know, just tried to play and obviously I wasn't expecting anything like this, but, you know, I've been playing well all week.   Yesterday I had a very bad day on the greens, and it happens.   So today I went out and just tried to roll the putter nicely.

Q.   7‑under par result now, what are you going to do until the other players finish? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I don't know.   Sit and wait with my wife and my little kid here.   We are here with the car.   We were going to leave straightaway to go back home, but we are going to wait a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT