MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good round overall?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I'm happy with the round.   Obviously 17 and 18 are two tough holes.   I think I played them all right anyway, and I was just a bit unlucky with the second shot at 17 and with the putt at 18.   I made only two bogeys today, and I won't make two bogeys in the end tomorrow. 

Q.   It was a tricky shot on 17, though, wasn't it?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, it's really firm, the green, and I was just in between clubs, so it's really hard to judge the wind on days like today.   It's not very consistent.   We thought it was down at first, then it felt into.   So I wasn't really sure what was going on with the wind. 

Q.   Nice run there at 12, 13, 14.   Just talk us through those holes. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, they're great.   I shot into 12 a foot from the hole and two solid shots at 13 to the middle of the green and two‑putted, and then I pulled my second shot at 14 slightly and had a really tough and fast putt, but luckily it hit the hole and went in. 

Q.   You're in a decent position.   No one is going away with it at the moment.   Are you feeling confident about tomorrow? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, yeah, I'm playing very well.   It's going to be obviously really hard.   There's lots of players still with a chance.   It depends, as well, what the guys that are leading do on the back nine this afternoon.   But I'm happy the position I'm in, and probably the most realistic goal for tomorrow is to finish in the top 10.

Q.   How hard were the conditions out there today because no one really scored that low this morning. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, as I said, the course is getting a bit firmer, so it's a bit more tough to read the shots, and the wind wasn't consistent at all, and it kept switching from one side to the other.   It's really, really hard conditions. 

Q.   Does it help when you and Justin were both playing well and got a bit of momentum going together?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, yeah, it's always great to play with someone going well, and obviously he was a bit unfortunate in the end.   But I think we both played very well on just a really tough golf course obviously. 

Q.   This is your third Masters.   How much more confident are you this year, and what more do you know about the golf course after playing it for two years? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I think obviously the knowledge, my knowledge of the golf course is getting much better, so that helps a lot.   And at the same time I think last year I got a bit too excited probably about the tournament and didn't really focus enough on the basic things as I did this year.   So obviously it's always a bit easier coming back. 

Q.   What in particular have you learned about this golf course, about that and your game together here? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I learned that my game is, I think, good enough to contend here, and basically that the more you come back, the more you learn about the breaks, and which shots you can be more aggressive and which you need to play more conservative.   It's a little experience that you make through the years.

Q.   Kind of a young leaderboard up there. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I think it's very crowded.   Obviously there's younger and not so young people on there, and I think it's exciting for everyone to have so many players with a chance tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT