MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOM NELSON:   I'd like to welcome Francesco Molinari into the media center, just completed a fine round of 69 and leader in the clubhouse.   As most of you know, former member of the European Ryder Cup Team and winner of the 2010 HSBC Champions.   Great playing today.   Maybe if you can review your birdies today and overall play today.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, really happy the way I played.   It was I think solid golf all day.   I birdied the second hole with a nice approach shot from the right side of the green.   Then I made lots of pars, bogeyed 12; I just hit it too far in the back drop with the tee shot and didn't make up‑and‑down.  
Birdied both 14 and 15 laying up and nice shot on 16, and birdied that, as well.   It was a really solid and nice round.   
   
 Q.   Can you go through the birdies and the distances?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I hit driver and 3‑wood at the second just short of the right trap and then approach to probably three feet.   
Then I birdied 13.   I played 3‑wood off the tee.   Laid up with a 5‑iron to 77 yards.   Played a pretty good approach shot, but it spun back to 20, 22 feet and holed the putt.   
Then 15, hit driver, laid up again with a 5‑iron and I had, again, 75 yards and hit it to probably seven, eight feet and made the putt.   
And then I played a 6‑iron on 16, and I made a 20‑footer again for birdie.   
   
 Q.   Is there any appreciable wind, any wind that you had to contend with?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Just the last few holes it was picking up a bit.   It looked like the storm was building up.   So it was a bit more windy.   Probably started picking up when we were playing 14; so the last five holes.   
   
 Q.   Are you staying with your brother?   And do you discuss how to play the course together?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   We played all the practice rounds together, but we are staying in different houses, because I've got some of my friends and he's got some of his.   So we have too many people to stay in just one house.   
Yeah, during the practice rounds, we chatted and we discussed a little bit some of the flags, how to play them and how to approach them.   I think he has a bit more experience than me here, so I was kind of asking advice on some of the shots.   
   
 Q.   In practice, do you have a little bet with each other?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Sometimes.   Not here.   Here we were focusing on practicing as many putts and as many chip shots as possible.   So there wasn't time for a match.   
TOM NELSON:   Great play today.   Best wishes tomorrow and over the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT