ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 28, 2012
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   I'm obviously pleased.   It's been a solid day and just had a couple of bogeys on the front nine, but it's good to be up there and it's the first week of the year.   So it's good to start the year this way.   
   
 Q.   Was there something that clicked on this day, as opposed to previous days?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, not really.   Just shoot 5‑under and was probably windier, so it was probably even a better round yesterday than today.   The first round I shoot 2‑over, and I don't know really why or how.   I was feeling quite good with the game but it just didn't happen and obviously now after that round, it's good to be up there at the top of the leaderboard.  
   
 Q.   But everybody talks about rust, and maybe that was it.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   It was strange, because I felt really good with the game and I didn't feel like I was rusty at all, but the mind was a bit rusty and I didn't really score as good as I should.   
   
 Q.   I'll state the obvious, but so good to be in contention at the very first tournament of your season.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Definitely, great way of starting the year.   I worked very hard during the winter and it's good to see it's paying off.   I probably didn't expect this to pay off so soon but a nice surprise.   
   
 Q.   What have you done during that winter break?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Just the usual stuff, but, you know, you try to work on your swing and you tweak little things and you're not really sure until you go out to a tournament how it's going to react.   So obviously pleased with the way I hit the ball, and hopefully it's a good sign for the months to come and tournaments to come.   
   
 Q.   Are you a guy that likes to stay busy and keep the practise going even though it's holiday time?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I had a few days off, a couple of weeks off, but it was a long enough break to take some time off and then practise quite hard.   So it's been a really nice winter.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT