DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 11, 2011
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I think a good week, all in all.   
Today I didn't have the best start, and, you know, I'm happy with the 3‑under today, because it wasn't definitely my day.   I fought hard and came back really well on the back nine.   
Just a shame for the putt on the 18th, but, you know, I've played and putted well all week, so I'm really, really happy, and you know, it's some good Ryder Cup points and it's a good way end the season.  
   
 Q.   The victory chance went pretty early on the final day, but you were still in there near the end for a good finish?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, that's what I was fighting for, going to finish probably in the Top‑10, or top six or top seven.   That's a good week to finish the year and it's probably one of the best tournaments I've played this season.   So I hope it's a good sign for things in next year.  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on the year in general?   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Pretty positive, it's hard to follow a year like the one I had last year.   I think I'm going to finish in the Top‑20 on the Order of Merit and probably top 40 in the World Ranking, so still I can't say it's a bad year.   
Obviously there's things to improve and to work on, but you know, hopefully next year will be the same and slightly better.   
   
 Q.   I imagine when 2010 finished on the high that it did, your expectations mounted for this year.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, that, and obviously I became a dad this year.   And I struggled with the swing a little bit in the middle part of the season.   So it's been an intense year, and as I said, a Top‑10 here, it's a good way to finish and to get some confidence for next year.   
   
 Q.   Intense but enjoyable being a dad.   I think changes everything, doesn't it.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, definitely.   That's definitely the nicest thing that happened to me this year.   I'm really proud and I'm trying to learn as quickly as possible obviously, and you know, I'm sure it will make me a better player in the future.   
   
 Q.   Totally off on a tangent, I have to ask about Luke Donald, winning the Money Lists on both sides of the Atlantic.   Your thoughts on that.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Well, I think he really deserved it.     The round he played yesterday pretty much sealed it.   
You know, it's always close when two guys like Rory and Luke this year had two amazing seasons, but I think Luke was probably more consistent on both sides of the Atlantic, and it's just amazing as a player to think of winning both Order of Merits, it's really unbelievable.   
So well done to him, and I think he deserves to be No. 1 in the world, as well.   
   
 Q.   Is that inspiring, to see somebody of Luke's nature win the Money Lists on both sides?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI:   Yeah, definitely, but you know, I think he is has the best short game in golf at the moment, so that's probably the key to his success and you know, I'll try to copy what I can and try and learn.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT