VIVENDI SEVE TROPHY
September 15, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
Anders Hansen
Raphael Jacquelin
Miguel Angel Jimenez
Pablo Larrazabal
Matteo Manassero
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Francesco, I guess you knew Lee was going to hole that putt. What was going through your mind as you holed yours? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: We were expecting them to birdie 17, as well. So we said on the 17th tee, we need two birdies to win the match, because, you know that when you play against guys like that -- we both played a really good match. I played some good holes and Anders did the same and we were lucky enough to win in the end.

 Q. On a day when your team really needed some good news, how were you aware of what was happening all through the day? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: It did not look very good out there. We had a good talk down 10 and we really had to get it back. 

 Q. You played two fourballs last year and won them both; you're unbeatable. What's the secret? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Don't know really. I think we are just a good combination, and we quite often have both balls in play. So most important, probably we just enjoy our time together on the golf course. That's probably the main thing.

 Q. You seemed to have been in contention the whole year, how do pressures here vary to what you feel in a normal event playing for your team and continent? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's even more pressure here because we are all trying to put in and when you're playing for a normal event, you just do it for yourself. So here, it's almost even harder. 

Q. Little bit of disappointing start but nice to have a point there at the end. 
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: It is. It's very important. You know, we didn't perform as good as we want to but a halve point at the end of the week can be very, very important. Francesco's putt here was the highlight for us. 

 Q. And when you were playing, were you aware that there was quite a lost red on the board or were you just trying to focus on yours? 
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: All the time, the red on the board -- it's nice to have at least one point. But, you know, all of the things can change tomorrow, and we are going to try to change all of the things for tomorrow. 

 Q. What was going through your head when you hit the first tee shot this morning? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, the captains elected to play Continental Europe first, and they gave me the honour to play first, and, well, like I say, the two captains -- it's a lot of feelings. It's nice. 

 Q. Was it difficult hitting it? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's a little emotional at the beginning, but at the end, you have to hit it and I hit a perfect shot. 

 Q. Nice to start like that. 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah. 

 Q. And that last putt from could pretty important. 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Always important. Like Pablo said, you know, every point, every half a point is important. At the start of the tournament we thought -- we are finished at the moment 4-1 and maybe we are going to be 3 1/2 to 1 1/2, but anything can happen. You know, it's four more rounds to go and only five points out of 28 points. We have to keep going. 

 Q. Not how you wanted to start but some hope? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: We didn't play well, and Ross did well at the beginning and at the end. So still three more days to go, many points to gain, and I was playing better at the end. I keep that in mind. 

 Q. What are the positives today, do you think? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: At least one point. We have to start with one. So that's a start, and then as I said, three more days, plenty of points and I think we are going to try to maybe change the pairings and find the rest, we'll see. 
 For myself, play better for tomorrow, I was playing well at the end but that's all, just try again. 

 Q. Not probably the start you wanted but there were some positives in there do you think. 
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's always difficult to play in a team event for the first time. Matteo and I didn't get off to the best start. We had been down all day, quickly 2-down after two. And it's difficult when you see red numbers on the board, and you don't really quite play the way you want to. It wasn't really the best of starts. But we managed to get all the way to 18, which was quite good.

 Q. Did you feel the pressure as you saw that red building up on the leaderboard? 
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No. No pressure. But you know you have to make something happen to turn things the other way around. 

 Q. Your first experience of the Seve Trophy?
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's great, you play a team on your own, and you can rely on the other one for a hole or two. So it's pretty cool, fourball is.

 Q. Good atmosphere at the team?
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's a lot of fun, we have big laughs. And Pablo and me are together and Thomas on the other side. It's very funny. There's a nice mix of different cultures. 

 Q. Sum of your first experience of the Seve Trophy. 
 MATTEO MANASSERO" it was good. I enjoyed it obviously and didn't go as we wanted to, but certainly it was a good experience, and you know, we played well together. It was fun. Obviously didn't go quite well.

 Q. Did you feel under pressure when you saw the red building up on the leaderboard?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Not really. That doesn't put you under pressure. You want to do your game and you want to do well, and but obviously it wasn't great. It's difficult. 
 They have a good team. We have a good team, too. I think we can do much better tomorrow and as the day goes on, we'll still have a lot of matches to play. 

 Q. And do you expect Jean to make some changes do you think to the pairings? 
 MATTEO MANASSERO: I don't know. Maybe. Whatever it takes I think. I can speak from myself and I have been going well with Nicolas and we can win, every single match.

 Q. Seems to be a good atmosphere in the team even though you're 4-1 down. Still having fun?
 MATTEO MANASSERO: Yeah, we want to win, and so you know, not complaining about anything and we want to come back tomorrow and do better. That's all. So we are still having fun, absolutely.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT