VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 3 & 2 victory, the key to that was the run of birdies through the front nine, tell us about those and what was key to them?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I didn't have the best start because I lost the third hole, even if it was to an eagle. So I managed to get back with a few birdies, and I putted really well, because many times, you know, I had to putt before Paul and then we halved the hole.  
 I'm playing better and putting better, so look forward to what's going to happen.   
  
  Q. Obviously your group have been very tight up to this point. How did you approach this match?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, honestly, I didn't even look what they did this morning. I knew that in any case, I had to win my match to be safe. So the attitude was that, and worked out quite well.   
  
  Q. Looks like you'll play Aaron Baddeley tomorrow. Have you played golf with him before?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't think so. I've watched him on TV a couple of times. He's a nice guy and I'm sure it's going to be a another tight match, as are all the matches here.   
  
  Q. After you got the match turned around on the front nine, you seemed very much in control of the match. How was it?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was a good match for me. I had a good streak of birdies between the end of the front nine and the beginning of the back nine. Then obviously Paul came back strongly but you know, 5-up with five to play, so it was a good situation to be in.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to be the good group leader?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's nice. I mean, the first goal was to make it to the next stage, and to be the leader of the group, probably saves me playing Lee Westwood in the first round, so that's really good for me.  
  
  Q. Any prediction for tomorrow, playing against Aaron Baddeley?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's going to be a tough match. Everybody here is a great player, so it's not going to be easy, but I'm playing well, and hopefully I'll win again tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT