WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2011
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 69 in the final round, a great Cadillac Championship?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm really happy. I think it's going to be really close in the end, those couple of putts on 16, 17, could have made a big difference. But I'm happy the way I handled myself today on the golf course, because I didn't have the best start. It wasn't easy, but then I got it going in the end of the front nine and just another solid round. It was quite tricky with the wind, so I'm really happy with the performance.  
  
  Q. Talk about what the players, the few players that are out there, are facing coming down the stretch of 16, 17, 18 as you mentioned.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, you know, the wind is blowing quite hard and it's left-to-right on the last three holes. So I think 16 is still a good birdie chance. If you hit the fairway at 17 and 18, they are a bit trickier, especially 18, the tee shot is really tough, and even the second shot with the pin tucked there in the left corner is not very easy.   
  
  Q. On a day like this, is that tee shot on 18 one of the most intimidating that you guys face all year?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think so, yeah, absolutely.   
  
  Q. You had a slow start but 7, 8 and 9 really got the round going. Did you hole some good putts there or just put the ball in close?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I played well. I holed probably a 15-footer on both 7 and 8, and hit a very good iron shot on 9 probably to five, six feet. As you said, it wasn't easy, because it didn't start the way I wanted it to. I'm pretty pleased with the final result.  
  
  Q. As you said, you had chances. Did you feel the target was probably 14 or 15 and you had to give yourself a chance, even being in a playoff, one more birdie possibly?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: One more birdie could have had the chance I think if I could have holed the two putts on 16 and 17, and finished 15-under, it was a really good score to post.   
  
  Q. It's been a good spell. You had a great finish at the end of last year winning in Shanghai and you've come out to the next stroke play WGC and you've gone close. That must do wonders for your confidence heading into Houston and the Masters I would think.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Absolutely. At the Match Play, as I said the other day, I wasn't feeling really comfortable with the game so I was happy the work I did last week, both on long and short game, it paid off and I felt really good all day today on the golf course. So I'm looking forward to a little bit of rest and then Houston and the Masters.  
  
  Q. Are you staying out here?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I'm going back to England for a couple of weeks.   
  
  Q. Enjoy being a dad for a few days and then come back out again, yeah?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Exactly.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT