WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2011
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Francesco, 68, 68, you obviously enjoy playing with the best in the world because you've beaten them in Shanghai, and you're trying to do the same again this week. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, I've been playing all right yesterday and today. And I like the golf course. It's quite firm so I think it's better for us as players this it year, and I'm playing pretty well. I'm putting and chipping very well, so it's feeling good and you know, I enjoyed playing in the wind today. It was a bit trickier and hopefully we get some more wind tomorrow and Sunday, as well.
 GORDON SIMPSON: You beat all of the best in the world in Shanghai. Did that give you an incredible amount of confidence to go forward from there and show that you can do it again? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was very good, not only for that, but also because I had been waiting quite long for my second win, so it was good to finally get it. 
 It's great to win a tournament, a WGC, a tournament like this, and obviously it gives you a lot of confidence and it gives you the confidence to win pretty much every tournament that you play. 

 Q. And have you found it difficult to concentrate for the last month? What date was your baby born?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: The 5th of February. I don't think it's hard to focus. The thing is that obviously I had a couple of weeks where I didn't hit any shot. So it felt like a winter break. 
 You know, at the Match Play, I just had a couple of days of practice in, so I didn't feel quite right. So last week, I went back home and I worked a little bit harder, and I think it's paying off now. It's feeling much better and it's feeling like I've been playing the last few weeks not like if I was coming back from a break. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Did you go to the Wisley with Denis Pugh? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I worked with Denis and Mark Roe at Wisley and I'm really happy with them now. I worked really hard on my long game, which I've always done. But I'm working really hard on the short game, as well, now, and I feel much more confident with my chipping and with my putting. 

 Q. How much would it mean to you to kind of prove yourself over here? You've obviously proved yourself in a lot of different places in the world. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, you know, it's always a bit different to win here in the States for a European player. So it would be great one day to win a tournament here, especially a WGC or a major or a tournament like this with such a strong field. 

 Q. Do you consider -- I guess you consider yourself not a bad weather player, but you're comfortable with the conditions? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, I mean, I'm happy playing with the wind. I usually hit the ball quite well. So I think it's better for me to play in tougher conditions. So that's what I'm enjoying this week, the wind and the firmer golf course compared to last year. So the scoring is not so low, and you really need to think about every shot. 

 Q. Is there anything in particular that's carrying you through this week, a part of your game?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think short game in general has been very good. I've been hitting the ball all right, quite good. I think what makes the difference for me now between a really good week and an average week is the short game. 

 Q. You seemed to finish pretty strong today. Can you talk about that, maybe the momentum that it might give you?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, I had a really good last few holes on the front nine. I birdied 16 and 17, and then coming back on the front nine, I had a few pars in a row, a few good up-and-downs and I had a nice birdie on the 8th which was downwind today, so it was reachable. 
 You know it was just a solid round, no dropped shots. So I feel really happy with it. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Five of the last six rounds in the WGCs have all been in the 60s, haven't they.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I even thought about it. It's a good start, yeah. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Just checking the record books.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I need to carry it on for a little longer. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: With a bit of luck if you're leading tomorrow night.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT