VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 28, 2011
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a decent day. I was hoping for something better, but it's all right. I made two bogeys coming in, which probably weren't required, so I'm a bit disappointed about that it, but it was good to finish with a birdie and you know, 9-under, and able to fire away at the leaders.  
  
  Q. Are those drops, do they play on your mind or do you concentrate on the birdie to finish?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I will concentrate on the practise this afternoon and the things I didn't feel were going right on the golf course. So I think there's plenty of room of improvement. I hit some good shots, but some not so good shots. I'll try to work on that for the next few days.  
  
  Q. You did mention things weren't going right, so what have you got to work on?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think just I missed a few too many fairways and you know I wasn't sometimes accurate enough with the irons. So I'm happy with the short game and with the putting, but I just need to sharpen up the long game a little bit.  
  
  Q. Did you feel at any stage that you got the wrong side of the draw? I know you scored well in the wind on the first day but you woke up to cold, wind, a bit of rain, as well?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, we have to see how it's going to be this afternoon. We always thought it was like this but the wind picked up in the late afternoon. So we see how it goes and you know, even if it was like that, there's nothing you can do about it.   
  
  Q. I have to ask about your brother leading this tournament as things stand, but how aware were you of the birdie charge he was on?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I was looking at leaderboards, so I saw that he was doing very well and obviously I'm very happy for him. He must have had a great day today, and I'll try to catch him in the weekend.   
  
  Q. You didn't get to speak out there, he didn't catch you up on any tee box?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No.   
  
  Q. Not quite the fireworks of yesterday but how do you feel about your day's play?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I feel I played all right. Not as good as yesterday, but you know, 3-under is still a decent score. I holed some putts. It was just a pity to do the two bogeys coming in, but, you know, I recovered with a birdie at the last. So I think I'm not going to be too far away from the leaders.   
 So I'm happy the way I played, and I'll try to do even better in the next few days.   
  
  Q. Your putting is clearly improving. Has your attitude to putting changed? Are you walking on the greens quite looking forward to it?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, maybe not looking forward to it all the time but I'm having more fun on the greens and around the greens. I'm more relaxed and I just enjoy more the short game than before.   
  
  Q. How aware were you of your brother's six-birdie charge and went leaping past you?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I saw, and obviously he must have had a great start. He had a very good round and hopefully I can catch him on the weekend.  
  
  Q. You and your wife have a baby coming up soon, when is it due and how long of a break will you have to take from the game?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's due the week after Dubai. So I'm taking next week off and see how it goes, and I still might play Dubai, but then probably won't play the Match Play and take three weeks off and start again in Doral.   
  
  Q. 3-under for today, not as low as yesterday. Are you pleased at 9-under going into the weekend?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's a good score. I didn't play as well yesterday, but you know, it was very early this morning.   
 So I probably was still sleeping on the first few holes. But I'm happy with the way I played and I just need to practise a little bit this afternoon to sharpen the game and try to do better in the weekend.   
  
  Q. Were you aware on the course how good Edoardo was playing, starting off with six birdies?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I saw that, so obviously he must have had a great day. I'm very happy for him and I'll try to catch him on the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT