DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 27, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 68. 10-Under. 206 Total.

 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a very good day. Not much was happening on the front nine for me but I stayed patient and some putts started dropping on the back nine, and obviously the bogey at 14 was a big disappointing, but I managed to make it a great finish with three birdies on the last four holes and a par safe at the 18th. It's been another solid round, and, you know, I'm hitting the ball well. I'm putting well and I'm chipping well.
 So just looking forward to tomorrow. It's going to be the last round of golf for the season, so I'll just try to do all I can to win the tournament.

 Q. Golf is never as simple as come on, let's get it going, but when the bogey goes in at 14, do you think, really got to do something now, and even more focussed? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it was very important to get a birdie straightaway at 15, because they moved the tee forward. 
 So it was quite an easy birdie chance. It was important to get that one, and then obviously it was a bonus to birdie 16, because the flag was really in a tough position today. And 17, as well, great iron shot. So, you know, sometimes it just happens, obviously every time you make a bogey, you try to make birdies, but it doesn't happen. But today, I don't know why it happened. 

 Q. I know we have touched on this before, but your short game has improved a lot. Is that partly down to the work with Mark Roe?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, absolutely. He's helped me a lot in the last couple of months. We work a lot together when I'm back home. I just love the way he teaches and we have a lot of chipping games together. You know, we work on putting, so I think it's just much easier for me now to work on the short game. 

 Q. You sound fresh, even at the end of the season. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, I think taking last week off was a good move. Yeah, I don't feel like it's the last week of the year. I'm quite fresh. But at the same time, I'm looking forward to some time off from golf. 

 Q. Any indication of what might be needed come tomorrow?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I don't know. It depends. It's a golf course that it depends a lot where they put the tees and where they put the flags. So I don't really know what to expect. But you know, I'm sure I need a five birdies to win, so that's what I'll try to do in any case. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT