WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 67 (-14) 202 Total.

 LAURA HILL: We would like to welcome Francesco Molinari, making a habit of joining us here in the media centre, today. 
 You still have Lee Westwood nipping at your heels; maybe just talk about your round today and maybe heading into the final round of the competition.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it was a really eventful round, and it was a bit of a roller coaster because I hit some great shots and some not-so-great shots. 
 All in all, I'm obviously very happy. 67 around here is always a good score, and to still be one in front of Lee, going into Sunday, it's a really good position and I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

 Q. I wonder if you can talk about the 13th. It looked as though you didn't see it go in. It looked like you were tapping down your divot?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: There was a little mound in front of the hole and I couldn't really see. But then the crowd was quite loud, so I guess if you went in, and I just bogeyed the 12th.
 So it was a really good moment, obviously, to get some shots back, and you know, it was a really good shot and obviously a bit of luck to hole it. But it was a really good 7-iron straight at the flag. It was 160 yards with a little bit of breeze into. So soft 7-iron. 

 Q. You holed a couple of really good putts, 16 and 18, very important putts, especially the one at 16. Can you just talk about how you feel over those kind of putts?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, they were really important putts. But you know, I felt I have been putting quite well in the last few days, and today again, I thought it was quite good. I missed some, but I holed a bunch of them. 
 So on 16, obviously I hit a bad wedge into the green and then a bad first putt. 
 So the good thing was that I passed the hole so I had a good read at the putt, watching the ball rolling by.
 And then 18, it was just a really good wedge into the green, and I knew it was the putt to still be in the lead tomorrow. So I just tried to make the best stroke as possible and luckily it went in. 

 Q. You've been playing with the last No. 1 Tiger Woods at The Ryder Cup and now the new No. 1 Lee Westwood. What's the difference playing with these two players?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's quite similar. They are both exceptional players. You know, Tiger played really well at The Ryder Cup against me, and Lee is playing very well this week. To be honest with you, I can't see a lot of difference between them. 

 Q. Well, both you and Edoardo are very good players this week, and you might have a chance to win this tournament, but what would be the recommendation for you to young players in China? What would you like to say to them?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think for us, it's just really great to come here and see a growing golfing nation like China and to see pretty good crowds out there watching us and a few young kids. 
 So I think the only thing that I can tell them is to enjoy golf and work hard to try to be their best. 

 Q. You and Lee seem to get on quite well together. What do you chat about on the way around?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: You know, about football, about anything, really; about the schedule in the next few weeks, and you know, obviously we played The Ryder Cup together, so we got to know each other a little bit better that week. I think he's a really nice guy, so I enjoy playing with him.

 Q. What did you learn about him at The Ryder Cup that you didn't know already? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, I mean nothing comes to my mind, but just I think The Ryder Cup is just a week where you really live the week together. So I think it's like you -- obviously you get closer to each other, and I think even after that The Ryder Cup week, there's like a link between all of the players in the team. We had a great time; so not only with Lee, but with all of the other guys. I really enjoyed my time there. 

 Q. Did you share any of your point of views on how to deal with this golf course with Edoardo?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: We played nine holes together on Tuesday as we normally do. So you know, I don't recall anything in particular, but yeah, we practise together every time and we try to help each other.
 Obviously it was his first time here and I had been here two times already. So maybe I was giving him a little bit more advice this time. But nothing specific. 
 LAURA HILL: Thank you, Francesco, and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT