WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 70 (-9 ) 165 Total.  
  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Francesco, thank you, as always, for coming in and joining us. Congratulations on another good day. Not quite as good as yesterday, but the encouraging thing, obviously you're still top of the leaderboard.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it wasn't as good as yesterday, but you know, it's always hard to follow a round like yesterday's, and I'm pretty happy with today. I probably didn't hit the ball as well as yesterday. So I think 2-under for it today was a good score.   
 I had to work a little bit harder to save some pars, so all in all, I'm happy with the 9-under total.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Saying that, Francesco, a good start, three birdies in the first seven holes; that was probably what you were looking for, I would have thought.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was a very good start, and I think I played really well until the 9th hole. Then I started missing a few more shots, but you know, I think today was a little bit trickier, as well, because the wind was a bit stronger. So you know, as I said, all in all, I'm happy. I made a couple of good par saves. So it was a good round.   
  
  Q. How much satisfaction do you get out of playing well over a really long, hard course like this?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I think it's a really tough test, but I think it's really fair, because you can play this golf course in many ways. I mean, you don't have to hit the ball 300 yards off the tees. Obviously it's maybe easier if you hit the ball long, but you can still make birdies with the long irons.   
 I think obviously it's a great satisfaction for me to play a round like yesterday and see that I can compete on a golf course probably that is not really the best for my characteristics.   
  
  Q. When you won the World Cup with Edoardo, did the oldest make the speech and did you use any Chinese?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, we didn't use any Chinese, and you know, it was -- I mean, it was just a normal speech. Do you mean our speech?   
  
  Q. I just wondered if you managed any Ni hao or sheh sheh, or did you have any words up your sleeve?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I know a couple here, but we didn't use them last year. Maybe it would be nice to use them another time in the future.   
  
  Q. A South African player, Van Zyl, is playing very good today. What do you think of being paired up with him? He has four wins in 2010 on the South African Tour.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't personally know him. But you know, every player here has a chance to win. Obviously it's a great field, and I don't really care too much who I'm paired with. You know, I get along quite well with everyone. So I just focus on my game, and I'll be happy to play with him if it's him in the last group with me.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It will be threeballs tomorrow, so it won't just be two in the final grouping.   
  
  Q. Can you just expand on when you said that the course doesn't really suit your characteristics; can you expand on that a bit more? And also, do you detect that there's a different atmosphere out there, knowing that the leadership, the World Rankings could go to any one of four stars this week, now that Tiger is not on top; is there a different atmosphere out there? If you can expand on why the course doesn't really suit your game.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think, you know, to be better for my characteristics, the course will be probably a bit shorter and with thicker rough. You know, the course this week is quite long and there is not a lot of rough. So in theory, it shouldn't be the best course for me. But as I said, it's a golf course that you can play many different ways. So it doesn't really make a huge difference.   
 About the atmosphere, I think it's really exciting for everyone watching that four guys -- one of the four guys could be No. 1 in the world at the end of the week. But for us, it doesn't really make a difference. I mean, we play together with them, against them, pretty much week-in and week-out.   
 So I think everyone is really just focusing on improving his ranking rather than seeing who is going to be on top.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Francesco, well done today. Good luck on the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT