WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 65 (-7)  
  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Francesco, many thanks for joining us, as always, and congratulations; 65, that's a very good start. Just give us your thoughts on today.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was obviously a good round. Conditions were perfect. So I know the scoring was a bit lower than maybe what everybody was expecting. The course is in great shape, so the greens were rolling absolutely pure. And you know, I played well. I putted well. So everything seems in the right place at the moment.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: You're no stranger to success in China, having won the World Cup with Edoardo at Mission Hills. What is it about China that seems to inspire you?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know. Whenever we come over here, we always play on great courses. I played here twice before and I think I finished both times 10th or 11th. It's just a golf course I like, just as Mission Hills. I think that's what it is.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Seven birdies, Francesco, no dropped shots, any particular birdie memorable out there.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I holed a chip on the fourth hole -- I'm sorry, third hole, the par 4. I just missed it long with a second shot and it was a tricky, downhill chip, so it was a very good shot.   
  
  Q. Do you eat Italian or Chinese foods when you're here (laughter).   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Neither. I had steak last night, so I don't know how to classify that. Last year -- we are probably going one day to Shanghai. There are some good Italian restaurants there. So we stick to Italian.   
  
  Q. Italian sports are known for soccer, football; why is it that you and Edoardo are doing very well this year and how did you guys both do well this year? Any special formula?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I think it's not only me and Edoardo. There's Matteo Manassero, as well.   
 I think it's just probably coincidence that the three of us had a great season. But obviously it's the work of the Golf Federation is doing in Italy, bringing up young players and helping them to become what we are now.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on your good job today. Any special comment if you play with Tiger Woods again in the HSBC Champions?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not really. There's still a very long way to go and many other players in the tournament. So it's not really in my mind at the moment.   
  
  Q. Well, one bit of difference to come here to the WGC - HSBC Champions; how does it compare to the rest of the world?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: There's a different atmosphere, because obviously golf is growing very fast in China and it's very nice to play here with, you know, so many Chinese following and trying to learn something about the game.   
 So I think the main difference is the atmosphere, because the field is pretty much the same, and we play a great golf course as we do always in this kind of event.   
  
  Q. Congratulations, and the people in China want to know what you do on your downtime when you're not playing golf, just to relax. Easy question.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: You know, we do what -- I do what normal people does. So I just try to enjoy my time watching movies; if I'm home, hanging out with friends. If I'm here, just maybe going around in Shanghai and trying to look at the city and know a few new things.   
 So pretty much what everybody does.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Well done today. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT