PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A round of 62 this week, you're making it look easy, is it easy out there?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It wasn't easy out there. It looked easy today, but I don't know, it's been such an up-and-down week that, I don't know what to say. I mean, two 62s in one week is quite amazing, but if you shoot two 62s in two days, you should probably win the tournament. 20-under for two rounds is quite something. 
 I don't know, I mean, as I said the other day, I think I just need to rest because obviously the game is there, but probably the mind is not there all the time. 

 Q. How have you achieved your consistency that you have at the moment? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Wasn't really consistent this week, but I just worked really hard on every aspect of the game, and I think it's just been a steady improvement during the years, and now at the level that I am, but I'm still working hard and still trying to be better.

 Q. Have you made any alterations with your putting? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I started working with Mark Roe on short game just before The Ryder Cup, and obviously the week before The Ryder Cup, we couldn't do too much, but now we started doing some work on putting and I think I just need a little bit of the confidence. The strike of the ball is definitely better and I enjoy myself more on the greens. So it's just been three weeks but it's been quite productive.

 Q. As you said, a bit of an up-and-down week, how tired are you, and did you underestimate how tired you would be after The Ryder Cup?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, Dell, not physically, but mentally, it's just really an exhausting week, because you know, all of the things that you have to do before the tournament starts, and then obviously for this year, there were four days of tournament, you're so pumped up and you've got so much adrenaline running through your veins that when it's over, you feel really quite down. 
 So you know, it's experience, hopefully, I'll play in a few more Ryder Cups, and I'll probably take a couple of weeks off after that.

 Q. The two 62s, how do they compare? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was really similar. Today I had a bogey that I didn't have the other day, but I holed from 50 yards on the third, so it was quite similar. You know, the putting has been really good. Obviously today with this wind, last four or five holes were not maybe as easy as the other days, so I think it was still good to finish with four pars. 

 Q. When you shot 62 the other day, we asked you when you thought 59 was on the cards, were you looking for a 59 today, after the great start? 4-under after three? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a bit early, but when I got to 10-under, I had still four good chances. But 18 is not really a good chance but three good chances -- there was a chance, but as I said, the last four holes were not as easy. The pin an 15 is quite tough, and so I'm happy. 

 Q. The two 62s, is that as good as you've ever played for those two rounds?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Probably, but I feel, I mean, yesterday the 74 yesterday was much different, because I started playing well and I could have holed anything, but that's usually what happens after a 62. I just didn't have the patience to stay with the mind to keep trying to make birdie. So just left too many shots here and there.

 Q. Where do you play next? Take a little break? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm not sure. I was supposed to play Valderrama, but I'll see how next week's event is going and how rested I feel. I think I might take also two weeks off, probably wouldn't be a bad idea.

 Q. Are you playing all four? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Depends what I do the next two weeks. If I play Valderrama, I'm not going to play Hong Kong, but if I don't play Hong Kong, I'll play Valderrama. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT