PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 62, I was happy with that; what about you? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, quite happy. Yeah, it was definitely different from yesterday, and you know, I was really upset last night because I've been hitting the ball quite well the last two weeks. But I really wasn't there with the mind and I wasn't focussed enough on the game.
 And today, I think, you know, it was good to be upset yesterday because I started really strong and I kept focussed for 18 holes and luckily all of the putts were dropping and it was a very nice feeling. 

 Q. How difficult is it to come from the arena of The Ryder Cup to playing in a normal Tour event?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's really different. It's really different and it's not easy, you know, to get back to a normal, regular atmosphere. I think probably did the mistake of playing last week, thinking it back now, I shouldn't have played last week and just take a rest, because it was a really draining week, and also with the Monday finish, it was -- I mean, physically, you feel okay, but the mind is just not ready to go again. 

 Q. So what's the difference of your mind of yesterday to your mind today?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's just, you know, thinking just about what you're doing and shot by shot. You know, not getting upset if you miss a shot, even if I didn't miss many today, so it was easy. 
 But just you can feel it on the golf course, you feel ready to play golf or if you're not ready, and I think, as I said, you know, being upset last night, I was upset simply because I knew I was playing well, and 2-over, playing like that, was really, you know, too bad to be true. So luckily today I did well enough to compensate yesterday. 

 Q. Well, we enjoyed watching your lowest round ever on The European Tour; good luck for the rest of the week?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Thank you. 

 Q. So you started the day 107th and you're now tied third. Was it purely the putting that made all the difference today? I see you had 25 putts?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, obviously when you shoot 62, everything goes the right way. But I think honestly the putting stroke wasn't feeling bad yesterday, as well. It was like I said, the mind wasn't there and wasn't ready to play golf. 
 So just I was really, I mean, being upset like I was last night for a while, because I was thinking, if you're going to play golf just thinking of other things and not focusing on the game, it's not worth it. So just try to do the normal thing and luckily, everything went the right way today. 

 Q. You didn't go and kick the door or anything like that, or did you feel like doing that last night? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I felt like doing that, but I didn't do anything. You know, I was just upset with myself and not with anybody else. So I think it was, as well, getting upset was a way of getting back into the playing mind-set, and you know, this morning, I felt much different from how I felt, not only yesterday, but last week in the Dunhill, as well, because I missed the cut, but I hit the ball well enough to play well. 

 Q. What was your previous best round on Tour? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I shot 63 here last year in the first round, and I shot 63 as well in The Italian Open a few years ago. 
 So I improved by one. 

 Q. So you've had a 63 here, a 62 maybe; who knows? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's going to be hard to follow this tomorrow, but I'm playing well, and I just need to keep the mind on the golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT