MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. First of all, you played great all weekend and you guys were all going mano‑a‑mano until the 12th hole. What happened on 12?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just a bad execution. I think we picked the right shot and just didn't hit it hard enough, as simple as that. And it was tough today with the wind gusting and I managed to scramble well on the front nine and I think I just had a couple of mental lapses on the back nine that were costly. But it is what it is.   
   
 Q. You guys all come here to win, there's no question about that. But what was it like to be in that group and bear witness to this history?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, it's great to see obviously Tiger doing well but the way he was playing last year I think we all knew it was coming sooner or later. So maybe next time it will be better for me, but it was nice to be out with him, he played well, he hit the right shots at the right time and deserved to win.   
   
 Q. What club did you hit on 12?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: So I was trying to hit a chippy 8‑iron. It was probably a 9‑iron yardage but I didn't want the wind to gust and to get the ball too much and I just didn't hit it hard enough.   
   
 Q. You were so steady for so long, I think 49 holes without a bogey. When you made that first one was it hard to get back on track?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, no, I was actually hoping to bogey one hole pretty soon, so that the streak would be over and then those things that, you know, the back nine it's going to happen sooner or later, so I was hoping to get it out of the way pretty soon. But it was a good reaction to birdie the next hole and I'm proud of everything I did today. I didn't play my best golf but I fought hard and just a couple of bad swings and probably one bad swing and one bad decision.  
   
 Q. What was the bad decision?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, just on 15, trying to go for the flag from the left side. It was obviously close to the branches of the tree and we never know probably if it doesn't clip the branch it might go close to the hole but I probably should have gone middle of the green and just wait for the last three holes to try and make something happen there.   
   
 Q. On 18, when it's over and you guys are watching Tiger putt out, do you turn into a fan at that point? Does your heart start racing?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No. Sorry, but no, no. No, it was great to see, but, no, it's actually you start losing a bit of adrenaline. But it's nice to see his story, his comeback, and to be a witness in first person, it's nice.   
   
 Q. From your perspective does this feel more like an opportunity lost or is it just something that it was Tiger's time to kind of take one and win one?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, from my point of view it's just a step along the way. I think it wasn't my day today. That ball on 12 if it's one yard further left it probably goes in the bunker and like I said, the third shot on 15, it could easily not have clipped the tree and sometimes it is your day, sometimes it isn't, but I'm really happy of the way I felt out there today. I was calm, collected, never panicked, even after the first double bogey, and I'll learn a lot I think from today. Obviously I've done a couple of things that I wish I had done differently now, but I'll learn from my mistakes.  
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, but it's one of my tendencies, when it gets windy is that I don't, I start using my hands more and I lose control a little bit and definitely did the first few holes was like that and from probably the 8th, 9th hole it started to feel better, more back into control.  
But, you know, in the space of 72 holes you can't expect to play always flushing every shot and I wish I could, but maybe one day.   
   
 Q. How does it feel to be a favorite in these big tournaments now? There was a lot of talk about you coming in.   
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Was there?   
(Laughter.)  
I mean, I don't know, it doesn't change how I prepare for these tournaments, but any tournament, I don't prepare differently for majors just because I believe the way I prepare for tournaments is the best way and so I just keep doing the same and I just keep doing the same over and over again and hopefully get a bit more luck next time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT