JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: 68, 10-under, leading. Give us your assessment of the round.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Obviously it feels good. Game has been good all week. I played solid again today. It was a bit tricky because of the wind. I putted quite well, I have to say, and I'm really happy with the position I am in at the moment. Just looking forward to tomorrow. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And looks like it's going to be an interesting day for the Molinari family tomorrow. Just comment on that. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, looks like we like to play together in Scotland, so, we'll see. It's going to be a lot of fun as it was in Loch Lomond, and I'm sure that, you know, both of us will try to win the tournament as hard as we can, and on my side, I just do my best. 

 Q. We just had Edoardo in here and he said if he won tomorrow and didn't get a pick, there would be something seriously wrong. Do you feel the same way? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: (Smiling). I don't know. It's not easy, you know. The guys that are playing in the States, I saw yesterday, were doing well. So I think there's other methods, as well, not only how Edoardo or the other guys do this week. 
 Obviously winning would be very good and it will put Monty under pressure, but you know, just depends on what Monty thinks of the team and what he thinks he needs to do to make the team stronger. There's a lot of different scenarios, and I mean, I don't think it would be wrong if he doesn't get the pick. 
 I think, you know, it's tough playing with a different idea of how to make the team stronger. Obviously he's one of the strongest candidates because he's had a great season, and I mean, he's playing really well again this week under a lot of pressure. But, you know, if you watch the other guys, they are not just ordinary European Tour players.

 Q. Edoardo said he doesn't expect you to sort of step aside on the last hole and let him win. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, it's been four years and a half now since I won the last -- or three years and a half, I don't know. It's a long time, anyway, and you know, I've been in contention a lot of times and it would be nice for once to get the trophy on Sunday. 

 Q. Do you remember you and your brother losing in match play as amateur golfers? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Playing in foursomes and stuff like that? I think there were a couple of matches, yeah, but I mean, we were probably 13 or 14 in national championships. 
 But obviously we have a good record. And I remember we lost during the St. Andrews Trophy here in Scotland against Gary Watson and I don't remember who the other guy was. 
 But, you know, we are really strong players if we play together, but the level we are playing at, especially now, it's so high, that I mean, I heard that he said that if he gets the pick and we play together, we will make four points, but that's optimistic. 
 If we play together, we are going to be, you know, quite strong, but still there's a lot of golf to play to win four matches. 

 Q. What is it about you two that makes you strong? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think we have different games but that goes together really well, because he's a better putter than me and I'm great with the irons. When he's hitting the ball good off the tees and I'm hitting the irons on to the green, we have a lot of chances. As I said, he's a really good putter, so we can make a lot of birdies. 

 Q. What would it mean to you to play alongside your brother at The Ryder Cup? Do you think it would boost your performance?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think, I mean, for me, it's going to be a huge experience and probably the best golfing week of my life so far, anyway. If he's going to be there, it's going to be something even more special, and obviously, you know, we have a lot of fun playing together. So it would be something really, really special. 

 Q. In a situation like this, how do your parents cope? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, I mean, I guess, you know, to them it's pretty much the same if one or the other wins. I.
 Mean, obviously for us it's not the same because we are competitors, and we want to win the tournament, but for anyone else who is involved with us, you know, if Edoardo finishes first or I finish second or the other way around, it doesn't make a difference as long as we both play well and finish well in the tournament. 

 Q. And do you fight as brothers? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, obviously we used to fight when we were younger as everybody, but now we are grown-ups, so usually we don't fight. We don't fight too hard each other. 

 Q. You are both Italian, so was going to ask if you were about to make Monty an offer he can't refuse. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, that's more in -- I can't say any names. (Laughter) I don't want to be like Gonzalo last year in the Seve Trophy, so I won't say any that he should names, but I'll leave it to you that sort of stuff.
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Francesco, well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT