3 IRISH OPEN
July 31, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tough out there today? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was definitely tougher than the first two days, but I enjoyed it. It was playing fair. The wind was quite gusting. It was just a bit tougher. I didn't hit the ball great but I tried to do the best score possible, and at the end of the day, it was not such a bad day. 

 Q. A very good day, and you're right in there in the mix ahead of tomorrow. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously I'm in a good position. You know, there are I think quite a few players within very few shots, so I think it's going to be an interesting Sunday and I guess it will be more fun if the wind is up again tomorrow. So it's going to be tough. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about the atmosphere, big galleries and good atmosphere?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was great. Obviously, you know, people were supporting the Irish players but we got a great support, as well, because really it's a great atmosphere and I really enjoyed today. 

 Q. Not many coming in under par today and you picked up two shots?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it wasn't an easy day. I didn't hit the ball great to be honest, but, you know, I managed to fight hard and to make a good score. So in the end of today, I'm quite happy and let's see what happens tomorrow.

 Q. Very much all to play for in this tournament, it looked for a while like Ross was going to run away with it completely and he's come back and you're right there with Pádraig and a few others?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, there are quite a lot of players within just a few shots, so I think it's going to be really interesting for the crowd tomorrow. I just hope to be, you know, up there.
 Today was definitely tougher and trickier than the first two days. The breeze was quite strong and in the last few holes, it was almost a two-club wind. So it was definitely tougher, but you know, it's a break for us to play with the wind. 

 Q. Do you like the crowds and course of the Irish Open?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been a great week, the atmosphere has been great and a lot of people watching us and the course setup is great. I'm really enjoying the week. 

 Q. With great crowds and possibly the same kind of weather tomorrow, will you be able to push on; will you benefit from hanging on and picking up two shots today?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Definitely. After a few holes, I didn't even think of, you know, being just one shot behind Ross. At the end of the day, it was a positive day for me, and I definitely hope that tomorrow the wind is quite strong again and it makes it tougher. 

 Q. With Edoardo winning a couple of weeks ago, it would be nice to get a victory of your own, as well?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I've been waiting for a while now. So, I mean, I just try not to think about it and to play shot by shot. I just hope that, you know, my time comes sooner or later. You need to be a bit lucky and to get your perfect week to get the win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT