3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You haven't got off to that kind of start in a while.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I didn't realise I had shot 29 on the front nine until I was in the recording. It was obviously very good. I was hitting the ball very well and putting well and everything went the right way.  
  
  Q. And if you didn't realise, that means you were just playing very much within yourself and enjoying things I guess.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's actually a good sign when you don't think about how many under par you are and what kind of score you're heading to play. So I mean, I was just enjoying the day.   
  
  Q. Were you aware that Ross Fisher had shot the 61 when you went out?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, when I started, Ross had already finished. So I thought 12-under, it's a big task, especially because it was getting windier and it was raining a little bit.   
 So I mean, I wasn't really thinking about shooting 29 to start with, but obviously everything went very well, and the back nine, I struggled a little bit with a couple of drivers off the tee. But, you know, 5-under all in all is a good round.  
  
  Q. Talk me through something that did work out nicely at the 16th.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, 16, it wasn't a bad tee shot because the fairways are sloping from right-to-left and it was just unlucky. I don't know if I hit someone or hit the tree and the ball just finished really chose to the tree, so the only shot I had was playing left-handed.   
 I just took the 9-iron and you know, my main focus was just to hit the ball and not an air shot because it wouldn't look good on TV. So I hit the ball, I don't know, maybe 80, 90 yards. So it was a decent shot.   
  
  Q. You say that as if it was very matter of fact. Do you practise left-handed shots?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, sometimes, sometimes, you know, just for fun. Sometimes it's just good for your back to do the things the other way from what we always do. So I have a little bit of feeling of my left-handed swing, but obviously it's far, far away from the right-handed one.  
  
  Q. You'll play with Ross Fisher tomorrow; I take it you get along well and know each other well?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, obviously Denis Pugh coaches both of us, so we played a few practise rounds together and we are members of the same club in London. So we practise together quite a bit and he's just a very nice guy and I'm looking forward to playing with him tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT