THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Francesco, an excellent round of a couple under par there, just give us a sense of what it's like to play in those conditions.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it was playing really, really long. You know, driver and 3-wood on 16, driver and 3-iron on 18. It was really tough, but I had a tough start because I lost the ball with my first shot of the day on the 10th, so it was obviously a bad start. But then I hit the ball good all day apart from that, and, you know, holed some putts, so I'm happy with the round. 

 Q. You've gone back to the short putter for the first time in a long time. How is it feeling?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's feeling good. Last week was obviously the first week I was using it in a tournament, and did well. This week, the greens are a bit hard to read because they are soft and they can get a bit bumpy in the afternoon, but I'm happy the way the ball is rolling. 

 Q. I saw you working with the short putter for some time; what forced the change? What made you change back from the belly putter? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think I used the belly putter for two years, and I thought it -- I was just over it. I had lost the feeling and I didn't feel comfortable with it anymore. It was a bit of jumping into the blue, but it went well in the end so I'm happy with the decision. 

 Q. Your brother shot 5-under par yesterday, how exciting would it be for the two of you to play together the next day and to be in contention?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it has not happened yet but if we keep playing like this, it has to happen sooner or later. It will feel a bit like a practise round but it will be a lot of fun. 

 Q. Francesco, 5-under after two rounds, how pleased are you with 2-under par for today? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm really pleased. I think it was a much better score than the 3-under yesterday because it was really tough today. It was like playing every hole into the wind because of the rain, so it was playing really long, and it wasn't easy. 
 So 2-under is a very good round, and, you know, we'll see what kind of weather the other end of the draw gets, because you never know, but hopefully it will be good enough to be in contention. 

 Q. You had quite a difficult start on the first, on your first hole; how did you manage to keep your emotions in control? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I didn't have the best start, but, you know, it happens. You can miss one shot. I was a bit unlucky to catch the branch of a tree, and I just lost the ball. So I mean, I knew I was playing well, so I just had to stay calm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT