THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was your own game? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was good. I played well. Putting was good, as well. It wasn't easy because the greens were a bit tricky in the afternoon, and it's a good start. So I'm looking forward to the rest of the week. 

 Q. Did you notice any difficulties in playing the course today? According to the conditions, weather conditions, especially? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, yeah, it wasn't easy obviously with the wind. It was gusting sometimes and some others it was coming down. 
 So it was not easy to judge the wind. But, I mean, the course is in good condition and the greens are quite soft. So you can do some good scores. 

 Q. Does this come into your mind as a challenge to play together with your brother on the weekend? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it would be nice to play together both with the chance to win or to do well. It hasn't happened yet but hopefully it will happen soon. 

 Q. Your brother was in earlier in the media center telling everyone how you never play good in the same tournament. He said you were talking about it in practise?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, we played together in the practise rounds, and you know, we haven't had a practise round just the two of us for a while now. So it was nice to play with him. We were just chatting and, you know, we were saying it hasn't happened yet that we played well both in the same tournament.

 Q. Has it been strange, because you've played so well over the season and not done it together? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's just by chance. So I mean, it had to happen sooner or later, so hopefully it will be this week, and it will be nice to be both in the weekend with a chance. 

 Q. I have to ask you, what would it be like to play with your brother in The Ryder Cup? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It would be amazing. It would be amazing already to get in it and to play and to play together with your brother is something -- it would be something really unbelievable. 

 Q. Just so special?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's one of those dreams that I think every kid that is growing up, if we can achieve that, it would be I think the first brothers to play, so it would be something absolutely special for us and for Italian golf. 

 Q. Did you play together when you were are young, saying, "We are Ryder Cup partners?" 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't remember if we actually said that but it's something that's natural to dream of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT