THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If you could start off talking about your round?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I've been playing really, really well the last couple of days, and today was just amazing, you know, 65, bogey free. It was a great round.   
 I'm hitting the ball obviously really well at the moment. And I've been in the last couple of months, so I just have to be patient and take the chances I have on the golf course.  
  
  Q. Talk about the whirlwind of coming in from the Spanish Open, having a bad day on Sunday, and really not getting much time to look at the golf course. Talk about that whole scenario and how did you feel going into that first round yesterday?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously it wasn't really easy, because, you know, as you said, the Sunday in the Spanish Open wasn't really the best day possible. So I went away with a bad feeling. But I knew the game was ready, and there was nothing wrong with the swing. I think it was just one of those days where nothing goes right.   
 So I came here and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday was most of all was just recovering from the jet lag and from the flight. And I really love the golf course as soon as I saw it. So it's great. You have to play every single shot you have in the bag. And I'm just enjoying myself.  
  
  Q. Talk about your caddie, Jorge, for a second. He didn't have a lot of time to track the course either, did he?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, not really. I mean, we just played nine holes on Tuesday, and nine holes on Wednesday. It's for both of us, it's the first time we are here, so, you know, it wasn't probably the best preparation, but I think when the game is ready, you don't need to think too much about the golf course.  
  
  Q. Without thinking too far ahead, he knowing what the PGA TOUR does for a winner at THE PLAYERS, that exemption status, how much does that mean to a professional golfer?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it's, you know, it would be great for anyone. Especially for someone like me who doesn't have a status here in the States, it would be huge. But I mean, it's too far away.   
 I just need to keep focus on my game and just keep doing the things that I've been doing in the last couple of days. Then it would be great for me already to get to Sunday afternoon just with the chance and then I'll just enjoy myself.  
  
  Q. You said you like the course. Is there one particular thing you like about it that fits your game?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it's a ball striker golf course, you know. You have to hit the fairways and hit the greens in the right spots. So that's probably the strength of my game, and I just enjoy playing this kind of golf courses.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT