THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Francesco Molinari, thanks for joining us, 7-under 65 today in the second round to go with your first round 68. This is your first start in THE PLAYERS Championship, and I think your ninth career start on TOUR. You've had one Top 10 at the '09 PGA Championship. Talk about your round today and what you've experienced so far of THE PLAYERS this week. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it's been obviously a great couple of days for me. My game isn't in good shape, so today the round was quite smooth, and I think I hit every green in regulation. So I had quite a lot of chances, and you know, I was just trying to stay away from the trouble. 
 I'm really enjoying the golf course. I think it suits my game, and it's in great condition, as always, here. So I'm just enjoying my week so far. 

 Q. I guess it was a good sign when your caddie won the 17th caddie contest, right?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, good clubbing from me, yeah (smiling). Yeah, obviously we enjoyed that moment. He hit a great shot, so still, every time I hit a wedge, he's still telling me I need to beat his two feet something at the 17th. 

 Q. That must have put you in a relaxed mood for Thursday morning? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously. I was enjoying my week before that, and I'm enjoying it a lot now obviously. As I said, I really like the golf course, and I'm playing well, so everything seems in the right place.

 Q. You said you hit every green in regulation today?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, today.

 Q. What about yesterday? How many greens in regulation did you miss yesterday?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I didn't check, but 14 yesterday.

 Q. How much of an adjustment from the golf course you just came off of in Spain to this golf course? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it's obviously different, even if the fairways were quite tight there and the rough was really high. You needed to hit the fairways and greens there, as well. I think it was -- it's a completely different golf course, but I think it was actually good practice before coming here. 

 Q. Are you trying to steal the limelight from the Italian Open from back home? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, that for me was a really tough decision obviously, because not playing there for the first time, I've always played decently. And I won four years ago, so I was looking forward to playing the Italian Open, especially because it's in my hometown. But then when I saw it was clashing with THE PLAYERS, this is one of the tournaments you dream of playing as a kid and you watch on TV. 
 I think it's easy to say now that I'm 11-under. But even if you miss the cut, it's one of those tournaments that takes you to a different level, and it's really good for your experience. 

 Q. Is there a favorite golfer growing up for you?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Constantino Rocca obviously was the big name in Italy, and we watched him on TV every single time, and I was lucky enough to play my first year on Tour, he was still playing on Tour in Europe. So we had a few practice rounds together, and he's a really great guy. So he's definitely my idol. 

 Q. Is your brother playing in the Italian Open today?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: He is, yeah.

 Q. Is he doing okay?
 MARK WILLIAMS: He's 1-under through 36.
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I checked this morning. He made the cut, but he's a bit far back. But he knows the course really well, so hopefully we shoot a low score tomorrow.

 Q. He could have played here, as well, couldn't he?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: He could have played here, yeah.

 Q. Did you talk to him about that decision? Did you talk together about the decision?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, obviously, yeah. But we are two different players, so you know, he decided to play Bay Hill, and I decided to play back in Europe in that period. So each one makes his own schedule. 
 I think he didn't come here basically because he committed earlier in the winter to play in the Italian Open. Probably he didn't realize he had a chance of getting in here. So hopefully he will be here next year.

 Q. Will you talk to each other during the week?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not usually during tournaments. I mean, obviously if we are playing in the same tournament, yeah, but if we are in two different countries, we usually speak before the tournament and then on a Sunday just to leave everybody to relax. 

 Q. How much pressure did you feel to not play in the Italian Open, because I'm sure the tournament organizers there -- it's not as if Italy has got like 30 players to choose from. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, and it's the only tournament in the European schedule in Italy. So obviously firstly they wanted me to play there, but then I think they realized it was really important for me and for my career, especially for my future career, to come here and play this tournament. So luckily they understood. 
 Maybe the fact that Eduardo was playing there helped me a little bit, as well.

 Q. In any of your seven birdies today approximately, could you go through the lengths of putts that you had on them, 1, 2 and 3? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I hit a good wedge at the 1st to three feet.
 Then I chipped to one foot at the second hole.
 I holed probably a 12, 13-footer on the 3rd.
 And then I holed a 25-footer on the 9th.
 11, again, I chipped it from just short of the green to one foot.
 13, I holed a 15-footer.
 And 16 -- I don't remember 16 now. I two-putted from 30 feet. 

 Q. You're a shot behind Lee Westwood. You presumably have played with him over the last few years. Can you rate his game, where it is now, what you think of his game, his strengths? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I think his performances have been really impressive, especially in the big tournaments. And he's one of the top guys I don't think only in Europe but in the world. 
 We were in contention last year in Portugal, and he won. For me it's just great to be here playing against those kind of players and I'll just try to do my best and play the way I've been playing the last couple of days.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you for your time, Francesco. We appreciate it. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT