MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm happy to make the cut in my first appearance here, so it's been a positive week. It's a tough course so you need to know it definitely better than how I knew it to compete and to win.   
 So I just hope to come back in the next few years and get the chance again.  
  
  Q. What surprised you most about the course?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, everybody says that the greens get quicker and tougher during the week, but I think if you don't play you don't realize how that is true. Because it's really tough to read the greens when they get quick. And if you get in the wrong spots you don't have any chance of not on even putting it about making 2-putts.   
 So it's just something that you need to try. And experience is definitely a big help in that.   
  
  Q. How would your experience this week help you out the next time you come here?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it will help me a lot, as I say, for the greens. The course I think from the tee to green, you can see it enough of the rounds that there's nothing too hard, but then during the Tournament it's really a different beast than how it is in the practice round around the greens and on the greens. So you need to play the Tournament at least a couple of times to realize how you have to play.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think that he just keeps proving that he's a great player. And he's just 16, so I think he's one of the biggest talents I've ever seen. And hopefully once he turns pro, I think he said he's going to turn pro in May, so I hope for him that he's going to get continue to play well and that he will compete as a professional as he's playing now as an amateur.  
  
  Q. What was the experience like being here with your brother?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was great. He helped me a lot during the practice round, because obviously he had played here before, so he knew the course better than me. And apart from that, it's a dream coming true to play together here and I look forward to the next Major that we get to play in together.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT