OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 28, 2009
Edoardo Molinari
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURY LIVSEY: We would like to welcome Italy into the interview room. You guys played well today and you're in good position heading into the final round. Can we get some comments? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's been a great day for us. It's been a really good week, but today was probably the best day. We both played really consistent, good golf. We maybe left some chances out, but you don't expect to hold every single putt on the golf course. It's been really good and we are in good position for tomorrow. We just try to keep playing like this and see what happens tomorrow. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Same as Francesco said, we played very well today. He was probably a little bit better than I was today. Both of us we managed to make a lot of birdies and hole the putts in the right moments. It was definitely a good score out there today because the pins were quite difficult, and even the other teams are not shooting as low as the first round. 
 So I think 61 today is a great score. 

 Q. Being brothers, do you think it's harder for you guys to combine on the golf course, because you would have family baggage and other problems (laughter). What's the relationship like on the golf course, and then off the golf course? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, we have been used to playing golf together since we were kids, so it feels quite natural, really, to be out on the golf course together and luckily we don't have too many family issues. (Laughter).
 I think it helps us to be brothers, because especially in foursomes, we have known each other really well. We combined really well and it's much easier to play with your brother. You don't have to feel sorry if you miss a shot or if something happens. It's really like playing your own ball with the help of your brother. 

 Q. This is the third time, three years in a row, you two are representing Italy playing the World Cup. Why has this year so far been so much better than the last two years? And would you like to play well and maybe pick up the trophy tomorrow and prove to Captain Monty that hopefully next year you can be representing Europe playing The Ryder Cup as two brothers, because I believe we haven't seen two brothers playing in The Ryder Cup. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, first question, we played better this year, just because both of us are playing much better golf. I'm in much better form than I was last year at this time of the year, and Francesco is probably a little bit better, but he was good, also, last year and two years ago. It was probably my fault last year and I made up for it this year (smiling). Ryder Cup, it would be great to be playing together, but I think next year is probably a little bit too early for me. 
 I think Francesco, though, is pretty much ready to be playing on The Ryder Cup Team, because he's one of the most consistent players on The European Tour. His scoring average this year was second or third among all of The European Tour players, and it's very easy also to play with him in foursome or fourball because he's very consistent, very steady. It's always a great help to play with him. 

 Q. We are pretty used to seeing Italy up there at the top of the soccer World Cup. In fact, where I come from, we are sick and tired of it, but golf is pretty unexpected. What sort of story would it be back home in Italy if you were to win tomorrow? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, we have to win tomorrow and then we will think about it. 
 I think it will be a great help for golf in Italy if we were going to win tomorrow, because golf is not a huge sport. It's growing at the moment. It's getting better year by year, but it's not really up to soccer standards or to other sports. It would be nice to win tomorrow, first of all, for us, and then for golf in Italy. 

 Q. There was quite a bit of news the last two days regarding Dubai world delaying their payment in the bank, and Dubai is probably one of the major sponsors to The European Tour. Would that affect at all to The European Tour? Does it bother you two at all? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know really. Obviously I think it could affect The European Tour, but as players, it's not our job to get sponsors for tournaments. So hopefully the Tour will be fine. I think The European Tour is really strong at the moment, with Rory coming out and a lot of other young, good players. So hopefully we will be fine. 

 Q. Have you heard the news regarding Tiger Woods' accident, car accident early morning in Orlando time, and have you been out at 2.30 in the morning in maybe something similar to that? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, not until now. No, no particular car accident. I mean, we read the news about Tiger, and apparently he's fine, so hopefully he will be at the best of his form for next year. 

 Q. When did you hear the news? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: This morning, just reading the Internet.
 LAURY LIVSEY: We would like to thank Italy for coming in, and play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT