OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 26, 2009
Edoardo Molinari
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us. Maybe just start us off with your thoughts on that great round. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think we played quite well today. We had a lot of good chances, both of us, and it's the first time that we managed to hole some putts in the first round. So overall we are quite pleased with the start. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: We played quite good. I think he probably played better than me today and holed more putts but it's a long tournament and we both need to be at our best to try and compete. But it's the first time that we are in a good position after the first round, so it's a nice change compared to the last couple of years. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: How important is it to get off to a fast start? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it's really important, because I mean, it makes it much easier. If you have to make already eight or nine shots after the first round, it puts a lot of pressure on you. It's nice to have a good start and you can maybe try and manage a little bit more during the week your energies. 

 Q. This is a team competition, but Edoardo, great season on The Challenge Tour for yourself and great win last week, you must be very confident personally in the way you're playing and things. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously I'm in a period of very good form, because I've been very consistent finally this season. The past few seasons, I had some good weeks and some bad weeks and this season it's been very have steady from the beginning. 
 Winning in Japan last week was a great boost for the confidence because it was a great field last week, almost like a European Tour event. Going head-to-head with Oliver on Sunday, he was playing well and I was playing well, as well and it was a lot of fun, and as you say, gives me a lot of confidence for this week and for next year. Because when you go against the best guys and you stood up to the test, and you also win, it's great for the confidence. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on the approach for tomorrow? Have you got any plans yet? How do you think you're going to approach tomorrow, different format? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think having played the last two years, we know more or less what to expect and he's going to play the odds and I'm going to play the even like last year.
 So I mean, probably foursomes, you need to be a little bit more conservative in some situations. But still, you need to score well and make birdies, so the approach will be pretty much the same. 

 Q. Can you tell us a bit about the conditions on the course? Were they perfect for low scoring? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think the course this year is probably playing a little easier so far than the last few years. It's a little bit soft. Even in the greens are getting firm already, they are not as firm as they were last year and they are probably a little bit slower. 
 And obviously playing in the morning was a good advantage because we had no wind on the first few holes and the greens were probably nicer. So I think we took advantage of it. 

 Q. Compared to the rest of the 27 teams, you are probably the only brother team. Do you think it's an advantage for yourself? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's a little advantage because obviously we know each other really well, and we know each other's game really well. So we know what to expect and we know the strength and weaknesses of each other. Maybe even, you know, with your brother, you have much more confidence than with anybody else, so it makes it a bit easier. 

 Q. In China, we are not that familiar with golf in Italy. So golf-wise, can you briefly tell us a little bit about golf in Italy, the golf courses, tournaments, golfers? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: As you say it's not a big country in golf but it's been growing the last ten years probably, thanks to Constantino Rocca initially and a few other good players. I think there are about 100,000 golfers in Italy all together, and we probably have --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: A hundred golf courses probably. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Maybe 200 golf courses. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT