PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2009
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Francesco, thanks for joining us, 63-66 - this is easy isn't it?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's never easy. I have had a good couple of days and I have been playing very well. I am happy with everything in the game but I know that it is going to be a tough weekend.  
 Q. And your card is okay?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It should be fine this time but I will keep the phone off just in case! I actually get my caddie to check it with me now as well. Once you have done it once you should never do it again. In Ireland the weather was so bad that day that I actually couldn't fill it in as I went along because it was wet but that is no excuse - it was my fault. 
Q. Are you trying to keep up with your brother? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I am trying but it is pretty difficult because he is either winning or finishing second every week. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just some practise sessions. 

 Q. Had Eduardo pointed out that he is ahead of you in the Ryder Cup Rankings --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I saw that but strangely didn't say anything. Probably didn't want to -- he pointed that he's almost in the Top-100 of the World Rankings. So I need to play well or he will overtake me. 
 Because I turned pro, I still played a couple of years as an amateur. 

 Q. Did Monty leaving Denis Pugh's did make a difference in terms of the amount of time he spent with you?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, yeah, I don't know if it was that or probably that, you know, he saw that we were doing well and he wanted to, you know, to keep working together and maybe working more. I don't know. Maybe, yeah, if he still was working with Monty, he would have also maybe less time, obviously. 
 But I think it didn't make a big difference. I mean, we could have been working together anyway. 

 Q. How did you get started and is golf more important than anything --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, we started both because our family, we all played golf, our parents, our grandparents. We spent weekends at the golf course, and then, yeah, probably at the beginning it was more important.
 But after a while I lost the passion a little bit because I almost never go now to see the matches. I don't really care that much now. A little bit still, when they win. 

 Q. 23rd in The Race to Dubai, this week could make a heck of a difference in the year and obviously getting into the Top 15 into the bonus pool, is that in your mind? Do you think about that? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's one of the goals of all the players probably in the Top-30 or something like that. It would be a huge week, also, for the World Rankings. There are a lot of points here. So it would be obviously really good to win or to finish well in a week like this, especially being in the end of the year. 

 Q. Did you see much of Constantino Rocca?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I remember watching him in The Open Championship in St. Andrews when he lost in the playoff and in Ryder Cups. We had a pretty good TV coverage of golf. So he was definitely our role model. 

 Q. Some of the guys are finding the greens very difficult, the pace a bit slow; have you noticed that? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's true, they are probably a bit slower than what is the average on Tour, but I putted well last week, as well, and just when I got here, I just had a good feeling with the putter in the Pro-Am and in the practise rounds. So I don't have any problem with it. 

 Q. Is it very much a confidence thing?
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, probably. Once you start holing putts, it makes it a lot easier, yeah. You know, it's really a thin behind. So if you start missing a few, maybe you lose the confidence. So it's not going to be easy, but it's a good position to be in. 

 Q. Do you feel that you need to step up --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think probably last year, I would have said short game, now it's improved quite a bit, both chipping and putting. 
 I think chipping has been quite consistent, while putting still it comes and it goes, but I think it's the same for all the players. I think what makes the difference at this point is just winning tournaments. 

 Q. Have you noticed the --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I did. 

 Q. Was it very annoying? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Can I not answer this question? (Laughter).
 It was disappointing because I still remember the 9-iron I hit on the 18th and I thought it was spot on and I just missed the club and it flew the green. 
 So it was disappointing because I was playing really well, and probably Gary was the strongest player in the field. So if I had won that match, I might have been the winner in the end because it was the semifinals. 
 So it was just disappointing because you dream of playing the Masters and The Open Championship. 

 Q. I know you told us yesterday, you don't care so much right now but what do you think overall --
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I love him. He's great. He's always arguing with you over AC Milan. All of the supporters are on his side. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Francesco, well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT