PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2009
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Almost really good. No, it was really good round, and my putting was really good. And the game, it really was quite solid but that's for me, it's quite normal, but putting today was a bit more than normal.   
  
  Q. It was a wonderful start, and then an excellent run on the back nine with those four successive birdies.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was almost the perfect start. A little chip-in on the fairway to made eagle, and then 5-under after five holes, it's not easy to keep making birdies, so I just had a few holes to settle down and then luckily another good run of birdies, yeah.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts when you are 5-under so early in the round, are you thinking oh, this is going to be your day or how can you keep it going?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I think a bit of both. Obviously you're really happy because it's a perfect position to be after five holes, but as well, you know, you kind of think, well, I'll try to make more birdies, but it cannot be like this all day.   
 So I'm really happy about it.   
  
  Q. Did you find it easy out there?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, no. It's never easy. It's never easy. This course, you can score well, but as well, there is a lot of water and you need to hit some good shots to score well. So it's not that obvious to keep making birdies.  
  
  Q. I suppose you did get lucky with the wind, it did pick up for the afternoon starters and it hasn't really.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: The last couple of days it picked up quite strong in the afternoon, and today was a bit windy but it was not as strong as we all expected.  
  
  Q. If I can take you back to the Vivendi Trophy just a bit, did you find confidence from playing so well from playing in that team environment? It certainly seemed like you enjoyed every minute of it.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I really enjoyed because if we lost, we had a really good team with some really good players. I enjoyed my time with them, and with Anders, especially, we enjoyed all the doubles. I think confidence is coming from all of the season. I played well in the majors which probably has made more difference than the Vivendi Trophy.   
  
  Q. But the trophy itself, being in a team environment, it's kind of rubber-stamping just how well you've played around the year; it says, Francesco, you deserve to be on this team.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I was really proud because looking around, there were only great players and I was really proud of being part of that team and I really enjoyed the week.   
  
  Q. It has been an excellent year, hasn't it?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been great. As I said, I didn't expect to do so well in majors, especially, playing in the first time the PGA and the U.S. Open. In European Tour tournaments, it's been quite good, and hopefully we can make it a bit better in this end of the season.   
  
  Q. Has it been good with your brother playing so well on The Challenge Tour, as well, so that you know the family is both going well?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I need to keep up with him because he is winning tournaments almost every week. So he's finishing either first or second, so I need to make some good tournaments, as well.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you led a tournament?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Ireland.   
  
  Q. Was it?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. It's funny that you've not led, because you've played so well so many times.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Usually I'm not really a fast starter. I usually play better in the weekend than in the first couple of days.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT