THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 27, 2009
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Another fantastic performance from yourself today. It's been a great week for you. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been a good week, but you know, it's never a good week when your team doesn't win, so I'm a bit disappointed as I think all of the Continental European are. It's just a pity coming so close in the end with the big disadvantage we had after the first three days. Just makes you think about the points you lost the first three days. 

 Q. But to win a session as comprehensively as you're going to win this one, must restore a bit of pride for you. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, I think it was a pretty low point after yesterday, so it was hard to do worse than that, so we managed to play some good golf today in the end. It's just really disappointing. I think we are going to lose for one point or one point and a half in the end. So it's just really disappointing for all of us. 

 Q. Playing Oliver today, obviously a tough opponent, he's been to The Ryder Cup before, and been playing really well this week but you won very, very comfortably. 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think I had a good start with a couple of birdies, and he didn't play really well the first few holes, you know, so it makes it a built easier when you are 3-up after five holes and then he started playing really well, but I was good enough to manage to keep the advantage and I'm pretty happy about my game, yeah. 

 Q. Oliver played in The Ryder Cup last year and made his debut, obviously that's something in the mind of every player this week, do you feel like you've shown you could perform well if you get into the team next year? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think I show it, you know, during all this year during the majors, and I think I'm -- I don't know if I'm ready to play in the next one or not, but definitely it's one of my goals for my career. 
 So hopefully if it's not going to be the next one, because I'm still quite young, so I've got plenty of time to make the team in the future ones. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT