THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Francesco, terrific round out there and you are now the course record-holder here at County Louth Golf Club with a 63, well played for you today. What went well for you today?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Everything went quite easy, and yesterday in the Pro-Am was much windier than today, so I think the course played a lot easier than yesterday. It probably was one of the factors of a good round and putting was working really well, so it was a good day.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: The conditions, it was not easy out there, so what was the key to this great round today?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think, as I said, compared to yesterday, it was much easier, because yesterday the wind was blowing really hard, so I like the course yesterday, as well, but today I could be a little bit more aggressive with the irons. So I'm really, really happy with the game, and I hope to keep playing like this all week.   
  
  Q. What sort of record do you have on links courses?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I played a lot of links golf when I was an amateur, but not in the last four or five years. I played well in a couple of British Amateurs, so I mean, I'm quite used to play links golf.   
 It's just a matter of getting used to it again, because as I said, in the last few years on Tour, we don't play too many links events. So it's really good. I enjoy playing links golf, and I enjoyed it a lot today.   
  
  Q. Looking at your record, last four events, three thirds, an 11th, 6th, something like that, you're playing exceptionally well and you played very well last year. Do you feel that you're on a serious upward graph in terms of improvement as a player?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think last year, I've improved a lot my game, all year. I had a good season last year, and this season so far is going really well. So I really hope to get another win this year or as soon as possible.   
 So I think I'm playing much better than how I was playing when I won the Italian Open. So I hope it's coming soon.   
  
  Q. What aspects have improved?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think all around. My chipping has improved. My putting has improved, but also my long game. So probably the weakest part of my game used to be the short game and now it's a lot better.   
  
  Q. Who did you work with on your short game?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I worked with Denis Pugh on my game, all parts of the game. So we started working at events last year, and I think it helped me a lot. It's a different thing. He's always seen me in the driving range before last year, so last year, he had the chance to watch me on the course, as well, during tournaments, and I think this made a big difference.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Can we go through the details of your round, if you can remember all of the birdies.  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'll try. I started on the first and hit two good shots to probably 20 feet and holed the putt.   
 On the second, I hit again two good shots just short of the green, but not a really good chip and just missed a birdie, so parred the second.   
 Then I eagled the third with a driver and 5-iron to probably 30 feet, a nice putt.   
 I birdied the fourth, as well, with a 9-iron to eight, ten feet.   
 I birdied the sixth, the par 5. I hit the second shot just short of the green and made an up-and-down from there.   
 I birdied 12 with a 6-iron to ten feet. 13, again, 6-iron to 30 feet.  
 14, I hit a 3-wood from the tee and a lob-wedge to 12 feet and made birdie.   
 15, the par 3, birdie again with a 6-iron to a couple of feet.   
 And then 18, I hit a good drive and then I missed the second shot in the right, but the chip was quite easy, so I holed the putt from three feet for a birdie.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. Well played.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT