THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2009
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's good, probably better than what I expected. It's not easy to start over again after four weeks off. So I'm quite happy. I didn't expect to score this well, and looking forward to the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. But it is a lovely continuation of the form you were showing at the back end of last year.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, but I made some changes during the winter or these four weeks, so I don't know, I wasn't expecting them to work out so well so quickly. So we'll see how it goes in the next few days. The putting today was pretty good, so I hope that it will remain the same.   
  
  Q. I'm sure we've had this conversation before, but why do you make changes when things are going so well?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Because it's almost the only period of time you have to work on some things, that you cannot work on during tournaments. You are always looking to improve and get better. So that's why you do it.  
  
  Q. Are they the sort of changes that we would notice, or the little intricacies most observers wouldn't notice?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think you might notice, I tried to work on the rhythm, so it's probably a thing I need some time to bring on the course. Maybe on the course it's still not where I would like it could be. Mainly it's just the rhythm and a few smaller things.  
  
  Q. Apart from the work on the game, I take it you enjoyed Christmas?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yes, it was quite different from what we get during the year. Really it was a lovely time, yeah.  
  
  Q. And not entirely different to what we've had today. Those hailstorms were ridiculous.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a bit of a surprise, because you don't expect that to come down in the desert. It was a funny, new thing. Hopefully we won't get any of that in the next few days.  
  
  Q. Where were you at the time?  
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I was on the fourth green, and so yeah, we got wet a little bit. But I mean, now it's wonderful, so let's hope it remains the same for the next few days.  
  
  Q. And did it affect you at all? I've heard some stories of players intending to putt and then finding hailstones in the way.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, we were hitting the tee shot when it was really starting to power down. When we got to the green it was hailing and the game was already suspended, so we didn't have too many problems.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT