BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You're in good form; played well last week at the Irish Open.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  Yeah, a couple of good performances and today was, as well, so looking forward to this week and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference last year?  I know you missed the cut at your first attempt at this tournament last year.  Did you learn a lot from that, do you think?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  Yeah, I think the first time here, it's always a bit scary in some ways.  I had a bad first round and a good second one but I missed by one.  So I wanted to change my memories of this course.   
 So it's a good start and I hope to continue like this.   
  
  Q.  And last week, yourself, that was a tough golf course as well, and you must have been pleased with your start there.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  Yeah, I played pretty good.  I wasn't putting too good, but it was a good week and I think it was a nice course, tough but fair.  I enjoyed it.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean to you, obviously still early in your career, but to win a title such as this has got to be one to aspire to.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  It's too far ahead from now.  I just have to keep focused and try to play the best, the best as I can today, and we see on Sunday night.   
  
  Q.  But you did have a past winner that you were playing with today.  Did that come up in conversation?  Did you ask him anything about that?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  No, I didn't.  But I was playing in the Italian Open last year with Anders the first two rounds, maybe it will bring some good luck, we'll see.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the course and the changes in the last year?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  It's in nice conditions as always.  It's quite challenging.  We had the best weather possible.  So in these conditions, you can do some good scores.  But if we get a little bit of wind or some rain, it's going to be pretty tough.   
  
  Q.  Always good to be out early in the morning.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI:  Yeah, that's probably a good time.     
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT