WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations.  5-4 win, what was the secret to that?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I played well again, like the other days.  Paul started well and then probably didn't play some of his best golf.  But I was very good in keeping my head down and just keep working, keep trying to make birdies.  So yeah, another good run.   
 Q.  Obviously going out there you thought it was going to be a tough match.  When they haven't got their best stuff, what do you do strategy-wise?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was 5-4 in the end, but up until the 9th, 10th, he had a few chances to make it a lot closer than that and just didn't hole as many putts as yesterday.  But the strategy was, even when I was 3-up, just keep going.  I played 13 aggressively, going for the green.  Just keep trying to make birdies and win a couple of holes.   
 Q.  I thought the way the match started with you guys going birdie, birdie, it was going to be one of those, who can make the most birdies?  Instead it was, who can make the most pars?  Paul really struggled out there.  Your thoughts on the match?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Paul didn't have his best today.  Started well but then missed a few shots, a few putts.  On my side it was just keep doing my thing, keep trying to make a few birdies and not give away easy holes.  And I did that well.   
 Q.  How did the course play today?  Seemed like a lot of putts were coming up short for you guys.  Was it playing slower?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think with the weather being overcast and quite humid already, the greens were a bit slower today.  And it's tricky, the wind changed after a few holes.  And obviously we've been playing most of the week with the same wind conditions, and all of a sudden it's a different course.  Then you have to reset and adopt as quickly as possible.   
 Q.  Different patterns to the match today but ultimately another victory.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, Paul started quite well and then didn't quite play his best, maybe, middle of the round.  So, yeah, I played solid again.  Tried to do my own thing and making a few birdies here and there, and not dropping too many shots, and I did that very well.   
 Q.  Conditions today a bit chillier, the wind is up a little bit.  So it wasn't great for scoring but you got the job done.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's a different wind now, as well.  So we're seeing kind of a new course for the first time in the week.  So it might take a while to adapt to the different conditions we are used to playing with the opposite winds.  It was definitely tricky today.  And we'll see what the weather does this afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT