WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid match for you today.  I thought you played really well.  Talk about the match.  In that stretch, you the eagle at 5, birdie at 6 and another birdie at 7 and you went to 4-up at that point.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, somewhat similar to yesterday.  Very good start the first six, eight holes and tried to control his obviously comebacks.  I have a lot of respect for Thorbjorn as a player, so I knew it was going not be an easy match.  He fought hard today and obviously played some solid golf.  So hopefully more to come the next few days.   
 Q.  Talk about the conditions.  Seemed breezier, how much effect did the wind have on shot selection?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it getting quite breezy.  Playing in the first few groups the greens were a little bit softer than yesterday.  But it's going to be getting tricky for the last few groups this afternoon.   
 Q.  You control your own destiny now, you have two wins, you play Webb Simpson.  Your thoughts going into that match, as well?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Obviously that's what you want after the first two days.  I can lose tomorrow and these two wins don't mean as much.  I need to reset and start again tomorrow.  I'm playing well, putting well, doing my thing, and hopefully it's going to be enough to beat Webb.   
 Q.  Just talk about your match today.  What was working so well for you?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, played well, similar to yesterday.  I'm hitting the ball well and I'm making some putts at the right time, which is big in match play.  Started well the first seven or eight holes and just trying to control the comebacks from Thor.  He made a couple of birdies, and I was just trying to make pars, and the wind was picking up as well, so it was making the holes play tricky, as well.   
 Q.  Is this format where you can kind of get on a nice little run, and kind of carry the momentum from day to day and match to match?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I guess, yes, but match play you can lose momentum pretty quickly.  You play a couple of holes poorly or your opponent makes a few birdies in a row, and you forget about momentum.   
So we see tomorrow.  I'm where you want to be after two days, in control of your own destiny.  Hopefully I can half or win the match tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about how well you've been playing recently.  I feel like this season where all the big events are, your game is peaking.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I've had kind of a late start to the year but things have been good.  I think Bay Hill was an incredible putting week, especially the Sunday.  The game was good but it wasn't where ideally I like it to be.   
PLAYERS was a bit of a struggle all week.  So it's nice to come here and play well a couple of days.  Yeah, just building momentum obviously going into Augusta and into the major season in general.   
 Q.  Why do you think you're so successful in match play?  Is it a mentality, is it just playing good golf?  What makes you so successful?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know.  This time last year I wasn't so successful.  I'm putting better, which helps in match play.  Like I was saying, if you make a couple of putts at the right time you can really change momentum in the match.  And then I think it just improved as a player, match play, stroke play, you need to hit good shots and make putts, and if you do that you have a good chance at doing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT