WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I played really well.  Made some nice putts at the beginning and throughout the match.  So, yeah, really happy the way I played.  Obviously, it's a little bit easier when you start that way, but you still have to play a lot of golf and close the match out.  So a couple of moments where I could have done maybe better, but all in all a very good day.
Q. You were 2-1 in matches a year ago, Justin Thomas beat you, but then you won your two other matches.  Are you getting more comfortable on this golf course, a little more confident to win more matches?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, last year I played very well the first two days and then didn't play well enough against Justin.  So, yeah, I think the more I play this course, the more I get to know it, the more I like it.  It's a very good test, especially when the wind is blowing like it was today.
But experience from last year, it's great to start with a win.  It means a lot unfortunately with this format.  So show up tomorrow and try to play some similar golf to today.
Q. (Inaudible).
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, pretty much the same, to be honest.  Generally maybe a little bit more aggressive.  Obviously depends a lot on conditions and I think what you need to do compared to stroke play, you need to adapt quite quickly to conditions, obviously, but to what your opponent is doing hole by hole.  So it's kind of a fluid strategy.
Q. (Inaudible).
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, a couple of holes where he got in trouble and I wasn't as aggressive on a couple of holes where he hit good shots and then you need to be more aggressive.  Stuff you do automatically when you're on the course.
Q. (Inaudible.)
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  Obviously this time last year I felt quite different from now and a lot of things have happened and, yeah, I like match play a lot more now than 12 months ago.
Q. Do you consider yourself a good match play player?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it wasn't that I considered myself not particularly good, but it just seemed to never get results in this format.  But obviously, not only the Ryder Cup, here last year I won two games out of three, which was obviously decent, even if it didn't get me through the group.  And then obviously, yeah, the Ryder Cup kind of changed my perception of match play a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT