ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 10, 2019
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three wins in your last 12 PGA TOUR starts.  What does that say about where you are physically and mentally?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, I'm just super glad.  You know, it was the first week as a Callaway player, so happy to see that the switch I made wasn't that crazy as some people thought.  I know the clubs are good for me and I started this week -- it's crazy to do it here, to get it done here, at Arnie's place, knowing that my wife and my kids were watching it back home, it's just a special, special one.
Q. With the PGA TOUR's new schedule in 2019, we start next week with six huge events over the next six months.  You fared well before in 2014 and 2017 at TPC Sawgrass at THE PLAYERS with a couple of ties for sixth place finishes.  What does this week mean for you next week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I love Sawgrass, obviously THE PLAYERS is, with the new schedule is the first big appointment on the calendar and I can't wait to get there.  I've had kind of a mixed bag there, some very good weeks and some missed cuts, just curious to see how it's going to play with the different date, but obviously the game is in decent shape so looking forward to next week.
Q. You alluded to your family watching and also that it's Arnold Palmer's tournament.  What does it mean to you to have this on your resume?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Incredible.  It's, you know, it's high up there with the best wins I've had.  Arnie was a special player, but most of all a special person and he really did a lot for the game so for someone like me coming from Italy obviously him and Jack were up there as gods, so to win here, it's really truly special.
Q. You had to wait a little while, but you are the winner of the Arnold Palmer Invitational presented by Mastercard.  When in this round today where you shot 8-under 64 did you look at the leaderboard and say, you know, I could win this thing?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, to be honest, I thought that yesterday when I finished the round and I was a few shots back, but I saw how tough it got in the second afternoon yesterday and you know you never know in golf you go out and you post a good round, but obviously you need to do it and I went out today and it's been an incredible day, I need to say thank you to the Callaway team because they fit it into the, fitted me into the new clubs very smoothly and it's been a very easy transition.  And my wife back home, you know, she keeps the stuff going when I'm away, so I think she has a much harder job watching two kids than me out here playing golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT