SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 10, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, great to be higher.  Obviously it's kind of a home event for me here close to London, so I can't wait for the week to start.
Q. How do you reflect on the Ryder Cup now that you've obviously given yourself a week off?  What are the abiding thoughts?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I need more time, I think.  It's been -- I was saying to some of the guys on my team, it's really been a bit of a blur.  Everything has gone so well and so fast that I think I need to just end the season and sit down and really reflect on what's happened.
But yeah, Paris was amazing.  Great support from the crowds, the course.  I loved it before, and I love it even more now after that week, and just an amazing week.
Q. It's an amazing thought that you went into that Ryder Cup having played two matches previously but without a win in either of them, and then you win all five?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, statistically it's hard to believe, but I guess there was a bigger chance of winning at some point after two without a win, and yeah, to be honest, like I said, the great thing about the European team and the Ryder Cup is that it doesn't really matter how many points you score.  You want to be part of a winning team, and this time particularly it was a great atmosphere, but even the other two that I won without bringing any points, it was great to be a part of those.
Q. And what do you think the secret was to your partnership with Tommy Fleetwood, with whom you're reunited again this week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, we're just good friends.  We obviously enjoy spending time together.  We're a similar sense of humour, and more importantly we play, I think, very similar golf.  We're both very consistent ball strikers, and yeah, we just combined well during the week.
Q. And of all the things that have happened to you this year, obviously it all sort of kicked off at Wentworth, winning on the PGA Tour, winning a major, going through a clean sweep, making history at the Ryder Cup, it's invidious to ask, but which is the standout moment or achievement?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's hard to pick one right now, to be honest.  The Ryder Cup is always special because it's not so much an individual achievement, it's more about the team and really sharing the joy with the guys, and even the bad moments through the week with the other guys.  That's always going to be a special one.
Q. How have you enjoyed your week off following the Ryder Cup?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been nice.  It was much needed after a long week in France.  Yeah, just reflecting on the week.  Obviously it's a great achievement for Team Europe over there, and I was super happy to share that week with the rest of the team.
Q. What's it been like looking back on what the team done and what you achieved individually?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, it's been an amazing week.  I think obviously we came in knowing that the Americans had a really, really strong team, but the preparation was great.  Thomas did a great job in giving us every tool possible to play our best golf.  The first morning wasn't easy, but then from there we just turned it around and never looked back.
Like I said in Paris at the end of the week, I'm very, very proud of the guys and the team.  Everyone had the right attitude, and the final result was just a consequence of that.
Q. What's The Open been like here back playing with all the guys?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been great.  Obviously I haven't played in Europe really since The Open, on the regular European Tour since Wentworth, so it's been a while.  But it's nice to see a lot of familiar faces, obviously a lot of congratulations for Ryder Cup and everything else.  So yeah, very welcome.
Q. Everyone is looking forward to you and Tommy being reunited tomorrow.  Are you looking forward to that?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously it will be slightly different not playing together as a team, but yeah, it's going to be fun.  Hopefully the weather will hold like this for the rest of the week.  The course is in great shape, so it should be a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT