THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you think the difference was between the two teams this week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't think it's as big as the score says.  It was just holing putts at the right time.  I think obviously most of us have played this course many, many times and we know it a lot better than the Americans.  But you know, they are super talented, so it was never going to be easy and I think we just did an amazing job.
Q. You're just the fourth man in the history of The Ryder Cup to go 5-0 in a single Ryder Cup session.  How would you describe the way you played here this week outside of Paris?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Obviously great, but it's not about me.  I played two before and I still had to win a match.  So statistically, hopefully I was going to get some points this time.
I've been kind of carried the other guys the other two times I was on the winning side, and it was about time to help them and do a good job.  But it's really not about the individual.  It's about the group.  It's incredible.
Q. What has this entire summer, early fall experience been like for you?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Again, I can't describe it.  I couldn't even dream of a summer like this.  To think before Wentworth, things were going okay, but not great, and then everything started clicking.  Then after The Open, obviously physiologically there was a bit of a lull, but the main thing in mind was always this week, and I'm glad I showed up prepared and did the job.
Q. The first European to win five points out of five.  You got the crucial winning point that clinched The Ryder Cup, and then just bedlam on that 16th tee.  Good to see you safe.  How are you feeling?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I'm glad I survived that.  The crowd have just been amazing all week.  Like I was saying before, it's not about individual achievements.  I won twice already The Ryder Cup without scoring a full point before this week, and I'm glad I finally got some points on the board this week.  But you know, we do it together.  We do it as a group.  Look at what Thorbjørn did today.  It's incredible.
Q. Just talk me through that moment, as well, on the 16th tee, you found the middle of the green.  Phil Mickelson's shot drops in the water and you knew you had won The Ryder Cup?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, Phil this week was not at his best but he fought hard today.  Got up early and then he was kind of coming back and you know, just a great birdie on 14 to kind of get back.
Q. Best feeling you have ever had in golf?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No doubt.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT