PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Played solid all week long.  Obviously, 10 under is not going to get it done today.  All in all, you feel pretty good about the tournament?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been a decent week.  Obviously, a few shots short, but after last week, the main thing was getting back to playing good golf, and I've done that this week.  Today, unfortunately, I didn't make enough putts in the first five, six, seven holes to really make a run at it, but I kept going and played a clean, nice round of golf.  Happy with the week.
Q. You talked about working on your putting game.  You were out there for quite some time working on the putting green.  These are slower greens than usual, than I think you're used to.  How did that affect your game on the greens?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it was tricky for everyone on the greens this week.  I don't think it was so much the speed.  I think it was more just the undulation on the greens is quite severe on all of them.  So it's not easy to make putts from more than five, ten feet.  So I think that's going to be probably the difference towards the end of the week.  I wish I could have made a few more putts.
Q. So all in all, you feel like -- I know you said in Akron that you didn't feel like you had your game.  You feel like your game is back this week, that you're kind of on the upswing.  You've got a big season coming up and a Ryder Cup out there.  So looking forward to the months ahead?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, looking back, I don't think it was so much the game, it was just energy-wise I was really struggling this week.  Naturally, I think it's physiological to have a low after such a high.  This week I felt back to normal, and I'm positive about the rest of the season.
Q. We don't get a lot of tournaments in St. Louis.  Could you tell us how the atmosphere and the crowds here compare to some of the other big tournaments you play.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Incredible.  I think it's the biggest crowd I've seen ever at a golf tournament.  So well done to St. Louis.  It was a pleasure to play this week, really amazing crowds.
Q. Biggest you've ever seen, really?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think so, yeah.
Q. Wow.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: We were saying, the people around me, even Ryder Cups, you struggle to see this many people day after day.  So it's really, really impressive.
Q. Does it help your game?  You get energy out of that?  Or is it more distracting?  Or is it a factor at all?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I don't think it affects one way or the other.  I think it's incredible to see so many young kids watching golf.  It's great to see.
Q. Rose was saying the other day when he and Jon were playing Jordan Spieth, it was good natured but a little bit of Ryder Cup razzing going on.  Have you heard any?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's starting.  It's getting closer, and we all know it's getting closer even though there's big tournaments before that.  A little part of your brain is already thinking about that, and I think it's the same for everyone.  So hopefully, we, the European team, gets in good form, and we give the U.S. a run for their money in Paris.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT