PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Put up that low number yesterday.  How do you feel about the way you played?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yesterday I played really well on the back nine.  On the front nine today, a couple of loose tee shots on the front and scrambling for par.  I think there's plenty of birdies out there.  You just need to keep it on the fairway.  The greens have stayed soft.  They were running nicer this morning than yesterday afternoon.   
 Q.  Do you like your position?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, so far, so good.  I'm probably going to work a little bit on the tee shots to try and hit a couple of more fairways tomorrow.  I didn't birdie the par 5s today.  That wasn't very good.  You know, there's stuff to do on the weekend.   
 Q.  What's it like playing in a group with all the other Major winners?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I mean, you don't really think about it to be honest.  Brooks and Patrick are nice guys.  Brooks had it going today really well.  So it was nice to see him playing so well.   
 Q.  After Carnoustie, how is the (inaudible)?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: See me after the first two days, to be honest.  The first two days of Carnoustie was good, but there was room for improvement.  Got back on the weekend.  I feel very similar.  Hopefully, the weekend will be similar as well.   
 Q.  Any fatigue at all?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No.  Last week I was still quite tired.  This week seems to be better.  I've got time to recover this afternoon.  I should be fine for the weekend.   
 Q.  How's the crowds been and your experience in St. Louis?  I know the PGA doesn't get here a lot.  But just what you've seen so far of St. Louis.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm having a great week.  Crowds are incredible.  We were saying yesterday as big as the Ryder Cup probably.  A lot, a lot of people out there.  So it's great to see.  I'm getting a lot of support, which is nice.  Very nice week so far.   
 Q.  How are the greens heading into the weekend?  Will they be okay Saturday and Sunday, you think?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think so.  They were okay, obviously, when you get rain in the afternoon, they're going to get some marks.  But nothing that we haven't seen before, and this morning they were maybe a little bit quicker than yesterday afternoon and rolling nicely.  So I don't see any problem.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) tied for the lead.  What is it about Bellerive?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think probably, if it was from -- I know some people think about the other way, but if it was firm, I think it would advantage more the big hitters.  If people are hitting a 5 iron into the green, you can still stop it within three feet.  So I think that allows anyone, as long as they're on the fairway, to go for flags and make birdies.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: A lot.  A lot.  The last three years has been constant working on it, and I'm sure I'll get a text as soon as I turn on the phone, and there will be something to work on for tomorrow.   
 Q.  If ESPN was going to show one of your shots today, which one would you want it to be?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I have a very short memory.  Let's say the second shot into the green on 7.   
 Q.  What did you hit?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a wedge.  50 degree wedge to a foot and a half.   
 Q.  Do you watch ESPN?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not with the kids.  I tend to watch cartoon network a lot more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT