THE 147TH OPEN
July 22, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WOODCOCK: So I'd like to welcome the Champion Golfer of the Year, Francesco Molinari, to the interview room with a car of 8-under par 276, our champion for the year.
Francesco, first of all, congratulations much that was a tremendous performance.  Can you sum up how you're feeling right now.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just disbelief, to be honest.  It's amazing to stand here with the Claret Jug.  I knew I was coming in with some good golf.  My record around here was terrible.  So that didn't make me too optimistic about the week, but I just tried to not think about it and focus on hitting good shots day by day.
To go the weekend bogey free, it's unthinkable, to be honest.  So very proud of today.  Very proud of -- obviously, playing with Tiger was another challenge because of the crowds and everything.  But I felt really good this morning.  When I came here, I felt I was ready for the challenge.  Obviously conscious that it could have gone either way, but I knew I was going to do my best today.
Q. I have a question:  When you were in that room, you buried your head in your face, and it look like maybe you wept.  What were you thinking?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I couldn't watch Xander play the last two holes, to be honest.  That's why I went to the putting green because I probably would have felt sick watching on TV.  So big credit to my wife that watches me all the time.  I don't know how she does it.  I couldn't do it.
No, I mean, it's just disbelief.  Like I said, to look at the names on that Claret Jug, obviously, what can you say?  It's the best golfers in history, and to be on there, it's incredible.  From someone like me coming from Italy, not really a major golfing country, it's been an incredible journey.
Q. Francesco, congratulations.  You mentioned coming from Italy, a country that's maybe not -- maybe golf's not seen as the main sport there, but you're the first Italian to win one of golf's majors.  How significant a moment do you think it is, not just obviously for you, but for Italian sport as a whole?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It depends.  Ferrari won today.  (Laughter).  If they won, they'll probably get the headlines.
But, no, obviously, it would be massive news.  It was big news.  The last round already was big news in Italy.  Obviously, to achieve something like this is on another level.  Hopefully, there were a lot of young kids watching on TV today, like I was watching Constantino in '95 coming so close.  Hopefully, they will get as inspired as I was at the time, watching him vie for the Claret Jug.
Q. Francesco, can you expand a little bit on the difficulty of playing in the group with Tiger.  And was there anything you did to kind of prepare yourself for that?  And just as a second question, you were up and down on 13.  Was that maybe the key moment for you as you kept it going?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, 12 and 13 were two really big par putts.  Obviously, if you would still probably be doable even dropping shots there, but it would have made it a lot harder.  So it was a big moment to hole that putt, those putts, and then to flush the drive on 14 on the fairway.  That turns the hole into a par 4 really.  So I think that was one of the key moments.
Tiger himself was great today.  Really good sportsmanship with me.  Obviously, there's a lot more people if you're grouped with him than if I'm playing with the -- I can't really say names, but some of the other guys.  You know, I've done it before.  I've played with him before in Ryder Cups and in big occasions, so I knew what was coming, and I was ready for it.
Q. Francesco, I've been saying all week, "Watch Francesco Molinari", and you're very lucky because my success as a pundit is not good.  I was speaking to a colleague at lunchtime, and he's Indian, and he knows who you are.  He said, "I wouldn't touch him with a million dollars."  What would you say to him now?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know.  I'm sure there's a lot of people that felt that way, for sure.  Clearly, in my group, the attention wasn't really on me, let's put it that way.  If someone was expecting a charge, probably they weren't expecting it from me, but it's been the same the whole of my career.  I don't really care too much about it.  I care about the people around me, the work that we put in.  They know how much we've all worked to get here.  So that's the most important thing for me.
Q. Francesco, you talked here about what inspiration it could give Italian golf, but one particular Italian golfer, your brother, do you think this could inspire Edoardo, and do you think this could inspire him to win again and be with you in the Ryder Cup again?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yes, I would love for him to get back to where he was a few years ago.  Golf is a tough beast.  He's experienced some bad injuries and two hand surgeries, but he's come back from this one again already.  So he text me this morning, you know.  I wish him all the best, and I'm sure this will motivate him even more to achieve some great things in the game of golf in the future, and hopefully we'll be competing more together again very soon.
Q. Francesco, would you mind answering a question in Italian, please:  Could you just sum up your feelings to have clinched the Claret Jug.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: (Answers in Italian).
Q. Francesco, before the round, you looked very calm.  You came out on the putting green.  Seemed like you almost had it to yourself.  You had your earphones, your earbuds in.  Looked like you were listening to something.  Do you remember what you were listening to?  What was your mindset coming into the day?  Because you looked very relaxed.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just music.  I listen to music before every round.  Yeah, like I said, I felt ready for it.  Calm -- you know, as calm as you can be playing in the last round of a major close to the lead, playing with Tiger.  I mean, there was everything to make someone nervous, but I focused on my process and on hitting good shots and on playing smart golf.  I knew the front nine with today's wind would play mostly into the wind, so pars were great.  So I was happy with my score.
Saving the par on 6 was massive.  And then coming back, I knew I would get a couple more chances downwind.  So everything went into plan.
Q. This course has a fearsome reputation.  We saw some big names really struggling today.  Just how tough is Carnoustie, and what does it take to beat the beast?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, to be completely honest, it's one of the reasons why I didn't play the Dunhill Links in the last few years because I got beaten up around here a few times already in the past.  I didn't particularly enjoy that feeling.  It's a really tough course.  You can try and play smart golf, but some shots, you just have to hit it straight.  There's no way around it.  You can't really hide.
Like I said, to play the weekend bogey free around here, obviously, I had done it at Wentworth for my win earlier this year, but to do it around here, it's even more impressive.
Q. Francesco, your previous best Open Championship performance was on a fast-running course at Muirfield.  How much encouragement do you get from that?  And secondly, at what point did you think victory was possible today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I knew -- I mean, I got here only Monday lunchtime from the States and walked a few holes, and I saw it was firm and fast and the rough wasn't too bad.  And it reminded me of Muirfield.  Obviously, that was a great experience to play with Phil in the last round and to see someone doing the job, getting the job done on Sunday.
So I liked the way the course was playing, but, again, it's a beast of a course.  So I don't think anyone feels too confident when they stand on that 1st tee at Carnoustie.
I'm lost for words really.  Incredible to do something like this, and very proud of what I've done.
Q. (No microphone).
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: When Xander missed the par putt on 17, I thought there was maybe a 5 percent chance.
Q. Hi, Francesco.  Can I ask how you're going to celebrate this?  And also how ruthless have you had to be because a lot of people were hoping for a Tiger Woods fairy tale today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I don't think it's about being ruthless.  Obviously, it's golf.  It's sports.  We're competing against each other.  But I was competing against all the other guys as well, not only against him, like I said.  There was very, very good sportsmanship today during the whole round.  Obviously, he had it going on the front nine, and then, unfortunately, just hit a couple of loose shots on the back nine.  It's hard not to pay for missed shots around Carnoustie.
And what was the other?  Celebration.  I don't know.  I had an easyJet flight at 9:00 to get back home, so I think that's gone.  I have a holiday plan for next week somewhere nice with the family.  So hopefully, we can still make the holiday and just relax for a few days.
Q. Just going ahead to a year's time, you're going to defend your title in Ireland.  What do you know about Portrush, and how excited are you about the crowds and the atmosphere?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I played there in 2012, I think it was, at the Irish Open.  I still remember now I was paired the first two rounds with Darren Clarke that had just won The Open the year before, and the atmosphere was something else.  So I'm sure it's going to be a great championship, a great Open.  I'm sure that -- well, I've heard they've changed the course quite a lot.  So hopefully by then, this will have sunk in, and I'll realise what I've done.
MIKE WOODCOCK: Francesco, congratulations on a wonderful performance.  Well done.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT