THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was the day to be aggressive today.  There was not a lot of wind, and after the rain yes, the course is a little bit softer.  But, yeah, I played well, had quite a lot of chances that went close by or it could have been even better.
I'm really happy with where I am at the moment.  I know tomorrow is going to be a different story.  Now it's all about getting ready for that.
Q. And you must be comfortable making a real push for the Claret Jug?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, but I'm aware there's a lot of good players up there, and all of them are probably feeling quite confident.  So I just have to do my thing and hopefully do it well enough to finish on top.  Like I said, I'm looking at the forecast tomorrow.  It's going to be a different story.  So I think it's going to be really important to adapt quickly to the different conditions because he's not going to be here.  It's not a day to be aggressive.  It's more a day to make as many pars as possible.
Q. (Inaudible).
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I mean, yeah, you put the flags where it will be harder, but there's not much you can do at this point.  I think it's up to the elements, and like I said, we need to be ready for anything at the moment.  We'll turn up tomorrow and see what it looks like and do our best.
Q. Do you think a tougher test might suit you?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know.  It went pretty well today with these conditions.  But, yeah, it could suit me.
To be honest, if I do the things well like I did today and if I go through my process all the time for 18 holes, any conditions are the same.
Q. Can you describe what the impact of working with Dave Aldrich has had?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: In many ways, I think he's been a great addition to the team.  He's probably a personality and a figure that I was missing and the whole team was missing.  So I think he pushed us all a little bit more.  You can see the results, the difference that he's made.
Q. What's changed in you working with him?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: A lot.  We can sit down and have a dinner and go through it, but it's a lot.  You know, he's done a great job.  He's worked on a lot of things mentally, on my game, on my short game, on my long game.  He's really helped me a lot.  So I'm grateful to him and to the rest of the team, and they're all here.  One more day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT