JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Francesco, great round of golf.  If anybody knows what it's like to have somebody shoot incredible, it would be you.  You did it two weeks ago.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, Michael is doing great.  Obviously I think yesterday really he kind of put the tournament to rest.  Obviously he still had to play today, but he had an amazing start today again.  He's clearly playing some good golf.
Q. What did it mean to you to follow up that win two weeks ago with another great performance here in Silvis?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, really happy.  I was really disappointed last night to be honest, because 1-under par in those conditions wasn't good enough.
I had a decent start, but then I think I tried a little bit too hard to make things happen and didn't payoff.  It was nice today to get a good score and to hit some good shots, and hopefully carry some momentum into Carnoustie.
Q. You look like you have a lot of momentum.  Your confidence must be sky high for next week.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it is.  Obviously I know it's going to be a challenge for everyone.  Apparently the course is very firm and (indiscernible), so I'll need to adapt quickly to that.
But, yeah, I'm looking forward to the challenge.  I've got a couple of days to, you know, try to improve even a bit more from the last couple of weeks and be ready for Thursday.
Q. How did you do today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, good day.  Obviously shame about yesterday.  I was quite disappointed yesterday after the round.  I think I just didn't deal very well with the suspensions and I probably tried a little bit too hard; paid the price for that.
Today it was nice to come out and hit some good shots and score well.  I've enjoyed my week here, so hopefully be back soon.
Q. Really a good last month or so for you.  You've got to have a lot of confidence heading into this next week.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I have, but I'm aware as well that it's going to be a challenge for everyone.  It's a tough course.  Obviously all the best players in the world are going to be there.
You know, I don't need to get ahead of myself.  Still going to be about the process and about hitting good shots, and just see where that takes me.
Q. Your first time here; what are your impressions of this whole week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, enjoyed it a lot.  The crowd have been really, really good to me, so big thank you to everyone here.
Course is a fun course.  Obviously they had a lot of rain Friday night and yesterday, so I think they dealt very well with it.  It was in good condition today and I've enjoyed it a lot.
Q. How do you think this week will help you or affect you for next week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think it will help me.  I mean, everyone is different, but I like to play in a competitive environment the week before a big tournament so I know exactly where my game is at the moment.
I think there are advantages and disadvantages in practicing at home or choosing to play a tournament.  I'm happy to be here.  Obviously happy to perform well, and I think it will help me getting into Carnoustie with confidence and momentum.
Q. You were kind of where Michael is a couple weeks ago.  What's it like when you're trailing a guy that's playing that well and every time you look at the scoreboard you're not making nay ground on him?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, he's really playing some really, really good golf; making the golf course look easier than what it really is.  I just saw by the leaderboards today he had another amazing start.  I'm sure he's enjoying his last few holes.  Looks like a very well-deserved first win.
Q. You said earlier in the week one of your goals was to pick up some points for the FedExCup race, improve your position with that.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yep.
Q. Mission accomplished.  You've got to be pleased with that.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, obviously Washington and here were really big for that.  I couldn't dream of doing much better than this.  I'm in a much stronger position now heading into the summer and then the Playoffs, and so I need to keep to going.
Obviously I would really like to make it to the TOUR Championship.  I missed it by I think one shot last year, si I will do my best to be there in Atlanta.
Q. You were talking about yesterday's finish.  Did that add some incentive for today's round, kick you in the shorts, or did you not need any additional incentive for a Sunday round?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, no, there was definitely a bit of anger last night and it probably helped me today.  So, you know, it's golf.  Everyone is going to have disappointing days.  The main thing is learning from them.
I think I learned a lesson yesterday of just trying too hard to try and catch Michael.  I should have been more patient.  We live and learn, and hopefully next time I'll do better.
Q. Your first stop here; you're going to learn what it's like being on that charter tonight and how that affects your play next week in the Open.  Is that going to factor in your mindset as far as if you come back and play this event ahead of the Open in future years?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Maybe.  I'm probably used to most of the other guys to go back and forward from Europe, so I think I know what to expect.
Next year is going to be a completely different schedule, so there is going to be a lot of thought going into it.  We'll see.  I've enjoyed my time here.  I think it's a good course for me, that suits my game, so hopefully I'll be back soon, yeah.
Q. You flew here from London?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.
Q. When?  When did you come in?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I flew on Monday.
Q. Monday?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.
Q. So obviously the international flights don't bother you very much.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No.  I think still obviously not as easy as being in the same time zone the week before, but I do it often enough to know how to deal with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT