JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I think you be must like the hot weather.  Two weeks ago you win in hot weather at Quicken Loans.  It's hot here.  Well played so far.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think I'm still not completely adapted to, but, yeah, it's been good last couple of days.  Couple of mistakes today on the back nine, our front nine, but managed to keep it together; some good putting on the front nine.
So I had a good round.
Q. The ball striking still good; driving the ball well; iron play is well.  Is that just a result of a lot of confidence?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, that always helps.  I think it's a consequence of a lot of work that I put in this year.  The results maybe weren't showing as much, so it's nice to see it now.
Q. You went to a new course two weeks ago and won; this is also a new venue for you.  You like John Deere?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been great so far.  People are really friendly, really great, and everyone has been welcoming me.
So it's a pleasure to be here.  The course is good. (Indiscernible) even more scorable than TPC Potomac, but, you know, it's still a decent challenge.  (Indiscernible.)
Q. Your round today, numerically almost identical to yesterday:  12 of 14 fairways and 14 of 18 greens.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, very similar also the way I felt about it.  A bit of mistakes on the back nine, our front nine, but I managed to keep the round doing; some good putting I think today.
I'm happy, yeah.  The game is still there.  I think I can hit my irons a little bit better, especially the wedges.  Yesterday and today been okay, but not great, so there is room for improvement.
I been doing a lot things well and I need to keep that going.
Q. I'm glad you mentioned putting, because you did putt better today; made 13 more feet of putts.  Did it feel like you were putting better today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, definitely.  Yesterday was pretty good as well.  I saw last night I gained I think a shot and a half, so it was still good.
But today I made a really long putt on 4, which is always a bonus to make a putt of that length.  Yeah, in general just solid.  A couple good par putts on the front nine, and a nice birdie putt at the 8th to finish, so, you know, very happy.
Q. This is your first time here at TPC Deere Run.  What do you like about the course aside from all the birdies you've made?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, it's a nice course.  If you hit the ball well off the tee you've got a few chances to score well.
Obviously par-5s are reachable, but you need to hit good shots.  The rough is pretty thick around the greens.  There is water around the greens.
So it's a very good course.
Q. (In progress.)
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, good couple of days.  Played solid; hit the ball well off the tee.
Yeah, I'm doing everything pretty well at the moment.  It's a case of staying patient and hit fairways, hit greens, and sink a few putts.
Q. A lot of people expect you to be at the top, and now you play like you expect yourself to be there.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, yeah.  Obviously, you know, winning last week, two weeks ago, was great for my confidence.  Coming here, I knew my game was in the right place.  I did some work late last week at home and I was still feeling really good about the game.
Like I said, I just need to do my things well, hit fairways, hit greens, try to sink a few putts, and then we'll see by Sunday afternoon if that's going to be enough.
Q. What does it mean to be tied for first at 11?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not much, to be honest.  There is still a lot of golf to be played.  Obviously it's a nice position to be in, but more than whether I'm going to lead this afternoon or not, main thing was to play well, hit good shots, and be in a good enough position to have a chance on Sunday.
I think that's the job for tomorrow as well, to really don't look what anyone else is doing, do my thing, and try to go low under par.
Q. With all the traveling you been doing lately, how are you able to stay fresh and keep your rest?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's not easy, but I been doing it all year this year and the last few years.  You get used to it.  Obviously I'm jet lagged the first couple of days that I get here, but still feeling good enough to do some work.
Usually by Thursday I'm back to 100%.
Q. Where do you feel like you can maybe shore up some things and go even lower on the weekend?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think the wedges, short irons.  Especially yesterday, but also today, they were okay, but they weren't great.
So I think I can create a few more birdie opportunities if I hit the wedges better.  Obviously still hit the ball well off the tee.  I been doing well a lot of things.  I need to keep those going.  Definitely a couple things I can do better.
Q. Some guys might get intimidated when they have to shoot 66, 67, 65 every day.  Right now seems like you're on cruise control.  Is it truly something where you're not worried about what the score is at the end the day because you know your game is good enough to get that 65 or 66?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, yeah, that's the plan.  It's not always easy to stick to the plan, no?
But seriously, I just try not to think about the score.  I just try to think about shot by shot.  I know you probably heard it many times, but that's the way to do it.  Hit fairways, hit greens, pick good targets and try to hit those targets, and then make some putts.
Q. Given you've never played here before this week, how much does this place fit your eye?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I like it.  You know, I think it's a course that there is not many blind shots, not many tricks or anything like that.  It's all in front of you.
So I played nine holes Tuesday and nine holes Wednesday in the pro-am.  We pretty much knew what was needed to play well.  It's a good test.
Like I said, if you hit fairways, you can have a few chances.  If you start hitting it wayward, it's not that easy.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was massive for me.  I studied there in Washington.  I felt like that was the next step in my career to get more recognition over here, and to win on TOUR obviously helps a lot.
So I'm glad I did to two weeks ago.  Hopefully there is more wins to come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT