ITALIAN OPEN
June 3, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've put everything into this and just come up one shot shy.  Describe your emotions for us at the moment.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm super happy to be honest.  It's been an amazing week.  I think I'll never forget the run of birdies today on the back nine.   
Obviously a shame about 17, but you know, I can't complain.  I played well all week.  The putt on 18 was just unbelievable.  Well done to Thorbjørn, he's done great today and yesterday.  A great winner for The Italian Open.   
 Q.  Describe the rush of emotion and adrenaline when you hole a putt like that in front of your home fans on the 18th green.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: My thought was just to give it a chance, get a good roll on it and try to get it to the hole.  It's not really a putt that you think about making, but in those circumstances, you want to give it a chance.  I struck it beautifully on a great nine.  Sometimes, there's just something in the air that makes special things happen.   
 Q.  Obviously with the win last week and this performance, we've seen your short game improve so dramatically over the last few months.  You've always been a quality ball-striker, do you feel the best of Francesco is yet to come?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I hope so.  I haven't played my best golf this week tee-to-green.  I'm proud of the way I fought today.  I was feeling a bit off.  I gave it my best, and it's always easier if you have a good short game and you can hole a few putts.   
 Q.  The U.S. Open next for you, the ultimate test of accuracy and consistency.  How excited about the possibilities there?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I have a nice week at home to prepare.  Hopefully Shinnecock should be a good, classic U.S. Open test.  That's something that will be best for me but we will see how they set up the course and hopefully I'll have another good week.   
 Q.  A fantastic effort, particularly on those closing holes.  You gave everything in this final round.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I gave it my best, and you know, fair play to Thor.  He played great yesterday and today to win it.  I'm really happy the way I played today.  You know, I think that was the point, to try to be up in contention until the end for everybody who showed up today, and the birdie run on the back nine was great.   
Today was really the last chance to put some pressure on Thor, and I just tried to give it a chance, get it to the hole, and it came out perfect.  Yeah, it's a great way to end a fantastic week.   
 Q.  Obviously you won this event a couple of years ago, and after winning last week, there was always that threat with a hangover from last week, but this event means so much to you and that's probably had a big part in the play this week.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, definitely.  I gave it my best, and obviously a bit low on energies early in the week, as I said.  Yesterday and today, I felt great, feeding off the crowds, and yeah, I'm close another time, so I'll come back next year and try to do one better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT