ITALIAN OPEN
June 2, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 66, closed out in style.  Give us a reflection on your day's play?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, pretty good.  I've been more erratic off the tee probably than usual, but I managed to scramble well.  Putting today was really good.  Yeah, really happy.  Might go hit some balls on the range tonight.
Q. You mentioned the putting and you've been working with Phil Kenyon.  How has he helped you?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: He has helped me a lot.  I think technically, my stroke was quite poor when I started with him, and he was great.  He was honest and direct and he told me his opinion, what we needed to work on.  Obviously we're still working on it, but I think I've made big progress, a lot more consistent.  My strike is a lot more consistent.
Q. You told us last week took a lot out of you.  Winning obviously does.  But you were feeding off the crowd in terms of their energy?  It's fantastic out there.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yesterday already but today I feel back to 100 per cent.  It's great to see so many kids out there.  Yeah, just huge crowds.  I'm happy to be part of it.  Hopefully I contributed last weekend with the play this week, and aim for a fun day tomorrow.
Q. Opportunity to win a third Italian Open.  Give us your thoughts on that.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it would be amazing.  It would be the most special considering what I've done last week.  But yeah, one step at a time.  Hopefully my ball-striking will be a little bit better tomorrow, and take another chance.
Q. Obviously the home crowd behind you this week.  How nice was it to see that birdie putt on 18 and hear that huge roar?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was a very big roar, great finish.  I got lucky with the tee shot in a decent enough spot and it was a good second shot.  It was a tricky putt but managed to make it.  Another good day, amazing crowds and hopefully we're in for some fun tomorrow.
Q. You dropped your first shot in 88 holes.  The form of the moment as we've said for this week and last week has been absolutely incredible for you.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think maybe this week, the ball-striking has not been quite as spectacular as last week but I managed to plot my way well around the course and I putted well enough.  Hopefully the ball-striking will be my best tomorrow and I think I'll have a good chance.
Q. Winning last week, being in that winning mentality, how much of that can you use tomorrow going in, just one shot off the lead?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: The plan is the same as it was last week.  Stick with the process and stick with hitting good shots.  There's a lot of really good players up on the leaderboard I'll do my best and see if that will be enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT