ITALIAN OPEN
June 1, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second 66, tell us how you feel?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, better than yesterday.  Had a relaxing afternoon yesterday and on the course today, a bit more energy.  It was a bit tricky at the start with the breeze and not so easy to get the ball close to the hole.  But yeah, I did well.  I was patient at the beginning and stuck with it.   
 Q.  Four consecutive rounds without making a bogey.  What does that feel like to you?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm trying not to think about it.  In the end it's better to make a bogey and a few more birdies.  I'm trying to stay address give and do my best.  Hopefully when to comes, and when it comes, it will only be one and that's it.   
 Q.  Does form affect your course management?  Do you get more aggressive or stick to the game plan?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: In general, this is a course that allows you to be quite a aggressive, being as soft as it is.  Especially yesterday on the back nine, I was really low on energy.  I was struggling and trying to get it to the finish.  Today was a little bit better and hopefully tomorrow will be even better.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to tomorrow?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it will be great fun.  The crowds were amazing today.  The forecast looks really good for the weekend, so it should be a great weekend.   
 Q.  Two fantastic rounds to open the tournament.  How pleased are you with the way things have gone?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's been great so far.  Yesterday I was a bit low on energy but today was better.  I had a slow start but managed to be patient and just wait for my turn at birdies.  In the end, another 66 and I'm really pleased.   
 Q.  We spoke last week after the win and I know you were very fatigued.  How pleasing is it to gain some energy and be up there?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's great, yesterday was the day where I was really low.  Today I felt better from the start.  My swing was feeling a little better today than yesterday, as well.  Hopefully tomorrow will be another step forward.   
 Q.  A week since you've dropped a shot in a round.  Fantastic run going and you're clearly in your best form of the season at the moment?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, but I just need not to think about it and be aggressive, stay aggressive.  It's a course where a lot of people are up at the top of the leaderboard, so it's going to be I think a bit of a birdie-fest at the weekend and I need to be ready for it.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to challenging in another big event?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, very proud playing a Rolex Series Event in Italy, and to be up there makes it even better.   The crowds today were amazing and the weather is fantastic, so everything is in place for another great weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT