WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First off, congratulations.  You took the lead at nine and never looked back.  But I'm sure it wasn't as easy as that sounds.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, it was a good match.  I think we both played solid.  I think the difference is in match play I made a couple more putts than Patton.  But, yeah, we both played well.  So I have two tough games coming up.   
 Q.  To win 3-up with one to go, but this 17th hole, it's a difficult hole to close somebody out on, isn't it?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, today with the flag it's a pretty straight forward shot.  So it's a good birdied chance.  I gave myself a good look.  I hit a really good shot over the flag and just probably misjudged the wind slightly.  But, yeah, I mean I'm really happy.   
 Q.  Great start for you, congratulations.  Best of luck the rest of the way.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Thank you.   
 Q.  That was some good golf played today between the two of you.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was a good match.  We both played well.  I'm really happy the way I played.  It started well and then missed a couple of chances to go up.  Patton made two on 5.  And, yeah, we kept exchanging birdies.  It was a good match until the end.  And obviously I'm glad I came out on top.   
 Q.  When you get the advantage it's important not to let the man back in, though, isn't it?  You've got to keep playing solid and not give him any chances.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  And he gave me a shot on 13, short par 4, 3-putting from not too far away.  And I gave it straight back on 14.  He was in the bunker, I was in the middle of the fairway, and he hit a great second shot and made bogey.  So that's the stuff you don't want to do when you're leading.  But I managed to keep calm and keep going.  It was a good birdie on 16.  And that was it.   
 Q.  What do you know about Luke List?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: He's in great form.  He just lost in a playoff at Honda with a really strong field there.  And I think he's had another couple of good showings after that up.  It will be a tough game.   
Obviously JT on Friday is going to be, if possible, even tougher.  But there's no easy games out here.   
So just try to do good today, possibly slightly better, and see where it takes me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT