BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on the round today, Francesco.  Good solid round, bogey fee.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Nice solid round.  The putting was very good.  Breezy today but if you hit the ball well off the tee the course is there for the taking.  You very good chances with good lies.  You just have to be aggressive and try and make as many birdies as possible.
Q. When was last time you felt good about your game?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: All season has been pretty good.  Obviously I was disappointing to miss the first two cuts in the Northern Trust and the second one of the Playoffs but the game was there.
I think I was probably more mentally tired.  It's been a long season traveling back and forth from Europe.  So, yeah, I felt refreshed.  I went back to London a few days, you know, last week so it was nice to stay home for a few days and just get some energies back.
Q. You feel like this is the part of the season where it really affects guys like you that play on both sides of the Atlantic in terms of keeping the energy level?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  I think the longer the season goes on the harder it is.  You try to schedule it so you, you know, stay as fresh as possible but it's hard to do anyway.
Q. Did you go home last week?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  I got there Tuesday morning and I came out Monday morning here.
Q. Did you just want to get home?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I had been away since the week before Bridgestone.  It was too long.  Needed a few days in my own bed.  Just even despite the traveling, I think the best way to recharge is going home.
Q. (Inaudible)?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.
Q. With Patrick being his first year on Tour, playing the first two rounds with him, is there anything that surprises you about his ability to acclimate this season and maybe this weekend so far?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No.  Obviously he's a very good player.  I kind of figure it out by the results this year.  But it was the first time we were paired together and he's a really nice guy.  He's got a great attitude on the course and really strong game.  You can see he's going to be one to watch for the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT