PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Magnificent effort.  Talk us through from your perspective.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, great day.  Started very well with a birdie at the first.
I don't know, yeah, I wasn't really sure what to expect from the leaders.  I thought maybe 7-, 8-under would have been the winning score, with Justin birdieing 17, it looks like it might be even lower than that.
But yeah, I gave it a go.  A shame about 16, but I hit a really good putt and just missed on the left and very, very proud of the way I played today.
Q. How much attention did you pay to the leaderboard as you wandered around the course and made moves here and there?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I looked.  To be honest it didn't really matter until I was on the 12th, 13th -- two birdies at 14 and 15 helped a lot.  But you know, 14 and 15 are two good birdie chances.  I had to look on 13, and where I was at more or less; I saw that I needed at least two more birdies.  7- or 8-under was looking likely to be the winning score.  So I give it my best and I'm very happy with what I did.
Q. As the leading European player at this year's PGA Championship, how much do you enjoy being in the hunt in the final day?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was great.  It was great.  Obviously yesterday I had a really bad start and it was pretty hard to recover from that.  So that adds to the satisfaction after today.  It would have been nice to start the day maybe a couple of shots closer to the leaders, but it was great getting to the last three holes tied for the lead.  You know, it's what you practice for and what you train for.  Hopefully I'll get more soon.
Q. Hard golf course and a solid round of golf on Sunday.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, great round today.  Started very well, and yeah, just had it rolling pretty much all day.
Obviously it was a shame to bogey the 10th after a good tee shot, but the reaction after that was very good, birdieing four of the next five holes.
It was great, you know, because Justin is playing some great golf.  So it looks like he's going to deservedly win this.  But I'm happy, especially after the start of the round yesterday wasn't easy to finish.
Q. Yesterday it looked like nothing was in sync, but you found it and you hung in there?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think part of it, when you play a course this tough, margins are tight.  You hit in the rough by two yards or you get a bad lie, it's just hard.  It gets hard to make pars.  But yeah, I tried to stay patient and tried to start making pars and getting a few shots back.
So I think yesterday, to be honest, was probably the round of the week for me.  After that start today, it was a lot easier from the beginning.  I was lucky enough to get it going and to keep it going on the back nine.
Q. For all the majors this, this golf course might be one of the hardest that we had this year, if you got off to a tough start early, because there's no place to really recover from, and you have to make the birdies on the easy holes.  There's just not that many?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think I've played close to 30 majors now, and I have to say this is probably one of the toughest courses I've seen.  Obviously the rain last night maybe made it a little bit softer today, a little bit more receptive.  But still, the greens were extremely fast.  The rough is really thick.  There's water in play.  It's long.  I mean, there's nothing really easy about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT