BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 74 out there today but you had to work hard, really, to keep the score going on the front nine.  How does it feel all in all the at the end of it?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think I fought well, especially the front nine.  I think 11 and 12, I was a bit unlucky to say the least, got two fives there.  A shame.  But I fought hard until the end.  I'm still not too far away going into tomorrow, so that's all right.
Q. How important were the putts to keep you in it at the beginning?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, very important.  Obviously the first few holes were playing into the wind, so it was really tricky.  I did a good job hanging on.  It's a shame, the back nine, could have been better.
Q. We know it was a really tough day out there because of the wind.  We spoke to Lee Westwood and he had the same feeling of how difficult it was.  He felt his long game really wasn't there.  And we're used to talking to you, a world class ball-striker, which you are, but today it looked like you were relying on a different part of your game, the short game.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: On days like today it's really hard to hit fairways, so you need to put it in your head that you need to make up the lines sometimes.  So I created a few chances, probably not enough to play under par.  But hopefully tomorrow will be a better day.
Q. So 5-under par, going to be chasing going into tomorrow.  What's the target?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't really have a target in mind.  It's just creating more birdie chances than today, making a few more birdie putts and then see where I am on the last three holes.
Q. After three rounds, how did you play today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was tough.  Obviously out there I think it was the same for everyone.  I played okay but not great.  It's really tough to hit shots in these conditions.  I was a bit unlucky on 11, obviously hitting the flag and going away with a bogey there.  I think that was a turning point in the round really.  But I'm still, like you said, 5-under, not too far away, so I have a chance for tomorrow.
Q. How tough is it to grind scores out when you feel like the momentum is not there and the conditions are so hard?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's really tough, but I did it well today, especially on the front nine.  I didn't hit a lot of fairways and greens, but apart from the bogey at the first, I made pars, which was really good.
And then like I said, 11, made an unlucky bogey.  12, I 3-putted from the fringe.  So like every round, there's turning points and that was mine today for sure.
Q. You're three off the lead.  What's the plan for tomorrow, Sunday, when the weather looks like it's going to be mixed again?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just hit fairways, hit greens, try to have a stress-free round as much as possible.  It's not going to be easy, but that's the plan, really.  Hit fairways, hit greens and hopefully a few putts will drop.
Q. I think you were desperately unlucky with the one on 11.
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I didn't really see exactly what happened.  Obviously I heard the ball hitting the flag, and it ended up in the bunker with a poor lie.  So you know, could have been a four, easily a par, and I dropped shot I wasn't expecting.
And the next hole I 3-putted from the fringe.  I think that's the story of the round in two holes.  I did well on the front nine to hang on and to make a lot of saves, and just really didn't take my chances on the back nine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT