BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your shot into 18, what was your strategy as you were standing over your second shot?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Just trying to hit the green.  It wasn't a great yardage because I don't have a 3-iron in the bag and would have been a perfect yardage for a 3-iron.  I took the 2-iron and tried to hit a high cut, and just came out beautifully.  It was a nice way to end the round.  A shame about leaving the putt short.   
 Q.  You've had four Top 10s in your career here, what will it take for you to get it done over the weekend?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I just need to keep doing the same.  I've been in position obviously a few times the last few years and hasn't worked out.   
So I need to do the same stuff that I did yesterday and today, play it safe.  Both days I didn't start too well, but I managed to stay in the round and finish well.  So it would be nice to start a little bit better at the weekend to make it a little easier on myself.   
 Q.  Birdie, birdie finish, but it could have been even better after that fantastic approach on the 18th.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it was two good iron shots to finish with, 17 and 18.  I'll take the 4.  Obviously it was a shame about the putt, but 4, 4 finish in these conditions, it's very good.   
 Q.  Up-and-down after the start but after the bogey on 5 you managed to steady things down and it was flawless all the way.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was tricky.  It was a lot windier than yesterday and it was gusting, so it was hard to get the clubs right.  It's a tough, tough course in these conditions.  It's playing firm, and you have to be in the fairways, otherwise you're really struggling.   
Yeah, I'm quite pleased with the game.  I didn't play I thought amazingly well but I made some good up-and-downs to keep the round going.  And then obviously finished very well, 17 and 18.   
 Q.  Four Top 10s here in the past.  You're going into the weekend looking like you're going to be a joint leader.  How much of the experience from those performances can you use over the weekend?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Hopefully a lot but obviously hopefully at the same time, the ending will be different.  As you said, I've been in position before.  I just need to keep doing what I did the last few days.  The short game has been really sharp, which is important, especially on days like today.  So again, I just need to rest and get the energies back and do the same another couple of days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT