THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round today, 3-under, but you were 2-over yesterday, so what was the difference for you today?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I played better.  Yesterday I started off really well the first eight holes and then I started struggling off the tee, which you can't really do on a course like this.  So it was a battle really to get in.  I went to hit balls after the round and maybe found something that helped me today.  Today was a lot better, a lot more fairways, a lot more greens, still a few bogeys, but it's really tough out there with the wind gusting.  So a good day and hopefully more good golf tomorrow.
Q. Do you, before you go out for your round, kind of prepare yourself mentally for possibly a bit higher score because of the winds?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, you realize when you're out there how tough it is and you know it's going to be tough for everyone.  I 3-putted on 8 today, I had probably 30 feet and I got a gust of wind into and left it 15 feet short.  So it's that sort of day.  You need to be patient.  I played the par-5s really well, gave myself some good birdie chances and made them all.  So, yeah, tomorrow's going to be more of the same and every year it's the same here, you need to be patient and even if you have a tough or bad nine holes, you need to keep going and just be patient.
Q. Has that been your biggest lesson, because the past two years you have finished top-10.  Or do you just like the course, does it fit your eye?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, I like the course, but some shots are a bit too scary for me.  17.  And the 18 tee shot, I tried to hit 3-wood yesterday, in the trees; 5-wood today, even further right.  So I need to figure out something for tomorrow.  But it's a good course, it's tough, it's tough for everyone, so even if you are suffering out there, you know that everyone is doing the same conditions and you try to do your best.
Q. (No Microphone.)
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yesterday was a bit tough, especially on the back nine, I didn't hit the ball well enough off the tee and I was in trouble almost every time, so it's nice in these conditions to post a good score and be in a good position for tomorrow.
Q. Concerning the conditions, you played all the Majors, what do you think when we say it's like the fifth Major here?
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it definitely feels like a Major.  You know that if you shoot 3-under par you're going to gain ground, especially when it's windy and in gusty winds like today, so I think it requires the same patience as it does in Majors.  You need to keep going no matter what happens and I did that well today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT