THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you could just talk a little bit about how you played today, 3-under 69 is a great start.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it wasn't my best round of ball-striking, but I managed to score well.  I managed to save with the putter a couple of mistakes that I made on the back nine, my front nine.  I played better on the front, my back, and had a few more chances, and yeah, just a good start.   
 Q.  And then you've top-tenned twice in a row now.  Talk about why you're playing so well.  Have you figured something out about this golf course?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I wish I knew the secret, but you just have to hit the ball well, hit fairways, hit greens, try to stay out of trouble, especially I think this year the greens being new are a little bit firmer than what they were last year in the first couple of rounds, so it pays even more if you hit fairways off the tee, so I think that's the key.  I did it okay today.  I think I can do it better.  So hopefully I'll be up there again this year.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this is kind of a democratic golf course; just about anybody that tees it up has a chance versus some courses that rely on being a bomber?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's a course that you can play many different ways.  Obviously if you hit the ball 330 yards in the fairway, you're going to have an advantage, and on most holes you're allowed to do that.  But you can play with the irons off the tee.  You can play many different ways.  Yeah, I think that suits me, and yeah, the main thing is, again, being in the fairway, being on the green, and giving yourself as many chances as possible.  3-under is a good score.  I didn't do it amazingly well today, so hopefully I'll do it better the next few days.   
 Q.  Would you also talk about 12?  Obviously very few people have tried to drive 12 today even though it's being billed as a drivable par-4.  I think you laid up, correct?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I laid up.  I hit a 4-iron.  I think the way the contour is of the front of the green, it makes it really tough because you almost have to hit a fade to have the ball stay on the green.  Anything drawing off the tee tends to go in the water.  If you miss it right, you're facing a very tough up-and-down to say the least.  When you can hit a 4, 5-iron and a lob wedge, I think it makes sense just to lay back.   
 Q.  What did you hit for the approach?  Were you surprised that it rolled through the green?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, I was trying to be aggressive.  Obviously the flag today is on the back right portion and there's a little slope just short of it.  I was hitting a full sand wedge, and I thought if it's going to pitch on the slope, it might spin back, and just hit it a fraction too hard, and it just rolled over in the fringe.  But it's a good hole.  I don't think -- I'd be surprised if a lot of guys are going to go for it, especially early in the week.   
 Q.  I saw you practicing with the new putter this week; did you use it?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, yeah, I changed putters from last week.  Yeah, I didn't have a nice weekend on the greens last week, so I think I needed a change.  I switched only yesterday, but today it was good, so hopefully it was the right decision.   
 Q.  What's the putter?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I switched to one of those Spiders that everyone is using right now.  It's good.  I rolled it well today.  I made some nice putts.  It was a lot better than the weekend at Wells Fargo.  Hopefully I can keep it going the rest of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT