DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on your position halfway?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I'm happy.  It was another good day.  Played well.  Maybe yesterday the start was even better, but played solid pretty much all the round.  I had I think a little lapse in concentration on the 10th and then recovered well, and, yeah, another solid round.  I'm happy where I am after two rounds.   
 Q.  And that recovery meant having three birdies on the bounce on the back nine which certainly helps the score, doesn't it.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I holed a good putt for birdie on 14, and kind of, yeah, kick started a few holes where I hit some really good shots and made some nice birdies.  A nice recovery on 17 from the bunker, and then 18, I hit two good shots and just a poor shot into the green, which is a shame, because it was a pretty good yardage going in.  All in all, it's fine.  It's really hot out there, so it's tough to keep your focus for 18 holes.   
 Q.  The loss of concentration, is that because of the heat and just the nature -- that it has on your body?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think so.  It takes a lot of energy to stay focused for four hours, four hours 15, whatever it was.  Shouldn't happen but it can happen; I'll try to do better tomorrow.   
 Q.  Well, it means that you're in a lovely position into the weekend.  I take it at halfway, you don't have anything more than just keep on going, really, at the moment.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Exactly.  Very early obviously but it's nice to keep building a nice good round after good round.  Yeah, at this stage, just keep doing the same and hopefully I'll get a similar result tomorrow.   
 Q.  Edoardo is back on The European Tour.  Did you have a nice conversation last night?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, well, we texted for awhile and he said he was actually disappointed not it win it.  But I told him not to be too greedy.  Second is obviously very good for him, and it's nice to see him back.  He was very optimistic going into it, so good for him and I'm looking forward to seeing him around for another year.   
 Q.  We know how good he is, but that's still quite some achievement to come back from the injury and get the game back in gear and then to prevail over six days.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, and he did it last year, as well.  Two years running, it's a pretty good effort.  I'm sure he'll do his best next season not to show up there for a third time.  It sounds like he's playing a lot better, so I'm expecting good things from him next season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT