DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2016
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How pleased are you with a round of 4-under par?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, very pleased.  Hit the ball very nice on the front nine.  Created a lot of chances.  Just misjudged the club on No. 6 and hit in the water, but I managed to save a bogey.  So it was very good.  And the back nine, a bit scrappy, but managed to make a couple of birdies, and yeah, very good start.   
 Q.  Seems like it's a little tricky, not straightforward out there.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's strange, I think it's usually windier than this, and the wind switched directions a couple of times, and it's very hot.  So the ball is going a long way.  It's not very easy to judge, but it's a fair course.  You need to hit good shots off the tee and good shots into the greens, otherwise you're going to be in trouble.   
 Q.  Does it help that you've had so many good results out here in the past?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I enjoy coming back here every year.  It's a course that I like.  Obviously good memories when you're out there on the course.  Looking forward to the next three days.   
 Q.  End of the season for The European Tour and you've been traveling here, there and everywhere.  So is this one last, big push?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, because I'm going to Australia next week.  So yeah, it is the last big push, the last big two weeks.  It's a great tournament, so I was looking forward to coming here and happy to be playing here.  The course is in good shape, as always.   
And I'm looking forward to next week with Matteo.  It should be fun.  I'm happy to give it a push at the end of the season.   
 Q.  And it's good fun with Edoardo at the moment, isn't it.  Are you looking to Spain and seeing what he's achieving?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I've been following obviously and he's been doing very well.  I haven't seen anything today but yesterday, it was a nice crescendo into yesterday, and it's great to see him leading actually.  It will be good for his confidence, too.  His game is heading in the right direction, so it's nice to see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT