SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 6, 2016
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a round it was to finish things out here in Las Vegas.  How did you get it to 10-under today?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know.  Just one by one, hitting good shots and making some putts.  That was the difference from the first three days.  I played solid pretty much all week, but didn't make anything after today.  And obviously a great start holing the wedge on 11, and yeah, one thing leads to another and one birdie after the other, and great Sunday.   
 Q.  It's been 25 years since we saw a Chip Beck shoot 59 here in Las Vegas.  When you got up to 9-under through 15, did you start thinking about at all if I go birdie, birdie, birdie, maybe I could break 60?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No.  Not really.  I didn't think about it until when I missed the putt on 7, I started counting, and I thought I needed birdie, eagle to shoot 59, so it's going to be hard.  But no, it was a great day.  It's my last round of the year on the PGA TOUR, so it's really amazing to finish the year off like this.   
 Q.  Definitely one that the fans will remember.  Francesco, congratulations.  Your PGA TOUR low of 61.  At what point did you know you had a chance to have your career best?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I thought about it -- well, I thought about my career best in general because I think my lowest round on the European Tour was a 62.  So playing the ninth I thought for here to better my personal best.  So yeah, just a great day.  I've been playing well all week, but things didn't really click early on, and today holing the wedge on 11 was a great start, and then making a few putts, and yeah, just a fantastic day.   
 Q.  And tell me about No. 8.  I know that the chip shot didn't run as close as you wanted, but what a putt you made to save par there.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  Massive to keep momentum obviously.  I didn't hit a great tee shot, but I felt the left side was safe, and I had a good chance to get up and down from there, and yeah, the chip came out with a lot more spin than WHAT I thought and left myself with probably 30, 35-footer, and yeah, just hit a few putts and was in otherwise.  Yeah, I'm really, really happy to finish the season or the year with a round like this.   
 Q.  You had a brilliant shot into 9, right over the top of the bunker where you needed to put it.  Now, were you more nervous over that par save on 8 or that five-footer to shoot 61?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Probably the five-footer.  They are more testing than the longer putts.  But I laid up to great yardage with the lob wedge, and I could hit it as hard as I wanted to, and came out perfect, so sums up the day really.   
 Q.  And how long WILL you wait to see what happens with the other guys out there on the back nine right now?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I mean I think I don't really need to wait too long, but my flight is at 9:00 tonight anyway, so I've got time to sit down and enjoy a cold one.   
 Q.  People love shows in Vegas.  They come out here for them.  You put on one today.  Congratulations.  What a great round to watch?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Thank you.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  When you came to the course today -- you said you've been playing well all week.  What clicked today that didn't click?  Was it better club selection or just the way you were hitting?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: No, I think we had a shot yesterday, my caddie after the round, because he was frustrated with the way I was playing and the scores I was getting, and we decided it was the case of just letting things go a little bit more and not try to be so precise with the reads on the greens, and yeah, just let it happen.  Obviously it's not an easy thing to do, but I tried to play a little bit more relaxed today, and it seemed to make the difference.   
 Q.  Because I know a lot of guys were saying they were having trouble judging the speed, trying to judge distance and everything with the course changing during the day.  Seemed like you found the right formula today, didn't you?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.  I was doing it pretty well I think all week.  As I said, sometimes you try almost too hard, and the ^ putts start to lip out and you hit your shots into the green two yards further than what you like, and it's small differences all around, but in the end if you try to let it happen, it can make a big difference.   
 Q.  Yeah.  I mean you were tied for 46 today when you teed off.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're going to pick up substantial money today.  Like you say, you're wrapping up your season.  What are your thoughts on finishing as strong as you did just to know that you're going home on an uptick?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It's great.  I've been tired all week.  Coming from China I knew was in good form because I played well there.  But yeah, obviously a round like today changes completely the week to what was a slightly disappointing week, I leave with a great taste and can't wait to get back on the course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT