THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round.  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was just a good solid round.  Hit the ball well, hit many fairway, many greens, gave myself a lot of chances.  So, it was just a good solid round.  I think the conditions were as easy as it can get around here.  It was soft and hardly any breeze.  But still you obviously need to make the birdies.  So I'm happy with the start.   
 Q.  How important is it to come out and shoot a -- going forward, how important is it to come out and shoot a 6-under round like you did today?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Well, it's nice, I don't think it's that important, you, obviously, you want to have a good solid start, but if it's, if it is 3-, 4-, or 6-under, it's a long week.  I think that the course is going to get very different from what we saw early this morning, later in the week, so just need to keep going, hitting good shots and try to be as ready as possible for the weekend.   
 Q.  Is 17 a lot less scary with the conditions are like this?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think that especially the absence of wind early in the morning, I think it was a good break to play early there's no breeze even right now.  So it's a lot more straightforward than how it usually is.   
 Q.  You played this course a handful of times now, how would you describe it?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I like it.  I liked it from the first time I played here.  I had a decent week, I think I finished top-10 the first year.  So it suits my game, it suits my eyes, and it's nice to be out here playing.   
 Q.  The condition of this course Thursday morning, how did it compare to other Thursday mornings years past?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think slightly softer than usual.  The rough this year is not too thick, which it can be a good thing or it can be a bad thing, because obviously you're going to get more fliers out of it, so you still want to be in the fairways.  But, yeah, it was, I would say, probably as easy as I've seen it playing in the years that I've been here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT