NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 22, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Marty, considering what happened in the third period last night, you get to the next game, Game 5, what do you anticipate happening?   Is it all forgotten?   Does it get worse?   What do you anticipate?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It's all forgotten.   It's the Playoffs.   I think you need to put everything in check and what happened in one game usually doesn't carry in the other ones.   
But we know that it's going to be emotional.   It's a hostile environment in the Garden.   So they're going to try to be a little more physical the way they were late in the game there.   And we've gotta do what we do and not worry about anything else, and just go in there and win the hockey game.  
   
 Q.   Marty, this isn't happening to you now, it's happening to Lundqvist.   But it has happened to you where you go into games thinking you've got to be almost perfect because you know your team isn't going to give you a lot of goals.   What's that feeling like as a goalie when you have to enter a game thinking you've got to be perfect?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   You know it doesn't change the approach.   I think that's the expectation when you play these playoff series that you need to be good for your team.   And regardless of how your team is going to respond offensively has nothing to do with you.   
And so you just gotta have the mindset of playing really hard and playing well and give your team a chance to win sometimes you need to throw a shut out there or sometimes games will go differently.  
We had four tight games, and who knows what's going to happen in Game 5.   So my expectation, when I play, it's the same.   It's just try to be good.   Try to be as solid as I can and give that confidence to your team that if they need to make a push offensively they feel that like I've got their backs.  
   
 Q.   What is the feeling like when you can jump out to like a lead you had last night, does anything change in your mindset?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It makes a big difference when there's a goal on the board.   I think especially for us with the trouble we had scoring on him, getting goals right away, we knew that we're in decent shape.   But we've learned to play with a lead in these series, and we just gotta keep doing the same.   
But it's the same, like I said, regardless how close the game is.   The goal is the most important one, regardless of where the game is at.  
   
 Q.   When did you first notice that this team, this particular team, has the ability to both stand up for itself and when you get into a spot like last night you could have gone down 3 to 1, has the ability to bounce back as opposed to other teams?   When did you first notice that?   
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think we saw that in the regular season we did have a hard time putting it together.   When we feel good about ourselves we always kind of have some tough games right after.   And I think we're just a little more consistent.   I think we're really organized.   I think it took a while to‑‑ I think everybody understood what the coach want us to do exactly.   And I think guys are working really hard at it within the games, and regardless of the outcomes, it doesn't seem to really rattle us too much.   
We just go out and play the same way over and over, and we feel that we have enough talent and skill to be able to bounce back or just stay in control when our backs are against the wall.   We've learned to do it early in the Playoffs we had two games, Game6 and Game 7 against the Panthers that pushed it to overtime.   We kept doing the same thing over and over and it paid off for us.  
Maybe I think that's why guys, it opened the eyes of certain guys knowing when we trust them, we play a certain way, the success will be there.   
   
 Q.   Marty, first of all, the Devils were defined by Niedermayer, Stephens, Daneyko, do you think it's been tough for some defensemen to live in their shadow about how great those guys were?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Definitely.   And I don't think you can do it.   I think these guys are one's in the hall of fame, one will be in the hall of fame soon.   And Dano is in his own Hall of Fame.   It's tough to compare I think other defensemen and even for the fan's point of view also to see how solid we were before.   But we have guys that are into it, are living something that they never lived before and I think they're taking up the challenge as good as anybody could have done.   And I'm really, my best confidence yesterday.   I'm glad these guys are having success and it's well deserved because they've been working really hard at it and paying attention to a lot of small details that makes them successful.   
   
 Q.   Marty, were you surprised at all to see your coach so emotionally involved there in the third period?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It's part of the game and it's part of playoff hockey.   Pete has been good to us all playoff long.   Usually he puts his emotions in check a little bit, but again at the time of the game I think it was probably appropriate for him to step out and have a little conversation, whatever that was said, I don't know.   But we know he cares but we think he shows a lot of people that he's really into this also just like the players are.  
   
 Q.   Would it be fair to say that he had a little bit of Pat Barnes and Jacques Lemaire in him?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I don't know about Jacques Lemaire.   I never saw Jacques propped up behind there.   He's got a fire, no doubt.   And it's nice to see for the guys.  
   
 Q.   Any feeling, anything from that shot you took from Rupp last night?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   No, it's okay.   Thanks for your concern.   
   
 Q.   Follow‑up with the thing with DeBoer, what does it do, what does it do for a player when you see your coach do that?   Does it make you want to fight that much harder for him, make you want to play that much harder for him or is that even a factor in the Playoffs now?   
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think at this point guys are going all out.   I don't think it will make it or break it or put any more fuel.   I think the guys to see that he's in this with us together it's always nice to see but we never had a doubt about that anyway.   Didn't have to do that.   And so it's kind of‑‑ again it's nice to see that everybody's in it 100percent.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT