NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 18, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It appears to me that Game 2 in New York was much like Game 2 in Philly where you battled, fell behind, but stayed with it.   You guys came through and won the game.   Is there a comparison as you come home for games 3 and 4 in the series as well, that you take the momentum that you can build on?   Or is it just two different series and no comparison? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Oh, yeah, two different series, two different teams we're playing against.   We did what we needed to do to win one game in New York.   It's going to be hard.   I think these guys are looking to do the same here.   You know, they're an excellent team, and now they've finally got two days off to relax a little bit after Game 7 and winning the first game.   They'll regroup and be ready for us tomorrow afternoon.

Q.   Have you felt more energy in the building during these playoffs than in the past?   Obviously you guys played well in the playoffs.   Has it felt different? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Oh, definitely.   I think the success we had in our own building during these regular playoff games has been great.   The fans, we had a come overtime games, and people were into it.   It's the first time we're going so far in the playoffs.   Also it's hard for them to cheer on when your team's not doing well, so we're looking to do just that tomorrow.   Get into the game by playing strong right from the git‑go.

Q.   You had some strong opinions about the conditions at the Garden the other night.   I'm curious how are the ice and the boards and all of that in this building?   How do you find them? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Almost as bad (laughing).   You know, it's tough at this time of the year to get great ice.   Buildings are so busy.   You know, it's just hard. 
New York was obviously in game, and to me, my comments were not towards Madison Square Garden, it's more towards I have to pay attention.   The question was asked how hard it was to play that game, and for me it was because of all the bad bounces everywhere.   And I think it make it's hard to play the game, especially for a goalie. 
You know, Lundqvist has to play every game in that building, so it's got to be hard for him too to see all these bounces all the time.

Q.   I would imagine by now you've seen replays of your late save on Gaborik there.   They're calling it the scorpion.   I'm wondering when you look at it, what you thought of the save and was it one of your better ones?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, it's definitely one of the most interesting ones.   I didn't know I was able to stretch that far with my leg behind me like that.   You know, it's kind of a desperation move there.   I got lucky to make the save.   It looks good, but if you fast forward the tape for about ten seconds, it's not good.

Q.   A lot of talk about Lundqvist, and you even said beforehand he's the top guy right now.   Are you relishing being the underdog in the goaltender match‑up? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   For the most part, every time I play some tight series in my careers I was always the underdog for whatever reason.   So it's no different with him.   I think he deserves to have the accolades that he's getting.   Even though we scored three goals, we had to work really hard to score on him.   He's the key to our success.   He's such a good goalie and he keeps it in the game every game in the playoffs we have to score more than two or three goals in this playoff series.   That is pretty amazing when you've already played over 50 games.

Q.   How much do you think of this game?   Obviously you've played a lot of playoff series, but looking at Game 3, both teams have one game.   How much do you look at this game being vital? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Well, we're going to be in our building for two games, so I think the first game we've just got to play well and get our fans on our side and keep their fans out of it.   That is the most important thing we have to play a solid game. 
There will be bumps.   Playoff hockey is a roller coaster.   We went through it down after Game 1, now we're living a high, and we've just got to cope with all of these things as well as you can.   We don't know what Game 3's going to bring us in the first period or at the end of the game. 
So we've just got to be openminded about everything and just do whatever we're told to do by our coach and trust the system that we have.   It's a long series.   We expect to play 7 games.   That's how you prepare yourself for any kind of series, and only Game 3, so we've got to play well.

Q.   When it comes to blocking shots by your own players, do you want players diving in front of you?   Do you prefer them to stay on their feet?   What is your own experience and preference for that? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Well, it depends.   If you're in good position as a defenseman or a forward, you need to be in the shooting lanes.   I think you've got to make she's guys try to shoot around you.   That helps the goalie because the shots usually don't come as hard because of that.   You're able to read them a little better. 
Sometime when's you're in no man's land it can be hard because you create a screen.   When I'm out of the net, I love when they go out and put their face in front of it and block it. 
It's hockey.   It's our reaction.   Goalies like it differently, but I think in hockey right now because there is so much open ice without guys being hooked and interfered with that you need to face the puck and be in the shooting lane, especially if it's not going to be a one-timer or a really hard shot.   A lot of guys have wristers and guys are able to jump in front and make good plays.   I'm all for it if they're able to get the whole puck.

Q.   The best luck is when a guy behind you like Mark Fayne did in Game 2?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, he can handle those, that's for sure.

Q.   But are there times when you're sure you can see it, and the block is annoying?   A lot of things can happen off a deflection too. 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Even blocks.   They're blocking the shots.   They're not controlling the rebounds or anything, so that puck can go anywhere.   Again, it's desperation, playoffs.   You just go do what you need to do to prevent goals.   Sometimes blocks are important.   Teams have a lot of success.   The Rangers had a lot of success with it throughout the playoffs so far.   Washington did well with it.   You look out west and some of the teams are doing the same thing, it's just part of hockey.   There is so much open ice.   There is so much‑‑ guys are able to get the pucks.   A lot of teams are able to cover a lot of downloads, so a lot of shots when the puck's coming in.   Guys are getting in the way and paying the price at this time of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT