NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 15, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your decision this year to not talk on game day?   Has it helped you?   What went into the decision?   Because it's a little different for you.   Has it been beneficial?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yes, I think it has been.   You know, in the past I think there was negative stuff talked to me in the morning.   
And I felt early on in the series against Florida, everything I talked about was defending my team, not winning two games in a row, winning a series since 2007, and on game days I don't need to have that aggregation in my head.   
And it was all because of these types of questions that were asked to me that I figure, you know what, going to let it be for a time being in morning skates.   It's been working out good.   I've been a lot more positive and not had bad thoughts in my mind.  
   
 Q.   Marty, could you talk about this team's need to be resourceful and the resolve it showed in the Playoffs bouncing back from losses in Game 1 and what you need to do differently in Game 2?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think we have to do more of the same.   I thought we played good.   We had our chances as far as getting puck control in their zone.   And we just couldn't get the puck through.  
They blocked a lot of shots.   And I think that's the way they like to play, and that's kind of the way they've been successful so far all year in the Playoffs.   We have to find a way to break through that.   
And we talked about it this morning again, and we just‑‑ we felt we played a decent hockey game, and we just couldn't get through Lundqvist.   When we had our chances, he made the good saves.   But we had a lot of opportunities to make a little more havoc around their net and we weren't able to do it because of the way they played.  
And we tried to solve that somehow, but it was, like I said yesterday, we haven't played in seven days, and that little jump, sometimes we're hesitant in different plays in our system that you won't see that tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you've done several of these Rangers-Devils series in the past.   How does it affect the dynamic of a playoff series when you're not on the road, you're at home, you're practicing here?   Is it easier?   Do you like this better where it's not‑‑ you're not really on the normal road situation?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It's definitely different.   You used to go, when you play in the Playoffs, you go for four days at least once in the series.   And then you get together now, it's kind of everybody by themselves a little bit.   Makes it a little different.   
But it's fun.   It's great.   For us, it's a long year, so it's nice to break it up like that and be able to play almost seven home games or so.  
   
 Q.   I remember you making reference last round, or maybe it was two rounds ago, about having the‑‑ the year you swept the Rangers and you had the real long layoff before you played Carolina, and I remember you mentioning you thought it was a huge factor and you got out in five games that year.   What's the difference between then and now?   And you just mentioned there were little things you didn't do as well, but overall you guys were pretty sharp?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, I thought we kept almost the same schedule if we were to play games in between.   We played, we took a day off, we practiced really hard, we took a day off.   We almost played our seven games against the Flyers without playing competition hockey.   
But the way that our bodies and the way that we were prepared, I think that's what we did in our layoff here waiting for the Rangers to close out the series.  
   
 Q.   Obviously last night we asked you and your teammates a lot of questions about the Rangers' shot blocking.   Do you think that trend is a problem for the sport in any way, that it's going to take some entertainment value away from the scoring, or is it just a matter of countering it and beating it?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I'm the wrong guy to answer that question.   We were blamed for the trap, when we were successful at it.   So whatever brings success is what you need to do.   And I know it's probably not the most exciting brand of hockey.   But it's really effective.   
And, again, they got it in people's heads by doing what they're doing, and they're tough to play against because of that.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT