NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 17, 2009
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Marty, how exhilarating was the night?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It was an exciting night. I think definitely real happy that it's done and over with. It's been chaotic for me the last few days, but it was an awesome night. It was a great reception from the fans. 
 I think my teammates, everybody was - it was pretty cool. I thought it was cool in Montreal, but this topped it. It was as fun. It was awesome.

 Q. Marty, we talked about your first game, which is 17 years ago, next week, and now you're sitting here all these wins later. Can you tell me - can you put it in perspective what it means to get this far and to accomplish this and you're still a relatively young guy. I mean there's more to come. 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It's hard. I've been really fortunate to play in a great organization. And I always am going to remember my first win here against Boston. It's a long time ago. So hopefully we'll play a few more years and get this record as high as possible. So for the next one coming, it will be a big challenge for him to get it.

 Q. Now that you've accomplished this goal, what's the next goal on your mind?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, right now it's to relax and enjoy myself a little bit. Not that I didn't take in everything that has been happening to me. But I think we have a few more, a little over 10 games to go for the playoffs. And it's going to be a run at the Stanley Cup. That's the bottom line. 
 That was on a personal level what I've accomplished, and my team helped me in a big way, to be able to add eight wins away from when I got hurt and now I was able to do it in nine games for my comeback. So I didn't expect that. So it's been an awesome ride so far.

 Q. Is it tougher to cut down a net than you thought and also what did your dad - did your dad come in and hug, and could you tell us a little bit about that, too? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It's definitely harder than I think. These basketball players it's only little nets. This was a big net. (Laughter) I had the help of a couple of my teammates. That was nice of them. For my dad, I think it was an awesome thing. Like any good photographer, he didn't want to miss me taking some pictures with that winning puck. That was his main goal after the hug.

 Q. Was there one part of this that was most special to you? I mean the reception in the crease after, the reception of the crowd?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: I think the ovation from the crowd. Me skating around the rink. I think Jamie came over. He goes we'll cut it down. Go take a lap, I think the fans deserve it. And I went over there. And sometimes you think - I've done it with the Stanley Cup on top of my head as a team thing - but that was really on a personal thing. And it was pretty cool. I had a lot of friends and family. 
 I was trying to look at them in the stands while I was skating. It was definitely a great moment for me.

 Q. Did you ever imagine getting this record in terms of when you started and now that you have the record did you ever imagine it?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Not really. It's kind of hard for any athlete to think that they're going to be, to get a record like that. Especially for goaltending. I think this is what the ultimate record is I think in my mind with having the most wins. 
 So I never thought that it was going to be possible. But definitely along the way getting closer and closer I knew it was going to happen eventually.

 Q. How special was it to play this many years with Patrick and both of you end up breaking records the same day?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It was great. It was great for Patrick, and I think the ovation kind of was great, when he got that point, and it was announced to everybody that what he accomplished. And definitely it's tough kind of got a little overshadowed for what I accomplished, but it's a tremendous feat that he did tonight. And the relationship that I have with Patrick, I think he's one of the players that played the longest here in New Jersey so it's kind of nice that we got to share the same date on a big record like that.

 Q. Can you tell us how you felt through the game and when it really started to hit you that this was happening? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I felt pretty good. Definitely a lot of work so I didn't have time too much to think outside the box too much. And with 10 minutes left I'm like all right this is going to probably happen here and I was kind of looking at the clock. I was a clock-watcher a little bit but I think everything fell when two minutes came and they scored. All right, I've got two minutes to kill. 
 So it made it tough a little bit to spend the last few minutes, but we got it done.

 Q. There had to be a time during that long rehab a little doubt creeped in. You needed eight games to do it. You came back and did it in nine games, what does that reflect upon?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: You know, I think it's been - it was a tough four months for me to stay away from the game. I think it's just the hard work that I put in to get back. That's the bottom line. I didn't cut corners.
 The team doctors and the trainers, you know, my therapist that I work with, everybody was tremendous in how my recovery came about. And also the fact that the team played well. I didn't have to rush anything. Scott Clemenson did a great job in the nets for our team and gave us in the position that I was able to take my team and heal up properly before jumping back.
 But last summer I made a commitment, I wanted to play well. I worked out really hard, and it was a tough news for me when I heard I was going to be out for most of the season. 
 So when I got back working out and getting myself into shape, I just wanted to make sure I was ready to go when the time was there, and I think that's just the pay-off is do what I did right now.

 Q. I know it must be very difficult to try to describe what you're feeling at the moment, but when that buzzer sounds and you allowed yourself to kind of jump up and down, pump your fist, can you just kind of at all remind us of what goes through your head or walk through that final two or three seconds?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It's finally over. (Laughter) you know, I think the road to it was pretty easy to a certain extent. I think I didn't have to have the hiccups of losing a couple of games and have it in the back of my mind. And that was one thing I feared a little bit.
 And so for me to - when I heard the buzzer, I was like, wow, it's over now. This is good. And, again, I didn't want to be this chase to this record to be a disturbance to the team because we played so well all year and now we're coming into a last stretch here to get ourselves into the playoffs. And I didn't want to drag it too long.
 Now I mean it will be old news by the time the playoffs start and that's the way I wanted it to happen.

 Q. How much does it help ease your mind when the team scores the first goal and then they add a second goal five minutes later?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I think it's been great since I came back. The team's been scoring a lot of goals and it makes my job a lot easier, and definitely when you start with the lead you don't have to recover from it. I think for a goalie it's not as much pressure. Especially in games like that when you're looking to clinch something. When you fall behind sometimes your mind is spinning a little bit. But when you get the offensive support I've been getting in the last few games I didn't have to worry about it too much.

 Q. You said your break with your injury put your career in perspective. Did you think about this at all while you were waiting?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Not really. I was so concerned about getting back and getting myself ready to play again, and, again, it was still to the unknown how well I was going to be able to come back. Players play for four months, and I didn't. And this is a high tempo game. 
 So it was new territory for me to come back in the middle of a season. I never got hurt in my career. So it was just like tough for me in my head and I wasn't concentrating on the record. Really, even when I started - I think after I won my first four games I said that's going to happen quicker than I thought. That's probably when I started thinking about it more, but not when I came back.

 Q. Have you talked to your surgeon recently? Did you ask him to come tonight, the surgeon who did the surgery?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: He's in Hawaii with his kids. He called me today. But the other guy, Dr. Malone is here. My therapist Gary Flink is here everybody who was part of my recovery were here. We made - my lawyer made sure they called everybody that was close to me from friends, family, people around me, people I care about. Everybody was here, and definitely it's nice to be able to share that with everybody.

 Q. Are your kids here tonight and have you had a chance to talk to them?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Not yet. I can't wait to finish this up before they have school tomorrow.

 Q. What did you expect to say to them?
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Just to see how they liked the game, how they enjoyed the moment. I think it's nice - some athletes don't have a chance to experience some things with their kids because they're so young and they don't remember. A couple of Stanley Cups that I won, my kids were pretty young.
 So this day, 14 years old, if he doesn't remember, then that's his own fault.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT