NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 22, 2007
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How has your experience changed from when you first came, first went All Star to now? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Just probably feel more comfortable being here.  First couple of times it's always -- it's a big honor and you get to see everybody around and you get a little nervous.  It's (inaudible) kind of used to it.  Nice to come here, see a lot of guys, a lot of guys I played Team Canada with or other All-Star games, nice to see each other. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  It's great.  We get to meet them.  New NHL and a lot of young players that are a big part of our league.  So for us older guys it's nice to talk to them and see how they are, really, because they're the future of our game. 
 It's nice that they come here and play. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  No, just flew in.  The next few days I'll be around here. 

 Q.  Are you bonding (inaudible) with the guys? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Yes, I think so.  For the young guys it's good because now they'll start knowing other coaches, other players.  I know I gained a lot of experience playing at the All-Star games, just knowing the media.  A lot of people you don't see often, you have more time to talk to people and I think it's a great experience for them. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't know.  I'm only 30.  I don't know what he's doing. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) being a different player or are they pretty much the same in terms of exuberance and the way things happen? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I definitely think there's players that are dominating in different ways.  Sidney is a guy that's going to control the game.  Going to control the play.  Going to make a lot of people around him really good players by (inaudible) and vision.  You have Ovechkin, not enough goals in him, he just wants to go and score and score and skate and hit and more physical a player than Sidney. 
 I think they do -- are the same type of player as far as being dominant but in different ways. 

 Q.  The player, the MVP (inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, I mean, depending on the situations, but for me I think winning is everything.  So definitely MVP.  You gotta bring your team to somewhat of a success.  I think situations are different every year and this year might happen.  But it's what they do for their team and how good they are.  (Inaudible) Ovechkin and Crosby, unique situations for them. 

 Q.  Are you the spokesman for (inaudible) being older had you been Sidney's age (inaudible) asking the questions this and that (inaudible) would it be hard? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't get too much what you're asking. 

 Q.  You're older now so you you've got a good feel.  Sidney is only 19.  People are going up asking questions, what do you think about this, what do you think about that? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I think that's a responsibility that goes with being an All Star, being the marquee player for the NHL.  He's been in the limelight since he was 16 years old.  When he was 16 my son (inaudible) he's been around and being popular and I think with his age and with (inaudible) I think helped him out to know what's going on. 
 Seems to be a really smart kid and his comments are always appropriate, and definitely it's a pressure that -- the best player in the NHL, to that extent he's got to deal with that pressure. 
 And for sure different people would maybe have a hard time.  He's a kid that I think can handle it. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) younger, personality? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Similar.  Well spoken.  A kid that wants to be the best.  Wants to be part of the elite.  Wants to have his face on commercials.  Not hiding himself with the success he's got.  Putting himself out there.  That's what we need as far as our sport. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) personality is a little bit (inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  A little bit.  (Inaudible) yeah.  Definitely language barrier makes it funny, because again his personality it's not easy to do what he does be so outgoing and funny.  I think it's great.  I think it's a great thing that the league's got right now and they've got to make the best out of it. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) always MVPs? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  They've always been before. 

 Q.  Not very often.  (Inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  (Inaudible) dominate for us.  Depending.  If you are the Most Valuable Player for the team, you do around the league I think (inaudible) we have the kind of awards also.  I don't think you should change the overall hockey (inaudible) position. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  No, I didn't try.  Seems to be similar to where the Olympics -- I didn't really look at it.  Maybe later on when we're better or Jersey. 

 Q.  It's been three years since you've had one of these things.  Are you struck by the turnover?  I won't ask you if you feel old.  Do you see the turnover, how young everybody is now? 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  A little bit.  It's great.  I think it shows the direction the league is coming to and a lot of youth.  A lot of young faces.  But, again, three years, there's a lot of people that went through the league -- guys retired.  New guys coming in. 
 So it was to be expected to be such a young turnout for the All Star. 

 Q.  Different feeling for you being one of the more experienced guys as opposed to when you were their age. 
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  (Inaudible) stay in the league.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT