NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 11, 2006
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Q.  Years ago the best goalies were all from Quebec.  Now a lot of them seem like they're from Finland.  Has there been a shift away from the Quebec goalies? What are your feelings on the shootouts? One more headache for the goaltender. What is your feeling on that? It's tough enough playing goalie in the NHL  with the 65 minutes, but now you have to go through the grief of the  shootouts. What are your feelings on the  shootouts?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, the first question, I think definitely  a lot more European goalies are becoming great goalies out there. You mentioned Finland with Kiprusoff, Lehtonen. There's other goalies. Played a young guy in Boston that did a good job, Toivonen.   
 I think the waves are  different. Patrick Roy dominated so much  in the late '80s, early '90s. I think  you saw a lot of the goalies coming in from Montreal, Quebec.  You saw Dominik Hasek dominating.  You saw a lot more European goalies coming out of Europe.  I think there's a lot of trends because of the success of the goalies  that happens in the NHL.   
 I don't know if it feeds off with  young people believing what they can do.  But definitely it's a great asset to our league to be able to go out  around the world, pick up goalies. It's  pretty cool.   
 The other question, I think it's  great. I don't think it's a drag for  anybody. I think it's a big challenge  for goalies to be part of shootouts. If  you're a guy that likes competition, then this is it. I think you're going one-on-one against the  best players on the other side. It's a  little tough sometimes when you don't win or whatever. But I think for the fans, even for players, I  think it's a challenge. I think a lot of  the goalies that I've talked to welcome it a lot.   
  
  Q.  On the shut-outs, how tough is it to get a shut-out in today's  game? A lot of great goalies never came  close to the amount you've had.   
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, definitely in the league it gets  tough. Especially to kill so many  penalties every game, it makes it hard. I  think it's all about offense now. You  see that guys are going to the net a lot more freely than they used to. You don't see these shut-outs with 12 or 13  shots that I had a few of (laughter). You  don't see that too often any more.   
 I've been fortunate to play in a  pretty well-disciplined team all of my career.  I think that's one of the big reasons why I was able to rack up so many  shut-outs.   
  
  Q.  In your eyes, what do you find the most surprising things in the league  as far as where teams are in the standings?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, there's not many, many surprises. I think everybody expected Buffalo to have a great season. You expect Anaheim to dominate. I think we're a little different. Definitely in our division, seeing the Flyers  struggle that much. They're a good team,  a lot of good players. You shake your  head when you see they're at the bottom of our division. I think it's going to turn around for  them. It takes a little time.   
 But there's not much surprise out  there. San Jose, you know these guys were  good. Ottawa could be a little bit of a  surprise. Everybody thought they would  dominate a lot more. So far I think it's  been a decent season for the teams that are supposed to be there.   
  
  Q.  In the second season of the crackdown on goalie equipment, the new  rules, do you feel and do you see other goalies getting more acclimatized with  how the world is now?  
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Oh, definitely. There was a period of adjustment for  everybody. I think as far as our goalies  are concerned, it's a lot different than the player. Missing a full year of playing hockey I think  affected certain goalies. I think right  now you can see everybody getting back in the groove of what we're used to  playing.   
 Definitely the equipment is one  thing. But definitely the way that the  game is played is a different one. I  think that's where I think everybody's starting to get used to it a little  more.   
  
  Q.  There's a lot of stories going on about Dominik Hasek, Detroit, coming back at his age. Are you making any concessions to age? You're not as old. Have you changed anything? Are you looking after anything differently  than you might have eight or 10 years ago?  
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Not yet.  I'm sure it's going to come up soon.  You always hear when you get older, you have to take care of yourself a  little better, everything comes a little harder. You can feel it once in a while, that  definitely it's important you take care of yourself. The rest factor also. When you do get older, I think if you don't  want to get hurt too much in the back end of your career, I think it's  important to stay in top shape and well-rested for the games you need to play.   
  
  Q.  The best goalies still seem to be the older goalies. Any real young ones coming up? You still play in just about every game in New Jersey.  At your age, do you ever put your hand up and say, Uncle?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR: They're the ones trying to get me out of the  net (laughter).   
 I think definitely there's some  really, really good young goalies. You  just look in Atlanta with Lehtonen.  I think he's going to be the real deal definitely. This franchise, it looks like they're turning  the corner and will be dominant for a few years. They have a lot of great, great players, and  are well-coached. You look at Henrik  Lundqvist in New York, a young guy that plays in a tough  market. Definitely he's making his way  up to be one of the top goalies also.   
 I think the future of goalies is  well on their way. That's counting also  Ryan Miller. You look at Marc-Andre  Fleury, Pittsburgh, another organization turning the corner to be  a dominant team with probably the best hockey players. The future looks pretty bright.   
 As far as me playing a lot of games,  I grew up in this organization playing a lot of games. For me I don't see it to be different. I always try to compare myself to a hockey  player. I know Scott Stevens at 36, 37  years old played 82 games every year and didn't ask for a day off. That's why I try, if I feel good, to be able  to help my team out.   
  
  Q.  You're obviously second in wins. You're  tied with Glenn Hall for shut-outs. Is  it tougher to get a shut-out now than it was back then? Do you compare what he did and what you have  done?  
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Definitely I think it's a lot different than  it used to be to have shut-outs. I was  pretty fortunate, I got most of my shut-outs when the game was mostly defensive  hockey, especially in New Jersey.  I know now with the new style in the NHL, it going to get harder and  harder to get close to the 103 mark of Terry Sawchuk, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  How have you kept yourself at the top of your game for so long?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I don't know. I think it's just the enthusiasm I have for  the game, the love of the game. I don't  know if it takes me apart from anybody else.  It makes me drive to be the goalie that I am, because I think I'm really  fortunate to do what I do. Every year I  just kind of shake my head, I can't believe I'm still here having fun and  having success with the Devils.   
 I think it's just a question of  attitude. You just got to believe in  yourself to a certain extent. I'm pretty  fortunate that I do have an organization that's right behind me at all  times. I think that's the way I go by my  career so far.   
  
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Thank you.   
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT