NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 7, 2003
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARTY BRODEUR: If it means something, I don't think we're in a good business.  This is just time for us to rest and stuff and make sure we're ready for the game.  I think that's what's really important, the game.  We have warm-ups to get our legs and get our equipment ready to go and play a good game.

Q.  Marty, what can you tell (Inaudible)?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, you go out every season and try to be the best team you can.  I thought in 2001 we were awesome.  Once again, we're faced with a tough task in front of us.  The toughest thing to do in hockey is close out a series, and the Stanley Cup Finals series.  It's a better position than trying to stay alive in the Finals having only one game to go.  Hopefully we're just going to get it done.  It's a hockey game.  They're not going to turn over and give it to us.  We've got to get it from them, and we'll see how the game is going to go.

Q.  Marty, you talk about winning the fourth.  Is the hardest thing to do?  What makes it so much more difficult than the first three?

MARTY BRODEUR: Because you know at the end of that game is the big prize.  Focuswise and emotion and every time, you're playing a team that's got no tomorrow, it's always harder.  Definitely, the situation is everything can be over tonight.  You have to be ready mentally and emotionally to cope with that.  You can't forget what you have to do on the ice.  That's what makes it hard to clinch anything.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, I didn't see him skate the time he skated the other day.  I don't know how he's going to look.  I'm going to look at him a little bit.  The fact that he's with us makes a big deal for us.  As a team, he was a big heart all year, all playoffs, and it's definitely tough to see a warrior like that go down and not be able to help out in the Finals.  Hopefully there is a slight chance, but he understands if he's a liability out there, he's not going to play.  We can't worry about whether he's going to be in or not.  It's all about him.  If he does, it's a plus; if not, we feel pretty good about the guys that are in.

Q.  Marty, is that because of the whole group?  Or has that happened because Stevens is like that or Niedermayer is like that, or is everybody like that naturally?

MARTY BRODEUR: I guess so.  It's important that you stay even-keeled in situations like that.  Definitely the emotions are there, but some people show it and some people don't.  It's important for us to go out there and be businesslike.  That's what we have been doing all year.  With having that attitude, I think when we walk around, when we think about the game, we know that we still have a lot to accomplish.  Maybe that's why you don't see the confident level or cockiness about our team.  We know there is still much to do out there.

Q.  You guys have a businesslike attitude all year.  Is there a way you want to remind everyone of the enormity of the opportunity to win a Stanley Cup without playing too much on the nerves?  Is it a fine line?

MARTY BRODEUR: We talk about it.  I think we would be lying to everybody saying we're not thinking or talking about it.  The fact is, we have been through this before.  Some of our teammates haven't.  And I think that's where guys that have been there before on the winning side and on the losing side are able to talk to them and make sure you've got to know what's at stake.  This is huge for your career and life.  It's going to change everything for everybody if we come through.  You don't want to miss the boat.  We have a great opportunity here, but it stays at that.  We can't really look forward and try to think what's going to happen if we do win or if we do lose.  We have to play a hockey game and win as best we can.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARTY BRODEUR: Definitely with having both experiences winning at home and on the road.  At home, there is a lot of pressure involved in the game.  People expect you to win.  When you get on the road, the pressure is off a little bit.  It's only your team and the people you're with.  When you win, it's kind of nice to spend that day with the 25 guys and families and that's it.  When you're at home, it's more of a circus atmosphere.  It's fun that you're with your fans, but one way or the other, it's not better or not.  Winning is fun.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT