NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Marty, you have been around so many playoff series.  How big is a momentum switch like this one, and how do you sort of slow it down?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, I think the fact that we're going in our own building, I think that will help us to do that a little bit.  They played really well in home ice, but I'm sure the way they played in the first two games is in the back of their head a little bit.  It will be to our advantage to use that in New Jersey, and hopefully we'll make the best out of it.  They did that in their building.

Q.  Is this where your experience as a team really has to kick in?

MARTY BRODEUR: Yeah, it's no panic here, but it's what we wanted to avoid.  Hey, we're faced with that right now, and hopefully, we'll get some guys back in the lineup.  I mean, we have been through this before.  We always seem to want to go the hard way all the time.  This is no different.

Q.  Marty, it would have been almost not human not to think after the first two games that you weren't going  -- you were going to win at least one in Anaheim.  Looking back, do you think the first two games came too easily?

MARTY BRODEUR: In the way that they played in Game 3 and 4, if you look back, they're totally a different team.  We took advantage when they didn't play too good to get some wins.  But if you look, our job was to win at least one game on the road, and we didn't do that.  It took two overtime games to beat us.  I think that's the positive you have to take out of that.  If anybody was a betting man, we probably thought we would win one game on the road.

Q.  Marty, there is always pressure playing in your position.  When all the games are so low scoring, how much is that magnitude?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, every little mistake or goal or save makes a big difference.  People will talk about that until the next game, until another little bounce or nice goal or nice save will make another difference in another game.  The offensive part of the game is kind of shut down by the way both teams are playing defensively.  I think a lot of the pressure is going to come towards me and Giguere.

Q.  Are we to expect in Game 5 just another chess match and real close to the vest right off the jump?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, it would be kind of weird not to expect that with the way all the games have been played, but weird things happen sometimes.  Now everybody thinks it is going to be so tight.  Who knows what kind of performance offensively or the goalies will do out there.  You always have got to wait for the unexpected a little bit when you get into a playoffs that's so tight.  We're starting to learn each other a lot.  I don't think one team was dominant in all four games that we played so far.  It's going to be interesting to see how it is.  I expect a tight game, but, who knows, sometimes these tight games could break out also.

Q.  Aside from what he could do for you physically if and when he comes back, what do you think the emotional lift would be back if Nieuwendyk came out there in Game 5?

MARTY BRODEUR: Well, I mean, emotionally, he's been a great contributor in the season and in the playoffs so far for us.  It's hard to see a guy that cares so much not being around to help us out.  Injuries are part of the playoffs.  You've got to deal with that.  If he's able to come back, it will be an asset of our game that's really important.  Like faceoffs, I think that's where Anaheim really took advantage of us and controlling the play by being strong in the circle.

Q.  Marty, because they are so good in faceoffs, do you find yourself playing the puck a little more than normal because you don't want to get in a faceoff situation?

MARTY BRODEUR: You've got to be careful how you handle that.  For me it's an adjustment.  You've got to be a lot more careful.  They got a few chances last night, and I think at home it's a lot easier.  I think you have a better match-up and for me, on the road it's important to slow down the play, to calm the crowd down, calm the other team's excitement a little bit.  In my own building, it's a lot easier for me to play the puck and move the puck a little more compared to the road.  It affects also their strength of winning faceoffs.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT