NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 8, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Martin Brodeur. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, you know, I'm enjoying this ride.   It's been great all throughout the playoffs.   Definitely I'd like to have a little more success in the finals here. 
We're still alive, looking to create that success, win again. 
We're happy as a team to be in this position, fight for the Cup.   We're not going to give up. 

Q.   One of the things that the Kings have done a lot is kind of get right up close against the goalies, bump a little bit.   We saw Elias do that on Quick.   Seemed to frustrate him.   Do you think that might be something this team needs to do a little bit more?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think we have to create room in the offensive zone.   I think one way of doing that is bring defensemen to the goalie.   We've been talking about that.   Drive a lot of guys to the net, bring a lot of people so it creates more room. 
I think it's important for us to get a little more offensive success.   It created a big goal for us at the time.   I'm sure we're going to have to do a lot more of that.

Q.   Are you surprised of all people that Elias is the guy that did that?   Elias is not a big guy. 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   We know he listens to the coach now, so that's good (laughter). 

Q.   One of the things your team has shown is maybe to get better as the series goes deeper.   Is this confidence in this situation?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Well, we hope so.   I think there's always that big adjustment that you make with teams, especially a team from the Western Conference, hard for us.   We didn't think we'd play bad.   But no results... 
It was nice to get a result last game.   We should build off of that, try to improve as we go on.   We're going to need to.   These guys won't give up.   They're one win away of having their dream come true. 
For us, we just got to play hard, make their lives as miserable as we can. 

Q.   How do you feel about two days off between games?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Considering that travel, I'm pretty happy that we had today to relax.   My son's birthday today.   So we'll enjoy that. 

Q.   How do you create doubt in another team in this situation?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Just got to win games, that's it.   There's not much more that we can do. 
Again, we were looking for something to spark us.   Hopefully that big win, late in the third period, is something that for them, getting to be so close to it, not getting it in front of their fans, hopefully that will start something. 
Again, it's a long ways away for us.   We're just taking it day to day.

Q.   You mentioned your son's birthday.   When you're a young player, it's hockey, hockey, hockey.   That's what I was referring to about perspective change. 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Definitely.   The pressure is not there as much as when I was younger, the middle of my career.   I'm enjoying this as much as I can with my friends and family while trying to do something great with my teammates here.

Q.   Does that help you to stay loose as we go forward here?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Obviously not thinking about the game.   That's the bottom line.   There's long days when you play at 8:00, you start with meetings at 9:00.   On your off days, it's nice to get away from everything. 
We've been home for so long, playing Philly and New York.   Starting at home against L.A., it makes it easier to focus when game day comes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Marty. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT