NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 11, 2003
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are the goalies not getting bumped as much as in the past?

MARTIN BRODEUR: It's the first series, first game of the series, so usually it always takes a couple of games before physical play gets into play for goalies.  They got some success without doing it so maybe they are going to wait on it.  Usually it's when you have a hard time scoring goals, what you try to do is create traffic and try to get close to the goalie so he can't play the game that he likes to play. 

Q.  Could you give us a quick translation of what you just said?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, the question was asked about having all four goalies being French Canadian and Luongo winning the World Championship in Finland today.  So I thought it was just kind of pretty neat to see all French guys going out and having so much success and definitely it's fun for me to yap at my players, my teammates saying that all these French goalies are doing real well.

Q.  What do you think of going home in between games?

MARTIN BRODEUR: I think it's great.  I think definitely it was a nice rest last night when we came back - came back pretty early and today we're not going on the ice so it's kind of nice to have our own distractions here and doing our own stuff and we'll get ready tomorrow to get back to work and it's kind of nice to forget the game by just being home and not have to stay in a town that's hockey crazy right now, in Ottawa.

Q.  Can you entirely forget the game or can you draw upon what happened after how you played after you fell behind 2-0?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I think every time you play a game you learn from it.  Mostly early in the series because we never really played against them in the Playoffs and they made a few changes at the end of the year, so, I think it was a good taste to see how we're going to be able to beat them and how we're going to need to adjust in certain areas to be more successful or giving a better chance to be successful in winning hockey games.  So we'll learn from this.  We'll adjust and that's what good teams do.  They adjust to the games that they play, good or bad, I think it is important that you look and remember what caused your success or your problems in games.  That's what the coaching staffs are doing all day while we're resting, they are the ones making their own work.  Tomorrow we'll hear about what we need to do for Game 2.

Q.  From what you saw what did you learn and how does the team adjust and what is there in the Devils' arsenal that you can draw upon to change things in Game 2?

MARTIN BRODEUR: I thought when we were starting to be physical in their zone we got a lot of success.  We had good chances offensively because of that and I think when we start playing physical in our own zone it kind of backfired on us a little bit.  I think they are talented enough that they will take hits and make plays and I think you know, maybe I am wrong, but I just felt that we need to be a little bit more patient in our own zone and not create too many holes like we did yesterday and it cost us a goal in overtime and a few chances before that.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT