NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 1, 2001
Martin Brodeur
John Madden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
JOHN MADDEN:  Obviously, you should have a great effort, if anything.  Eventually have to go out and score five goals or something like.  That just-- don't be outworked.  That's all we are asking.  Played for the guy beside you.  
 

Q.  Did Larry say more of the same in the meeting today like he he expressed to us last night?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  I don't know what he said to you guys. 
 

Q.  Probably what he said to you, that you were being outplayed?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  Yeah, well, he didn't say this to us.  He didn't say it was eight or nine guys.  He just said that we didn't have-- didn't have everybody going, basically is what he said.  He was shocked that it was a Stanley Cup Final.  We would have to have something like this come up.  One thing-- it's one thing to go out there and work as hard as you can and lose a hockey game, you know, you can live with yourself, but as for the rest, you know, the way things shake down that's not the way you go about it. 
 

Q.  Do guys stand up or talk during the meeting today; anybody kind of address that?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  That's basically in-house.  Let's leave it at that. 
 

Q.  Are you surprised that you guys were, basically two to three games outworked?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  Yeah, only game we did come to play, we won.  Actually, the only game we came to play 60 minutes we won.  We played well in the first period and I think that it -- even though we gave up two goals up the last game there, I thought we still had some effort, good effort from a good portion of the team.  But we didn't play 60 minutes.  
 

Q.  John, you played so well defensively as a team in the Pittsburgh series.  Only the Arnott line was scoring.  Have you kind of not noticed the rest of you guys were not scoring because you were playing so well defensively?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  I think our powerplay was working against Pittsburgh.  They had so many weapons over there that our concentration was on defense.  We figured if we can limit them from scoring one or two goals a game we would win hockey games.  That's what we did.  Our focus isn't as much on defense.  It is almost as if we just want to score goals and and have the media write good stories about us. 
 

Q.  What do you think you guys have to do to turn things around in Game 4?
 
JOHN MADDEN:  We got 20 some shots in last night's game.  He blocked about 15 shots and missed -- we missed the net with probably another ten or fifteen, so you know, when you say we are not generating shots and they are blocking a lot of shots, stuff like that, we are taking the play to their zone like when we get it down deep, we are working them tiring them out.  We just have to get more shots to the net and never pass up an opportunity to shoot.  Seems like when we should be shooting we are passing and when we should be passing we are shooting.  We are just not in sync that way.  Biggest thing we have to do different is come out and play for each other and not get outworked.   
 
Q.  Is it disguised when he releases -- (inaudible)?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  Because he keeps it so far away from his body so you never know if it's going to be a pass or a shot.  Goalies are learning but now he is just shooting.  Doesn't really pass the puck that much.  He is a gifted player no doubt about that. 
 

Q.  After the game last night Larry said maybe not everybody is pulling their weight for 60 minutes.  I know it's an individual thing.  But do you feel your teammates are working and doing the best they possible can at this point?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well I think it is important that we do.  It has been a little tough they have been playing us really hard and playing the game different way than usually we play other teams.  Sometimes it seems that we are not going anywhere just because they are in such good position and they work really hard.  So we are going to have to fight through that.  I don't think the effort is there all the time.  I think there's spurts that we play real well but because we don't get anything done sometimes we cannot feel bad about ourselves a little bit.  We don't continue pounding them.  So we have got to start, don't worry about the outcome and just doing it for 60 minutes. 
 

Q.  That's kind of the thing with the Playoffs, the team has these passes, these moments where you guys stop playing Devils' hockey.  It has happened in every series so far.  Seems like this point now you are playing with fire?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  There's no doubt, we are one game away to   -- hopefully for us in Game 4 it will be a big test and we have got to play like there is no tomorrow. 
 

Q.  What about this team that seems to get down and come back up, like rock 'em sock 'em  --
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  I think sometimes it takes that for us to be scared of playing the game.  I think that's -- when we play scared that's when we are the best team.  We just go out there and we don't try to do too much because we rely on everybody to do their job and not try to be individuals out there.  I think when we are behind the eight ball, I think we feel that we need everybody to be successful and always works out pretty good for us. 
 

Q.  Why is that?  Why does this team have that personality to feel threatened and to step it up?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't know.  Experience is there.  And knowing that our game plan is the way to go.  I think every time we bear down and do what we are asked to do, we are really successful. 
 

Q.  So you are stubborn?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  I mean when you have a skilled player, sometimes it is going to happen and sometimes you don't realize it that you need to be like that.  We should be able to realize it the way that we had to come back in every series, but I guess you know, still have another chance to be able to do it. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: Definitely, I think their speed from the first line to their fourth line has been a difference, the way that they activate their "D", if you look at the way last night two goals came from their "D" 
  definitely it was something that is a little different than the teams that we played. 
 

Q.  Do you feel a little different in yourself compared to last year, you are having some lapses, what about you?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR:  It is like when  -- this time we were up 2-1 so felt a lot better.  No doubt about it.  Just a matter of we are playing a good team.  We are playing a really good team and they are really hungry, you know, and it is kind of the mirror image of what happened to us last year, that we were the team that tried to take the Cup away and we were really hungry.  These guys, they played really well, but I think we were just more hungry and right now it seems that these guys are hungry more  having it more than we want to.  I think it goes with the way that they get their own breaks and they tried their own brakes because they work so hard out there to try to get it done. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT