NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 22, 2001
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Marty, in the second period there, did you feel like you finally were getting some-- maybe the most stiff challenge in three games there when it opened up a bit?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Yeah, I think they played really hard, but it cost them.  They had to open up and gave us tons of chances.  Good thing Hedberg was really sharp to making two breakaway saves.  But definitely they opened it up a little bit and they got a goal out of it.  Somebody fell or something on the blue line, but these things happen.  Once again, it was a great game.  We made a couple of mistakes they buried two goals on us.  But offensively we did really well. 


Q.  Talking about Jagr and Lemieux (inaudible)

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Yes, I am happy about it.  It's like anything, we closed in, keyed in on these players and we made sure that we were on them all the time and trying to get to them.  I think that's what our players did and definitely it is great-- a great feeling for this hockey club to be able to do that.


Q.  (Inaudible)
?
MARTIN BRODEUR: Yeah, I think so.  I think they are a different dimension that they have with their skill and the way that their defensemen jumps into the play.  So definitely will be a great challenge for us to try to find a way to shut these guys down.  We are going to need to do that if we want to be successful because they won't allow too many goals, that's for sure.


Q.  Is there a different feeling of accomplishment getting back to when everyone in the world expected you to be here as opposed to maybe last year when  --

MARTIN BRODEUR:  It is nice. 


Q.  -- it is a different sense?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  I am really proud that the team in front of me, I think it is really nice when you are expecting to do something to go out and produce.  It is always easy to go back door and go all the way, but when everybody sees you over there and, you know, you don't disappoint anybody, you got to feel pretty good about yourself and I think that's the way that we had it in mind the whole way.  We'd run into a lot of bumps along the way, but for the most part we were excellent of dealing with all the adversity that we had in front of us.


Q.  Your thoughts about going up against Patrik?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  We are facing the best goalie in the NHL in the Playoffs.  I mean, he has got a big reputation and it will be nice to play him.  Definitely it is going to be hard on our players to try to get to him, but this is the Finals and everybody is really excited to go up against a great team and a great goalie.


Q.  Just as happy not to see Jagr and Lemieux together (inaudible)   ---

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Sorry.


Q.  Were you just as happy that they weren't on the same line?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  Yeah, made it a lot easier, I think, when they weren't playing together.  I know, you know, they played a little more of a full lineup compared to the regular season. We were able to match on the road really well, I guess, beating them twice over there.  The way that we played them, so definitely it was an advantage to us when they weren't together.


Q.  Do you feel your level of play rose with each series?

MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't know.  I felt pretty good every series, I think it has been a different ride for me compared to other years.  Not too many shots and a lot of complaints from everybody all the time, but it is kind of you know, I am there.  We made it to the Finals so hopefully we will go out and produce.  I think this is the time of year that I think every wants to go out and be the man and be the one that is going to make it happen for his hockey club and we are facing guys that will have the same attitude with a lot of experience, so definitely for myself, I am really excited that my team gives me an opportunity again to be in the Stanley Cup Finals. 


Q.  You may have addressed this before.    Did you get a sense as the series went on that their big guns were getting frustrated that they couldn't (inaudible)--

MARTIN BRODEUR: We felt it a little bit that sometimes we were trying to press in different areas in their game; they couldn't really get anything done, but the fact that they are so talented and they have played in so many big situations that you just--  we were all waiting to see what is going to happen next with them.  I think that was the best thing for us is really respect them the whole way. We always kept playing hard on these three guys.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT