NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Martin Brodeur.   
   
 Q.   The day after, how you feeling today?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It's another day.   I think we're now getting ourselves ready to have a tough game.   I think it's an opportunity we have to stay alive.   Definitely yesterday was real disappointing knowing that we're going to live one more game and go from there.   
But today is a little better.   Practice, no pressure.   Get back tomorrow.   I'm sure it's going to be in the back of our heads.   But we have to go out there and try to enjoy ourselves, compete as hard as we can like we've been doing.  
   
 Q.   Is it about generating some spark to give you some confidence?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Well, definitely.   I think we need something to happen, regardless of what it is:   a big hit, a big goal, a weak goal.   They've been doing it on their side, finding a way to win.   We have to do the same thing.   
   
 Q.   You just have to look at one game, one win?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, that's the bottom line.   We have to compete tomorrow and we'll see where that's going to bring us.   
We put ourselves in that position.   I thought we played really well in the three games.   No result.   Credit to these guys.   They've been playing real well.   Everything they touch turn to gold.   That's to their credit.   We have to find a way, and so far we haven't.  
   
 Q.   What's the mood like with this group right now?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Actually it's pretty good.   I think guys are focused on what we need to do.   We know we're doing a lot of good things.   I'll repeat myself 50 times:   we got to find a way to score goals.   
   
 Q.   Given the way the team got here, are you shocked that you find this kind of deficit that you're facing?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   A little bit.   Like I said, the first two games we lost in overtime.   Both games could have gone either way.   We're in a huge hole.   Didn't expect that, that's for sure.   This is what we're facing.   
   
 Q.   Is it too late to change anything at this point?   
MARTIN BRODEUR:   It's playing better.   Harder?   The guys are working as hard as they can.   That attitude hasn't changed for us.   We just have to keep that level of intensity, but we have to execute a little bit better.   That's why you make plays and score goals when you play a little better.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it's on you personally to get a shutout?   Do you feel extra pressure?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   No.   I try to give these guys a chance to win.   I've done that in the first three games.   At the end of the day, it's hard to win games when you don't score many goals.   
I try to be perfect.   But the other guy is a little more perfect than me.   
   
 Q.   Are you able to forget the non‑whistle overnight?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, it's an unfortunate call that I think really affected us in that game.   But I think at the time, you always a little mad about it, you don't understand.   
But it is what it is.   These guys have a hard job and they react.   Sometimes they make the decisions.   Sometimes they make bad decisions.   Regardless of what he feels, he made a good or bad call, it's up to him to live with that.   
It really affected us in that game.   But we got to move on.   
   
 Q.   Pete said he didn't get an explanation.   Did you?  
MARTIN BRODEUR:   No, no.   It's kind of hard, especially some of the words I told him, I don't think I was going to get an answer back anyway.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT