NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 10, 2000
Martin Brodeur
Scott Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you talk about Scott Stevens and a defensive defensemen finally getting
recognition for the Conn Smythe?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: He definitely deserved it, there is no doubt about that. I have
never -- I have been playing with him for eight years and I don't have the best memory,
but I don't really remember him playing any better. He was really focused on what he had
to do. And a lot of times that doesn't get a lot of credit, you are right. It is a very
difficult job and he went up against a lot of the League's most talented players and
really helped this team.

Q. Is this as sweet the second time around a way of comparing it?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: It is just as good, for sure. I mean, it's been a while since we
were here, so to be able to get back here, you never know. I mean, it is a difficult thing
to do and we believed the last few years I think our team has been competitive and it's
been a few disappointments. To be able to stick with it and battle and come back here and
do this again is great.

Q. Marty, do you need a light?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: (holding cigar) No, I am fine. I will later, though. I did it the
first time in 95, that was my first one. I am really happy to be able to hold it in my
hand in front of you guys because I wouldn't do it otherwise.

Q. Talk about playing two straight overtimes with everything on the line and there was
a stat that kept showing 7 straight overtime losses. Did you know that? Did you think
about that?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Good thing I didn't see it. I knew it but I didn't really -- I mean,
this is overtime, a bounce here bounce there could make a big difference. But definitely
it is something I am happy to erase today and what better way to erase that record with
winning the Stanley Cup because of it.

Q. How is it different five years later after you had some tough losses?

MARTIN BRODEUR: I think you realize how hard it is to win a Stanley Cup. This is -- you
know, I am exhausted right now and I really love hockey and there is not too many guys
that can play the game and love it like that. It is time for this to end because I had
enough of the hockey. Definitely it was a great, great feeling and I think just the fact
that again it took us 5 years to get back where we were supposed to be and being able to
be successful is pretty amazing.

Q. Along those lines, talk about the significance of the veterans on this team that
were there in 1995. Seemed like the Cup went from one guy to one guy tonight and it was
all the veterans that were there?

MARTIN BRODEUR: These guys so-called veterans in this team were the big leaders
throughout this season and throughout the Playoffs. It is pretty amazing -- five years
later looking back and be able to count nine guys that were there in 1995 and be able to
again do it all together and with the mix of young guys that we have and the guys that
have been here for a couple of years, I think there is a lot of good things going to
happen in New Jersey for a while.

Q. Did Dr. McMullen address the team and what is the significance of winning it for him
in this final year?

MARTIN BRODEUR: He didn't really address the team. He did it way back during the
regular season when they announced it that everything was done and over with. But
definitely, for us, Dr. McMullen has been great to my family and me and I think he has
been great to these guys giving a chance to the family to be able to come in here in
Dallas and really sharing this moment with us. You have to give the man a lot of credit. I
think what a way to go and we were just really happy and I'd like to tell him that thank
you very much, Doc.

Q. A lot was made about the goaltending duel between you and Belfour. Did you ever feel
that you were in a duel with him or are you just playing your team; he was playing his?

MARTIN BRODEUR: I mean, I got to play my game, but I -- definitely it becomes a
challenge when the other goalie on the other side plays that well. I think everybody
expected a big challenge between -- big matchup between me and Eddie and I think it didn't
really start that way, but definitely the last two games I don't think you will see better
goaltending on both sides to finish the Stanley Cup. That was pretty amazing. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT