NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 8, 2000
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I am sure this really is disappointing. Is there a way of knowing how this will
affect you, or look forward?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: We have to. It is unfortunate that it had to happen. It was a great
hockey game on both sides; had a lot of chances to score. We just -- we had a long, long
time for everybody, I think, out there. Now it is all over with. We got to move on. 
 
Q. As the game's evolving, is it at all enjoyable for you to play, or are you just
waiting for your team to score a goal?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, it is enjoyable to a certain extent. The position that we
were in, we knew if we had a goal, it was, you know, we are winning the Stanley Cup. I
think it was a fun time. After maybe the second, it kind of got a little tiring, but it is
just -- things happen. We played well. We had a lot of chances. Eddie Belfour was
magnificent out there. 
 
Q. How much did this game remind you of the 1994 game against Buffalo?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: A lot. Didn't go as far, but it is always a goal like that that can end
up being in the net. Usually in the clear of shot, so long in overtime, they don't come as
fast, and also it is a little easier for goalies. But definitely it -- brings back a lot
of memories. 
 
Q. Is that once it got into overtime it was pretty much anything goes out there? Is
that in your mind the way you'd like to see that kind of game decided with, without any
penalties called basically?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, it is really hard to say. I am sure there is a few penalties that
should have been called, but it is overtime. I think they don't want to jeopardize the
game for just a marginal court. There was nothing, you know -- blood wasn't drawn. There
was no cuts out there from anybody, so they figured they are going to let us play, I mean,
to end it quicker. Maybe they should call penalties, because these are long nights. 
 
Q. Could you describe what you saw?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Brett Hull had the puck in the corner there. He tried to just dump it
in. It hit, I think, my defenseman's pads -- Modano was coming in, flying through the
middle, going to the net. And he just hit it through mid-air, and went through my legs, I
think -- think, I am not sure. 
 
Q. Knowing that you guys were in the exact same position they are in now in the
previous round, do you think they can derive much momentum from a game as tight as this?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: There is no doubt. They are still alive, so for them there is still
hope. For us, we have -- we have to regroup and try to finish this next game. 
 
Q. Do you feel you have to regroup after five periods of play? That is a lot. Do you
feel you are ready to go?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: We have no choice. Even though I am not ready, I will make sure I am
ready. This is the last question, so my preparation is starting now. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT