NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 7, 2000
Martin Brodeur
Scott Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just talk a little bit about the fact that experience will play a part in this game.
You guys have that experience, but also being able to help out the guys that don't have
any experience.

MARTIN BRODEUR: I think it is, you know, doesn't matter how much experience you have. I
think it's always a tough situation when you have to win the last game of the last series.
But definitely, I mean, we have been there before, a few of us anyway. We started already
to talk about how hard this game will be. Definitely everybody wants us to do well, and we
want to do well. But I think everybody knows that a certain moment in this game, it is
going to be important to really concentrate on staying ourselves and really be focused on
what we have to do and not reacting to the situation. If we do that, we will be okay. But
definitely I think for the coaches and for the veterans, I think it is important that we
take charge and we make sure that everything goes smoothly for us to be successful. If
not, we're going to make it hard on ourselves.

Q. You guys really seem like you got your heads together and are not getting carried
away. Remember your cross-town rivals in this situation in 1994 that came back after
winning two games on the road for Game 5. It was all over; parade was set. Ended up
losing. Really important to maintain focus?

MARTIN BRODEUR: It is really important. It is tough. It's big, big, what we are going
through right now. I said that yesterday in Dallas a little bit. Everybody calls us,
everybody talks to us, and it is really hard to get your focus. And we made the right
thing yesterday, we got together during the night, spend the night over at the hotel, and
this morning also and tonight, just for the fact I think it is easier when we are all
together to really get focused and get ourselves thinking the right way, because the fact
that we were able to do it to a team in the series, we just passed here against the
Flyers, kind of makes us realize that it is doable. It was really hard what we
accomplished, but it is doable because we did it. That is a fear that everybody has got a
little bit. I think that is a good fear to have right now.

Q. What do the veterans -- you have got a lot of rookies, but a lot of players who have
won it before. What is it that you tell the kids that haven't been through it?

MARTIN BRODEUR: That it will be not the game that you ever experienced. This is a game
-- it's a game where -- because I was always on the good side of it last time around. But
it is a game that it is just so different than playing real hockey, because there is so
much at stake. And next thing you know, you get a lead, you start thinking. There is a lot
of things that is going to go through your mind throughout that game, saying: Oh no, we
are going to go back. There is a lot of up and down usually you see in the series. Now it
is going to be condensed in one shift or in one period or in between periods. That is
where I think everybody is saying it is important to really just think about what you have
to do and not the outcome of the game; because when you get caught up in that, positive or
negative, it could hurt you a lot if you don't have your mind at the right place.

Q. Did you find Scott Stevens has had a bit of a rebirth this year in these Playoffs,
that he is playing as well maybe as he has in a few years?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, it is like anything, with success, people play better. It
is like anything. You don't have success, people will see why we don't have success, and
you look up to the big guys all the time. Scotty has been really steady for all of his
career. I think right now he has been playing really, really well. He is a big part of our
success, and I think the way that he played physically doesn't show that he is getting
older in there.

Q. Do you feel you are on top of your game after a couple of games against Philadelphia
that were not so good? Seems like your game is coming up now.

MARTIN BRODEUR: I feel pretty good. I feel pretty good about our team. Myself,
personally, you win; that is what counts. It doesn't matter if I feel bad, I just want to
win. But definitely, I feel pretty good. I felt real good playing in Dallas and in both of
these games.

Q. You have won a Cup. You have had incredible stats. But do you feel you haven't
gotten your fair recognition through the years? Do you need to win a second Cup to do that
for yourself? For the team, the last time you won the Cup, the next season was really
tough. Is that a good thing to have to guard against next season?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Next season is next season. Getting recognized is getting recognized. I
am real happy that I accomplished what I have in my career. I don't feel you have to win
tons of stuff to feel good about yourself or people talking about. I am really happy to be
in a situation that every year I have to have a chance to be really successful in hockey.
And that is the reason why I play hockey. And here in New Jersey, it's an opportunity for
a young player coming up. It has been seven years for me, and every year but one we were
always on top of the League in the regular season, and we did pretty good in the Playoffs.

Q. Because Dallas is having their backs against the wall and you know they are going to
come out and throw everything they have at you, do you feel you probably have to play your
best game of the series?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Everybody -- everybody in this dressing room will need to play their
best game, because it is tough to play against a team that, right now these guys -- nobody
expect them to come back, and it makes it hard on us. It puts a lot of pressure to do it.
They will be fightin', and they will be playing well, and they have a lot of guys with a
lot of talent and a lot of leadership. So I think we need myself, and the players that
play in front of me, to be on top of our game if we want to have success.

Q. When you look back at 1995 compared to now, now there seems to be just a lot more
offensive thrust, more opportunity to score; whereas, maybe in 1995, more focus on
yourself and keeping the other team scoreless. Do you see that difference? And how does
that affect anything that you may do?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, in the Playoffs it doesn't really affect as much. In the regular
season, you see a big difference of scoring goals, and that made my job a lot easier.
There is less pressure throughout the full season playing on a team that is able to score
a lot of goals, and special teams that we have had success on in the Playoffs, a lot of
games are really tight. Even though we scored three goals, it was late in the game. So you
had still to play well defensively, and myself, it is tough throughout the whole Playoff.
It is Playoff hockey. It is 2-1 hockey almost every game, so it makes it tough. I don't
think it is a lot easier this year than it was. Some games we had more goals scored for,
but that is the way the game goes.

Q. How much confidence have you gained personally just from how well the penalty
killers play in front of you guys-- the way that unit has performed in the Playoffs, does
that give you a little extra confidence knowing how well they are playing in front of you?

MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, for sure. It is fun to know that we are able to get the job done.
It is not like every time we get a penalty we are like: Whoa, it is going to be tough.
Guys have that confidence, and to really pull through, and it seems in this series right
now we always -- because the way we kill, they really changed the way the game ends up to
be. I think, give a lot of credit to the penalty killers.

Q. Will you give any kind of speech or anything tomorrow? Any need for it just to get
your team together?

SCOTT STEVENS: I get that question asked before every game if I could say a speech. I
mean, I don't think I will say a speech, but I will have lots to say before the game, and
it will just come when it comes to my mind; things that I think are important, I will
bring it up and talk about it. I know Larry will talk about his experience being in this
type of situation in the Playoffs, because he has been there. But like I said, I don't
have anything planned, but I know I will be thinking about things, and I will say them as
they come. It will just be from the heart when I talk, and what I have to say it will be
just spontaneous.

Q. For you, how much of the unrealized expectations over the last four years, since the
last Cup, have been a motivation for you during these Playoffs?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, I guess, you want to be successful and you want to do well in the
Playoffs, and it is a big time of year. Obviously, see a lot of people here, a lot of
press. It is important. We have had good regular seasons, but we just haven't played to
our potential, and have had trouble playing well in the Playoffs as of late. I think it
was -- definitely, the focus was there; and I mean, I was prepared for the long haul, and
things have gone well. And we have gotten a lot of great play from a lot of people, and
that really helps in the Playoffs obviously.

Q. You go in, you win two games in Dallas, you have to wait 72 hours to play the next
game? Has this hiatus been good for the team?

SCOTT STEVENS: I kind of like it. Against Florida and Toronto, we had that where we had
a couple of days off a few times. I kind of like that. It wasn't bad. Because the
schedule, the every second day it is nice to have a day off sometimes. It is nice to get a
couple days off. So I think it is going to be good for our team. I am sure it will be good
for their team also; but on a personal note, I don't mind it.

Q. Larry came in so late as head coach in the regular season, I don't imagine that he
drastically altered the way New Jersey plays hockey, correct me if I am wrong. But
specifically, what have been the differences and the things that he has brought as the
head coach, the biggest change in atmosphere?

SCOTT STEVENS: I really think the biggest change has been with the forwards, and the
forwards responded great. I give them a lot of credit, because I think that is where he
has worked and changed more things than anything. He really hasn't had a lot -- the
defense has been playing pretty much the same way. But he, I think he has had the forwards
just being a little more responsible in helping us defensemen go goaltending out, because
that has been the biggest asset of this hockey club for many years. I think we were
getting away from that, and playing a real offensive game I think finally was catching up
to us I think. He has it -- just tweaked certain things up front, not as much swinging,
more positional, and third guy high, you know, more backchecking. The forwards have been
great, and they have really helped make life a little easier for the defensemen.

Q. Typical for defensemen -- (inaudible) --

SCOTT STEVENS: Every coach, yeah, they get -- they have a different view of it. Larry,
that is one thing -- Larry knows what it is like to play defense and he knows what kind of
help we need. I think he has really found that. It took a little while for some of the
forwards, but I think that is a big reason why we are playing so much better is because we
are not giving up the odd-man rushes, not giving up 2-on-1s and 3-on-2s. We were giving up
a lot of those odd-man rushes, and you can't be doing that in this League.

Q. How important is the experience of having been in this position before going to
play?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, it should be important. We have been on the other side of this.
Like I said before, no lead is safe. We have our work cut out for us. We have to just
focus on this next game and just look at that, not look at what lies ahead of it or what
we have done in the past. We just have to go out there and play the next game and play our
best game, because I think a team that has their back against the wall, like they do, will
come out and play their best game. So we have to do that as well.

Q. How would you describe your increase in your desire to win it this time? Ten times?
One hundred times more?

SCOTT STEVENS: I mean, I think -- as a player, I try to do my best every year. I don't
see I am going to do more this year or have my best Playoffs this year. I try to have the
best Playoff every year I could have. Obviously, my game is better, but I think we are
better as a team, and our younger players are matured. That all comes into play. I think
it is a team effort. It is not one player. Yes, I have had a good Playoff, but we have had
a lot of players have good Playoffs. And you need that to get this far. It is not going to
be one or two guys.

Q. Do you feel Brodeur hasn't gotten his fair share of credit over the years? Do you
think he has been overlooked somewhat?

SCOTT STEVENS: No, I think if you think about the New Jersey Devils, Martin Brodeur
will be the first guy. I think if you ask people who you know on that team, it would be
Marty. So I think he -- he is known in the top 5 goalies in the League unquestionly, no
question about that. I don't think that is the case. I think he is playing great, and he
deserves it. I think he has been the top goalie for a long time, and I have heard that
talk, and I don't think, I mean, obviously winning a Stanley Cup will be great for him,
but he is playing great and I mean, the last two games he has been phenomenal. It's what
we need. But I think he is recognized as a top goalie in the League by far. It is not like
he is not known. He is a known player in this League.

Q. When you guys won in 1995 the whole Nashville thing was hanging over the franchise
moving. You guys looked completely undistracted by that. Were you as oblivious as it
seemed and do you think if you will win it this time it will be more celebrated by the
fans here without that hanging over them and by the players?

SCOTT STEVENS: That is a good question. I think sometimes you have distractions in
other areas it takes the pressure off a team. Someone asked me this question early when I
I said look at the Flyer situation, they have had a lot of ups-and-downs a lot of
distractions but they fought through it and become a better team and stronger. I think we
as a team know the only thing we can control is what goes on on the ice. We can't control
what goes on off the ice. Obviously if we win it will be great. Especially for Dr.
McMullen, obviously if the team is sold, which it is, we can't look at that, but we want
to do our best, no question, for him and for ourselves. We have waited a long time to get
back to this spot and we want to focus on the next game and try to go out there and win
that game.

Q. Kind of along those lines if you are able to do this, how will it make this team be
viewed differently you think? You won the one Cup in 1995; then you have had so many
highly publicized failures. Winning another Cup now, what would it do for the way the
Devils are looked at?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't know. We will have to find out hopefully because I am not sure
what it will do. I mean, it is a good question. You talk about respect, I think the most
important thing is respect each other in that dressing room and that is the bottom line as
players, and whatever else happens, happens. We can't control that and that is something
that it will fall in place and we will find out when that happens.

Q. Stay at home defensemen have traditionally been short changed at awards time, at
All-Star time. Can you talk a bit about that?

SCOTT STEVENS: Yeah. I guess that is a fair assessment. I guess you go back to Langway,
I was there when he was a defensive defenseman. He won it two years in a row. Since then
you haven't seen much of that. It is not something I dwell about or worry about or, you
know, individual awards, I think the Stanley Cup is far more up there than those, but you
know, maybe some day they will have a different award whether it is for the best defensive
defensemen, I am not sure, so be it, but, yeah, for the most part that type of defensemen
doesn't get as much recognition. But I think the players in the League respect what they
do on the ice and the teammates and every team has their guys that play well defensively
and people know how important they are to the hockey club.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT