NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 3, 2012
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Martin Brodeur. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARTIN BRODEUR:   We played some good hockey.   Like I said all along, since Game1, we need to put some timeouts in their head, find a way to do it.   Definitely tomorrow will be a great time. 
They always took a 3‑0 lead in every series they played.   To come out with a big win tomorrow will hopefully change the tide around. 

Q.   When you lose the way you did yesterday, play a solid game, still come out on the wrong end of it, does it hurt the belief or does it help the belief?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think it helps because I think we're going in the right direction.   We play well.   We're not getting outplayed.   We're getting the chances.   Quick, give him a lot of credit, he's been playing well.   Their defense really do their job also. 
When you're in games, that's the only thing you want.   You're competing really hard.   Guys are working really hard.   Something's got to give eventually.   We just have to have that attitude. 

Q.   Was that the attitude you had against the Rangers?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Yeah, exactly.   Same thing with Florida a little bit.   We thought we played well, but couldn't get ahold of the series till late in the series.   We have to keep the same attitude. 
We're in the Stanley Cup Finals.   One way or the other, it's going to be over soon.   Might as well go all out and see what that is going to bring us. 

Q.   How much difference would it be if you take the lead on them?
MARTIN BRODEUR:   Not just the lead.   They're a strong team.   Trying to get onboard early would be nice, but you can't fold because of that.   That's something you have to guard against a bit. 
We're pretty confident coming in.   We know we've been playing well.   Hopefully we'll break them somehow. 

Q.   What role does Lou play in this, if any? 
MARTIN BRODEUR:   I think right now, it's pretty rare within a series that he'll talk to us. 
But I think we always feed off of past experience, things that happened.   Our last run to the cup, we were up 2‑0.   We were on the road, next thing you know it was 2‑2. 
We're in a similar situation, but on the reverse.   We just have to find a way to win games. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT