NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
May 31, 2000
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did they look sluggish? Do you expect them to be a completely different team in Game
2?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: I think with the way that we started the game, the way that we played
physically against these guys, maybe they appeared that way, but they were in the game for
the first period. I thought they played well. When we got going, I think it got tougher
for them. There is no doubt that I am sure they can go better. Hopefully we can -- these
guys don't want to go back down 2-nothing in their building, that is for sure. We got to
expect their best game in the Playoffs so far. 
 
Q. You have got to think that their pride is a little bit hurt after what happened last
night. Do you expect them to really come out hard and fast and maybe as aggressive as they
have been -- how do you withstand that early rush?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: There is no doubt we are going to have to be ready right from the
get-go tomorrow. They are going to come out really angry and really hungry to win that
hockey game and really establish themselves. For us, we got to make sure that we are
really disciplined in the early going of that game and make sure we stay physical and try
to make them think about Game 1 and the same routine, try to bury our chance when we have
them. I think that was the big difference last night. Every puck that we shot found the
way in the back of the net, and you don't see that too often in a Playoffs and against a
goalie like Belfour. We have to do a lot more probably tomorrow than we had to do in Game
1. 
 
Q. Where do you find the motivation after such a dominating performance?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: We are in the Stanley Cup Final. I think that will motivate you; that
should be enough. It is fun, but it is only one game. Doesn't matter if you win it 2-1 or
7-3. Everything starts to zero tomorrow. And it should be a great battle again. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the maturation of Jason Arnott?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Jason midway through the season with the success with Sykora and
Patrik, really took the leadership from this line. And in the lockerroom and more and more
we were coming towards the Playoff, you could see that he was growing as a player, not
just on the ice, but outside towards other players helping these guys out. You have got to
understand it's been a few tough years for him with Detroit and all, but he was a guy that
was really a big leader in Edmonton. He was -- I believe he was a captain at one point
over there, and he was great leader. And he took maybe a few years to get accustomed of
New Jersey a little bit. Now he feels really comfortable, and it shows in his attitude
around the game. 
 
Q. This might sound strange but is it possible to sympathize with the fellow elite
All-Star goalie when he is having a night like that?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: For sure because you never know when it is going to happen to you. This
is hockey and everything can happen. It is unfortunate it happened for him, but it is fun
for us. But there is no doubt that -- I mean, these guys, you know, you don't become one
of the best goalies in the NHL by just rolling over and say, well, you know, it was not my
night. These guys will come back and play real well. That is why they are that good. 
 
Q. Do you think last night was a little more wide open than they really wanted from the
game?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I am sure they don't want to get into a breakaway contest or a
lot of different kind of open shots like we had. But, once again, we created a lot of
things. They didn't really play that bad as far as turning the puck over or making a bad
situation. I think we just -- went to the net hard, we created whatever we got. It is not
like they gave us much. We went and played hard and we played hard, we went to the net and
the puck bounced on our stick and went in the net. 
 
Q. Going against Jason, Patrik and Petr in practice, what makes them a good line? What
raises their level of play?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: They love to score. (laughs) It is tough when you go out every time and
they just love to score and they brag about it and they laugh about you when you can't
stop them. It gets annoying at times. That is why they are successful. I am the same way,
when I go out in practice I want to stop and yap at the guys if they don't score on me.
They do the same thing but on the opposite side. That is what makes hockey players better
because they want to do well at all times. They have a good chemistry and they hang
together and they protect each other when guys are all over them for whatever reason, and
it is fun to see them that young to be able to have that kind of chemistry. 
 
Q. Ed Belfour was saying that he was a little off balance and he wasn't all there last
night because he had a cold and he has been using medication and everything. Is that
particularly difficult for a goaltender to decide whether to take this sort of thing
before a game?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, you got to take whatever you need to take to feel better.
I know when I play sick it is important I get the right medication for me to be able to go
out and don't think about what I have and just think about the hockey game. 
 
Q. Is it the mindset of the team that whatever happened last night doesn't matter
unless you win tomorrow night because then you go back to Dallas tied 1-1?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, fortunately for us we started with the home-ice advantage. If we
don't want tomorrow, we will lose it. It is that simple. We are really fortunate to have
that one-game lead and I think we want to play better and we want to try to make them
think a little bit. I think right now, I mean, like any series, the first game is
important. I think it gives you a great lift when you win that first one, but it doesn't
mean anything if you don't win the second. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT