NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (INAUDIBLE.) 
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: He is an example to follow. Even for other hockey players to see him the way he plays, the way he came out two, three years ago and say things like that. 
 

Q.  Do you look back to that game?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: Oh, yeah, for sure.  I think that is something that we learn.  Our team learned a lot about that series, anyway.  So we look back to it. Even though we were not successful at the end, I think we gained a lot by playing them, you know. 
 

Q.  Do you look at him and see the leadership?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: Oh, yeah.  There is not a lot of players like him in the league, and that is why you kind of notice when he does some little things. 
 

Q.  I am sure this has been asked.  This has not been a real goalie friendly game as of late.  What are your thoughts about playing in this game with a bunch of snipers coming at you?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: You can't take it personally.  You just go out and try to enjoy it.  It  is going to be a shootout, there is no doubt about that.  You try to do your best.  They need a goalie, that is why I came.  It is an event for the public, and I think that is what the fans like.  That is what they are going to have. 
 

Q.  You guys have to make the playoffs before you can make another run.  Where does this team stand?
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: I think that break will be really good for us.  Right now I think we have been struggling a lot.  As of late, we won some games, at least we get ups and downs, but like I said, we just want to get the result and make the best out of it and try to run away with a couple of wins on a good streak or something.  So, you know, there is a lot of games left.  A lot of teams are pretty tough. We have got to bear down and get in the playoffs at least. 
 

Q.  Any challenge like that where you kind of face them one on ones, Gretzky coming in --
 
MARTIN BRODEUR: Like I said before, it is something -- even though it is tough on the goalies, it is great to be in.  You go out and you try to do the best you can.  These are the best players out there. Everybody is trying to do their best.  That is about it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT