INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 19, 2006
Romina Oprandi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  How do you feel right now?  What are you doing here? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  What I'm doing here?  They told me I have to come here (smiling). 
 Q.  I mean, a week ago, what did you have in mind when you arrived in Rome? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  Yeah, when I arrived here, I never thought about that I can arrive to the quarterfinal.  I just thought maybe if I'm lucky I can pass the quali. 
 But now, after today, it's not easy, I think. 
 Q.  Pardon? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  It's not easy after this match today, I think.  It's little bit sad. 
 Q.  How close were you with that shot, the forehand return? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  Yeah, it was not bad.  But when I had matchpoint, I couldn't put in the forehand.  So bad luck. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Italian, please. 

 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  No, never. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Did you get emotional when you saw your dad? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  No, not at all.  He arrived this morning.  Nothing to do with that. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Did you see the ball on the matchpoint was out? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  No, but I thought so. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  What does it feel for you to know that you can play against such a player who won a Grand Slam? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Well, it's great.  It shows me that I can compete with those players.  But of course it's a pity because I don't know when I will get another chance to compete against such a player. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Svetlana said if you want something, you're able to do it.  How much do you want to do it? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  After this match, very much.  I saw that it's great to play against such a player in front of such a crowd.  It's very special.  I can win or lose, but it's very special. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Were you bothered by physical problems during the match? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  I don't know.  I was feeling good.  I wasn't tired.  In the third set I was too nervous.  Maybe I thought I could win.  I had this matchpoint, but she served very well.  So I don't know. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  What would you have liked to have more today that you didn't have? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  I think experience is very important because you have to play very well in the important moments.  In fact, she made some mistakes when she was 4-1 in the second set, but when we were 5-All in the third, she didn't make practically any mistakes at all.  So this is quite important. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  After that match point, you lost very many points in a row.  Were you disappointed, or was it something else? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I was quite sad.  I was thinking about that point.  I was thinking how could I have possibly made a wrong shot.  I thought I had been silly. 
 But after a while, it was okay. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think you sent a message with the other players who played the smaller tournaments like you that the gap is not so wide? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Maybe.  I hope.  This was my first major tournament and, well, I played well, but it's just one tournament.  Now I have to continue to do that in the long run, and I hope I will in the future.  Maybe it will show the other players that I can play well. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Was it the first time you lost a match after having had a matchpoint, or not? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  I think it must have occurred, but I can't remember. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Did you cry after the match? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Maybe a little bit, but not too much. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Will you think back about that ball you missed at matchpoint over and over, or will you think just about the tournament? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  No, I will remember it throughout my life. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  What is going to be the best memory of this tournament? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Everything.  I mean, I will remember about all.  This is almost my favorite tournament.  The favorite one is Paris, but of course with Rome.  It was a great experience.  Playing on center court as well, the crowd was great.  It was a beautiful week, almost perfect.  Even today, I think, was not bad. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Next time will you know how to get to center court? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I hope I will, and I hope I will be there next year. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Will you ask a wildcard for Roland Garros? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Well, I don't know.  But you can do it if you want, please (smiling). 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  What will be the difference now?  How will you feel to go back to doing qualifying for Roland Garros? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  I don't know.  I mean, we'll see.  It's not going to be easy.  Anyhow, the gap is not so wide because Roland Garros is a Grand Slam tournament. 
 With my ranking, I cannot yet go into the main draw for the moment. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  But your ranking will allow you to go into the main draw at Wimbledon? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Maybe, but I think it's one week too late. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  How did you feel when the crowd was calling your name? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  It was fantastic.  Just incredible. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  How do you react after something like this?  How will you feel going into Roland Garros? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Well, I don't know.  I think it's too early.  We'll think about it tonight.  It's not going to be easy because I'm first seed in qualifying. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  How will your schedule change?  Are you ready to go into this higher-level tournaments? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Yes, but I think I'll just play two or three WTA tournaments more and I'll continue playing the ITF tournaments for the moment.  I think it's better for me. 
 Q.  (Through translation.)  Did you have the chance to meet the other Italian players? 
 ROMINA OPRANDI:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I had a chat with Roberta Vinci.  And Garbin, she wrote me a message.  She was very kind, but I think they're all kind. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT