NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 3, 2016
Craig Brinkerhoff
Mark Krueger
Erid Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU - 7, Utah Valley - 1
ERIC MADSEN: Well, you have to give LSU a lot of credit.  They are a good club.  Very disappointed.  I just didn't feel like we played as well as we are capable of, too many strikeouts.
But the opportunities that we had early that ended in strikeouts just disappointing.  I think we are a better club than what we showed tonight but again you have got to give LSU a lot of credit, because they are very talented.
Q. Craig, you had a double and a single, two hits tonight.  Talk about your night at the plate, please.
CRAIG BRINKERHOFF: My approach, I was at first, I was a little too fast.  I was a little late.  I was trying to do too much.  My later at-bats, I tried to slow it down and just simply put the bat on the ball, and it worked out pretty good for me.
I should have come through for my team.  My first at-bat, I feel like I let them down.  I've just got to do better.
Q. 2-for-4, talk about your night at the plate.
MARK KRUEGER: Seeing a lefty, lefty on lefty, I just wanted to slow myself down especially against a guy that's throwing really well all year.  Just really wanted to slow myself down and kind of get my hands going.  Just trying to put the bat on the ball and doing whatever I could for my team.
Q. Maybe all three of you guys could talk about today, being a long day and rain delays and everything.
MARK KRUEGER: Getting here, we were all super, super excited.  I think we had a lot of nerves going, waiting for the rain.  Then just waiting it out, I think we kind of settled in.  We went back to the hotel just waiting to see what happened.
Once we came back, kind of our nerves settled down.  I think we came out and did too much in front of a lot of people, but coming in, I think we were very excited and then just waited it out.
CRAIG BRINKERHOFF: Yeah, I think when we first got here, like Mark said, we were just so excited to be here, like the atmosphere was awesome.  We felt the energy in the stadium and then when we got back later, we started slowing down.  When the game got going, the atmosphere, the energy, got really loud.
I felt like we as a team really sped up things and we didn't calm ourselves down.  That's kind of what carried on throughout the game. I felt like sometimes through the game, we slowed ourselves down and adjusted.
ERIC MADSEN: Yeah, I actually thought it was going to help us, because we were amped up, and again, it's excitement, the first regional, and these guys have done such a good job all year to get here.
When we did have the delay and get back, I thought even when the delay started, before we went to the hotel, I thought we had calmed our nerves a little bit.  They kind of got a chance to be around each other and realized we were just playing a baseball game regardless of the magnitude of it.
I felt like that was going to help us.  Again, as these guys both said, I thought they have been good coming from behind, and I just felt we tried to speed it up a little bit and tried to do a little too much when we got our backs against the wall.
Q. What did you see from Poche', what was he able to do really well today on the mound?
MARK KRUEGER: He was able to keep the ball low.  He located his fastball really well.  His breaking ball had a lot of bite to it.
So I think he just located his pitches very well, and we sped up and tried to do too much with it.
Q. Did you think Danny had a little too much adrenaline?  I know first pitch went to the back stop and things like that.  Do you think he was over-amped a little bit?
ERIC MADSEN: Yeah, I think so.  Danny's got good stuff, and I think obviously the environment got to him a little bit.  He's done that before.  I thought he settled down a little bit throughout the game; that he would, as he has in the past.
I think again, the home run, I think it surprised him.  He was just putting it on the plate and trying to see what results would come, and the guy got it good.  So you know, again, good-hitting club, but definitely, I thought he let it get to him a little bit.
Q. Pitching plans for tomorrow?
ERIC MADSEN: Right now, most likely Jackson Cofer.  He's been a great tournament guy for us.  Again, still, that could change, but that's kind of what the talk was when we went into it.  FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT