PAC-12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2021
Mya Hollingshed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Washington 68, Colorado 54
 THE MODERATOR:   We have Colorado's Mya Hollingshed first.  We'll open it up for questions for Mya.
 Q. Washington is always a tough matchup for you guys.  What makes them so difficult for you guys?
 MYA HOLLINGSHED:   I don't think it was anything that Washington did.  I think it was everything on our part.  We just came out, we did things that as Coach said were uncharacteristic, things that we never do.
 I think it was nothing to have to do with Washington.  I think we just got outside of ourselves and we gave them extra opportunities when we could have took care of the ball.
 Q. This week there was a lot of talk this was such a good opportunity for you guys, best season you've had in a long time.  Did you come out tight and put some pressure on yourselves because of all that?
 MYA HOLLINGSHED:   Yeah, I think they came out with nothing to lose.  We came out as if we had everything to prove.  That was not the case.  We just should have come out, played the basketball that we've usually been playing all year.  Yeah, yeah, I don't understand.  We're still at a loss for words as to what was going on out there.  Yeah, we're still trying to figure that out.
 Q. There was a couple times in the second half where you did make a run.  Seemed like you figured it out.  Washington seemed to have so much confidence, they would start hitting shots.  How tough was it with the way they were hitting threes tonight?
 MYA HOLLINGSHED:   Yeah, again, they played like they had nothing to lose.  Like Coach said, when you have nothing to lose, you throw the ball up, it's going to go in.
 We just didn't play like how we normally play.  We're just disappointed in that.  We just have to move forward and look forward to post-season, whatever that may be.
 Q. What are your emotions being a senior, knowing what you have done this season to put yourselves in this position, to go home in that first round for the third year in a row?
 MYA HOLLINGSHED:   Disappointed, as I should be.  We came out and we wanted to win this game.  We knew what we needed to do in order to be invited into the big tournament, the NCAA tournament.  We knew what our goals were.
 Again, we didn't execute that tonight so...  That is unlikely to happen, so...
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT