AEGON CLASSIC
June 10, 2014
Naomi Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. ZAHLAVOVA STRYCOVA/N. Broady
  5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3 
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
 Q.   I guess you thought you had an opportunity to win that. 
  NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah, really frustrating.   Definitely had some chances.   I played at a high level, slightly higher level than I usually do.   You don't get second chances as you do at the lower levels. 
  If you don't take the first ones, they don't come back around.   I think just to get the experience at this level now.   Game is not horrifically bad.   Just taking those chances while I've got them.  
 Q.   What are your plans now?   Playing doubles? 
  NAOMI BROADY:   Me and Heather have doubles tomorrow.   Going to go out and practice this afternoon and get my anger out and hopefully feel better.   Heather had a tough one today as well.
  We've got a great opportunity in the doubles.   It's a really tough draw.   All the matches are really strong this year. 
  But we're really looking forward playing with each other.   We haven't for a while, so should be really good fun. 
 Q.   Eastbourne quallies after that?
  NAOMI BROADY:   Depending on the qualifying for Wimbledon.   If I do that, I probably won't play Eastbourne, as it overlaps.   I think they're having the meeting today for the wildcards at Wimbledon.   We'll see. 
 Q.   What would it mean to you to get a wildcard in Wimbledon?
  NAOMI BROADY:   Amazing.   Went through quallies last year and lost in the second round to Garcia, who is here this year ranked around 50, I think, and lost 6 and 6 in a really tough match.
  So, yeah it would be amazing.   The prize money would help my tennis.   It would be an amazing opportunity.   As long as I didn't play one of the very top seeds, I fancy my chances if I serve well. 
  THE MODERATOR:   The announcement is tomorrow. 
 Q.   Is it?   With regards to your career at the moment, is it just a case of getting enough money together to keep going? 
  NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah, last year my doubles pretty much funded my singles.   I won a few ITF tournaments and won a few finals and didn't win very many singles matches.
  It helped my singles as well.   Helps your serve, return, intensity.   So my doubles sort carried me through.   I just won a few ITF tournaments, so financially at the moment I'm okay.   In England I'm not having to fly everywhere, so that helps. 
 Q.   There were some comments flying around a few weeks ago ‑ Andy said it ‑ maybe some of the top players filtering some of their prize money down the scale.   You would be up for that, would you? 
  NAOMI BROADY:   I have no idea how they could fix it.   But the fact that prize money is the same as 30 years ago and the cost of living is so much higher, I don't know how they could fix that.   I don't have many suggestions.   It's not really my job to think of an idea for it.
  The system is not great, and at the lower level it's impossible to fund yourself on prize money.  
 Q.   And your dad has got both of you to worry about, so I guess it's really difficult in your family situation. 
  NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah, I'm 24 years old now.   I don't rely on my parents for any money whatsoever.   I'm one of four children and my sister has a child of her own. 
  Yeah, just trying to pay for tennis my prize money is incredibly difficult. 
 Q.   Has it come to the point where you felt this is more effort than it's worth, or still hanging on to the dream?
  NAOMI BROADY:   This time last year I started looking into other things I could do, because I couldn't financially fund myself at all. 
  Then getting into Wimbledon qualifying and winning that round, I was able to play a few more months.   Thankfully towards the end of last year the my results picked up, and the prize money as well.
  If it wasn't for my Wimbledon wildcard last year, I couldn't be playing now.   Yeah, I would have stopped last year.   I can't financially afford to play tennis.  
 Q.   Glad you're still here. 
  NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT