AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 15, 2015
Naomi Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. BROADY/A. Tomljanovic
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   How does that rank in some of your victories against a player ranked so much higher?
NAOMI BROADY:   Actually don't know what her ranking is now, but I knew her from before.   I was just playing her as a player and not the ranking.
I think that's the key when you get a wildcard into a tournament, not to overthink the draw and not to look at the ranking.   Just look at the opponent across the net from you, and I managed to do that today. 

Q.   How do you feel about your play?   Seemed really confident. 
NAOMI BROADY:   The start of the match I felt like we weren't having many rallies.   I was a bit conscious thinking it wasn't a very good match for people to watch.
Both of our game styles aren't to have long rallies, and especially on the grass you're not aiming to do that anyway, especially with my game.
Just concentrated to keep winning my service games and then just pushing her as far as I could on her service games.   At the end I just managed to win with the net cord.

Q.   Did you feel nervous towards the end?   Didn't look it. 
NAOMI BROADY:   No, I was just thinking, If I lose this game it goes to 5‑All, and then I'll hold my serve again.
So I was just taking it one game and one point at time and not getting too far ahead of myself.

Q.   Tell us a bit about Surbiton last week.   Was that a conscious choice to have plenty of time ahead of coming here?
NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah, I was asked if I would like to play Nottingham, but I decided to go for Surbiton.   It's always tricky over the grass to decide when there are two tournaments each week. 
They are both such good opportunities, but I was trying to focus on getting as many matches as I could before Wimbledon.
It's hard to get the balance between the level of the WTAs here, which is the level that you're going to be playing at Wimbledon, and getting a lot of matches in.
So I've managed to get that balance right by making it through to the semis last week, and it helped me out today.   I'm match tight now and I'm playing well.

Q.   What do you make of your next opponent, Simona Halep.   Quite daunting. 
NAOMI BROADY:   No, I'm excited about it.   I've got no pressure on me whatsoever.   If I serve well, who knows what's going to happen.   I don't think grass is her favorite surface of all of them, so, yeah, we'll wait and see.

Q.   How did you find the court?   How much did you enjoy it?   You said in your interview on the court how you've always enjoyed playing here.
NAOMI BROADY:   Yeah, I love coming back here.   It's one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   So when I was looking at the grass schedule this year as well, I was trying to think maybe I will play the ITF last week so I could play here this week.
Yeah, I love coming back here.   I've been back for a few tournaments on these courts here as well.   So, yeah, the crowd were great.   It was a quite full stadium for the first day.

Q.   Will a victory tomorrow be the biggest in your career?
NAOMI BROADY:   I'm not playing tomorrow, but, yeah, I think it would.   Yeah, ranking‑wise, yeah, it would be the biggest of my career I think so far.
I'm just going to aim to go out there and play my game and take it as close as I can and go for it really.   Not expecting to win or lose.   Just take it point by point. 

Q.   The Wimbledon wildcards haven't come out yet, have they? 
NAOMI BROADY:   I think the meeting is today.   We've not heard anything, doubles, singles, anything yet.   We don't know.   Hopefully that helps my chances‑‑ my win today hopefully helps my chances to get one and have a chance to defend my points from last year.
Fingers crossed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT