U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2016
Ellen Port
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, on your 55th birthday you get to the championship match for a chance to go for your seventh USGA championship.  
ELLEN PORT: Yes.  That's special.   
 Q.  If you win tomorrow, you're in company with Carol (ph) and Joanne Gunderson.  Carol would be the only other person that would be ahead of you.  
ELLEN PORT: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Thoughts on just having that chance to go for...  
ELLEN PORT: Well, that's not my thoughts right now.  It's finding how to hit a wedge the right distance on these greens is what I'm really thinking about.   
I'm not really going to think about -- even entertain that question.  Next question?  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  You won today.  I guess you made a big putt on 15.  May have been the turning point.  
ELLEN PORT: Yeah, 15 was big.  That squared the match.  She made a great shot on 14 out of the rough, you know, when she had a very hard shot.  We both kind of had moments.   
Yeah, but that was nice because I kind of gave one away on 10 with a wedge in my hand from 110 yards.  I was still trying not to think about that.   
That was big.  It was a huge, breaking putt.  I really rolled it close a lot all day.  I felt like I had the reads right and I was just off with the speed a little.  It was really nice to see one go in.   
 Q.  You were down I think early, weren't you?  
ELLEN PORT: Yeah.  I don't even remember, to be honest with you.  I think I lost -- I lost the 2nd hole off the bat.  She got up and down; I didn't.   
Then 3 was actually an interesting hole.  I decided the best thing to do was to aim for the bunker, because I've played that hole terribly.  I finally got a par on that hole when it looked like I was out of the hole because I pulled a drive and I had mud on my ball and didn't have a shot.   
It was kind of that kind of match.  When one of us looked like we were out -- she's a fighter, I'm a fighter, so it was a really good match.   
 Q.  Right.  You've only played her once before and she beat you in the '09 Mid.  
ELLEN PORT: Yeah.  Yeah, and I know I didn't play very well when we played last time.  I still haven't really hit the ball -- not really played -- my A-Game hasn't shown up.  I've had moments just been kind of inconsistent.  I put the ball in play pretty well but I haven't been as sharp with a lot of my iron play, which is usually what's really good.   
But my putting has been decent.  Haven't made a lot of unforced errors.  But I've got room to improve.   
 Q.  You've won every match.  The bottom line you is don't have to shoot 65 to win a match.  
ELLEN PORT: Yeah, no.  I mean, I kind of balance it out.  I think I've been pretty consistently mediocre.  (Laughter.)   
I mean, but when you get to match play, you just have to never give up and be very patient.  Like I said, Laura is a competitor and she played really well.  I am really disappointed that it ended with the little lip out.  I really didn't want to hit that hybrid on the next hole either, so I don't think either one...   
 Q.  You've played so many USGA championships.  
ELLEN PORT: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Does experience at some point take over for you?  
ELLEN PORT: Well, I think it does.  I think the fact that I know that I've won, I think I remember when I wondered if I could do it.   
But it's just that kind of experience factor comes as never give up and give in.  Make shots and fight through it.   
So I think just the match play mentality, I seem to be very good at that.  I think that that has served me well over the years.  I love competing.  I think it's kind of amateur golf at its best.   
Hopefully I have a little experience to draw on, but that doesn't win matches.  You still have to hit the golf shots.  I'm really not 100% happy the way I'm hitting it.   
 Q.  You're also familiar with the arena, the pressure, what goes through your head.  
ELLEN PORT: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  Dealing with your mind.  You get to this level and you're thinking about a chance to win, not many players put themselves in this position.  
ELLEN PORT: Yes, exactly.  Exactly.  And not to ever think that you're -- one thing I never think I am out of a hole.  Laura played 17.  Missed the green and off that tight lie put it beautifully up there.   
So I think just really expecting -- I know everybody in here is really good players -- that they're going to hit great shots and that I have to just try to outlast them and, you know, make good decisions.   
I mean, in between clubs a lot today so it was a little frustrating, but this is a tough golf course.  You hit a shot short and sometimes it runs and sometimes it sits.   
So it's a very challenging golf course.   
 Q.  Fun nine questions with you.  Favorite club?  
ELLEN PORT: Before this tournament or after this tournament?   
 Q.  Favorite club in the bag?  
ELLEN PORT: My putter.   
 Q.  Most memorable golf experience?  
ELLEN PORT: All my Curtis Cups, national championships.   
 Q.  Who influenced you the most?  
ELLEN PORT: My husband.   
 Q.  Who would round out your dream foursome, you and three others?  
ELLEN PORT: My son, my husband, and my daughter.   
 Q.  Okay.  That's okay.  What's on your golf bucket list?  
ELLEN PORT: Pebble Beach.   
 Q.  Playing it?  
ELLEN PORT: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Ever played it?  
ELLEN PORT: Uh-huh, and Augusta.   
 Q.  Okay.  Played Augusta?  
ELLEN PORT: Uh-uh.   
 Q.  What's on your nongolf bucket list?  
ELLEN PORT: D3 national championship for Washington University.   
 Q.  What's the latest book you've read?  
ELLEN PORT: No, that should be my bucket list.  That's really what I want.   
What is what.   
 Q.  Latest book you've read?  
ELLEN PORT: Organize Your Tomorrow Today.   
 Q.  Who wrote that?  
ELLEN PORT: Jason Selk.  I love you Jason Selk.   
 Q.  Favorite movie?  
ELLEN PORT: Oh, It's a Wonderful Life and -- it's a tie -- Sound of Music.   
 Q.  Most embarrassing moment you've ever had on or off the golf course?  
ELLEN PORT: Most embarrassing moment?  I can't even be embarrassed when I top balls anymore because I do that all the time.   
Oh, I think it's when I -- I can't remember.  I don't know.  I don't get embarrassed because I'm just an embarrassment sometimes.  Nothing will surprise me.  I don't get embarrassed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT