BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 18, 2019
Max Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Back in Germany this week.  Is it one you're looking forward to?  
MAX KIEFFER: Yeah, I'm looking forward a lot to this tournament.  Being back in Munich, it's just a very special atmosphere here for the tournament, especially when the weather is like this.  So yeah, looking forward to the week.   
 Q.  What makes the atmosphere so special?  
MAX KIEFFER: I think just because the history of the tournament that's developed here over the years, and it's kind of had its place in the city, the tournament, it's here every year here and the people come out and watch it and gets better every year.  I think that's what makes it so special.   
 Q.  Speaking to Martin, he was talking about the pressure of playing on home soil.  Do you feel a bit of that?  
MAX KIEFFER: Yeah, obviously there's always pressure in every tournament.  But obviously in the big events on home soil, you probably want to perform even more a little bit better.  So yeah, maybe a little bit more pressure but it can also be a very, very positive thing.   
 Q.  How does the swing feel, your game in general at the moment?  
MAX KIEFFER: It's, I would say,1 to 10, maybe 5.  But it's always a work-in-progress every day.  I was trying to get a little bit better every day, and so hopefully it will be on a 6 or 7 on Thursday.   
 Q.  Quick word on the golf course.  A lot of changes for this year.  What do you know about those changes?  Have you managed to see any?  
MAX KIEFFER: Yeah, I played nine holes yesterday, nine holes today, and the greens are totally different.  Much more undulated than last year.  Some holes are lengthened.   
So it's going to depend a lot on the setup, how you put the pin positions, because there are some long holes with tricky greens where maybe you shouldn't put the greens in too difficult places.  Then there are obviously some shorter holes where you can put the pins in tricky positions.  So I think it's going to depend a lot on how the course is going to be set up with the pin positions and see positions.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT