PAC-12 MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2016
Lorenzo Romar
Andrew Andrews
Marquese Chriss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon - 83, Washington - 77   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement, please.   
COACH ROMAR: Oregon obviously is a very -- have been very successful this year, and they can beat you in a lot of different ways.  In our case tonight, they did a great job on the backboard, second-chance points, penetration.  Sometimes we go over to help, and especially Boucher, I think he had seven offensive rebounds, and in a game that close, that can certainly make a difference.   
I thought we did a very good job of taking care of the ball in the first half.  Second half we didn't do as good a job and they capitalized.  Again, I say that to show you why Oregon, just, when you make mistakes, they can make you pay for it.   
There is no other team I'd want to coach than this team, though, our team.  Just hate to see our guys come up short.   
 Q.  Lorenzo, do you turn your attention to the NIT now?  Do you expect to be selected there?  
COACH ROMAR: Well, I mean, at this point I think we have to wait and see what happens on Sunday.  But regardless of the situation, I wouldn't think we're done playing basketball this year.   
 Q.  Marquese, what makes Boucher so tough to handle in the paint?  
MARQUESE CHRISS: I mean, he's long and he can jump for a big man, so I think that kind of plays to his advantage.  If he's sitting around the rim, he kind of sticks his arms up when he's up at the rim.  So I think that helps him out a lot.  We've got to have some better boxouts and get him away from the rim so that it plays to our advantage.   
 Q.  This might be a premature question, because, like you said, you're probably still going to be playing basketball.  But when you look back on the season, you're obviously emotional right now, do you look at this as a success?  Do you look at it as coming up short?  Is it somewhere in between?  How would you evaluate it?  
COACH ROMAR: When you lose your last game, you always come up short regardless of how far you went.  It just depends on what you're looking at.  I know a lot of people didn't expect us to do what we did this year.  I thought we probably surpassed a lot of people's expectations.  In terms of our own expectations, we felt we could go a little bit further than we did.   
But it wasn't due to a lack of trying and selling out for the cause of what we wanted to do.  I told our team many times how proud I am of our group.  But you look back, we didn't get it done, bottom line.  But we probably are literally three baskets, either we made them or somebody else made them or we didn't make them, they didn't, probably we'd be in a little better shape than we are now.  So we're close, but it doesn't count.   
ANDREW ANDREWS: I think at the beginning of the season me and Coach Romar went down to the Pac-12 and all we kept hearing is rebuilding year, rebuilding year, rebuilding year from the coaches poll and the media poll.  They picked us 11th.  I think we tied for 6th this year.   
We went through the ups and downs of the season with the media switching their minds saying we're really good, and then the media going back and saying we're really bad.  Then we started playing well again and they said we're really good.  So in our locker room we don't take this as a failure.  I think we shocked a lot of people and did things people said we couldn't, especially with pretty much an all freshman team.   
So to look at this season as a failure would be kind of dumb on our part.  So you just take everything and learn from it.  We had an incredible season.  I said, we beat all the odds as far as what the media thought and what the coaches poll thought.  So I couldn't be prouder of the guys in this locker room.   
 Q.  How disappointing is it to know that your career's going to end without an NCAA Tournament appearance?  And as far as the NIT goes, do you look forward to continuing to play and do you want to keep playing with these guys?  
ANDREW ANDREWS: As far as the NCAA Tournament, if it happens, it happens.  I don't know any basketball player in the world that would say they don't want to continue playing basketball.  I think anytime you get an opportunity to put on a jersey and go out anywhere, even if it's the park, to play the game that you love, you're going to take that opportunity.  So I would love to play in the NIT.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT