NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 23, 2010
Jaroslav Spacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone).   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: It's always nice when your home country wins the gold medal. So many times they don't show up for the World Championships, so lots of the guys would probably never make it. That's even better for them.   
  
  Q. It's only because of you guys that Russia got as far as they did because you sent them Ovechkin and Malkin.   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: Well, actually, yeah. But the Czechs lost a couple times to bad teams too. And I was surprised that, you know, they beat twice Sweden. I think they're one of the best teams now in the world. You know, they get rewarded for it.   
  
  Q. Here we go again with another do or die, the sixth one. Do you approach all of them exactly the same way?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: You know what, I played just the last two of them. I didn't play in the first round. It's a tough situation, but we are still here. They have to beat us four times. They did three times. I think we beat ourselves last night a little bit, and that's the situation where we are right now. I hope we can do better and step up and bring the A-game tomorrow and bring the 6th game home.   
  
  Q. What have you learned about the character of this team since the Playoffs began?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: I think lots of guys stepped up. Start to play a different role and show real character. The guys care about what's going on right now, and it's shown in the first two Series.   
  
  Q. You heard about the Flyers having the problems with the skates, getting some skates --   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: I was worried. I thought they had diarrhea or something. Like they were going back and forth from the locker room (laughing). Actually, I heard the guys talking on the plane. What happened? Was it on the bench?   
  
  Q. Sand apparently or something, sprinkled in between the locker room and the bench?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: Oh, was it? I don't know about that. It wasn't me, you know.   
  
  Q. You didn't put it down there?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: I didn't put it. I steer away from the sand traps and the golf season, so I don't think it was us.   
  
  Q. Was that the goofiest thing you've heard in your years of playing hockey?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: No, if they have problem, maybe they can wear those skate protectors like the figure skaters, and they can go and jump on the ice and never will it happen again.   
  
  Q. You bringing the beach towel tomorrow?   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: No, no, no. I want to bring my A-game, and I want to be there with all other 19 guys.   
  
  Q. Are you worried that you guys might be sabotaged? This is Philly. Patrick had his license plate stolen and his tires slashed.   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: Well, that's the thing. Our bench and even locker room is on the other side, so it's far away to go with the sand across the ice and throw it there; so it's Playoffs and anything is possible to happen.   
  
  Q. We asked Gomez this: Have you ever done anything crazy to another team or at any level of hockey? It could have been minor hockey like when you were ten years old.   
 JAROSLAV SPACEK: No, no, I never think about that. I just want to beat them on the ice, and that's my mindset.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT