NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2002
Tom Coverdale
Mike Davis
Dane Fife
Kyle Hornsby
Jared Jeffries
Jeff Newton
Jarrad Odle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Dane and Tom, if you could both answer this.  The way Dixon has been dominating in the tournament, how important is it to try to limit the damage he does and how do you go about trying to do that? 

DANE FIFE:  Very good question. 

DANE FIFE:  That's all.  I mean, it's really  -- we're going to have to rely on our outstanding coaching staff to give me  -- I'll probably be the one that's guarding him  -- to give me a good scouting report.  It's very hard to stop a guy like Juan Dixon, especially the way he's been playing. 

TOM COVERDALE:  You know, I think that's something we've done great all year is putting Dane on a guy like that, then just play great team defense.  I don't think you can stop him with just one person. 

Q.  Coach Davis, given the Rich history of Indiana basketball, how does it kind of feel to be carving out your own place in that history with these guys? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, I feel good about it because the guys really played well down the stretch of the season.  Like I said last night, it's really not me, it's them. 

Q.  I was wondering if any of you remember watching the '87 Championship game, what your memories were of that?

JARED JEFFRIES:   No, I don't remember nothing about it.  My mom, she watched it.  My father probably did.  They have it on videotape.  I seen videotape when I got a little older.  I was probably six or seven then.  That probably wasn't a real big priority. 

JARED JEFFRIES:   Hornsby didn't have a TV back in Louisiana then.  Mostly radio comments (laughter). 

Q.  Dane, I was wondering if you could talk about how Jared's injury back against Louisville maybe helped change this team and helped it survive and get to this point? 

DANE FIFE:  Well, it certainly allowed guys like Newton and Odle to develop their game, especially in a game-type situation more.  It allowed them to, I guess, show their skills and maybe gain confidence in themselves because we were depending on them to score more for us, and to give us more minutes.  It definitely developed them more and gave them confidence.  But, again, we wouldn't be who we were without Jared Jeffries and the way he can play at 90, 100%.  We wouldn't be here. 

Q.  The stereotypes you grow up dreaming of leading Indiana to NCAA Championships, is that something you did grow up dreaming about, and now that you're one step from it, what does it mean to you and maybe to your hometowns? 

JARRAD ODLE:  I think, you know, every kid obviously, once he starts playing basketball, dreams about playing college basketball.  Then there's always that ultimate goal of making the Final Four and playing for a National Championship.  Living in the State of Indiana with basketball being so rich in tradition as it is, really brings a lot of satisfaction to myself to know that I've worked my way through it.  With these teammates, we're basically playing a kid's dream and living it out.  Hopefully Monday night, we still have some work to do, and hopefully we can get it done. 

TOM COVERDALE:  I think it will sink in a lot more once the season is over.  Right now we still have one game left to go.  We're just concentrating on that.  I don't think you have time to get caught up in all that, you know, think about what it means or any of that because you still have one game left to go.

JARED JEFFRIES:   I mean, definitely once you like really get caught up in the tradition of Indiana and you get a chance to see how much the fan support.  I was telling the guys on the way over here, the way Indiana fans support this basketball team was unbelievable.  For the last couple years, they haven't had a lot to cheer for you.  Right now you see the pride in us winning these last couple games. 

Q.  How is the ankle this morning, Tom?  Was it limiting for you or was it just the inactivity really for a week that was more of a hurdle for you? 

TOM COVERDALE:  I think it was limiting, but I don't think it was any excuse the way I played towards the end of the game.  So I think it will be better on Monday night.  It was pretty sore after the game.  But I think it will be better Monday than it was Saturday. 

Q.  Dane, how big an underdog do you think the perceptions are?  What do you think people think is going to happen tomorrow?  Would it be that staggering an upset if you guys won? 

DANE FIFE:  I was listening to the sports reporters this morning on ESPN.  One of them said that we don't have a chance, but the other came back and said he wouldn't be surprised if we won the game.  He didn't think we were an underdog.  That was probably the first media person I'd ever heard give us a chance this year, outside of Indiana.  I think that basically sums up what I think.  We don't consider ourselves underdogs, although everybody else does.  We believe we can win this basketball game, just like we have all season. 

Q.  Mike, you haven't practiced a lot on Sunday this year.  It's Easter Sunday before the National Championship game.  Does that change anything?  Do you practice today?  If you don't, do you practice tomorrow morning? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, we haven't practiced on Sunday since I've been here.  I just feel like, especially now, what can you do?  We know our basketball team.  Coach Treloar and our coaching staff watched tapes to prepare our guys for tomorrow's game.  I don't think it makes any difference about practicing today or not.

JARED JEFFRIES:   Also, we've been having two-a-days this whole tournament.  Don't get it twisted that we haven't been going hard.  Before we had our shoot-around on Thursday or Friday, we had a two-hour practice.  Don't think it's a big time off (smiling). 

Q.  Mike, same question I asked the guys earlier.  The way Dixon has been dominating in the tournament, how important is it for you to at least limit the damage he does and how would you like to go about doing that? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, you know, when a guy is playing the way he's playing, you hope he has an off-game.  He's playing unbelievable.  He's probably the best player in the tournament.  I think I saw somewhere where he needs 23 points to move up scoring in a tournament.  It's going to be a difficult game for us if we don't control him.  He's a tough-minded guy.  Just listening to him talk in his interview, he's the guy who is on a mission.  He wants to win the championship in the worst way, and you can tell.  He's going to put Maryland on its back to try to do that.  What we have to do is to make sure we play really good team defense and give Dane a lot of help. 

Q.  Tom, do you think anywhere outside of Maryland tomorrow night the rest of the country will be pulling for you? 

TOM COVERDALE:  I don't know.  People can root for who they want to.  But I know that there will be a lot of Indiana fans here rooting for us, just like there has all year.  That's the only thing we really care about, so... We've got a lot of people jumping on the bandwagon these days that didn't believe this from day one.  We know from day one it's just been the team and the coaching staff and our loyal fans that have believed in us.  So it doesn't really matter. 

Q.  Coach, you credited Dave Dickerson with the effort against Duke a little bit.  Can we expect the same phone call today? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  I called him last night, and he wouldn't return my call (laughter).  Dave, we talk a lot.  Before we played Duke, I just called him and asked him a couple things.  He just shared some things with me.  We had a tape of the game, so I watched the tape a lot.  Dave, I've been saying this for a long time, he's a very good basketball coach.  Back-to-back Final Fours to him.  I'm just hoping he gets a job out of this. 

Q.  Mike, when you got the job, you said if this team won the national title, you'd let them put the names on the back of the Jerseys.  Will you still do that? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  I think I said a lot of things (smiling).  People, they made a great point about Indiana being in the front and no names on the back because it's not about anyone but Indiana.  If I win the National Championship, I can do anything I want to do.  If they want to have the names on their warm-up, we'll put them on the warm-ups.  Put them on the back of the jerseys, I don't want a thousand phone calls telling me why not to put them on, so I won't put them on. 

Q.  Mike, AJ sat out of the game, the hamstring was hurting more than expected.  Is he okay for tomorrow? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  AJ is okay.  AJ saw Hornsby and knew he was coming into the game.  He had to put the show on for everyone. 

Q.  Mike and Tom, when you're playing the game, the adrenaline flow being the way it is, your ankle being in the shape that it is, is it worse when you leave the game and try to re-enter in, Mike, the Coverdale story was sort of the focus this week leading up to the Final Four.  Did that in any way deflect some of the minutia that you had to deal with in the past coming in for a big event like this? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, I'm always hearing different things.  I was glad they were talking about Coverdale because I knew he would play.  I kept saying he's 40%, 50%, 60%.  Then I said 70%.  Everybody thought, "Okay, he's going to play."  I said, I'm going to tell them 40% again to keep people off guard.  He wanted to play.  He kept telling me that the whole week, "Coach, I'm okay, just forget I'm hurt."  Like I told him last night during the game, he got us here.  He deserved the opportunity to go out there and play. 

TOM COVERDALE:  What was your question again? 

Q.  It appeared that maybe starting a game and playing on it, warming up, starting, you'd be okay.  Then when you leave the game for a period of time and Perry comes in, it might be more difficult for you to come back in. 

TOM COVERDALE:  Yeah, like you said, it stiffens up.  I just got to keep it loose as much as possible.  I think it does hurt a little bit when I get taken out of the game (looking at coach and smiling).  You know, like I said last night, when Donald is playing the way he is at the end of the game, there's no reason for me going to the game.  I seriously think we wouldn't have won the game without Donald last night, the great plays he made down the stretch, so...

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  See, he forgot your question.  That's why sometimes I have to take him out of the game (smiling). 

Q.  Coach, can you talk about how you get players to accept roles and be unselfish when a lot of other teams seem to have trouble accomplishing that?  How critical is that to your success to have people accept roles? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  We talk about it all the time.  I try to make it a daily deal where we talk about being unselfish and being a team.  There's very few basketball programs that are real basketball teams because you have so many outside influences, you have friends, parents talking about why coach is not playing you, why are you not shooting the basketball, you should shoot more.  I always try to talk to them about, "Think about winning, whether you play five minutes or 25 minutes.  It's just try to concentrate on winning."  It's hard sometimes.  But I understand that.  I do understand when you have guys on your team that want to play and they're not playing, not playing the minutes they think they should.  But it's really difficult sometimes to be fair in that department.  I just try to make sure that we are on the same page.  I have a good feel for people, for players.  I know when they're up or down.  I know when they want to play all the time.  I just try to make sure that we're always talking about team. 

Q.  Jared was quoted last week at the south regional that you look at this basketball team, two or three of them can't dunk, they don't look that athletic.  There sort of is that perception out there.  Are you a lot more athletic than people realize? 

DANE FIFE:  No (laughter). 

KYLE HORNSBY:  I can dunk, so....  I can do that - not very well.  But I think we just know how to play well together.  It's not necessarily that we're extremely athletic, as you can probably see out there.  But we're athletic enough to do the job and get the job done.  That's what it all comes down to. 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  I tell you how slow they are.  During pre-season conditioning, I would challenge Fife and Hornsby and Coverdale to race, because I was watching them run.  I say, "I can out-run those guys."  Ended up pulling a hamstring trying to do it. 

Q.  Mike, you had talked about in your first year at Indiana the criticism you took personally, that was the thing you had to learn to overcome.  If you guys win tomorrow night, obviously you're going to get a lot of praise.  How will you then personally handle that? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, I hope I get a raise (smiling).  I do.  I can handle it because, as I said from day one, I'm just a basketball coach.  It's not who I am.  I just coach basketball.  But I'm a different guy.  Over the last couple days, I understand how some coaches can forget who they are.  When people start patting you on the back.  I've had three guys kiss me, tell me they love me.  If you don't know who you are, it's easy to get caught up in it.  It's just a basketball game.  It's something that I love to do, something I think I'm good at.  It's the only thing I can do as far as working because I don't want to work nine to five.  I tried that a couple times.  Once I'm off the basketball court, you know, I try to be a father and a husband. 

Q.  Mike and Jared, I was wondering if you could talk about the challenge of playing against Baxter and Wilcox.  Are you going to need perhaps an even better game out of Jeff Newton tomorrow night? 

COACH MIKE DAVIS:  Well, if Jeff plays any better, he'll probably put his name in the NBA draft next week.  He was great last night.  We'll need George Leach to play well and Odle and Jeffries.  I think it's good they have four big guys playing well.  George stepped up last night and played well for us.  Wilcox I think is a big-time basketball player.  He's athletic, can run and jump.  Baxter is a handful.  I was disappointed last night that he got in foul trouble because he probably got his bad game out of the way.  I watched him play thinking UConn, where he had 27 points.  I was thinking to myself, "If we play tomorrow, how do we guard him?"  It's difficult.  They have four big guys who are really good. 

JARED JEFFRIES:  Like coach said, those two guys are really talented and they play well.  They also have two other guys come off the bench, Tahj and Randle.  They really do a good job of working together.  I think when Wilcox and Baxter come in the game, they kind of beat you guys.  Those guys come off the bench, have a really good rotation inside. 

Q.  You guys have all made an issue of us versus them, versus the media, versus the opponent, versus the world.  Has that been good for you?  Has that made you tighter in your locker room?  Has it helped you? 

JARRAD ODLE:  Well, when this season started, I don't think we had too many people that thought we were going to do anything.  Our guys on the team and our coaching staff and our trainers and managers, we knew we had a lot of talent and a lot of skill.  As the season progressed, our hearts got bigger and we played harder every game.  That's what our coaching staff tried to instill in us.  That's what we did every day.  We tried to block the media stuff out.  It seems like we play a little better when we're the underdog every game.  We're that way again tomorrow night.  It's obviously going to take a big game for us to beat them.  But I think we can do it. 

Q.  After you beat North Western to win a share of the Big-10, you talked about how it was going to be great going back to Assembly Hall and seeing the 2002 up there on the banner for a Big-10 Championship.  Have you thought at all about what it would be like to walk into Assembly Hall and see a sixth NCAA Championship banner up there? 

JARRAD ODLE:  To win the Big-10 when you're not expected to was definitely a great accomplishment.  To be playing in the National Championship game with that chance to take that banner home, it really says a lot for this team and how much we've been through and how far we've come.  Personally, I'm excited to go back to the state of Indiana.  I kind of want to spend the rest of my life there.  To be a member of a National Championship team, I think there's no better way to spend the rest of my life. 

DANE FIFE:  Really after that game, I was just focused on the Big-10 tournament, then hoping to get past the first and second round of the NCAA tournament.  Never in my wildest dreams did I think that we would actually be here.  I always pictured in my mind that, sure, we could be here, but never reality.  It would mean much more to have a number up on the championship, the NCAA Championship, banner than just an appearance in the Final Four.  That's what we all came here to do. 

Q.  Dane, you shaved your head pre-season.  Didn't we hear that Coach Treloar would shave his head if you went to the Final Four? 

DANE FIFE:  I personally went in and told Coach Treloar he didn't have to shave it if he didn't want to.  He's getting older, starting to thin out, he's going to be bald in a few years anyway.  Coach Treloar, he tried to make the excuse that he thought the whole team was going to shave it.  Actually, Coverdale said he was going to shave it if he won the Big-10 Championship.  He hasn't.  We have a lot of people who aren't true to their word on this team, obviously (smiling). 

Q.  You guys talk a lot about Indiana history and the history of Indiana basketball.  Are you familiar at all with Maryland's history?  Do you know much about past players or coaches at all? 

JARRAD ODLE:  You know, not a whole lot.  Just what you see at the bottom of the ESPN ticker going across there.  I think this is their First National Championship game they've played in.  You know, when it comes down to it, everybody puts the uniform on the same way.  No matter what the history, if you're playing your best basketball at the end of the season, you have a chance to win it. 

DANE FIFE:  I agree with Jarrad somewhat.  I do have a pretty solid history dating back not too far, but when Joe Smith played, Lauren Proffit, all those guys.  I had a roommate whose father went to Maryland.  He'd call and e-mail me about the Terps and how well they're going to do each year.  He's kind of been in my face ever since.  I think it would be pretty nice  -- I think it's a great situation for me to be able to, all in good fun, talk a little trash with him before this game tomorrow. 

Q.  Have any of you heard from any of the Indiana alumni who have been in the Final Four?  I know a lot of former IU players are down here.  Do you plan to talk to any of them? 

TOM COVERDALE:  Growing up in Indiana, I became good friends with Tom Abernathy (phonetic) who was on the championship team in '76.  He stopped by my room last night to check on me.  Other than that, that's about the only person I've talked to besides the people that are always around, like Todd Leary (phonetic)  and Landon Turner (phonetic).  But that's about it. 

Q.  Going back to Mike's feeling that when Indiana was being criticized, that he took it personally.  Did any one of you guys notice that?  If so, did any one of you go and say to him, "It's not you, coach, it's the program, it's the expectations"? 

KYLE HORNSBY:  Say that one more time. 

DANE FIFE:  I didn't get that either. 

Q.  When Mike talks about the criticism, particularly in his first year, he took that personally, did you at all recognize that, see that he was taking it personally?  If so, did any one of you go and talk to him and say, "It's not about you, it's the makeup of this program"? 

KYLE HORNSBY:  Well, that's hard for me to answer because I don't think I ever did actually.  I mean, I think he understood coming into the job that there were going to be high expectations.  I know that Coach Davis was up to that challenge.  He's willing to tackle any kind of problem he has.  That's what kind of guy he is.  I think he was ready for that challenge.  Of course, it's going to be hard - all challenges are.  Me personally, I don't think I ever did because I think he understood that. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT