SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. A solid round out there today.  How are you feeling as you step off the golf course?
CHRISTINA KIM:   I feel really good.  I mean, a little frustrated.  I left a lot of chances out there still.  I always say that this is one of my top three favorite tournaments of the year.
I'm a huge fan of Donald Ross.  Love the Bay Course here at Seaview.  Obviously everyone with Eiger.  I've known them for years and years.  I always feel like Philly, South Jersey people are my people, even if I'm a northern California girl.  My caddie, Dan Riley, has the eyes of an eagle, and I'm very, very lucky to be able to work with him.
Q. I do find it interesting.  I mean, you had a 6-under day and still hearing that you had more out there.
CHRISTINA KIM:   Oh, yeah.
Q. How confident are you?  We've seen some great rounds out of you the last couple tournaments, but how comfortable are you feeling with your game right now?
CHRISTINA KIM:   I'm terrified every moment of the day.  I'm playing well, but one of the greatest things about tis game is no matter how old are you, because I am archaic, you still get those first tee jitters.  You still got to pace yourself, make sure you continue breathing, work on your heart rate, all of those things.
I'm 36 and I'm still learning every single day, every single moment.  So being an eternal student, it's just fascinating to be able to, one, be out here, to be out here in the present times that we're in, and I'm just learning every second.
So this has been so much fun and I can't wait for the next two rounds.  Although I do miss all of my friends that I've played the pro-ams with year in year out here at ShopRite - Carmine is my man, you know - I love the fact that we get the opportunity to play the Bay Course here at Seaview resort four days in tournament play.
It's such a spectacular course.  It's not long, with the winds though you have to hit every single shot.  You have to have to hit it right, hit it left, high, low.  Obviously with all the rain that we received and the different time of year the course is playing a bit different.
And even that aside, it's just -- we're so lucky, and obviously everyone with ShopRite, Acer, everyone with Eiger, they work tirelessly to just get us the opportunity to continue to play and to continue to compete, so massive shout out to all them.
Q. I know you have some good memories of this place.  You've had some great success here as well.  You ever think about that as you start to do super well here today?
CHRISTINA KIM:   Oh, it doesn't matter if I'm here or not.  Probably once a week I remember the shank that I had on No. 15 in the final round playing with Stacy Louis where I finished runner-up to her.
She had already run off by that point, but I think about that shank all the time.  I'm like, man, it was a solid 4.  I made a great bogey after shanking it into the native stuff.
Yeah, no, I think about -- I love this place.  Again, I love New Jersey, Philadelphia, like the region.  You know, everyone kind of associates South Jersey and Philly together.
I love the people here.  They tell you straight up how it is.  If they don't like you, they let you know, and I appreciate that.  There is no runaround.
They're honest, good, hard working people.  It's something what I can definitely relate to.
Q. What is the there to work on going into the weekend?  Are you working on it one shot at a time of just trying to have as much fun as you can out there?
CHRISTINA KIM:   A combination of both.  Again, we're so lucky to be out here at all that, you know, I missed a number of shots last couple days, and you know what?  We're lucky that we're in a place where we can gripe about missing shots, having the opportunity to take swings.
If you don't hit it great, go ahead and make the sickest up and down anyone has ever seen.  That's kind of where I am, just me as is person, let alone as a player.  Obviously I do my best to try and stay present, in the moment.
Like I said, my caddie, Dan Riley, has amazing eyes, but he's also got a great heart.  We're having awesome conversations.  He's super chilled out.  It chills me out a bit, which is probably something I could definitely benefit from having more of.
You know, it's just October, dude.  This is amazing.  It's October and we're still out and playing golf, competing.  Everyone has worked so hard just to get us out here.  Having a heart filled with gratitude and joy, and whatever the outcome is is what the outcome is.  Just understanding that things could be so much worse.  I mean, especially with things that have taken place in the last 18 hours that we've come to find with the administration and things like that.
Like if you're griping over a missed putt you're in a really good place where you have that kind of problem.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT