SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 31, 2014
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Christina Kim into the interview room, 4‑under 67 today, one back of Stacy.   We saw you exchange pleasantries on the way out, competitors but obviously friends, as well.
CHRISTINA KIM:   Yeah, of course.   I'm here to play my best and I want everyone else to play they're best.   I'm not here to try and make anyone feel bad or try and play mind games or anything like that.   I'm just here because I love the game.
THE MODERATOR:   You've had a lot of good finishes recently.   Talk about the revitalization of your game recently.
CHRISTINA KIM:   The scores are finally starting to add up.   I was playing well last year but things just didn't‑‑ I was still injured and I was having a lot of compensatory movements throughout my swing, and I just really got healthy and tightened it all up in the last seven or eight months or so.   So it's just been a work in progress, and I've just been steadily waiting patiently for things to start falling into place.
THE MODERATOR:   How is the tendonitis in your forearm doing now? 
CHRISTINA KIM:   I think it's fair to say I don't have it any longer.   I had gotten some platelet spinning done back in the first week of January, and took six weeks off from then before I was able to even pick up a club.   Had my 2014 debut in March as opposed to back in the end of January at the Bahamas where I would have loved to have gone.   But the arm feels great.   I'm in a really good place, and yeah, just really happy to be here. 

Q.   Can you talk about where you've come from to play where you were and now be contending maybe playing in the final group tomorrow?
CHRISTINA KIM:   Yeah, I went from being a really damned good amateur to coming out on Tour and winning two events in my first three years, and then going through a bit of a slump, and I'm back on my way up.   I'm healthy, I'm happy, I'm in a good place and just hitting that ball, starting it above the ground, hitting it on the ground, trying to finish underground. 

Q.   Does it feel‑‑ are you enjoying it more now maybe since you've had some tough times to be back in contention?   Are you relishing it, enjoying it more?
CHRISTINA KIM:   It's just golf.   I've gone through a lot of things in my life.   Those things considered made me realize that chasing a white golf ball around getting paid for it is a pretty damned good job, and I've always enjoyed every moment of it.   I've enjoyed the fight and the battles the last couple of years when it's been hard and it's been frustrating, and I love the highs and lows of life, and without experiencing them and being able to appreciate them, you wouldn't be able to enjoy a day like today where it's starting to get really, really windy.   I'm just‑‑ it's just different.   It's not about more or less.   It's just different. 

Q.   Is it fair to say you played better golf today after the wing sprung up? 
CHRISTINA KIM:   Okay.   I don't really‑‑ I just know I finished 4.   I know I made a bogey, I three‑putted early on.   But yeah, I just went out there and I knew the greens are very difficult out here, and we only play poa annua greens.   I grew up on poa annua thankfully in Northern California, so I have a little bit of a head start on some of these girls.   But the poa annua is always very tricky, and the greens here, they're quintessential Donald Ross, a lot of movement, a lot of runoff along the sides.   I just think the chances are going to come.   It's not a long golf course, so we're going to have a lot of shots where we're going to be able to hit it tight and just try and take some of the opportunities when they come.   I missed several and made several.   You win some, you lose some.   I'm just happy to be here.

Q.   Do you have a couple of highlights from your round to share, like a long putt or a great shot to a couple inches or anything like that? 
CHRISTINA KIM:   Not really.   On No.5, which is one of the shortest holes on the golf course, I hit a 3‑wood off the tee and was expecting to have like 70, 80 yards in, and I had like 50 to the flag, ran it probably about 14 yards past the flag and then drained it actually.   That was the first long putt I've made since 11 yesterday.   So not really.   I mean, I was just playing steadily and just putting them in my pocket and trying to forget whatever happened in the past and just keep plugging along, just trying to hit the shot that I'm standing over perfectly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT