NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2014
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I am now joined by Christina Kim, just posted a 4‑under 67 at the North Texas LPGA Shootout.   Co‑leader in the clubhouse, Christina, really fast start, three birdies in your first five holes.   Talk about the quick start today. 
CHRISTINA KIM:   Yeah.   You know, I started off with a birdie on the first, and you can't birdie them all unless you birdie the first.   Started birdie, par, birdie, par, birdie, I think.   I can't remember exactly what, but I was like, well, at this rate, you know, I have a sneaky look at 9‑under.
But you know, just played steady.   I don't think I missed a green today.   I missed a bunch of putts, to be honest, coming in.   But you know, I struck the ball really well and just kept the ball in front of me and was able to find it after every swing, so that's really all you can ask for.

Q.   Very good.   Missed cut last week.   Did you do any regrouping and what was the game plan coming into this week?
CHRISTINA KIM:   I watched a lot of "Seinfeld," and I was a bit under the weather, so I really just find of focused on just getting healthier. 
And you know, it's bound to happen.   I've come off a couple of poor years.   I've been stricken with injuries and I'm finally healthy and happy again. 
So there was a lot of pressure on me being home last week, having it be my hometown event, and Lake Merced was such an incredible golf course, and it just took a toll on me.   But you know, I mean I'm just so excited to be here, and I have a lot of great memories here in North Texas, and it's just awesome to be out here.

Q.   What about this course?   You played fairly well here last year.   Talk about what you like and how it sets up for your game. 
CHRISTINA KIM:   I love that you have to have a lot of creativity around this course.   You can't necessarily just aim for the center of the fairway and expect it to finish there.   You know, hole 14, number 1, 15, they are very challenging holes and they require a lot of creativity and a lot of patience because you might end up in a good spot, all of a sudden you're behind a tree or you just roll out through the fairway, and you know, we all have to take our licks, and I love the fact that you have to create shots out here, and I love that. 
Angela Stanford, Brittany Lang, they both grew up here and they're great examples of people that can really carve shots that you really don't see with a lot of the younger generation.

Q.   Absolutely.   Now, I know a lot of the LPGA players these past two weeks have been getting their baseball fixes in.   You had, I think‑‑ somebody said you said it was the best night of your life at the Giants game. 
CHRISTINA KIM:   Yes.

Q.   Talk about that experience.   What an awesome night. 
CHRISTINA KIM:   You know, even though I'm have San Jose, I had never gone to see the Giants or any other baseball team live, so I was able to go to AT&T Park and be a part of the whole experience.
You know, I was there with Michelle Wie, Paula Creamer, Juli Inkster and Brittany Lincicome, and we were down on the field.   I stole a pinch of the dirt just so I could have it with me.   It was the greatest night ever. 
I had owner's seats.   We were in a luxury suite.   Like they did such an incredible job.   And then the Giants went on a run of winning three nights in a row, and then Monday happened, but whatever, but then they won again last night. 
So it's been a great week; and you know, everything's been so awesome.   This season has been so many positive things with the LPGA between Paula Creamer winning earlier this year, Michelle Wie back winning and not finishing outside the Top‑25 since September of last year.   There's so many wonderful positive things about this tour, it's just so exciting to be a part of it.

Q.   Absolutely.   Well, great job today.   Thanks for joining us.   Best of luck. 
CHRISTINA KIM:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT