NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 27, 2013
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Christina, that's your lowest number since Kingsmill last year.   The golf course has been firm and fast.   How tricky is it out there?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   You know, the golf course is ‑‑ it's really difficult to put into words.   It's very atypical for a golf course we play on tour in my opinion because you have to ‑‑ it really requires you to hit the ball right, hit the ball left, hit it high, hit it low, downwind cross wind.   I mean you've got wind going 360 degrees and it's just ‑‑ it's remarkable.   The course is in immaculate condition.  
   
 Q.   Is it unfair at times or is it a fair test?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   No.   I mean ‑‑ is golf fair?   Well, no, golf is.   
   
 Q.   No.   This golf course.   
CHRISTINA KIM:   I know, but is the game itself ‑‑ well, no.   I guess it is.   That's actually a bad comment.  
No, I don't think it's unfair, you know.   I think that it's just ‑‑ it's challenging and you ‑‑ if you hit a perfect shot, you're going to be rewarded.   You will never hit a perfect shot and then end up inside of a tree or something like that.   You know, I think the course is very fair.   It's very demanding is the best way to put it.   It's probably one of the hardest courses we get to play all year, and it's just been ‑‑ it's been a thrill.  
   
 Q.   Let's take a look at some of your highlights from today.   I think probably your best moment of the day, 17.   
CHRISTINA KIM:   Well, I was playing with Moira Dunn and Julieta Granada, and they both hit the putt short, so definitely had to give it a little bit of something, and then a little bit of fire was back in me there.   I was pretty pleased with that.  
But yeah, no, it was a great putt, great round.   I mean I just had a lot of fun and it's remarkable, I mean one, how many fans there are out this week as well as just the fact that they've had like 70 days to put this tournament together, and the fact that all the people that have really come together, so many people, volunteers, tournament staff.   Everyone's just been so welcoming, it feels like a tour stop we've been to for 20 years.   They've done a remarkable job.  
   
 Q.   You've talked a lot about the struggles away from the golf course that you've had with depression.   Does it make life easier when you're playing better golf?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   I won't lie.   It does, but it's one of those things where sometimes if you're feeling well, you can play well, but at the same time if you're playing well, you can feel well.   It's one of those chicken‑or‑the‑egg kind of things.   It's something that I struggle with every day, but I've had some amazing days.   Every day has been just great for a long, long time.   So I'm in a wonderful place right now, and people ask about it and it's almost as if it's really hard to remember what it was like two years ago.   So I'm just ‑‑ I'm loving life right now.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   Let's go out to the 15th.   So biggest keys to the round today.   What were you able to do that really got things working?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   Well, you know, if nothing more I was really able to hit my driver well, you know, because there are a lot of really demanding tee shots and I was able to take advantage of a couple of corners because I'm starting to get my distance back, and you know, just ball striking more than anything, because I still missed a few putts out there, but not a lot.  
But you know, just really being able to ‑‑ you know, we don't play a lot of courses where we're really able to, you know, enhance the fact that you can work the ball.   You know, a lot of times it's just straight on, on to the green and then it's a putting contest from there, but this one is requires a lot of imagination.   You have to play it left‑to‑right, you have to play it right‑to‑left.   You have to hit it high, hit it low, chase it up, make it stop.   I just think it's one of the best courses we get to play because we never work on those shots and I think it's great.  
   
 Q.   You're no stranger to finding yourself up near the top of the leaderboard.   
CHRISTINA KIM:   It's been a few years.  
   
 Q.   It's been a little bit.   Any different approach that you take when you do go into the final day and see yourself up there within reach?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   You know, I don't know if I have a different approach.   You know, bottom line is just, you know, I have to play smart, but you know, if I'm going to be six shots back, I mean you know, there's only so much you can do other than just try and make as many birdies as possible.   But you know, minimize mistakes, play smart and take the opportunities when they arise as opposed to trying to force it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT