NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 7, 2010
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Christina, welcome.  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Thank you very much.  
 MODERATOR: Enjoy your ice cream, first off.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: I will, don't you worry.  
 MODERATOR: 5-under, 67. Good round. Just tell us about it.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Um, well, it was just a nice, easy day out there. I left quite a few shots out there, which is quite nice to say. I've always had a very special place in my heart for this golf course, this region, this state.   
 It brought me my last victory, which was in 2005 at Mobile, another Robert Trent Jones Golf Course. So, you know, it was just a very special place. I know it's football season, but seeing so many fans out here is very, very touching. I thought, Show 'em a good time.  
 MODERATOR: Questions, gentlemen.  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Or ladies.  
 MODERATOR: Or ladies, I apologize.  
  
  Q. Go through your round, particularly the birdies.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Sure, of course. I birdied the second hole. It was 148 yards, and I hit 8-iron to about nine feet; made the putt.   
 No. 4 from 125 yards in the rough I hit a 9-iron and drained about a -foot putt. I mean, it's actually been a while since I've made anything outside of five feet, so I'm excited.   
 And then No. 8, from like 60 yards I pitched it to about three, three and a half feet and made the putt.  
 I was actually in quite a dry spell for quite a while, until the 16th hole. It was 163 yards. Hit a tiny little 6-iron to about two feet, no more than two feet.   
 On 17, from 120 yards I hit a pitching wedge pin high about, gosh, maybe 15 feet or so and made the putt.   
 So pretty easy. Not a lot of the bogeys out there.  
  
  Q. Did you have a putt to get to 6-under?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: I did have a put to get to 6-under. Just a bit of unfortunate grass right in front of me. The Bermuda that a was growing in, there was a region I wasn't sure if it was a ball mark or if they were just spike marks that turned it up. I wasn't able to tap it down, so I kind of tried to slice around it. That didn't quite go over so well.   
 But I did have a chance to get to 6. I had no more than a 12-foot putt.  
  
  Q. I had asked some of the other players - and obviously you've have been here before - with the tee boxes on 8 and 17, I think 17 Cristie didn't think it was back. The course setup said it was placed back from previous years. Obviously 8 is back. What do you think about the setup on those two holes and not being able to have a legitimate chance to go for it in two?   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, I know that last year they tinkered with playing with the tee that we played on today as well as that forward tee, which is where we used to play every year. On 17, excuse me.   
 No. 8, you know, like you said, they definitely pulled us back. You know, it's one of those things where you can contest what is the quote/unquote right thing to do , because we can use the ploy that there is no par-5 on the PGA Tour that cannot be reached by the majority of the players.   
 However, they can counter with the fact that there's not necessarily enough landscape on earth to create par-5s long enough for the men not reach. I can see both ends of the spectrum.  
 They've definitely changed up the golf holes for sure. You know, by pushing them up or back depending on the day, the weather, the wind, it can make for a lot of excitement or you can just sit out there and try and play smart.   
 Looking at the configuration of the golf holes, I think No. 8, for our tour, in terms of playing as a traditional par-5 is meant to be at the tee we're at now, because you those bunkers on the right side of the fairway and those bunkers on the left that are potentially reachable; whereas in years past we just bombed it another 20 yards right and have a 6-iron into the green.   
 But the green's not very easy, so it's a matter of where you want to put the important speed, on the tee shot or onto the approach.   
 But, you know, I birdied 'em both, so I don't care. (Laughter.) I think they make the course which is very challenging already to be even more challenging. It's making the players hit the ball even better.   
 I'm not going to complain. Having a tee time out here every week, you really should never complain.   
  
  Q. How will you Tweet tonight to sum up your day?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: How will I Tweet to sum up my day? It was a perfect day on a perfect golf course. Obviously a couple shots could have been converted, but I had a wonderful day with two great players. The fans were awesome.   
 I know Thursday -- they have football on Thursday sometimes, don't they?   
  
  Q. They do.  
 CHRISTINA KIM: See. Football is big period around here. Oh, by the way, yesterday I saw -- there was this like extended truck, crimson red truck -- my iPhone is in my bag. I'll bring it out. On the cab there were a bunch of stuffed elephants, and they were doing all sorts of things to various tigers and dogs, I think a buzzard and some other like various animals.   
 It was the coolest thing I've ever saw. I turned around and followed him for a mile. I had my iPhone all recording the whole time. (Laughing.)  
  
  Q. Usually on Saturday he's parked in the parking lot at Beef O'Brady's.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Oh, is he? I think he went to Publix, so he probably needed groceries. It was the coolest car I've ever seen. It's great to see a place so proud of their sport. So, you know, you love to embrace the collegiate athletes and be able to embrace us as well, especially at the same time of year. It's very, very cool.   
  
  Q. So you know so much about football just from past trips here?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, I don't know much about football. I know the national champions are here and I think the second string team is like ranked fifth in the nation. (Laughter.)  
But, you know, a very close friend of mine went to 'Bama, so I learned all about Roll Tide and RTMFT or something like that. I don't know exactly what it is. Roll Tide, mmmm. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Oh, I thought that was part of Monaco RV.  
  
  Q. It is. People bring their RVs...  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Oh, snap. Oh, my gosh, really? That's remarkable. That's awesome. Wow. No, no. I just thought it was just an RV for show or whatever. That is so cool. Oh. I've never tailgated my entire life. I need to get on with that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT