RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How important is 68?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: You know, yesterday, I played in the afternoon and was really struggling with my putting and my ball striking and my chip shots and my irons and my short game. So going out there early in the morning before the sun was up basically and going out and shooting a good score was very important.   
 And I love playing the Open championship. There's something very special about this place. And you know, the tournament's always been run beautifully. So it's kind of nice to know that I'm going to be around for the weekend.  
  
  Q. Not even be around, you'll be in contention. Must be exciting.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, it's very exciting. I've got some great memories from last year's Open playing the final round with Catriona Matthew, and being able to witness the winner. So hopefully this year I'll be able to be on the other end of it.   
 But I'm very excited to be in contention. I know how much the fans appreciate us out here. They're very proper about it, but I know they really appreciate us. It's an amazing experience every time we come here.  
  
  Q. So what's different for you the last couple of days, the fact that you're challenging. We haven't really seen much of you.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah. I've been in hiding. No, I've been -- more than anything I've been struggling with the flat stick. When you're sitting there hitting 15, 16 greens and you look like a five-year-old on the putting green, you're not going to see yourself on top.   
 But I started playing pretty well, almost won at the Jamie Farr in Toledo, had a pretty decent showing at the Open, and I switched putters back to what I was using last year at the Solheim Cup when the U. S. won. And also I started working with Ron Stockton who works with Morgan Pressel, Yani Tseng. He's worked with Annika Sorenstam. And he's really opened my eyes to figuring out if you put a good stroke on it and if you focus on the right things, the ball will actually get in the hole as opposed to thinking about the ball going in the hole, you stay in your box. You know, it's been pretty awesome.   
  
  Q. Can we go through your scorecard?   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yes.  
  
  Q. Okay. No. 2?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: No. 2, 134, 8-iron, six feet. No. 8, I had -- I was 105 -- oh, no. I'm not 100 percent sure. Can I get back to you on that one?   
  
  Q. Okay.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: But I do remember it was like a 25-foot putt.  
  
  Q. That's good.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah. No. 9, I had 158 to the hole, hit a 6-iron and it rolled off the green short, and then I hit a rescue up there 12 feet past and missed the putt.   
 No. 5 I had --  
  
  Q. 15.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Excuse me. 15. I had 52 yards to the hole and then just hit this little bump-and-run thing with my 56-degree, hit it to about eight feet, made the putt.   
 Then No. 17 I had 253 -- driver and then I had 253 with my second shot, 3-wood and then I hit it about 12 feet left of the hole and made the putt.  
  
  Q. And then you hit bunker on 18?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: A little bit of sand. It was where my feet were, not where the ball was.  
  
  Q. Comparison of the two days, yesterday when you came off, I did see you come off. You looked a little steamed. What went wrong for you yesterday and right for you today?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: First two holes were very difficult, playing straight into the tee from there, long enough as it is without any wind. So they ended up playing like par-5s. And bogeyed the first two holes really quickly and started off kind of freaking out a little bit. And started coming back a little bit, brought it back to even through 15 and then made a double on 16, unfortunately, which really set me off; and then failed to convert the birdies on 17 and 18.   
 So I felt like I played the last four holes 4-over and was really upset by that fact and just wanted to go out and put a good number again because I know I can play well. This kind of golf suits me. You have to have imagination. You have to play it high, play it low, right and left. And you know, it's a ball striker's course, which is one thing I love about it. And obviously you have to putt well, but if you can't get yourself on the greens, you're pretty much screwed.  
  
  Q. And the morning conditions this morning in comparison to what you played in the afternoon yesterday?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: The winds were a little different in terms of direction, and they were very, very still. You know, I was fortunate to tee off before the sun rose and before the winds woke up and before the rain hit, because it is -- you know, it's not really annoying to play in the rain. It's just inconvenient because you have to get the rain gloves. You have to get the jacket. You have to swing with extra layers on. You have to do this, that, you feel different. So it was kind of nice to just be able to go out and just wear the single layers and just go out and play.   
  
  Q. You recall last year walking down 18 with the eventual winner there. I mean that kind of probably brought chills to you and probably brought a vision that you wanted to do the same thing here in 2010.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah. Absolutely. It would be fantastic. You know, I actually think about that moment probably at least once a week, because it was very special. It's not very often, honestly, when you get to witness a first-time major winner as well as a first Scot to win the British Open.   
 You know, there's a lot of things, and Beany is such an incredible woman and having given birth 10 weeks before that and saving people from a fire in the hotel that she was staying in the week before that at Evian. Just so many things were so incredible that it always brings great feelings back, even though I didn't necessarily get the chance to convert the win myself, it was still really nice to have been in contention. So I've got some great feelings and I'm very excited for what's to come.  
  
  Q. Super. Good luck to you, Christina.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT