U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2010
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRISTINA KIM: You know, we're not better than the guys; the guys are not better than us. It's like baseball and softball. They are the same yet -- they're different yet the same, you know, so it's hard to say.   
 But, no, it was an incredible championship? By no means was any part of this tournament unfair. The hole locations were what the guys had dealt with.   
 I know Mike Davis had said that he wanted to present this championship in such a way to make it comparable to what the men had to face.   
 So, you know, it's fantastic.   
  
  Q. Back-to-back American winner on the LPGA. Tell me how meaningful that is.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Um, yeah, you know, it's huge. Everyone has always been talking about Asian Invasion and always saying there aren't enough good American players.   
 I think obviously the LPGA Championship with Cristie annihilating the rest of field, as well as Paula winning here, and I'm not sure, probably, what, four Americans in the top 10? Five? Four?   
 It was myself, Brittany Lang, Paula -- is that it?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Oh. Either way, three out of the top 10, that's still pretty darn good of any championship you know. So, I mean, it's a huge testament to how the Americans are playing. And that's how we have been playing.   
 A lot of people have been speculating that there aren't that many great American players. But obviously with the way the Solheim Cup went last year - how it's been going over the over the years -- you know, how the players are playing period, I guess, it proves that Americans are still a dominant force.   
 The first several days you look up and there's so much red, white, and blue. It filled my heart with a lot pride. It really did, seeing so many American flags, especially the week following the 4th of July. It was pretty special this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT