U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2010
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about today. Is it weird playing golf and finishing (indiscernible.)
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah, it is rather odd. It's a very, very weird feeling. The greens out there were definitely no different than what we had encountered throughout Monday through Friday midday. 
 It was playing tough out there. It was funny, we were delayed off the first hole for probably about 15 minutes. For me it made no sense because I was like, we only had one wave, fewer players, you know, the top 68 players or so as opposed to 150, trying to squeeze them into a round.
 But, you know, once you encounter the greens you definitely understand why. It was a bit of a challenge out there, and looking forward to redeem myself tomorrow.

 Q. Can you expand a little bit on how the greens were different? In what way?
 CHRISTINA KIM: They were softer, more receptive. So as opposed to -- like I haven't been to No. 15 yet. No. 15 you would anticipate hitting it short of the green and running it up or something like that, even someone like me who has a decent amount of spin on the ball. 
 Now we're able to attack the pins or the hole locations, excuse me. They've been putting them in some tough spots out there. They were interesting hole locations, just what you expect on Saturday of the U.S. Open, you know. It was definitely very challenging, you know, spitting balls back on a couple of occasions, just really having to put a premium on where it is to place your ball. It was pretty crazy out there.

 Q. How do you like your position? How do you think you stand, and can you comment on how Paula is playing given her lack of play?
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, you know, there's a lot to be said for someone who misses the cut the week before. Look at Choi last week. She missed the cut at the LPGA Championship presented the Wegmans and went on to win the next week. 
 Paula missed cut last week and she's going out and playing some pretty damn good golf. Might have felt like three in a row was a bit much for her. Getting those extra days was probably not the worst thing for her. She's playing great, and you know, anything can happen the next 20 -- I don't know. That's a lot of math. 
 She's got 22 holes left. I have 21. She's got 22. So anything can happen. Obviously she's playing very well. You know, I'm happy for her for that. All can I do is focus on what it is that I'm doing. Whatever anybody else is doing out there essentially does nothing, means nothing to me when I'm playing my game.

 Q. A lot of Americans on the leaderboard.
 CHRISTINA KIM: I noticed that, yeah. I was on 10, and 6 of the top 10 were Americans, which I though was really, really cool. I had to look twice, because it said, Jang, Lang, and Yang. I had to stop and think. I remember Brittany is American. It was exciting to see that. 
 This is, you know, our Open, you know. This is one of the most prestigious tournaments in all of sports, one of the four Majors, and the USGA does an incredible job hosting us and presenting the golf course. 
 As much rain as they got, putting it in as great a shape as they could, it really is very impressive what they've done fr us. They've spent timeless hours. The staff out here has been incredible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT