HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2010
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Christina, thanks for coming in. Nice round today. You're one shot off the lead in the clubhouse, tell us about your round and all of the things you've been doing since you got here to Singapore.
 CHRISTINA KIM: Today was actually very much of roller coaster day. I was actually, what, 2-over through four, 2-over through five, six. I don't remember what it was, I remember I was furious. On the second hole, I kicked my bag about three times on the putting green, and then just finally started stroking it a lot better. 
 I switched to left-hand low last week on Saturday 30 minutes before I teed off, shot 66 and said, eh, must be the putting. So it took a little while for me to get used to the putting, as well. 
 I went out there, had a great time, we were sitting there laughing, joking with all of the players and caddies like we normally do and just had a wonderful time. So far I have not touched Orchard Road, but I might be stopping over today. I did something for a morning TV show in Singapore on Tuesday morning, and then last night I was one of two players, myself and Amanda Blumenherst created the HSBC Sling over at the Raffles Hotel. We sat there rolling about the bottles over our arms and heads and everything else and it was a lot of fun. 
 Other than that, have not been doing a whole heck of a lot. (Laughter) That's like three things. That's not a lot, oh, my gosh. 

 Q. You left us in mid-round there. You were kicking your bag on the second and then you shut off back to Singapore to Raffles. 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yes, it was -- sorry. Excuse me for the segue. 

 Q. What happened? When did you sort of calm down and what made you calm down?
 CHRISTINA KIM: I haven't calmed down yet. I'm still raging. No, I just told myself that I needed to spend a little more time focusing on my putts, because I'm swinging it, honestly, I mean, I hate to say, but I'm swinging so damn good right now, it's scary. And I haven't, you know, really felt standing over the ball, I haven't felt so good as I have this week in a really, really long time. 
 But I bounced back with, I birdied 9, birdied something before that -- I have no idea what I did really. I had three in a row, I think 12, 13, 14. I made -- or 11, 12, 13, whatever holes they were. 
 But I bogeyed No. 11 -- or No. 10. I bogeyed No. 10. I was really upset with myself again, and started swinging at it better. It's amazing what rage can do to a person I guess. 

 Q. What does it do to you?
 CHRISTINA KIM: I don't know, make it makes me focus a little more. I sit here mortified, because in all honesty, 3-under. It's not just the fact that I left a lot of shots out there, but I just don't think it's a very clean round period. I think that it's easily 6-, 7-under is out there today. Some days it's not necessarily out there. If the wind is coming from another direction, it changes the golf course entirely. But today was such an easy day I think out there, but my mentality, who knows. But I'm happy with 3-under, though. Can't really change it. 

 Q. I understand you had a minor accident in Thailand last week; are you affected this week?
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, it affected my game last week, because I got in a car accident and then shot 66 the next day. You know, it was surprisingly, as crazy as it is to say, it was a bus, a police car and a big-rig truck, those big semis, a big semi-truck was involved. Not a single person was harmed. Only those three cars were involved. 
 There could have been cars coming left and right, it could have been a huge pileup, but considering all of the factors, slick roads coming downhill, this, that, it was a best-case scenario if you had to get into an accident. 
 So I don't think it really affected me. It was a little creepy, because the next morning, I actually found out we were in the same bus that we were in the accident, because I saw the cracked windshield and there was only one headlight. 
 But it was, in all honesty, it makes one realise -- no, it did affect me a little because I was moping and griping about the fact that I had 34 putts on Friday. And then I got in an accident and I said, that's okay. 
 But no, I don't think physically it harmed me at all. It was just a little pitter-patter of the heart, that's about it. 

 Q. Just another question, your outfit today, is style, looking good, do you actually put an effort in the clothes you wear?
 CHRISTINA KIM: Oh, no, you just come out looking like this. No, I'm only kidding. 
 I think for me, I'd like to think that my outfits and the clothes that I wear make me feel better, and when you feel better about yourself, then it will be projected into your golf game. Because if you're sitting there and you feel frumpy and you don't feel good about yourself, you're not going to have that extra vote of confidence in yourself to be able to execute some of the crazy shots that I hit out there today. 
 So you know, I definitely think that you know, wearing something that you feel comfortable in is a huge asset to how you perform on the golf course. It may sound completely silly, especially if they only wear, you know, brown and khaki. 
 You know -- hey, if it looks good, if you feel good, then it can't do any harm. I think that it's not what you wear; it's more how you wear it. And confidence is the best accessory that you can ever have, and that will leak into your golf game.

 Q. Curious how many sets of clothing and shoes have you brought to Singapore you it?
 CHRISTINA KIM: I'm disappointed in myself. I did not bring as much as I could have. I only brought two suitcases and my golf bag. But I have no golf clothes. I have no idea what clothes are in there, and all of the bags are heavy. I have no idea what's going on. No, I brought an extra suitcase with a little less weight that in case I go to Orchard Road, just in case, by chance, that happens. 

 Q. Are you like an Ian Poulter in knowing exactly what you're going to wear each day of the week?
 CHRISTINA KIM: No. I used to do that. I used to plan ahead, but I have a tendency to be a little neurotic about things at times, so for me, it's just I wake up in the morning and I say, what do I feel like today. 
 I'm not a person that really is a fan of, say, like boundaries and boarders and strict regimen of anything in life. I think you should just live in the moment, and I don't, you know, in certain things in life, of course you want to plan ahead. But when it comes to something as simple as clothes, again it's not what you wear, it's how you wear it. 
 So if you sit there and say, okay, I'm going to wear this in three days time, if three days from now you don't feel as good wearing it as you did three days prior when you thought of it, then there's no point in doing that. 

 Q. So did you wake up this morning and see green, or what? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Pretty much. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: I saw khaki.
 CHRISTINA KIM: It's not what you wear, baby, it's how you wear it.

 Q. So do you have a lucky colour that you must wear?
 CHRISTINA KIM: Do I have a lucky colour or piece of clothing that I wear? Undergarments are a necessity. 
 But no, for me, I try and always have something on me that's green. You know, like if nothing more, I don't care if I'm wearing like pink and purple, I'm probably going to have green eyeshadow, because for me it's a subconscious thing to, one, wear green, live green and be green. 
 I'm a huge fan of conservation, sustainability, and trying to see what it is that we as human beings can do to preserve the resources that we have. And so if nothing more, it's a small subconscious thing. 

 Q. There's not a touch of Irish blood in you? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, I don't have any Irish in me unfortunately. 

 Q. Just a quick question about the HSBC itself, compared to all of the other LPGA tournaments, how much of a buzz does it give you to appear in Singapore?
 CHRISTINA KIM: You know, I love every tournament that we play in, there's no doubt about that. But there really is something special about this place. 
 You know, I love a tournament either for the golf course or the people, for the city, for the food, whatever, and HSBC encompasses all of that. It's a fantastic golf course. Amazingly diverse population. Almost everybody speaks English, which is not a necessity but it doesn't hurt. Fantastic shopping, incredible food, and the hospitality of the people here, the volunteers, the media here, obviously, as well as just the people of Singapore are amazing. 
 You know, it's such a clean, beautiful city that this, for me, it always -- you know, I've told people in the past, Singapore is like a second home to me, even though it's like 17,000 miles away or whatever it is. It's very, very special to me because it's a beautiful area. And this is a world-class tournament, there's no doubt about that. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Christina, thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT