ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2008
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR thank you for joining us. After your second round of the ADT. If you would, please talk about your day. 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, I just, I don't know. It was an interesting day. You know, I birdied two of my first three holes yesterday, and three of my first five or three of my first seven or something like that. 
 So this morning it was kind of interesting seeing that I was tied for 7th before anyone teed off, and then by the fourth hole I was like T-11. So I anticipated really low numbers coming in. 
 So it was a little nerve-racking considering I was just plugging along. And I was just like you know what, if you just stay around 1-under for the tournament, it should be no problem. And turned around and it was like, you know, T 11. So I was like, all right, we've got to start bringing some things in. 
 Made a couple of birdies, and yeah, it was interesting, because Karen Stupples, I was playing with her. And she was doing really well, then she had to take a 5 on number 5 because her ball got lost in a palm tree. It was like that kind of changed the momentum of the entire round, because she started grinding. 
 And for a while I kind of forgot about my own round, because I wanted her to get in, you know, because this tournament's different from any other. You know, when you're playing with certain people you're like, miss it, miss it. But you know, Karen's such a great girl that it was one of those things where you were trying to help will her ball in. 
 So it was an interesting day, bottom line, you know. Crazy. 

 Q. Does it feel like you won a shot at the lottery? Is that what today's about? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, I made my way here. So I wouldn't really say luck had anything to do with it.

 Q. I mean, you won a shot at the lottery, because Sunday's kind of like a lottery, isn't it? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, I don't think Sunday's a lottery. Bottom line, you're going to have 8 of the best players out here. Maybe one number one, number five, number three on the money list may not be here. But these are the Top 32 of the entire LPGA Tour. This is the top echelon of women's golf. We've got the best players regardless of where they may be ranked. 
 I don't necessarily feel it may be anything along the lines of a lottery. I'm just going to grind it out until I get there tomorrow or until I get there Sunday. 
 I'm just happy I made it through the first two days relatively unscathed. Still have all my limbs. So we'll see what happens tomorrow. 

 Q. Does it seem odd that Annika and Lorena won't be here tomorrow? Annika's never been here on Saturday, but given the special circumstances. 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, you know, it does suck that Annika's final LPGA Tour event ended early. It would have been great to see her go all way through to Sunday and have it come down to the 72nd hole. 
 But it's a little easier on the rest of us (laughing). Between her and Lorena not being able to make it. But, yeah, I was shocked when I stood up on the 18th green and looked at the names and saw Annika and Lorena were not in the top 16. It was a little discouraging, because I know how much of a draw they are. Especially coming around the weekends. 
 So, you know, their seasons were long enough. That's the way I see it, you know. So they may enjoy those extra two days of rest. But all the best for both of them. 

 Q. Do you like now that both of the next two days are just gun it, get the best score, and start over if you can get to the next day. They're kind of individualized tournaments?
 CHRISTINA KIM: Kind of sort of. I like knowing that I have five shots on the last person getting in at the moment. But the fact that it goes back to everyone's at level par tomorrow, it just makes it exciting. 
 Especially, this golf course is very Trumpy. You know, this is Donald Trump to the tees. With the beautiful waterfall in the back of 17, the water that snakes in between especially from hole 15 through 18. It's demanding. It requires you to have guts and yet be smart. Those two don't always come hand in hand together. 
 So who knows. I might shoot -- I remember I had shot like 71 on Saturday here last year, and shot 81 the next day. It's just as long as you make it into that final day, it doesn't matter, bottom line. As long as you get there, that's all that matters.

 Q. Did you just call Donald Trump a snake? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: No, I said it snakes through. It cuts through. Yeah, it cuts through. Snakes through doesn't necessarily -- that's not the right term, I guess. 
 Look I'm in enough trouble as it is, all right. I don't need any additional help from you guys, come on (smiling).

 Q. What about the strategy tomorrow? How do you approach it? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Put the ball on the tee and hit it. Find it and do it again. 

 Q. Do you play aggressively? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: I'll tell you after the round tomorrow. I don't know what I'm doing until I'm standing -- until I'm halfway through my down swing. I don't know what kind of shot I'm going to play. 
 You know what, certain holes you have the aggressive play in mind, but then you rethink it, and you have to be a little bit more conservative. You know, other times vice versa. I haven't quite made up my mind yet. Depends on the wind. 

 Q. Is there more pressure in this event? Is?
 CHRISTINA KIM: I don't talk about words like pressure, sorry, no, no, no, no, no, yeah (smiling). Sorry, sorry. 

 Q. I have a random one. So drug testing is going on today, and Annika, of all people, her number was pulled. Do you find that kind of odd? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: No. You know, I mean it definitely does prove to everyone out here on tour that it is strictly random. You know, it's unfortunate because if you had just gone to use the ladies room on the 17th hole, you're stuck for another hour, hour and a half to have to, you know do your thing. But it is random. 
 So, you know, it probably sucks that her tournament was cut a little short, and then extended due to that. But, no, it's random. It's not funny. It's kind of like maybe ironic or something. But it's a little unfortunate, but, you know for the sake of in defense of the program that we're going through, it's strictly random. 
 There were players that their numbers were pulled two days in a week, you know.

 Q. In the same week? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: In the same week, Saturday Sunday, Friday Saturday, Thursday, Sunday. It's happened in the past. So it's entirely up to what the machine pulls out. I've only been tested once this week -- or once this year, excuse me.

 Q. Been lucky?
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah, I've been pretty fortunate, I think.

 Q. You've tempted fate now, you know that? Now that you've said that out loud?
 CHRISTINA KIM: I'll pee in a cup three days in a row, get to Sunday, that's fine by me. I'm not going to complain. 

 Q. A little one about Annika. Since she did not make the cut, this is her last LPGA Tour event so far. What do you think the impact that she's had on the LPGA Tour? 
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, I talking not even just the LPGA Tour, not even women's golf, not even golf, but she's an icon in history. You can't describe all of the things that she's done. But everything from her foundation to heightening awareness of the LPGA Tour, women's golf, golf in general. Breaking boundaries, breaking records, everything that her entire career is, it's something to behold. 
 It's very special that I was not able to just view it, but actually sort of be a part of it and experience it while the it was happening toward the later part of her career. 
 She's just an incredible human being. Everything that she's done for the game of golf and sports in general is truly commendable. We all wish her the best in whatever endeavors she goes on to do next. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT