NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 27, 2008
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Christina thanks for coming in. Can we go your three birdies, please?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Sure. Started off with a birdie on 2. The pin was 148 yards. I hit an 8-iron to about four feet. Made that putt.   
 Third hole from 123 yard, I hit a little pitching wedge to six feet and made that putt.  
 Then on No. 5, my third shot, I had 92 yards in and I hit to about eight feet and made that putt.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Christina nice round and you're two shots off the lead now entering Sunday. Not a bad position to be in. If you would, just talk about your day.  
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, I started off to a great start and then just seemed to get -- I didn't really get stagnant, it's just like everything was a degree off. Putts, I would shave the hole, or I would just miss it, or it would be just too hard or just too soft. You know, definitely, they could have gone in one way or another.   
 I just had a good day out there. I think as the day grew, the grass was getting longer around the greens and starting to get a little shaggy. People were maybe -- there were a lot of like really low scores so people were probably excited and dancing on the greens, so they got a little shaggy towards the end of the day. But overall it was a good day. My dad told me to try to shoot 4-under, 4-under, and missed it by one, so I've got to make up at least one stroke tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How is the course playing?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: The course is in phenomenal shape. I think the last two days, it has been the easiest out of the three. It's been a great day out there. Beautiful weather. Greens were nice and firm. Rolling at a great speed. The course is just in perfect shape right now. You've got fantastic crowds. Everyone out here is so excited and it's a great sports community, and even though you've got Crimson Tide rolling in tonight, they are still out there supporting us now, which is pretty incredible.   
  
  Q. (Can you talk about scoring today)?   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Well, you know, I think a lot of it is just going out early, sort of gives you the opportunity. It was early but it was still dry out. So people were able to go out and shoot the low scores and they were able to attack the pins.   
 A lot of the pins were very accessible and the winds were probably a little bit gentler today, especially in the morning than they were the last two days. So it was a little bit easier to gauge the distance out there towards the pins.   
  
  Q. What do you think it will take tomorrow?  
 CHRISTINA KIM: You know, who knows. It could be -- depends on what the weather is like, what the wind is like, conditions, everything. Especially with Lorena up at the top of the leaderboards, it's hard to say anything less than, you know, 9-under tomorrow would win.   
 So there really is no guarantee but just going -- I'm just going out to enjoy myself and try to make a move.   
  
  Q. The last 13 holes was there any one that sticks out?   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Yeah, there are a lot of holes that were out there, too many to name. I made a couple of great par saves. Like on No. 14, I drove my ball into the -- what is it with those hills, I don't even know what the hell that is, the briars, or thorns or whatever you have. I ended up making -- I hit a shot, trickled out and then I had a 40-yard pitch that I had no room to work with. My caddie was like: "Okay, aim about ten yards left of the flag and just make two putts and walk off."   
 I'm like, there's like a four percent chance I can convert this into a par. Went for it and flopped it just on top of the bunker to let it trickle down to four feet and made a 4-four footer for par, a downhill slider. So for me, small victories, whether it be for a par or a birdie. It's about making the putts and birdieing them and I was able to at least have a bogey-free day today.   
  
  Q. Did you wear that shirt for a reason?   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Go Tide. I'm not a -- I don't affiliate myself with my school, but I know sports is such an important thing for the community here, and they are having the game tonight. Just the fact that they were out here to support us throughout the day -- they could have gone and tailgated for the last 12 hours.   
 So the fact that they came out here, I thought, why not give a little back. And made sure it wasn't the Georgia Blue. It's not the Georgia Red. It's a little bit more closer to crimson I guess. Probably a little more cranberry.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: They were okay. Someone said, should have worn an eagle, and I think that's what an Auburn person is -- they are not playing today, are they? Oh, shoot. Well, I don't have anything orange on me.   
 I got orange here, in my shoe. There you go.   
  
  Q. I also heard you like grits.   
 CHRISTINA KIM: Not now. I've always like grits. My first encounter with them. I love low country, nice and easy, lots of sweet tea, smooth sailing, gentle folk. I love it.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you, Christina.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT