ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2007
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How was today for you?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  Well, I tried to be as aggressive as I could, but it was pretty damned windy out there and it was kind of scary, especially on a lot of the holes that were circling around the water it was kind of scary.  I made some bogeys out there and made some birdies and went out and just enjoyed myself.   
 It's such a great event to be a part of, and just to make it this far is awesome.  I beat more than 16 people, so I'm pretty psyched about that.  It's just an awesome day.  I'm just really glad to be here.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about having to give up nine strokes tomorrow?  You're nine strokes ahead of the people that are competing for 16th place right now.   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  Yeah, I'm not thinking about them, I'm thinking about people that are in eighth place right now, I have to beat them, which is only like three strokes or something like that.  I just want to make it to Sunday.  Whatever happens, happens.  I'm just glad to be here.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel that after two days you're one back, then just to wipe the slate clean and start over?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  I would give up a lot more for a million dollars.  That's not asking too much.   
  
  Q.  Today was the goal just to play it safe?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  No, I was trying to be ballsy, as I usually am.  I was successful on some holes and not very successful on others, but I didn't make any ginormous mistakes and didn't have any of those double squares or different colors or things like that on the scorecard, so that was good.  It was not an easy day out there.  Morgan Pressel played great today, shot 7-under.  Especially in conditions like this, it's not unbelievable, but it's a beautiful score.  1-under, as long as I'm in red numbers at the end of the day, for today's round, I'm pretty happy.   
  
  Q.  How different was the course today than yesterday?  Was it two totally different courses?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  Not necessarily.  It was still scary and it was still tough, but yesterday I just -- my putts were just dropping in a little bit more.  I was sort of in the middle of the field so there weren't as many spike marks being torn up and putters being dragged across the green or whatever was happening out there today.   
 But you know, it was a good day.  It was a lot windier so a lot of the holes played a lot longer, like No. 7 played long today.  You don't like knowing that you have to hit it a certain number, and if you go five yards over the green there's water long but you can't hit it short because it'll trickle back into the water and there's water right and there's a bunker left.  There's just a lot of stuff going on.  You know, it was just a great day, a lot of fun, beautiful weather.  Still wasn't that bad.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT