HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about winning two days in a row?  You've played some pretty tough competitors.   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  The worst thing about it is that they are friends.  If it was people that I don't really like or don't really care for -- not that there are that many people on Tour that are like that, but if they weren't good friends, I wouldn't be quite so wishy-washy towards it.  Yesterday playing Natalie, today playing Se Ri, tomorrow I have to play Ai; I couldn't pick two people I would prefer not to play.   
 Yeah, I just played -- you know, I didn't play great today.  I played better today than I did yesterday, but you know, I made a couple of birdies early on, almost holed out on No. 4, the par 3 and then from 5 through 13, I missed every single green and got up-and-down every time except for one.   
 So I got up-and-down eight times, which is pretty good.  And you know, just made some really, really key putts out there, just kept grinding out.  It ended up paying off.   
  
  Q.  The fact that you are playing a friend tomorrow, and you're doing well, does this give you confidence for the rest of the season and possibly Solheim Cup?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  Yes.  I love match play.  I don't know if I can ever say it enough, I love match play, as long as I'm not too close personal friends with the person I'm playing against.  There's something about match play that can't be compared to anything else.  You have that thing like, okay, because you don't even have to play all 18 holes, you might play 40 holes, you might play 11 holes.   
 Either way, it's pretty neat.  You just sort of play it for a good shot.  You want to hit a shot better than them.  You want to hit your tee shot better than them, you want to hit it closer than them on the green and you want to make the putt.  It's one of those things where it reminds me of all of the games I used to do with my buddies growing up back at home.  It gives you that sort of, chilled, relaxed atmosphere while still it can be extra fiery and no one will really complain about that.   
  
  Q.  The difference of this course, 2006 compared to today, is there any adjustment?   
 CHRISTINA KIM:  It's a longer course, which I definitely don't dislike.  I've played very well out here before the way the course used to be.  I told -- I forget who it was, one of the maintenance guys, I was like, "Why are you guys even thinking of changing the golf course."    
I was just flabbergasted; it's an even better course now than it was last year.  Having to shape your tee shots a little bit, although you have to shape them differently, you don't have as many 3-wood tee shots, but you still have to work them around the bunkers and this and that.   
 You know, it's a great layout either way.  I think I like it more this year than I did last year, because I missed the cut last year.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT