HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you think going into today you were going to have to hang with her on the par 5s because she ended up winning all four?
CHRISTINA KIM:  No, I knew that was where I would have to make a move.  If nothing more, I mean, the way she played the course, due to her length alone she plays every golf course as a par 68.  I'm going to have to keep that in consideration, that it's a par 68 and shoot 3  or 4 under today on top of that to give myself a chance, and did not.  I was not able to capitalize on the par 5s today.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities but just didn't pan out.  When you're getting on in two on almost all the par 5s, I don't know if she went after all of them
Q.  She laid up on 2.
CHRISTINA KIM:  Other than that, it makes the course entirely different.
Q.  You've seen her play a lot, when you compete against her in a head to head format like this, do you have a pretty good appreciation for her talent?
CHRISTINA KIM:  To be honest with you, I was focusing solely on the way I was playing.  I wasn't really watching where her ball was going, wasn't really watching the putts.  I wasn't listening to the oohhs and ahs and ohs
Q.  The birdie putt on 13
CHRISTINA KIM:  A birdie is a birdie.  You've got to expect your opponent to make everything.  So I kind of have it in mind, I don't think wow, she had seven birdies today or this or that.  I just think, oh, she had the opportunity to make 18 birdies or 16 birdies, so expect that she will and if she doesn't, she doesn't.

But I do know what you're saying, and, you know, it is pretty a amazing to see someone at such a young age at such a high caliber level of golf.
Q.  Are you happy with the way you played today?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Overall with the exception of the par 5s I'm very happy with how I played.  Just a few putts that didn't go in and then, you know, hit a lot of great shots, like No. 8, I hit the flagstick and then, you know, end up off the green.

Still, I struck the ball    with the exception of a few holes, I struck the ball very well.  And you know, it's just, this is the kind of course anything can happen, so you always have to be on your toes and be aggressive.
Q.  What was the play on 14, the par 5, you hit in the left rough, what club did you use, 3 wood?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Yeah, I just hit a 3 wood.  I didn't actually go for the green although I think I could have.  It ended up just a little left of where I wanted to, and in that end of the cut    pull it you go a little further and then you're shooting one out and it kept going.
Q.  There was one little putt that you had that just cut right across the hole.
CHRISTINA KIM:  I did not hit a single putt off line of where I wanted to.  Whether or not it went in the hole or not is besides the point but I thought I hit every putt just about perfect.  Maybe it was just a matter of being able to read the greens a little better, I don't know.

But yeah, that kind of stung because I really thought that I had it, what the hell of you doing, eight feet from the hole anyways with 75 yards is the way I see it.  If it's 100 yards you have to be inside ten feet.  If it's 90, you have to be inside 90 and increments from there.  70 yards from the hole, you've got to be at max seven feet from the hole.  That's the way that I like to play.
Q.  Can Michelle run the table here?
CHRISTINA KIM:  This is match play.  There's no saying what could happen.  You've got Karrie  Webb that has got    she pulls shots out of places I would never even be able to conceive the notion of trying let alone playing.  Annika obviously, just coming off that great win at the Open, she's No. 1 in the world.  And at the same time, don't get me wrong, she's got unlimited potential.  She hits so many shots out there today that were just jaw dropping but at the same time, any given day anything can happen.
Q.  She's got Se Ri tomorrow, that will be a good match.
CHRISTINA KIM:  I played with Se Ri last week at the Open and she's solid and never really hits it off line.  She's making her comeback now after having just won the McDonald's.  So honest to God, there's no guarantee that either Annika or Michelle will be in the final.  This is match play, anything can happen.  That's the beauty of this tournament.  These are the best players in the world and there were no gym my matches out there at all.  There were a lot of upsets I think.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT