MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2006
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRISTINA KIM:  I started off the back side, birdied number 14.  What is 14?  It's a par 4 of some sort.  Hold on.

Oh, okay.  I had 65, 10.  Used a 60 degree wedge and hit to    no, that's not right.

Probably wedge and about 10 feet, I would say, from that.  14?  Dang it.  Oh, yeah, that was    I hit my pitching wedge from like 120 and hit it to about 12 feet.

Number 18, I was 127 flag.  Hit my pitching wedge to about a foot.  Made that putt.

Number 1, I was 95 yards.  Hit a 52 degree, hit it to five feet, made the putt.

Number 2, at that third shot 98 yards, 52 degree, hit it to about 14 feet.

Number 7, only bogey, I was 145 yards, 7 iron to about 30, 35 feet and then 3 putted from about four feet.

Number 8, I was 208 yards for my second shot.  Hit a 5 wood to about 50 feet.  Made about a two foot putt for birdie.

And then No. 9, I had 156 to the flag, 7 iron to about 18 feet.
Q.  What was it like out there today?
CHRISTINA KIM:  I was very happy.  I was just, I got    I was very fortunate to get John, who is normally Meg Mallon's caddy and she had to pull out because she's feeling sick.  So it was very fortunate that he was willing to take me under his wing and loop for me this week and he just kept me smiling all day and it's kind of    especially the first couple holes, I was shaking and I hit some good shots, but just, you know, just wasn't really in the groove.

And then just sort of just dove right in, like I said.  I said to heck with it, you got to show them what you got, so, you know, just coming off a good last 36 holes last week, 10 under last 36 holes, with only one bogey and so feeling really good right now.
Q.  Feeling more comfortable with the golf course having seen it two years now?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Yeah, definitely.  This is a beautiful track.  And you're walking down the fairway and you come up to the greens and it's like you see the rough it's like that thick, just you know, a foot and a half away from the putting surface.  And it just makes you want to target in just a little bit more.

But definitely feel more comfortable out here and I think I got a good draw going off the back side first.  I got great weather, a lot cooler than it was last year, and just, the course is in great shape this year.
Q.  What are your attitudes regarding a Major?  You haven't been on the Tour that long and you're still probably learning and figuring out how good you can be.  What are your thoughts on winning a Major?
CHRISTINA KIM:  I won twice in my career so far and I think a Major would be a fantastic little notch in the belt, if you will.  I'm just    you know, there's just so much tradition and all that with this tournament that it's just    I know Herb Lotman and just being able to say that I won his event would    it would mean the world to me.
Q.  Did you kind of will that one in down here on nine?
CHRISTINA KIM:  John and I were just kind of figuring what the break was and he's got    you got gorgeous eyes, but he's got, he's very good with the greens and I just said, you know, what do you think here, John.  He thought there was a little more break than I thought there was.

And I had been hitting the last several holes, I had hit my putts left anyway and said I might as well agree with him and he would never steer me wrong anyway, so just try to hit it.  And I was like, did I    I was focusing on the line and I was like did I even hit it and I was very fortunate it was downhill and down grain that it just sort of trickled in the hole.
Q.  Taking you back to figuring out how good you really could be, taking you back there, I, mean are you still figuring out how good you can be?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Definitely.  Definitely.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I think that with the level of play has gotten so much higher in the, even in the last year, that you still, every year you come in here and you're like, swing back, swing through, try to make contact.  Hit it, find it, try to do it again.

But the players are so good these days.  It doesn't matter how good you feel about yourself.  It's human nature.  You try and compare yourself to others and I stopped doing that this week, actually.
Q.  This week?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Yeah.  Today.
Q.  Your round today was 64?
CHRISTINA KIM:  This year, yeah.
Q.  That was the third round?
CHRISTINA KIM:  Second round last year.  Yeah.  Saturday round.  Exactly.  Just, yeah, just firing at pins and, yeah, that was a fun little course.  I thought it was a great course to prepare for this event.  You got the fescue lying everywhere so you got to put emphasis on hitting it in the fairway and you got to know your carries and how you're spinning the ball.  So I think that was a great prep tournament for me coming into this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT