KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2016
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRISTINA KIM: My left eye is still twitching right now.  It's been going on for the last six holes.  This place has absolutely drained me.  I'm very, very thankful that I was able to play early today, to be able to get some rest, to go out there and try and do it again tomorrow.  It's a great feeling, but I am exhausted right now.
Q. Drained because of how tight everything is out there?
CHRISTINA KIM: I'd like to think I'm one of the most accurate players on the Tour off the tee, but I don't have enough ball speed to make the ball move left-to-right.  There's a lot of trees out here.  I'm just thankful that they limbed them all, because at least we can go underneath some of them.  You could see there's probably almost ten feet of limbs that were removed.
It was just very mentally taxing today.  And the greens are perfect.  The fairways are perfect, the rough is perfect and nasty.  I can't rave about this place enough.  It screams major, and it's first class.  How much time do you have?  This place is perfect.
Q. (Inaudible.)
CHRISTINA KIM: I don't remember.
Q. Par 5?
CHRISTINA KIM: Oh, yeah.  It was the birdie on -- I think I made a birdie on 5.  I don't remember.  The birdie before that.  Because I think I did have two birdies back-to-back, was a much bigger confidence booster.  But I putted really, really well today.  I didn't really provide myself with a lot of opportunities off the tee, but my putting came around.  I was getting up and down out of trash cans.  My happy putter has kept me so sane throughout the last 18 holes.
Q. Were you surprised that it played so tough?
CHRISTINA KIM: No, this course is exhausting.  I'm glad that there weren't any severe winds.  We were very lucky the first couple of days in the week.  It was in the 90s, high 80s, I was happy to see that everybody was able to experience the 17 or 18 days of beautiful weather that you guys get in the summer here.  I'm a Pacific girl, I know that.
So it was just a perfect combination, because it was able to dry everything out and make the course play faster.  Now that you've got the lower temperatures, higher humidity, a little bit of moisture in the air, it's going to kind of maintain the perfect condition as opposed to continually drying out.  You're not going to see any purple greens out there.  Hopefully it will be a little bit easier of the job for the maintenance crew out here.  They've got a lot of land to cover.
Q. Inbee going into the Hall of Fame after her round today, what are your thoughts on that?  What has she meant to the LPGA Tour?
CHRISTINA KIM: I've known her since she was 12 years old.  And the fact that she was able to garner enough points to get in the Hall of Fame -- what did it take her, seven years?  Six years?  I can't remember.  It's amazing.  She's an incredible young woman.  She's 27.  And what she's done to elevate the game and just really teach us how easy golf is supposed to be, which is really, really frustrating, because it really isn't.  What she's done for the game, you don't see that very many times in a lifetime.
She's remarkable in so many ways.  Just watching her ability to emit calmness when -- she's admitted there's a lot of turmoil inside.  And she says I do get nervous out there.  But nobody knows she has a heartbeat when you're competing against her.  It's just amazing.  She's been so great for this LPGA Tour and I'm really, really excited for her, what she's going to do now that she is officially entered into the Hall of Fame.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT