SYBASE CLASSIC
May 22, 2005
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP:  We've got Christina Kim here in the interview room.  Christina, let's start off with your score card first.  The front none was a little tough, bogey on No. 2.
CHRISTINA KIM:  139 yards to the hole.  Used a 9 iron and pulled it just outside the bunker.  That was about pin high.  And then failed to get up and down, missed about a 25 foot putt for par on that.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 5.
CHRISTINA KIM:  I hit my drive well right of the fairway.  I was 139 yards to the hole, I think it was, and tried to punch a 5 iron out from under the trees, hit a rock, and failed to get up and down from 64 yards to the hole.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 7.
CHRISTINA KIM:  Hit my tee shot.  The hole was playing 217 yards, I believe.  I hit my 5 wood left and short in the bunker and failed to get up and down.  I missed the par putt.  That was probably 25 feet long.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 8?
CHRISTINA KIM:   Hit my drive well left.  I was 156 yards to the hole, tried to punch a 6 iron out from the stuff.  I don't really know what it was, a bunch of dirt where they pulled out one of the other trees and didn't catch it quite right, hit a rock, ended up 78 yards to the hole and used a sand wedge to put it to about 10 feet, missed the putt coming back, or missed my par putt.
JOEL LAMP:  You rallied on the back side with a birdie on 11.
CHRISTINA KIM:   I was 121 yards to the hole.  I used a 9 iron and hit it to four feet or so.
JOEL LAMP:  Birdie on 15.
CHRISTINA KIM:  I was 187 yards to the hole.  Used a 5 wood, hit it off the green, pin high right and chipped it to six feet, lipped out for eagle.  Chipped it to about six feet and made the putt for birdie there.
JOEL LAMP:  I know you're disappointed with your finish, but really a strong back nine, battling back after the slow start.
CHRISTINA KIM:   I really have no idea what was going on in my head on the front nine.  I tried to be aggressive and I just really wasn't in that comfort zone and it was cold all day.  I don't like having to wear too many layers.  This is really all I played in all day.  It was just one of those things where, you know, it just sort of snowballed.  I hit one bad shot    you hit a bad shot and then you end up like in the absolute worst place you could possibly be on that hole.  So it was having to battle back from those kind of shots.

I fought tough.  I turned it around on the back side.  I didn't post any bogeys on the back side.  I lipped out so many putts coming in from.  It must have been 12 through 17 almost, I think.  I had a lot of good chances there.  I played tough and    you know, it was tough out there.  1 under is actually a pretty damn good score out there.  Paula had a really good day out there.  She had a great week.  I'm very happy for her.
JOEL LAMP:  Questions?
Q.  Going into 18, knowing you have to eagle, do you put that out of your mind and try to make your shot or are you conscious of it?
CHRISTINA KIM: I heard a scream out there from the fairway but I didn't know who hit that putt or what that putt was for.  The way I was seeing it, I just wanted to hit good shots, and I did.  I just overread that first putt for birdie that I had.  But you know, there's nothing that I can do to affect how anyone else plays, is the way I see it.  So I had a tough time out there and I just tried to hit some good shots.  That was it.
Q.  Going in with the lead, again, does that affect what you do, or do you think about that?
CHRISTINA KIM: I don't know.  You do think about it, because normally you're used to the hustle and bustle of people around you.  But it's basically you hear crickets behind you.  There's no one out there behind you, playing, waiting behind you, so it's a little different.  It's a good experience.  I like being in that final group.  I like knowing at least three quarters of the way through I was at the top of the leaderboard.  It's a position that I'm going to get used to, hopefully.
Q.  What are the things you'll take with you from this week just in terms of how your game is, how your swing is?
CHRISTINA KIM:  I got three pairs of Minolos on Friday.  They're pretty good there.  There are a lot of internal things that are ongoing inside of me that you can't really put to words.  I learned a lot about myself and I learned about what it takes to continue going on to try to get to that win, all the way down to the bitter end.

There are a lot things I'm going to take with me into this year.  I'm actually very, very    I'm pretty content with how I played.  Of course I would have liked to win.  I would be lying if I said I didn't.  But if it was my week to win, it would be my week to win.
Q.  Do you think the microphone you were wearing affected you early?
CHRISTINA KIM: I don't think so.  I've worn the mic several times.  I'm not sure, I believe I wore the mic the third round or final round of the tournament that I won, so I really don't care.  It will bring me more attention if my play is not working, at least the mic will bring me back.  I thoroughly enjoy having the mic on.
Q.  Did you think the putt on 17 had a chance to drop?
CHRISTINA KIM: I thought the putt on 16 had a chance to drop.  I think the chip on 15 had a chance to drop.  I think the putt on 18 had a chance to drop.  I think the putt on 14 had a chance to drop.  I hit a lot of good shots out there coming in.  I battled back, and I sort of got myself out of the funk I was in on the front nine.  I'm content with how I did.  I had a lot of good chances.
Q.  I would imagine it's got to be frustrating because this is a tournament that seemed to be there for the taking, beyond the front nine.  Did you feel that way, no one was taking charge at any point?
CHRISTINA KIM: The conditions were very tough out there.  It was cold, rainy, dreary all day, very similar to how it was the first round.  The thing is, it's not so much, wow, I can't believe 6 under won, it's not one of those things, because you never know what the day is going to bring.  For all I know, we could have had torrential downpours.  You have to take it for what it is, and that score is what ended up winning.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Christina.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT