MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2005
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  What will you do today now?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
Anything I want.  I mean, for a while I will probably just stay in my hotel room because it is cold and I need to thaw myself out again.  I might go shopping to see if there is anything decent worth buying out here.  You know, I may just drive around and check out some of Colonial Williamsburg through the window of my car.  I am not actually going out because it is raining.

You know, this is one of those days you don't have anything planned.  Anything is up for grabs right now.
Q.  Did you play today?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
No.
Q.  No?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
No.
Q.  So are you kind of sitting back like, oh, I didn't have to go out there?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
Part of me is because that way I will be less likely to (inaudible)  since some of the other girls who had to play are soaked to the bone.  At the same time, I was like, "Man, I was moving up."  I was.

You know, these girls will to an extent they have an advantage because they have seen the course, they played these holes when it was so wet that they couldn't even reach numbers one or ten.  So when they come by tomorrow, they will be like, ah, look, I only have a 3 wood.  I have got an iron.

So it may seem a little easier for them.  But you know, I am just happy with where I am at regardless either way.
Q.  A lot of players are backing up.  You were saying you were moving up.  Then again you have a couple players like Natalie with 1 under, Malinda Johnson with 2 under for the day, Laura Diaz was even.  That is the top of the leaderboard.  I haven't seen this whole round ever being washed before.  That is kind of weird; right?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
I have never seen the whole round being washed either.  But it is, you know, that is always the way it goes regardless of what conditions you have.  You are going to have people that are really happy with their round and other people that are upset with their round.  That's just the way it goes.  Some girls are probably thinking, damn, you know, if only I    you know, if they hadn't canceled it, I'd be...

Janice Moodie, you know, her caddy said she jumped up 30 spots, so he was upset.  You know, that is how it goes though, you know what I mean.
Q.  Tomorrow if we play 18 and then 36 on Sunday maybe, your thoughts on that?
CHRISTINA KIM:  
I only think of it when the time comes.  I can only do what I can do to affect how I play that day.  If that is what it comes down to, that is what it comes down to.  Either way I am happy to be here.  The people here are very good to us.  The sponsors are awesome.  This is one of our premier events.  Personally just on my personal belief, I would like to see it be a 72 hole event.  You don't want to know one of the best events you get all year is going to be down to three rounds of golf.
Q.  If it had to go to Monday to play 72, would you want to do that or no?
CHRISTINA KIM:  I have an outing on Monday that I am already committed to, so that would be kind of...

But we'll see when that time comes.  We'll see what they decide.
Q.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT