PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
Christina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I noticed you got a little emotional there, too.   Is that hard to see Hee‑Won live?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   It is.   My first experience with the LPGA I met Hee‑Won when I was 16 and had like short blue hair and didn't know anything, and she was tearing it up as a rookie, and like Monday qualified I think like 19 times or something like that and finished rookie of the year.   
So she's someone that I've always looked up to and someone I've always admired.   She embodies grace, and you know, it's, you know it's bitter sweet because you know it's time for her to be with her family, and you know, she's given a lot to golf, both in the States as well as in Korea.   She's made a great name for herself, and she's had a wonderful career, but it is always sad.   She's one of my favorite people out here.   I'm running out of friends.   (Laughs).  
   
 Q.   And JJ is retiring this week, too.   Is that cool to kind of see them walk off together?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   It is very cool.   They both started their careers around the same time, and they're in so many ways polar opposites, you know.   Hee‑Won is just tall and light and JJ is a little bit shorter and, you know, strong.   
But they're both mothers and it's about that time.   You know, you want to spend time with your kids, and I'm sure when that time comes it's a very difficult decision to make whether you want to have your kids lead a fairly normal life without seeing their mom as much or if you want to be able to be there with them.  
   
 Q.   How do their personalities differ?   
CHRISTINA KIM:   You know, I mean they do differ in terms of JJ is a little bit more outgoing when you look at her face on, but Hee‑Won's hilarious.   She loves to joke around.   I mean they both have great hearts and they've both done so much for the game, and you know, it's sad to see.   
I mean you know, it is kind of a passing on of the torch because they've been out since the turn of the century, turn of the millennium, if you will, and now like all these young players coming in, and it's really cool to see, but it is also sad, especially since I came out the turn of the millennium, too.  
   
 Q.   They have to fill a big part of that, too, though; right, with all the Korean players out here now, they were kind of that first generation?  
CHRISTINA KIM:   Yeah.   They were.   They were out when Se Ri first coming out and grace park who stepped away from playing a couple years back.   So they were truly the first group of pioneers of Korean women's golf, and just seeing how much it's exploded over the last few years, it's remarkable, and there's no question they made a huge impact on that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT