MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 14, 2015
Mike Trout
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 American - 6
  National - 3
  
 
THE MODERATOR: Mike Trout, the first back-to-back MVP in the history of the All-Star Game.  First question for Mike.   Q.  So how much had your phone blown up while you were playing?  MIKE TROUT: I had a bunch of text messages.  I think like 65, just from teammates and friends.  It's just a special moment for me, my family.  Just being a part of it.  It's been awesome.   Q.  Mike, congratulations.  Historically, we'd like to get to the reaction.  I mean, you have done something no one else has ever done.  What does it mean to you, to accomplish something when you look back at all the great players who have won MVPs and not been able to repeat?  MIKE TROUT: It means a lot.  Obviously, came out with a "W".  That's the biggest thing.  When I go out there, I play my hardest every day.  Doesn't matter what the score is.  When I'm in there, I'm playing nine innings hard.  It's just an incredible honor to be a part of All-Star Game and win the MVP twice.  It's something special for sure.   Q.  Mike, what was it like seeing players like Mays and Aaron and Koufax and Bench out there to get to talk to them?  What were your thoughts during that ceremony?  MIKE TROUT: It's awesome to see guys like that.  Growing up, I didn't get to see them play that much, because I'm a young guy.  But looking up, seeing highlights of all the Hall-of-Famers, it's something I really look forward to looking at and I'm learning more about them, just how great they played in every respect of the game and I had fun so.   Q.  On the field, they were talking about you and Todd Frazier taking a charter back to New Jersey.  Can you talk about that and the deal you have with Todd, please.  MIKE TROUT: Yeah.  Supposed to be on a plane back to Jersey.  Get these next couple days off.  He called me about a month ago and said, you know, if we're both in the All-Star game, if I was getting a jet back home. Me and Todd, you know, we go back a while.  We're always messing with each other.  He's a great guy.  Last night was something special.  I get chills thinking about it.  Just the way he put on a show last night for his hometown, all the pressure and stuff, it's going to be a fun flight home for sure.   Q.  Mike, I believe it was a 1-2 fastball away.  Sort of could you walk us through that at-bat a little bit, what you were looking for.  I'm sure you've seen Zack a couple times in the past.  MIKE TROUT: Obviously, he was a teammate, so I got to play behind him a little bit.  He's got great stuff.  I was just looking fastball.  First pitch, I was telling myself I was going to swing, but I rarely swing at the first pitch.  I just want to see the pitch. But second pitch, still looking fastball.  Threw me like a cutter, slider.  Just missed that one.  I thought I put a pretty good swing on it.  Got a little big.  First couple pitches, you get so excited.  It's the All-Star Game.  Who don't get excited?  Once it got to two strikes, I calmed myself down a little bit and just looked for the fastball.  It was a fastball up and away or middle away, and I just barrelled it and went out.   Q.  Mike, Albert said that he told you to go deep right before you took that first at-bat.  Do you recall that conversation?  MIKE TROUT: He definitely told me to go deep.  Having him here and Santiago, it means a lot to me, the Angels organization.  He's meant so much to me.  Just the way he handles himself and the way I can go up and ask him questions.  He's a big part of the team.  And obviously, we wouldn't be in first place without him.   Q.  Did he tell you right before --  MIKE TROUT: No, we were just talking about it before the game, but nothing -- I don't recall anything like that.   Q.  Mike, you've won three MVP awards of one sort or another in the last calendar year.  How do you process that in your mind, the way you've separated yourself from the pack here?  MIKE TROUT: It's obviously a humbling honor with the MVPs.  Just the hard work in the offseason you put in, the hard work before games, the preparation.  Obviously, my teammates, can't do it without them.  They get on base, can't thank them enough.  My coaches, they put me in great situations.  They teach me how to play the game the right way.  I can't thank them enough.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Mike.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT