OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 28, 2018
Josh Huestis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you evaluate the season that you had?
JOSH HUESTIS: You know, obviously I came into this year -- if you compare this year to the last few years, obviously it's a huge step forward for me in terms of working my way into the rotation, being a guy that sees minutes in big games.  So obviously that was a huge step forward for me.
There were ups and downs for me this year, but it's not linear.  It's not a linear trajectory up.  It's going to be ups and downs and all that.  Anybody who thinks that it's always going to be sunshine is kind of crazy.
But overall, I would say this was a huge year for me.  I learned a lot through the ups, through the downs, walking out of here knowing a lot more about myself, about my game, and what to work on this summer.
Q. Speaking of which, have you identified a couple areas where you feel like, okay, if I can hammer down a couple of these spots, I can really up my ability to stay on the floor for long stretches?
JOSH HUESTIS: Yeah, I mean, I've always wanted to be a guy who could be as well-rounded as possible.  Obviously like defense is somewhere I hang my hat on, and I always want to keep getting better at that.  I think I could be an elite defender in the league, continuing to work on that, and then offensively becoming even more a consistent shooter, being able to put the ball on the floor, decision making, making plays, things like that.  That's all stuff that I can see myself being able to do, and that'll just come with continuing to work on it and getting more opportunities and more chances to put it into action
Q. We've seen it with Andre, the ability to catch on the wing, put it down for one or two dribbles and draw the defense to either make a play or find a way to finish and attack the rim.  I know there's like no space on the floor when there's 10 guys out there.  What's the process going to be like for you in really attaining that skill in that way?
JOSH HUESTIS: Playing.  I mean, you know, you can go into the gym and you can drill that stuff for hours a day, but you can't replicate it unless you've got nine other guys on the court with you.  So I think that's one of the biggest things for me.  I've drilled stuff a lot over the past few years in the NBA, and nothing can replicate playing in actual game speed, game situations.  That's something I'm really going to focus on is getting into whether it's pickup games, whatever the case may be, wherever the place is, and playing as much as I can to push myself to do those, and going through mistakes and learning and just getting better that way.
Q. What do you think about the upcoming summer?  You've got free agency coming up.  What's your mindset with that?
JOSH HUESTIS: Yeah, I mean, it's obviously unfamiliar territory for me.  I'm trying not to get ahead of myself.  It's obviously something that is a big deal, but it's exciting.  There's hope, and wherever I end up -- obviously I'd like to stay in Oklahoma.  It's the only place I've known.  I've made a home here, and I love the city, love the team, the organization.  Yeah, I'm not looking too far ahead, just taking it day by day.  Right now I'm thinking about vacation.  But yeah, then when I come back, get to work.
Q. Where are you heading?
JOSH HUESTIS: Napa.  Yeah, have a little wine, a little R & R.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT