EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 23, 2010
Gwladys Nocera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Gwladys, congratulations on a good round. Can you talk a little bit about your round and about the course conditions?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I played really well today. I hit the ball really well and I putted well, which is a big change for me.
 The course is -- it rained a lot last night and this morning, so the course is pretty wet. I guess I like it like this, because I can go for the pin because I have a pretty offensive game. On the greens, I can also like be offensive on the putts.
 But the course is really good considering all the water that dropped all night and this morning. Yeah, it was a good day.
 MODERATOR: How does it feel playing on French soil? Do you feel more pressure? Do you put more pressure on yourself?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I did for quite a few years. I've decided to stop that, because that was not good for me.
 So this year, I got invite from the sponsors of the tournament, so, you know, I decided, and I told my coach, my caddie, my mental coach, and myself, that I will leave 18 every day with a smile, and I will smile on the course.
 That was the whole point, and I'm doing all right now and I need to keep on going. This is such a great event, and I'm so lucky to be part of it. You know, you have, at some point, to enjoy it, otherwise it's a waste.
 MODERATOR: You've had a really interesting career. You played the LET for years and still are a member of the LET. You won ten times on the LET, but you chose to play the LPGA Tour on a pretty full-time basis this year. Why did you decide to make the jump this year?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Because I like to challenge myself. I guess I wanted to play with the best players in the world. They play there, so I just went where they are. I really love it. I really enjoy it. I think this tour is great. It's very competitive.
 I mean, the players have been great to me, and I love the golf courses. I was scared when I left that I would not like it that much, but I guess I love it. I do miss Europe a lot and I miss my friends a lot, but sometimes you have to about your career and about what is gonna help you to become better.
 And so I decided to jump in the big thing, and I'm pretty happy did I it.
 MODERATOR: Do you think that'll help you this weekend, the experience in the States this year make you stronger heading into the weekend this week?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Yeah. It's already help me during these first two rounds. I see these girls every week now, and I guess that's big help for me.
 Over the weekend will be, yeah, the same as in Springfield when I was in the top 10. I hope I will able to do what I'm saying. It's easy to say, but sometimes it's hard to do. But that's the plan. Just play and not worry about anything else.

 Q. Have you looked at the leaderboard? And what do you think of your position tonight? What do you think of Mika Miyazato and the other girls in the top 10 today?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I know Mika. I played with her a practice round. I don't remember where, but I've played with her. She's a very good player.
 Everybody is a good player this week. There's 111 players. All of them are good, and pretty much each of them can win.
 So I'm not gonna look at what they do. I have to concentrate on what I do and what I can do best, and that's it. You cannot control what they do. You just have to take care of your own business.

 Q. Would you have preferred to be in the first position, or is it better to be in the second position?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I mean, it's always better to lead. What's done is done. If you can be ahead, it's better.
 But once again, I made that good putt on 18 that saved me from making a double bogey. So I take it. Everything has been so great so far that I don't worry about that. I just want to enjoy the next two days and leave with a smile.

 Q. Last question: do you plan this week to beat your record, minus 29?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I think it's gonna be hard, but I can try, yeah.
 MODERATOR: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT