EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2009
Gwladys Nocera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: Like to introduce Gwladys Nocera who was the European No. 1 last year. She won five tournaments on the Ladies European Tour and topped the Money List for the first time. Gwladys, this is the fifth time you played here. Can you just start by talking about what the tournament means to you.
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, as a French player and as a lady European Tour defending -- not defending, but I'm defending the tour -- I'm pretty proud of being able to play here. I guess I earn my spot, so I should be happy and proud, and I am.
 It's fun to be here. It's, as always, very well organized and everything is running really smoothly. I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. What are your hopes for the tournament then?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: My hopes are always really high, and I didn't succeed really well actually. So I'm hoping for better this year. I think I want to try to enjoy the tournament and not put pressure on myself. 
 You know, my biggest opponent at this tournament is myself, so I just have to play the way I know I can play, enjoy. This is one of the most beautiful places in the world. It will be too bad to not enjoy that. 

 Q. You play with a very strong group last year, too. Is it difficult for you to be always in the spot when you begin the tournament with Ochoa and Alfredsson? 
 GWLADYS NOCERA: I'm not playing with Ochoa and Alfredsson. I'm playing with Cristie Kerr and Michelle Wie. It's a big group, but I know both of them. I've played with both of them. Michelle Wie came to play the German Open last year, and I played at the Samsung in Singapore this year with Cristie. 
 I know both of them, and they're both nice. I think it's a good group. They hit the ball really strong, and that's good for me to push me to play offensive. So I'm pretty happy I'm playing with them. Yeah. 

 Q. What do you prefer here on the course? What is your best spot on this course? 
 GWLADYS NOCERA: The best holes, or... 

 Q. Spots. What do you like? What is the positive for you here? 
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I think, as I said, it's probably one of the nicest golf courses we play. The whole place is nice. There are a few holes I like better. Usually the dog leg left, I kind of like these ones because I can draw my drive so it's fun.
 But, you know, most of the course is fun. There is a lot of different shots to hit. You're never flat on the fairways, so you have to work the ball and think about the shots. So it's a fun course to play. 

 Q. Is it very different from last year when you succeed a lot in the tournaments? You come here and you are 6th in the LET ranking. A little bit different. 
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I think the difference is not that much in the ranking, it's more where I stand today in my game. I've been hitting the ball really well, probably better than last year, yet I'm not scoring really good score. 
 So I don't want to put pressure on myself. I just want to do my best on each shot and play and find some pleasure somewhere there. So it's different. 
 Last year I guess I was very concentrated on my goal to win the order of merit, and that's all that mattered. This year it's different. I want to do good during the major, and doing good means enjoy each shot and do my best.
 So, yeah, it's different. 

 Q. Did you notice the change on the 18th fairway? What did you think about that? 
 GWLADYS NOCERA: Well, I want to say for me it's good, because I can aim to that grass bunker and draw the ball. Today and yesterday I reached the green in two, so it's good for the confidence. I think it's a good change. 
 It's more challenging. You have to think about the drive and then the second shot, so it's good. I think it's a good option. I think we might have more drama on this hole than the years before.

 Q. What do you hope for the weather conditions?
 GWLADYS NOCERA: I always hope for wind, but I don't know if I can here. I just hope for nice weather. It's always most of the time nice here, but if it can be a bit windy that will help me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT