THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 14, 2007
Maria Hjorth
Gwladys Nocera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARIA HJORTH:  We did great.  We are 1-1, and I'm really happy.   
  
  Q.  What was the turning point?  The up and down at the 12th?   
 MARIA HJORTH:  Yeah.  That definitely helped because we lost 11, the par 5.  But, you know, getting up and down on 12 was really, really huge, and just to make that putt, you know, that's the best.  It was a turning point.   
  
  Q.  Obviously so much between the last match and this one.   
 MARIA HJORTH:  Yeah, of course.  It's less because you did it before and you're expecting things.   
  
  Q.  Wasn't much in the way of encouragement for you with the group ahead of you.  Were you aware of that?   
 MARIA HJORTH:  Yeah.  I mean, we look at it.  Hopefully we had our numbers coming up.  We have to do something.  It's nice to see the top match go on and get a halve there, so it's good.   
  
  Q.  Congratulations.  Well done.   
 You're playing again this afternoon, are you hoping to carry on?   
 GWLADYS NOCERA:  I don't know.  I have no idea.   
  
  Q.  You're feel really confident now.  You're playing really, really well, Maria.   
 GWLADYS NOCERA:  I did okay.  Didn't make any big mistakes, which is the main point.  Of course, you have to play well, but if you don't make any mistakes on the course like that, it's good.  So I don't know really if I'm playing.   
  
  Q.  Did you ask specifically to play with Maria?   
 GWLADYS NOCERA:  Yeah, we talked about it.  I didn't ask.  I said I'd be happy to play with her and enjoy playing with her.  The captain listened to us, and I think Maria wanted to play with me, too.   
  
  Q.  You work well together.   
 GWLADYS NOCERA:  Yeah, I think we do.  Maria is a great person, and she's good with shorter irons.  Our chemistry is great.  I know I can miss a shot and green.  She can chip in so it makes sure she comes through.   
  
  Q.  Playing with Maria as well, playing in front of the home fans, it must have really helped you to hear so many people cheering.   
 MARIA HJORTH:  Lot of people behind us, French people, and she's great.  I mean, she's awesome.   
  
  Q.  Haven't you said you got a couple of French people.  Is that support from back home?   
 GWLADYS NOCERA:  My family and sister is here and some really good friend of mine, so it's really good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT