EUROCARD OPEN
October 25, 1997
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you compare this day's semifinal than the one four weeks ago? What was the
difference that says today you have won? 
 
 PETR KORDA: The difference was the court, a slower court and not such a high altitude
and I knew I am going to play more balls than in Munich because it was much faster, which
is helping Patrick more than me. 
 
Q. You said that you felt you were near the end of your career earlier this week, but
surely your fitness and your performance seems like you can play for a lot longer?
 
 PETR KORDA: That was in 1995 before I went to the first surgery. I mean, I was going
out of the tennis. I didn't want to come back. I didn't want to go through the pain. But,
then they make me realize, you know, how I like tennis, or I am enjoying tennis. I had two
or three weeks after the surgery probably the most decisive time in my tennis career. I
was with Tony Pickard and with his attitude, he convinced me to come back to play tennis
again. We talked about everything at that time and since that time I am really enjoying
tennis. When I hurt my -- when I injured my right groin, the first thing I was looking at
was to have surgery as soon as possible and to be back and to really -- to work hard
again, to get, conditionwise, on the level with the guys. That finally happened, you know,
in the beginning of this year. And, since that time, I am really enjoying tennis even more
than I was enjoying before. 
 
Q. If you play like today, surely, anything is possible, isn't it?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, I always knew I belong to the top 10. But the problem was, I have
been injured many times which people didn't believe me. They were always saying, you know,
I am crying too much instead of to be a tough man. But, I think I was tough enough to even
play and the doctor told me that I was completely crazy that I could play with this one
for such a long time. But, I am very fresh inside and also one of the reasons I come back,
I am doing the performance, I want it to be -- like they were saying my days are over, the
time I got married, everything, I went down hill and, you know, whatever -- whatever bad
comment they came up with. And, really, right now, I am sitting in a sport where I am
really just laughing, how did they understand myself and how did they understand my
tennis. 
 
Q. Your game these days, is it as good as five years ago when you have been --
 
 PETR KORDA: I am better. I improved my serve. Even the time I didn't play and, you
know, even I am -- I was injured, I developed a little bit my serve and I think that is
the reason also I am -- I can play good matches with the top guys. Because I was always
struggling with my serve. I know I can still improve my serve. That is what I am going to
look forward, you know, when I am going to have the time off after the season to improve
my serve. And, I am looking only for one thing, you know, to go back to the top 10 for one
week and really, to satisfy myself. If it is going to be this year, next year, whatever, I
am going to do 100% for this work and, you know, to bring the joy because I know my clock,
it is running quite fast. My tennis is, let us say, five to twelve and these five minutes,
I want to really enjoy and really to bring the joy for the other people to watch my tennis
and support me. 
 
Q. You are much more concentrated now than you were for a long, long while on the
courts?
 
 PETR KORDA: No, I was always concentrating, but I am older, you know, I am older, you
know, I am more mature than I was before. 
 
Q. You had up-and-downs in matches, now it is steady.
 
 PETR KORDA: No, I didn't have up-and-downs' matches. The up-and-downs' matches was
coming with my problems. I mean, I am -- I mean, really, when I hurt my groin in 1994,
Dusseldorf, you know, if you would look at '91, '92, '93 always was consistent, really
consistent. From '94, I was not consistent because I couldn't. I could play one match.
Then my body was like washed out completely. I was completely tired with the pain. But, I
kept the pain inside of myself. I know right now it was the biggest mistake in my life. It
cost me probably a lot. But, probably it was important time -- I probably went through an
important time or through an important period of my life. I became more mature. I know I
reevaluate my tennis at that time. I met a person who had a big impact on my game. It was
Tony. He introduced me tennis from the other side, than just to hitting the balls, to
enjoy my life; how to spend some time with the family. And, now I am just -- that is the
results and continuation, you know, what I learn through that period; what I learn with
Vladimir Zednik and that is why I am playing good tennis on the level that I am playing
right now. 
 
Q. Do you think that Tony will be able to do something similar for Greg Rusedski, you
know, because with Stefan Edberg, we always felt that it was more than just sort of
anything they did on the court, it was that Stefan had great faith in Tony; trusted him?
 
 PETR KORDA: You have to ask Tony. You have to ask Tony. And, I mean, I am just wishing
for Tony, he is going to be able to help him, you know, as his friend. As opponent I am
not making any comments (laughs). 
 
Q. In view of what happened in New York, that wonderful win over Sampras and then
becoming ill, having to retire, does it mean something special to beat the US Open
Champion?
 
 PETR KORDA: For me it is hard to talk about it because I truly believe I had it that
time and something hit me badly. If I would have to decide one more time to play the match
against Bjorkman, this time there was no way I would play. I am still having problems
since US Open with my sinuses. I am having surgery after the year because there is
something wrong and I have to be cleaned. There is a chronical problems. Whenever there is
air conditioning, you know, I have the problems that -- but, it was an important,
probably, lesson again. I went from the moment, you know, I was really on the top and
another day I got -- two days after I got hit, Hamburg, to get on the bottom again. But,
you know, I realize I can play tennis. I can beat No. 1 player in the world. And, if I am
going to stay healthy and, you know, just work hard and enjoy tennis, there is something
that is going to -- there is going to be some results. I don't know -- I mean, I am not
saying it is going to be good results, or the bad results. It is going to be some results.
But, if I am going to put 100% for this one, you know, I think I am going to be satisfied
with any results. 
 
Q. Have you gotten over that disappointment yet?
 
 PETR KORDA: No, I don't think that I will ever get over it because, you never know in
your tennis life if it was -- maybe it could be my second and last chance, but in that
time, if I would close my eyes and, you know, you could spin me around and I would hit the
ball anyway, the best -- because really I will probably -- one of the best timing in my
life and still almost couldn't lift -- couldn't lift the racket and I could play a tough
match with Bjorkman. It is hard to accept, but I am going to have to accept it because,
you know, the result was Bjorkman went to the other round. 
 
Q. Do you think that your body now is in good shape, so that you can play maybe two or
three more years?
 
 PETR KORDA: The body, it is very young inside. Three years I didn't practice too much
and I am still capable, you know, to work and I am enjoying to working. Like I said, it is
making me more motivated than I was ever before, you know, to use the five minutes
properly. Unfortunately I don't have my conditioning coach with me because I start to do,
after Wimbledon, something different than I was doing before. I am doing a lot of
stretching. But, unfortunately, my coach - I don't want to say became blind - but he had
eye surgery and he cannot travel with us at the moment. And, he is still recovering. I
think with his help and with the help with the tennis coach, and with the motivation, I
think I can stay in good shape. But I don't want to predict how many years I am going to
play or how good I am going to play. I think -- I know I am always going to play tennis
which hopefully people, they are going to enjoy. And, I think if I am going to play tennis
that I am producing right now, I am going to be able to come to the top 10 which is my
goal. 
 
Q. Don't you think you have more than five minutes to play?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, they always told me, you know, you are as old as you think you are.
And, I think I am very young inside. Compared to Boris or Stefan or the generation I have
really grew up with, you know, I turned pro when I was 19. They turned pro when they were
15, 16. That means they have been ahead of me some few years. That means I still have a
lot. Plus, I didn't work hard -- not hard, I couldn't work hard. I couldn't work hard and
my tennis is a little bit lighter than other players. And if I would improve my serve just
two, three percent, I think I can put some good results because groundstrokes, I don't
think so I can improve. Return, I think it is working fine. I can improve volleys -- if I
want, I can come more to the net, but everything is going to be depend if I am going to
have motivation to improve my serve. I don't know if in case I would reach top 10 if my
motivation is going to slip down, but I have big support from my family, which is most
important and, you know, I am enjoying it. I think if I would -- would try to go a little
bit right, I know -- I mean, my family would keep me back, my coach and my friend, Tony,
would put me back on the track again. 
 
Q. With regard to what you were saying about the lightness of your tennis and
everything else, I know you are a player who is very lean and you don't put a lot of
weight on, a bit like Goran --
 
 PETR KORDA: I am losing weight. 
 
Q. I know. For example, there has been quite a bit of concern expressed by various
people about Tim Henman's, you know, his body weight and should he have more calories to
build himself up. But, it is more timing than anything else, isn't it? You don't have to
be built like Schwarznegger as you have proved? 
 
 PETR KORDA: I went to see my doctor and I asked him to put some weight on. He said,
"Okay, you will have to drink like ten beers a day." I said, "No, I will
become an alcoholic." I think -- I am pleased with my weight, with -- I have
different fibers. I mean, my muscles are different fibers, much stronger, couldn't do
weights and I eat a lot which people, they don't believe me, I am still so skinny. But, I
am burning quite good, which is good and hopefully when I am retired I am going to have a
nice body (laughs). 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT