US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Petr, considering the circumstances here, is this the greatest victory of your
career?

PETR KORDA: I'm happy with the victory today. I mean, I'm really proud of myself, you
know, what I went through last three, four years. I feel, you know, I'm climbing -- I was
climbing, you know, on my mountain, and I feel I'm starting to reach the point. And I
feel, you know, I'm playing again Top 10 tennis, which I was playing before, you know,
before I hurt my left groin. It was a very, very long journey for me. I'm really proud
today.

Q. Petr, when you're down Love-3 in the final set, can you talk about what you're going
through in your mind?

PETR KORDA: I got lucky with the call. I think the ball was in when Pete hit that
volley. But I got beat with the referee in the first set. I truly believe I broke Pete,
which could turn different in the match, completely different way. Just, you know, I got
help. Then I had the good return. I just came back, luckily. Then I was starting to
produce great tennis. I felt, you know, I was holding the cards because I felt that Pete
is not -- you know, he slowed down, he was a little bit slower the more we were playing. I
felt, you know, I had a really great chance to break him on 3-All. I just was very happy I
could even close the match in the tiebreaker. You know, always tiebreaker is always kind
of roulette. I think I bet on the right color today.

Q. Can you describe why you think your game gives Sampras so much trouble?

PETR KORDA: I think you have to ask him.

Q. Can you talk about the strategy of playing in on his serve more than most people
seem to?

PETR KORDA: I'm trying to hit the ball over the net and to the other side. That was my
only strategy. I was fortunate to grew up with the players like Melan Sjreber, which in
his time when he was playing, he had the fastest serve on the world. You know, that's
where I learned how to return, you know, the serve. But when Pete is serving hard and
well, it's very difficult to hit the ball over the net. That is really what happened in
the fourth and the beginning of the fifth set. I was just walking from left to right. 

Q. Do you think the interruption affected your performance? And if yes, to which
extent?

PETR KORDA: The first one helped me. The other one, you know, didn't help me.

Q. The second one?

PETR KORDA: The second one didn't help me. I think I was on a roll at the time. But
that's the game. You have to accept it. You know, he really came, after the second one,
really he was fired. He was really fired up. He was hitting the ball very hard. Probably I
was playing little bit more defense.

Q. You then after a while came back to the level you had when the interruption came.

PETR KORDA: I mean, when I was 3-Love down, I start to hit the ball very hard. I felt I
was getting, you know, the control of the game. Especially, you know, I was winning lot of
baseline rallies. When we came back, you know, after the second rain delay, he was better
than me in this type of game. Like I said, you know, one lucky point, 3-1, he missed the
volley, a little bit change, you know, the match.

Q. Also has to do with the mental attitude. In the interruption, the mental attitude
can change, no? There is a growth when the match is going on.

PETR KORDA: That happened really. I don't like to have the matches interrupt, you know,
with the rain delay. I never had a great record. But, you know, I just pulled a victory
today.

Q. The way you reacted after the match, it seemed like you couldn't believe you won.
What were the thoughts going through your mind during those moments?

PETR KORDA: Like I said, I was very proud of myself. I didn't want to, how do they
call, the scissor kick. Didn't felt right at that moment. I just was really happy. I was
just really happy, you know, with myself. I think, you know, in my mind was three and a
half years, four years, just went through my mind. I wish I could have some more kind of
moments like this in the future.

Q. You made gestures with your hands toward the box where your family and friends were
sitting.

PETR KORDA: I don't remember. I was flying around somewhere (laughter).

Q. Petr, what did you learn from the match in Wimbledon against Sampras that you
applied to this particular match?

PETR KORDA: I learned I can beat him, you know. I always -- we always had tough
battles. We always played tough matches. I mean, in Wimbledon, I think was kind of turning
point. You know, I started to feel, you know, I'm coming really back, coming back, you
know, starting to produce the tennis which I was producing before my injury. And really,
you know, it helped me mentally a lot, that game. Unfortunately, you know, he was better.

Q. Was there a specific weakness that you could detect that you found you could exploit
here that you found at Wimbledon?

PETR KORDA: Different kind of surface. Grass is different than the hardcourt. I was
able to put more balls over the net and to the other side than I was able to put on grass.
Especially when he is serving well, I mean, there's not too many people that can return.

Q. Last week when you were injured in Long Island, not last week, two weeks ago, at
what point during the week did you know you would be able to play at the Open?

PETR KORDA: I mean, my ankle still hurts, still hurts. It's not a hundred percent.
You know, I was really nervous. I mean, the way I was working whole summer I was
preparing for this tournament. Then, you know, my coach came. Finally I felt we going to
start to hit some groundstrokes, we going to practice, really to put everything together.
In the first practice, we were hitting together, I twist my ankle. Really I think I was
not in a great mood, you know, since -- I mean, for the whole week. When I came here and I
start to practice, I hit a bit with Patrick McEnroe. I make only one game out of the set.
Everybody was beating me so easily. I was going really crazy, you know. Then I really
settled down. First match really helped me, you know, put me back to the settle. I just
was starting to work a little bit, trying, you know, to not aggravate my ankle.

Q. Your next match with Bjorkman?

PETR KORDA: It's tough match. He is on a roll. He's playing really well, Jonas. I just
want to bring the same game and we will see the results.

Q. Did you sense at all in any portions of the match that Pete was feeling pressure or
a little bit tight?

PETR KORDA: Yes. I felt a little bit when I think it was in second set when he
double-faulted, wherever. It's always nice for the player, you can play up. Pete is
playing, everybody's trying to beat him. He's No. 1 player in the world. He can feel the
pressure. I think I'm not the player, you know, he likes to face. Always when he has to
beat me, really he -- I don't want to say play well -- but always it's tough match. You
know, he had very easy three rounds. Three rounds, always in the middle of the week,
always comes the match, bad match like was today. Player like me, where he always can get
lot of balls back. I don't think I'm like his favorite player to play.

Q. In the fifth set, two games where you served down at Love. Was there a strategy you
had where you were trying --

PETR KORDA: Can you rephrase your question? You're too quick.

Q. In the fifth set, you served two service games at love.

PETR KORDA: Me?

Q. Yes. Were you trying to just spin it in? What was your strategy there?

PETR KORDA: I don't know what happened, but I think in one game I hit like three aces.
In that time, I was trying, you know, to put most of my first serves in. Especially, you
know, I was trying to win the first point, start to control the game. That's what happen.
But, you know, it was not like a special strategy to win the game Love.

Q. Pete is known as one of the best, if not the best, closer in the game. Plays the big
points very well. Were you surprised? I know he's always had difficulty with you. Were you
surprised to see him so tight at times?

PETR KORDA: I don't think he was tight, I think he was tired. He was not tight; he was
tired. I made him work for every point. Always when we were playing in the Grand Slam Cup,
we didn't felt both well. I knew, you know, the longer we going to play, it's going to be
in my favor.

Q. Why?

PETR KORDA: I don't know. Maybe because I feel better when it's going longer match.

Q. Pete has a bad record in tiebreaks. Did you know that coming into the match?

PETR KORDA: No. No idea.

Q. You seem to be exploiting his backhand. Is that the book on Sampras or is that just
the way you play?

PETR KORDA: That's what we decide, you know, what we decide with my coach. You know, we
going to play to his backhand, to let him play. I even called Tony Pickard for some
advice. That was the strategy, to really put the pressure on his backhand because when he
is fired up in his forehand, you know, really he can make you run left and right. It's
very dangerous, his forehand.

Q. Do you think he made a mistake when he started running around the backhand or not?

PETR KORDA: I don't know. You know, you have to ask him. I just was trying to control
my game.

Q. What would it mean to you, Petr, to win a Grand Slam at last, and do you think you
can do it? 

PETR KORDA: I mean, everybody have a chance, you know. 128 guys, before the tournament;
they have a chance. But I'm taking the small steps. Always it's better to take small
steps, day by day, round by round. I have Jonas Bjorkman. That's what I will concentrate,
you know. Obviously I have a chance, if I'm going to play the way I'm playing. I have a
chance to go a long way. I don't want to predict. I just want to enjoy every match, enjoy
my every round. That's all.

Q. Petr, for those of us who don't know, can you tell us why it took three and a half
or four years to get over a groin injury?

PETR KORDA: I aggravate my groin in Dusseldorf, during the ATP team competition, 1994.
I kept playing for a long, long time, taking the antiinflammatories, like candies. In '95,
I was playing like a great match against Andre Agassi here in the Open. Suddenly, my left
leg become a little bit numb. I didn't have a great feel. At the time I was with Tony
Pickard. He was really disappointed the way I lost the match. I always kept it inside of
me. I don't know why. I couldn't practice for two and a half years. I lost my
conditioning. Then I went and played a tournament in Ostrava. I couldn't lift my leg. I
went to see the doctor, he told me I needed surgery. I mean, I said, "No
chance." Tony said, "Come on, pack your stuff and we're going to have a
surgery." That's why I went to surgery. In that time, I was ready to quit the tennis
because I didn't want to go through the pain which I went. I couldn't sleep at the time. I
don't think I was in great mood as a person. I was out of the tennis. After the surgery, I
went to England and I spent probably the most time on my tennis career. I came back
probably believing I could play tennis again. Most important, probably enjoying tennis
without the pain. This is probably the most important in my comeback. Then last year in
the French Open, when I start to play, I felt I'm coming back. I just went immediately. I
wanted to be back as soon as possible because three years I didn't do any condition. For
the first time I done with the guy. Right now I feel I'm level with the conditioning. Is
going to be up to me if I'm going to be mentally, whatever, motivation, you know, to work
hard. Because you going to look on my age, I'm not the youngest one over there.

Q. When exactly did you contemplate retirement?

PETR KORDA: It was in '95. It was in '95. I had a lucky day. My first surgery was
October, Friday, the 13th. I will remember that day.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT