RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 12, 1996
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk a little bit about how you felt you played today. 

PETR KORDA:  I don't think so was a great performance, but, you know, I won today.  That is what counts.  I mean, it is very difficult for me because I am coming -- I had almost more than two months ago I had groin surgery.  It is my second tournament and I feel I am getting my timing back, but it is obviously not 100%.


Q. This has been kind of a -- last year and a half or so you have had A hernia operation last year?

PETR KORDA:  I didn't have hernia.  For the first time, which I thought I had a problem with the groin, actually, called smooth (sic) groin.  This is athletes' problem when you are sliding on the clay, you just develop -- you rupture some hole inside and like something which is moving which is causing the problems.  Unfortunately, I had it on the left one and it came back during the French only, came back on the right one and then right after Queens, I went to have another surgery last one. 

PETR KORDA:  Monday of Manchester.  I don't know what the date was.


Q. Was Cincinnati your first tournament back?

PETR KORDA:  Yeah.  I mean, I am pleased, I won like only each tournament two matches, but I have to work on my form to get on a level that I want because it is very painful because I left in a time when I was getting to the form like in 1992, 1993, but that is over right now.  I mean, I have to look for the future.


Q. I think I remember last year when you were kind of back up on the rise when you were here last year?

PETR KORDA:  Yeah, I was back up, but I was playing with the injury.  I kept playing long as I could; once they found out, they send me immediately, you know, to have a surgery.


Q. Do you feel reaching the level that you were several years ago that it is just a matter of becoming healthy again or is there anything else?

PETR KORDA:  I am 100% healthy and I don't think so I am going to have more injuries and I need some time right now.  It is obviously -- it is very difficult right now.  Right now it is summer, the most important tournament, but I am not going to give up and I am going to try to play  best I can, and I feel everyday it is improving and if I can get hot - it would be nice.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT