U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1995
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you describe what turned things around in the decisive fourth set for Andre, how he swung things back in his favor?

PETR KORDA:   I think, you know, he hit -- he start to hit the ball hard, you know, just went, you know, just he was trying to hit ball as hard as he could and, you know, see what is going to happen and everything went in on the important points.  And just, I think, I had the whole day problem, especially in the beginning of the match, I didn't have the chance -- they didn't let me to practice on the stadium court.  I had the biggest problem today to play on the stadium court especially in the beginning.  I just gave him two sets advantage which was too much probably today.


Q.  How important was that lack of practice?

PETR KORDA:   I mean, it is very important, you know, I didn't play a match on the court; it is much bigger.  I mean, if a player doesn't have a chance  to hit on stadium, I think, it is a shame.


Q.  How do you think the Becker/Agassi match shapes up?

PETR KORDA:   I don't know.  I mean, it is going to be completely different match.  Depends how strong mentality is going to be, Boris.


Q.  Does he have a shot at it?

PETR KORDA:   Everybody has got a shot.  I had a shot today also.


Q.  Petr, do you feel as if -- you were up 4-1; do you feel you let it get away or he raised the level of his game?

PETR KORDA:   He hit couple of good shots, important points.  I hit the tapes on the two-set point.  I hit two tapes, but, you know, it was a matter of luck, which was not on my side, and he had guts to hit the ball hard and, you know, he went for the big shot and everything went in.  And I mean, I just -- I was like in the defense in that point, and I got unlucky, very close first serve on 40-30, but, you know, that is the way it goes.


Q.  Are you pleased with your performance?

PETR KORDA:   I am happy with the performance in the third and fourth set.  I am not happy with the  way I played the first two sets.  It took me a hell of a time to get used to the court.  That was probably my disadvantage in this match because I played on such a tiny court and this court is completely different, you know, it is this way and you need to get used to it. If you don't have a chance to hit on the court, I mean, there is -- I can't comment.


Q.  You have been working with Tony.  Do you plan on continuing that or was it just for this Open?

PETR KORDA:   Hopefully we are going to continue to work.  I mean, I think if you are going to look at the way I improve from 60 - I don't know - something right now; I don't know where I am, 30 something, I think I am starting to play the game, you know, I was playing before, and I think I am much stronger mentally and I am not missing so many shots, which I prove it today third and fourth sets, and, you know, I think he make me also physically stronger than I was before.  I could run like a rabbit left and right all the time.


Q.  Did you look at this match as a match -- you win this and it breaks you through where obviously all the work you have done has broken -- did you look at this as a breakthrough and, if so, does it now set you back or was it just another big match? 

PETR KORDA:   On the other side I have to be pleased with the performance I did this week, these two weeks in New York.  I never reached -- I reached once second round.  I just made the quarters except Matsuoka, I was very nervous.  I think it was clean matches.  I didn't have the troubles and I was hitting the ball quite well, and, you know, I am in the moment; I feel much confident than I was, but, you know, everything comes -- I mean, I am not -- I don't have to worry, you know, how to hit the shot, how to bend my left leg, you know, because I can go for any shot and I can stretch on the court -- I can do even more than I was before and everything, you know, I am healthy after really one year of struggle and I am just pleased the way everything is turning, but first two sets, I mean, I am very disappointed the way I played, but that is the way it goes and just I have to be happy with the performance of the Open.


Q.  He came in particularly hot.  After playing him, do you regard him as vulnerable or do you think he can really -- I mean, does he look like a player who is on a roll on the way to a title?

PETR KORDA:   He is confident.  He won so many close matches.  He was matchpoints down and he won so many tournaments.  He is more confident, especially  in important time when it is like 30-All, he just goes for the shots and I think depends how strong he is going to be physically which I think he was a little bit struggling today.  I think I made him run a lot, and like I said, if we would split the first two sets it would be probably different story.  I mean, would be pretty interesting to see him run in the fifth set with me.  But he won and he goes through to the next round.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT