U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That obviously meant a lot to you, watching you at the end of that?
 
 PETR KORDA: This means a lot to me because I looked at the books, my career record in
the U.S. Open it was no good and I am happy with myself, the way I am doing, you know, and
after I would say one year of problem with my injuries, you know, finally I became
healthy, like in the middle of this year and I am just starting to play tennis, which I
was producing in the years when I was top 10. 
 
Q. Why do you think in -- what happened here beforehand and what is happening now, I
mean, why even when you were playing good were you never able to play well, or didn't play
well here?
 
 PETR KORDA: Maybe I run out of the steam during the summer. Always played well on the
hard court season I won one, two tournaments before and just came to the Open and I would
say I was also unlucky for the draw. I play always the first unseeded guy, Emilio Sanchez
one year and year after was Wayne Ferreira last year. I pulled out because I got injured
and one year I lost second round to Andre. I mean, I lost tough matches, five sets, four
sets. I had matchpoints. But this one is better, you know, maybe I am a bit older than I
was. I didn't have the great run through the summer and -- plus I got a little bit
comfortable to staying in New York which I had always problems before and last year,
unfortunately, I was injured. I mean, I start to enjoy a little bit New York. Right now I
feel relaxed and I am just enjoying myself playing. 
 
Q. Even though the ranking says something different, do you feel like you are playing
top 10 tennis right now?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, it is not the end of the year and for me it is most important I am
staying healthy in the moment. I think I am capable of playing top 10 tennis as long as I
am going to stay healthy. I mean, since I won a Grand Slam Cup, and I played well in
beginning of the year, especially in United States, I mean, I went little bit downhill
with my health, which didn't help me. I couldn't practice properly and last three quarters
of the year, I didn't practice, which I had a problem, especially in the beginning of the
year. Everybody was stronger than I was and everybody physically better. Right now I am
even to those guys and I get confident again. And I think I am capable of winning some
long matches and physically I mean, I am probably in the best shape of my life. 
 
Q. What is Tony Pickard doing for you?
 
 PETR KORDA: He change my -- he change me completely, probably, of the view of, you
know, of my tennis, you know, he teach me how to enjoy some other stuff than not just to
play tennis and. We did a lot of conditioning, I mean, on my movement on my court, plus,
you know, took me back; he put to my tennis back in with confidence. 
 
Q. How does marriage and fatherhood change your tennis game?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, I have a different responsibility in life, but I mean, too many
people told me you know, I mean, since I got married I became father. I got some different
interests than in tennis, but it was not true. I mean, I just got unlucky with my health,
you know, I mean, I got injured. I got bad problem in my groin, but my wife, she is former
top, I don't know, 25 player in the world. She knows how to relax outside of the court,
you know, she knows what tennis means, but when I come home and I have always -- I can
play with my daughter. It is like a live show for me all the time and I can relax. It is
completely different, and there is more responsibility for me. 
 
Q. Did you feel that anything special might be going on here when you were -- when you
won the first round match in the manner -- it was a tight match, it was up for grabs and
he had to quit because of the injury?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, the way I played the first match I was really nervous and I mean,
like I said before, I was really struggling in that match. But I mean, you know, the good
sign in that match I kept fighting, and I kept moving him around and he got cramping, and
I am just happy, you know, I won that match - this heavy monkey which I had on my back was
U.S. Open, finally I broke through, and in the next match I was much more relaxed. I beat
very good player like Eltingh, then Ondruska. Today I play also well. I think I am
enjoying myself, and I feel, you know, I am hitting the ball well and somebody wants to
beat me, they have to play pretty good tennis, have to be in very good shape. 
 
Q. What were the things that bothered you about New York before and what are you
enjoying now?
 
 PETR KORDA: I mean, when I was playing the tournaments in the summer, more I was
getting close to New York. People they start to walk faster and talk faster and, you know,
once you hit -- once I came to the Manhattan and everything was going bang, bang, bang, I
just -- I didn't like that, and in the beginning I stayed in Long Island which I thought
you know, it is going to be good idea, but I didn't done well. Maybe I put too much
pressure on myself to play well, you know, always I had a good summer, but right now, I
mean, I maybe couple of years older than I was before and, you know, I have some good
people around me. 
 
Q. Are you staying in the city now?
 
 PETR KORDA: I am staying in the city. I am a city boy. 
 
Q. Is a player like Agassi who is going to let you hit from the backcourt a better
matchup for you than a player like Sampras who is going to come to the net much more
often?
 
 PETR KORDA: To be honest right now, the tennis is done for me. I mean, I don't want to
think about my next opponent -- I think Andre won. I don't want to think about the match.
I want to really relax because I play 'til today -- I play everyday. I play singles and
doubles and I just need to relax; hit some couple of balls; put my feets back to the
ground again and start to work and, you know, then maybe couple of hours before the match
I think we are going to sit together with Tony and we are going to come up with something. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT