U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PETR KORDA: I think he got cramps. We played like first three tiebreakers, and I made
him run a lot; especially on my serve. And I say he got tired in the end, and I don't know
- what can I say? I mean, it is difficult to have some comments of the match like this,
you know, I won. I am in the next round, but I don't know what to say right now. 

Q. At first did you not know what to do exactly when you were standing there --

PETR KORDA: I don't know. I just don't. I didn't understand rules well because I think
if you have -- if you are cramping, no one can help you, what I understand, you know, from
the referee. Then I couldn't help him. Otherwise, I would be -- I would get some penalty
points because I cannot cross the net. Then no one could help him at that point unless he
could help himself, which I feel is very crazy, a crazy rule. Because I mean, if no one
can help you, you know, you can get really hurt, especially if you are cramping. Maybe you
need to get help with some, I don't know, trainer or whatever. But the rules is the rules,
and I have to -- we have to follow or whatever. I mean, it is pretty sad. I mean, no one
can help him.

Q. From your point?

PETR KORDA: From my point, it was okay. I won the match. But I think he was suffering a
lot of pain because what I saw -- I mean, once I crossed the -- went to another half of
the court, I seeing he was in tremendous pain because he had big spasm in both legs. They
gave him massage. He was asking not to move him; otherwise, he would get cramps to his
whole body, probably. 

Q. That has happened to you before where you have been trailing in a match, and the guy
retired?

PETR KORDA: In '88 I defaulted when I was -- when I won the set, and then I lost the
second and I defaulted also here. I think, I run on a tremendous -- not a luck, but I was
very unlucky in last past U.S. Open. I withdrew last year because I had a groin problem,
and I withdraw two years ago, I mean, two years ago I lost 6-2 or 6-4 in the fifth year
before I lost 7-6 in the fifth. And I don't know if I can say I am the lucky or the rules
helped me today, but I felt I had the match in my hands because I had three set point in
the second set and I had two-set points in the third set. I could close the match in three
sets which I didn't: I don't know. It is very difficult to make comments right now. It is
quite fresh, everything. 

Q. Did you wait until you knew it was over? Was it frustrating there? 

PETR KORDA: I mean, I didn't know what to do, you know, I mean, like I said before, I
can't cross the net to help him otherwise I would get the penalty and like I said before,
you know, to be honest, if I would be in the shoes, his shoes, I didn't like -- I don't
like the rules because if somebody is hurt cramping, you need some help. It doesn't matter
if you are going to finish the match or not, but you need the help probably immediately
because like I said, he was suffering, in a lot of pain.

Q. Did you sense the match momentum switching your way before that happened?

PETR KORDA: I mean, it is very difficult. I knew -- I mean, I knew he is suffering
because he didn't went last couple of games -- he didn't went for all balls. He didn't
chase all of the balls and then, you know, when I was 5-4 up, he was serving and suddenly
he hit like very low -- very, I mean, he didn't hit the serve well and he was like limping
and I said to myself, come on, you have to hit the ball inside the court, but it is very
difficult in the wind like this and you know, somebody -- he was trying to hit everything
inside. He went for the winners. Most of the balls landed inside my court, like really for
the winners and, you know, I mean, I had really difficult time to put the balls over the
net. 

Q. Were you surprised he was cramping on a day like today when it was really not hot
out there?

PETR KORDA: I mean, look, we played three tough sets. I don't know how many hours we
were on the court, three and a half hours, and, you know, I mean, I just can say I am
happy. I am fit enough. I survived the match. I feel okay, I mean, just my feet are
burning, but it is the hard court, but, you know, I don't know how his condition. His game
is serve and volley, quite quick and we played a lot. I made him run a lot today and it
was very difficult for both of us to go -- we didn't went for the shots because it is very
windy and you know you really have to prepare the ball because it cause tremendous amount
to finish the points or to come into the net. 

Q. You think there should be some sort of rule change or at least a consideration of
something?

PETR KORDA: Ask the guys upstairs. They are more higher than I am. I am the player, I
have to follow the rules, you know, every rule they tell me I have to play on the courts
we play. I am the pro and if they change the rules, I am going to accept it. If they are
not going to change the rules, I don't have other choice. 

Q. Did you talk to him at all after the match?

PETR KORDA: I did. I would feel bad also if somebody would come after that match. I
mean, really he had -- he was up a break in the fourth set, but I just came; shake his
hand; trying to help him with the ice and everything, but, you know, it is very difficult
to explain, you know, never happened to me, probably never happened to him. Sometimes you
don't know how to react. I was walking on the court just to try to be -- to settle my
nerves and to be ready for another game, which unfortunately, we didn't hit anything.

Q. You felt that it was just a cramp not muscle tear or anything?

PETR KORDA: I don't know. It is difficult to answer. I am not a doctor. I mean, I would
say if the cramps would be for long, you can have -- you can tear your muscle, that is the
rules, what can I do, I mean, I just have to shake my head and play like that. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT