US OPEN
September 2, 1998
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened after the first set? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I have no answer to this question right now.  I am very tired at the moment, mentally, everything, just was like one bad game, and from that moment everything went down hill.  I just -- that is all I can say at the moment, just really don't know. 
 

Q.  Were you physically all right?
 
PETR KORDA:  I am physically -- I am all right.   But mentally I am a little bit tired. 
 

Q.  Did you enter the tournament that way where you felt you were a little bit mentally fatigued?
 
PETR KORDA:  It just happened today.  I just don't have any answer. 
 

Q.  Considering how well you did last year, how big a disappointment is it?
 
PETR KORDA:  It is a big disappointment, but I had some in the past.  I had some also bad disappointment, I have to get back together, back to the basics and hopefully come back again. 
 

Q.  When you talk about mental fatigue - this season is so long.  Now it is 10 and a half months long and every player you talk to thinks it is too long. When are the players going to get together and do something about shortening the length of the season somewhat so there is a longer off-season so the players can refresh before you go to Australia?
 
PETR KORDA:  I am not mentally tired of playing tennis.  I never had a problem with the length of season.  Right now I am a little bit tired because I really depend on my family, and last six months I saw them four months, and it is too much for me and really it is probably one of the keys maybe why I am tired. But obviously every player would love to have a more break.  I am also one of them.  More older you are, you are asking for more break.  Right now I would look forward to have some little bit shorter season because I need a break. 
 

Q.  You were up a set and 2-0, seemed to be just cruising, then the match turned.
 
PETR KORDA:  Match turned, but, you know, he start to produce better tennis in that moment.  He started to produce many winners from that moment, and I just didn't play the way I wanted to play.  
 

Q.  You have had an ankle injury.  Did that affect you today?
 
PETR KORDA:  I had -- I had done my Achilles in Wimbledon and I didn't practice until Toronto.  From Toronto I really was working hard and I don't know, probably I was working too hard and right now I am just tired, or whatever, but right now I -- it's just very difficult for me to play the tennis the way I want at the moment. 
 

Q.  Why is that?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't have any answer. 
 

Q.  Did the ankle bother you today?
 
PETR KORDA:  No, not at all. 
 

Q.  You only played him twice before.  But did you see anything different in his game from when you played him in prior matches?
 
PETR KORDA:  No, I didn't see any difference. 
 

Q.  Any point in the third or fourth set where you thought you were going to come back, or did it just go downhill from the --
 
PETR KORDA:  I was struggling -- every game I really -- I was trying to hit it and I miss it and I was trying to come in, he made a good pass, whatever I did today, I did wrong. 
 

Q.  Your wife had a baby month or two months ago.
 
PETR KORDA:  It is five weeks ago. 
 

Q.  Is this like trying to spend some time with her and trying to play tennis, is this all maybe part of the reason?
 
PETR KORDA:  Unfortunately, no, I had to leave five days after the baby was born because of my commitment to the tournaments, to my designation and I just couldn't see the family.  I haven't had a chance since, you know, after the baby was born, after five days I left the house and I didn't see them. 
 

Q.  Which tournament did you have to go to?
 
PETR KORDA:  I went to Toronto. 
 

Q.  What was the date of her birth please?
 
PETR KORDA:  28th of July. 
 

Q.  So you haven't seen them since then?
 
PETR KORDA:  Yes. 
 

Q.  You said at the Australian you might not be back there this year.  It is four months away.  Do you think you will be playing again next year?
 
PETR KORDA:  That is a very tricky question.  I really don't know.  Right now, as you saw my performance today, I think it was not something impressive of my caliber.  I am not talking the way I played, but probably the way I felt, I didn't have any -- I don't know, I didn't pump -- I was not pumped at all today.  I  don't know, I can't give you any answer what I am going to do right now.  What I really need right now, I need to leave the game of tennis for a while and spend some time with the family to do other stuff and to gain my mental energy which I am missing at the moment. 
 

Q.  They are where?
 
PETR KORDA:  They are in Bradenton, Florida right now. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT