U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PETR KORDA: I have this problem for a long time. I mean, since Hamburg I had a problem
and it is coming in an coming out always and only week I was okay during the Davis Cup and
right now came back again. It is in the groin, around my hip. And I don't want to play
with my health, you know, because it is getting sorer and sorer and stiffer and stiffer
and I think it is better for my health to step out of the draw right now. 

Q. Which hip? 

PETR KORDA: Left part of hip. I cannot start from my left leg. I don't have power. I
cannot do the sprints and anything. 

Q. If it was another kind of court surface, would you be able to go on it or is it hard
court that aggravates it the most? 

PETR KORDA: It is A very difficult question because I mean, like I said, I had the
problem in the French Open; I had the problem in Wimbledon, but I could play. But right
now, it is the worst pain I have had. 

Q. When did you make the decision, today? 

PETR KORDA: I made the decision yesterday night that I am not going to play at all. 

Q. Have you tried to play this summer? Did you play this summer on the hard court? 

PETR KORDA: Yes, I tried to play summer and without any success. I was one day good and
the next day, I mean, I felt pretty bad, but I didn't defaulted because I was hoping I am
going to pass everything and I am going to be able to play. 

Q. Is it muscles or tendons? 

PETR KORDA: I tell you, I don't know. I have to see -- make an X-ray because it is my
back, it is also lower back. It hurts and it could be some problem with the back. I mean,
there is many problems which affecting my muscles. 

Q. If you waited until this last moment, at what time did you know that you couldn't
make it? How did you come to this decision? 

PETR KORDA: It was very difficult decision because I am very competitive person and,
you know, the most thing is I am not trying to give up. And the way I was hitting the
balls last couple of days, it was the best I was hitting this year probably and then I had
the hope I can play. And, in fact, I had -- for the first round I had the draw, you know,
I could win and the way I played and yesterday I find out during the practice I couldn't
make fast run to the left side of the court and I felt I don't want to go against my
health; especially if you have to play best of five on the hard court. 

Q. How tough is it? I mean, again going back to the court surface, do you think that is
one of the reasons why you didn't want to try? 

PETR KORDA: I think with the way I am right now, I mean, I would make the similar
decision on any surface; doesn't matter if it's clay hard court or grass. 

Q. When you take a look at the draw now, does it -- a lot of people call this the wide
open men's draw that they have seen in quite a few years; yet you were in Pete Sampras's
part of the draw. Has that opened up for him? How do you view the draw? 

PETR KORDA: I saw the draw for the first round just and I didn't check the draw because
I did always in the past and I always lost in the first round. I was trying to change it
this year and first time probably from New York I can leave undefeated, but in a different
way than I was expecting. 

Q. Given the way the summer has gone so far on the hard courts, is there anybody who
stands a good chance of beating Pete? 

PETR KORDA: I think there is 128 guys they have a chance. Pete was injured for quite a
lot and Spanish clay court players, they can beat the guys that grew up on the hard court.
In tennis these days everything is possible. 

Q. Seems to be a few nagging injuries out there for top guys. Do you think it is
because of the summer and hard court in the states? 

PETR KORDA: I don't know, maybe we are getting old. 

Q. You don't think it has anything to do with the surface playing week in and week out?


PETR KORDA: I mean, if you are going to look on the schedule, top guys, they always
play on the hard court two weeks and they have a week off. I think that is plenty of time
to recover again. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT