COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 12, 1993
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did you manage to get to sleep last  night, or what time did you get to sleep, because the  adrenaline must still have been pumping?  

PETR KORDA:  I slept probably 7 hours today, and I had in  my mind during the night against Sampras, and I woke up  in the morning early in the morning, and I didn't feel  great, but I didn't feel bad.  I thought it was going  to be much worse, that I would be much more tired.  But  then my doctor came today from Prague.  He fixed my  elbow, my back, and I was - since that time, I was  really optimistic.  


Q.  With your arm?  

PETR KORDA:  Yeah, I had some problems yesterday.  


Q.  Did you ever feel last night that you would--  did you ever feel last night that you might not finish  that match and did you ever think today you might not  get on court again to play the final?  

PETR KORDA:  I knew I am going to finish for sure.  I  mean, I had only two pockets; I win or I lose.  But you  know --  


Q.  It looked as if you were going to collapse  about six times.  

PETR KORDA:  Yeah?  Yeah, but my father always told me,  like, be a good fighter on the court.  Never give up.  That is what I did.  Most important, you know, in the  moment I am not playing for myself, you know; I am  playing for my wife, for my daughter and for my coach.  And they are very strong.  


Q.  At one time last night, Petr, they were all  doing this to you.  (Indicating.) They were reminding  you there is a lot of money involved?  

PETR KORDA:  Did you ever watch billiards?  


Q.  Billiards?  

PETR KORDA:  Yes.  I mean, the billiards, not the snooker  or pool.  If they have a good shot, you know, they clap  and they are doing this one (indicating); that means  like a good shot.  You know, not money.  Money we have  in the bag, you know.  And, you know, I think if you  are going to have a look, they always did when I did a  good shot, and, you know, that is -- that was, you  know, it is better than support me, like - I don't know   - with the hands like this, they did, this one.  (Indicating.)  


Q.  So it wasn't the money?  

PETR KORDA:  And, you know, I like to play billiards and,  you know, we did, like -- we did fun.  (Indicating.)  And if you are going to see some billiard clubs, you  know, go inside and you will see, you know, how they  they are doing this.  (Indicating.)  


Q.  Petr, can you tell us how you are feeling  right now?  

PETR KORDA:  I tell you in privately later.  No, I feel great.  It is a great moment in my  life, and I would say after a bad season like I had  this year, maybe I deserve it.  I work hard for it, and  I am very happy, and because I beat the No. 1 player in  the world, No. 2 player in the world and most  important, I beat one of the hottest players at the  moment is Michael Stich at home, and I have -- I never  -- he never beat me in Germany in the last, I don't  know, five, six, meetings.  


Q.  What did you say or think when you -- this  second matchpoint --  

PETR KORDA:  I am not going to tell you.  Too many bad  words went through my mind.  But, like I said, most  important, I didn't give up, and he had the chances.  He was 40-Love or 40-15 on my serve, and I won the game  again, and still I was fighting and, you know, like I  said, that-- what was perfect-- my father told me never  give up the match, try your best.  


Q.  Yesterday you told us you had decided after  the U.S. Open to work harder.  Can you tell us exactly  what was the plan and what you did?  

PETR KORDA:  No.  No.  I think it is going to stay a  secret, and maybe once I am going to retire hopefully  my coach is going to write the book; then I am going to  keep his secret and my secret together and, you know,  hopefully we are going to be able to improve our secret  in the future.  But - I decide to tell you one thing - I was  working on my serve and upper body, you know, to not to  be Schwarzenegger, but to make it stronger  to serve hard, and I served this week probably 203  kilometers an hour, no?  On two occasion I was serving  well whole week.  


Q.  Did you come here with the expectations of  winning the tournament or just sort of arrived?  

PETR KORDA:  I didn't brought me too many clothes and too  many shoes.  That is the answer, but sometimes it is  better.  You have less clothes and less shoes.  


Q.  Had you made plane reservations to get out of  here or something early?  

PETR KORDA:  Unfortunately, I am by car here because it is  not too close, but I was changing my reservation  because I had it for Friday first to USA; then I had  Sunday my reservation and I had-- then I change it for  tomorrow.  But I don't know how much time I have left  because I am leaving about 24 hours and I have -- we  have to drive home, hopefully we were going to see our  daughter and I have to fly just myself because our  daughter is sick and I don't know how much time I am  going to spend in the bed tonight.  


Q.  Flying to Prague, Petr?  

PETR KORDA:  I am flying to --  


Q.  Driving to Prague?  

PETR KORDA:  I am driving to Prague, but today it is  snowing, I don't know if we were going to ski to  Prague.  


Q.  Why do you have to go to the United States  tomorrow?  

PETR KORDA:  Why?  


Q.  Yes.  

PETR KORDA:  You want to know everything.  No, I am going  to United States because I am preparing for next season  and what I start after U.S. Open and I need some couple  of more days to spend there to practice and I have a  house in Bradington.  As you know it is in Bradington.  It is Bollettieri Academy and my two friends from the  Davis Cup team already left Friday; I am going to join  there because they have a condition coach and I am  going to prepare in Bollettieri Academy for next  season.  


Q.  Your family will join you for Christmas?  

PETR KORDA:  My family is going to join me as soon as  possible.  My daughter is going to be available to  fly.  
 RACHEL THOMAS:  With this win you have just  doubled your earnings for the whole year.  What does  that mean to you?  

PETR KORDA:  I don't know what it means.  First of all, I  have to receive the money on my account.  Well, I mean,  I am playing tennis because I like the game and you  know, for me if I would -- I mean, if somebody would  ask me before the tournament what is better for me to  beat the No. 1 player -- No. 1 player in the world and  No. 2 player in the world or to take the money, I would  prefer to beat the No. 1 player and No. 2 player.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT