COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1993
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETR KORDA:  Maybe it will be long if I cramp here.  You  will have to carry me from this table.  I don't think  this table is for big people.  


Q.  Would you say that that was one of the most  thrilling matches that you have ever been involved  with?  

PETR KORDA:  I think so.  I think so.  I mean, like I said  yesterday, I am going to really enjoy it; try my best.  And I think I did.  And I proved today, you know, I can  make a good come back next year, hopefully, if I be  healthy.  


Q.  Can you remember ever beating a reigning  No. 1?  

PETR KORDA:  Beating number 1?  I don't know if when I  beat Stefan, I don't know.  No, no, it was Courier, who  was No. 1 at the time.  I don't know.  I suppose I beat  him today.  


Q.  What made you hang in there, practically?  What were your thoughts on the court?  

PETR KORDA:  What make me hanging?  People.  My coach.  My  wife.  And my daughter.  That is -- they kept me alive,  and they were pushing me, and like I said, I really  tried my best even more today.  


Q.  What kind of feelings do you have now when  you think about that you have to play tomorrow another  match?  

PETR KORDA:  Can I keep it for myself, please?  You know, I am going to think about it, if I  am going to show up here, you know.  Maybe I am not  coming; I am going to go ski, probably.  


Q.  Towards the end, Pete seemed to have physical  problems, but you, too, what was it exactly, cramping  or --  

PETR KORDA:  I cramped once in my life, I think when it  was against Mayotte in Moscow when I ate some bad food  before, and today, you know, we play for four and a  half hours, and I was like -- I was many times nervous  today, and I push -- I was pushing quite a lot, and it  took me a lot of energy.  And Pete, he was playing  serve and volley, which he made a lot of quick points,  and I was running more than he did today, and  especially I had tough match yesterday.  I got a little  bit tired in the end.  Hopefully, I am going to recover  well; sleep well; I am going to be able to wake up  tomorrow, walk a little bit, and maybe run tomorrow;  maybe play tennis tomorrow.  We see.  It is not bad for my skinny body to run like  for hell.  


Q.  What were you having to tell yourself to keep  yourself going?  Was it pride?  Was it the fact of  beating Sampras?  Was it that you could win $800,000  tomorrow?  

PETR KORDA:  Yeah, I can make 800?  Geez, it is going to  be Christmas; aye-aye.  If I would be honest, it is  nice to win the money but for me most important to beat  No. 1 player in the world to prove, you know, to prove  my strategy, which we decide after U.S. Open with my  coach, to really prepare for 94 and to try all my best  here in Munich.  


Q.  Did Pete tell you something special at the  end of the match or was it --  

PETR KORDA:  I think he couldn't talk at the time.  Me  either, I think we were both -- we were both tired and  I mean, I think it was thrilling match today and you  know, he could beat me in four sets, but I came back.  He could beat me in five sets, I came back and, I don't  know, hopefully he is not going to be disappointed, and  you know, once in a time I have to take my chance and  you know, that is what I did today. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT