U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1993
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q. Petr, this wasn't your ideal first-round opponent, I am
sure.  Did he do anything to surprise you today that you weren't
really expecting?

 PETR KORDA:  My serve surprised me.

 Q. Is it technical?  Something bothering you technically with
your stroke?

 PETR KORDA:  I don't know, just, I mean, I couldn't serve today.
 I mean, just my serve, it didn't work, and I had the chances
first set, I had three set points.  I had set points third set.
 I mean, I should have beaten him in three sets.  If I would make
some chances, but you know, that is the tennis.

 Q. Speed off your serve also, Petr?  Is your serve also not
as fast today as it normally--

 PETR KORDA:  I mean, just I hit many doublefaults. If I would
have keep my serve-- I mean, keep the ball in the game more, it
would be perfect, but especially, you know, at 6-4 in the tiebreaker
in the third set, I hit a doublefault.  This ball really hurt
me.

 Q. It looked in the last set-- you won two games all of a
sudden, it looked like you might make a comeback.  What were you
thinking?

 PETR KORDA:  I mean, I think he didn't concentrate, you know,
as well, and you know, he make some mistakes, and I mean, I was
just fighting all -- I mean, all my match today and, you know,
nothing was working today.

 Q. Petr, you have been at this tournament four times now and
you have not done well any of those times.  Is it just bad luck
or you just don't like playing here at this tournament?

 PETR KORDA:  I don't know.  That is the question I am going to
have to think in the future; maybe it is not my favorite tournament.
 Maybe not the lucky one, because I lost 7-6 in the fifth last
year.  I had match point.  I lost the match today; didn't help.


 Q. Did you feel prepared for the U.S. Open?

 PETR KORDA:  I felt prepared.  I mean, I felt-- I mean, I was
playing well from the backcourt. Except, I couldn't serve and
that is the key of the match you have to serve well.

 Q. You seemed to hurt your ankle in the third set going for
a wide ball.  Did your ankle bother you in --

 PETR KORDA:  I didn't have any problems.  I didn't hurt my ankle.
 The court is like this and it is too dangerous there.

 Q. You say there is a bit of a rise in the court?

 PETR KORDA:  Yeah, I mean, the court is coming like down and
then they have, like, advertising.  I mean, somebody can get hurt
really bad out there.

 Q. Thank you.     


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT