COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1992
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Petr, is it surprising how good a claycourt player can play on such a fast surface? 
 
PETR KORDA:  He didn't win any tournaments on clay this year.  He won two or three tournaments on the hardcourt.  I think he knows how to play on the fast court.  
 

Q.  Do you think Michael Chang's long and very intense preparation on this surface in Munich really matters? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know.  I mean, it does not matter how long he is practicing but I think he is much fresher than I am because he played less tournaments, especially end of the year, than I played, and he was just better today than I was.  
 

Q.  Are you going to come next year? 
 
PETR KORDA:  It is a nice question.  First of all, I have to qualify. If I qualify for sure, I am going to come to play in Munich, and just now it is a matter if I qualified.  
 

Q.  Seems to happen rather frequently, sometimes you have a couple of good games and you are leading 2-Love in the first set and then you lose three or four games in a row.  Could you explain why this is?  How do you feel? 
 
PETR KORDA:  Probably, I had a very long season and I am just tired. I am trying to produce the best tennis I can, but since Frankfurt, I am not playing well.  That is the reason.  But I was working quite hard last week preparing for this tournament, also for next season and I can see I am serving much better and I was much more offenses today; I played serve and volley today and I am doing better.  Now it is going to be a matter of time how long I am going to practice, and I need also one-week holiday because after the great season I feel very tired at the moment.  
 

Q.  What lessons are you taking away from Munich back to Prague, except the prize money? 
 
PETR KORDA:  There was-- I am going to leave it for myself.  
 

Q.  Do you plan to play less tournaments next year because you feel so tired by the end of this year? 
 
PETR KORDA:  For sure.  I mean, I have a different schedule than I had this year, but I have to take from the other part of the life; I play very well, the end of the season.  Then I reach a lot of tournaments 'till final and at the end of the tournament, I never had experience to play so many matches.  Then it was a little bit mistake, but I have to take -- I wish to -- I wish to ATP Finals from this tournament and just I have to, next year, you know, a little bit more concentrate for Grand Slam, to try, you know, to win a couple of more rounds than I did this year.  
 

Q.  Petr, is there any chance for Russians to see you at the Kremlin Cup tournament because you were there for the first two years? We would love to see you. 
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know for next year because we did my schedule 'till French Open.  I know exactly when I am going to play, and 'till the end of the year, you know, it is really open.  It is going to depend how long I play in the beginning of the year.  
 

Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT