ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1992
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Peter, you have got any troubles with the new court and the surface and the balls or whatever? 

PETR KORDA:  I didn't have a problem with just like Stefan played extremely well today, and I had a couple of chances, and I didn't make it.  I was very close today and just I need to be a little bit more lucky. 


Q.  Slight question of nerves as well.  Did it take you awhile to settle down, to relax? 

PETR KORDA:  I was not nervous today.  Stefan started the match extremely well, and you know, like I said, I was not the lucky one.  I had a lot of chances to come back and he hit a very good serves and all very good -- the first volleys.  It was very difficult to play against him.  Just, I was -- I was trying to do everything.  I came back when I was 6-5 down; he was serving for the match, and I had a chances in the tiebreaker and on the set point I hit on top of the net, and you know, just I have only one -- I mean, I can-- was not the lucky one today.  If I would be little bit more lucky, maybe if I would win the second set, could be a little bit different, but he played well today. 


Q.  In the second set, on Stefan's serve, it was Love-30 several times and you then failed to take his second serve sometimes. Do you think that his second serve decided the match; that was too strong for you probably? 

PETR KORDA:  Especially here couple of times second serve he hit almost the ace and he was serving very deep, second serve, and especially when he was Love-30, on the second serve he didn't make any doublefault or any mistakes. 


Q.  Peter, in your last service game in the second set, you seemed to lose your concentration, made a couple of doublefaults, couple of errors, what happened?  What were you thinking? 

PETR KORDA:  I was thinking about the match at that time, just like -- just maybe it was not my day.  Maybe I didn't wake up right from my bed, I don't know. 


Q.  You seemed to play so well right up to that point? 

PETR KORDA:  Yeah, I played well then I told myself just keep playing like this, and let us wait 'till the tiebreaker and we will see.  Just I didn't made it.  But I know I came back and I was -- I needed a little bit luck today. 


Q.  Anybody else?  Thank you, Petr. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT