GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 1998
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Can you comment on the match? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I think Patrick, you can see he's playing really well in the moment.  Especially in the end, I think he had a lot of luck, especially on my two set points.  It's hard to upset him if he's playing the backhand cross-court, going down the line.  I'm pretty happy with my performance this week because compared to last week, I feel I'm improving.  I'm getting more confidence to my left leg, which is very important for me.  You know, I wish I could cover the line on that set point, but it didn't happen.  I think Patrick is probably -- he's very hot in the moment.  He's playing well.  You know, he was better on the important points.  He was, I don't want to say more aggressive, or he played more deeper than I did these points.  But I came with some few frustrating hits on the top of the net, bouncing on the net.  That's the way you know, once you on the top, once you on the bottom.  But I did quite fight well.  I came back.  I had some chances.  Unfortunately, I didn't make them today. 
 
Q.   When you say he's the hot player, what specifically in his game is he doing differently?
 
PETR KORDA:  Anything he hits coming inside, you know, lines and everything.  You know, if he would miss something, like second serve right on the line.  It's hard to read that ball, especially it's coming in very important points.  But, you know, that's the way is it in the moment. 
 
Q.   Can you feel anything across the net on his confidence?  Can you perceive he's becoming more confident when he gets on the a roll?
 
PETR KORDA:  He's confident.  He won a tournament. Obviously, he has to be confident.  If he's not confident, it would be very bad for him. 
 
Q.   Is he more aggressive, takes more chances?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know if he's playing more aggressive.  I thought he's going to come in after my second serve quite a lot, which he didn't done today.  I don't know if I was serving well or whatever, but, you know, he's playing really well in the moment. Hopefully, for him, you know, he's going to keep playing the way he's playing till the US Open. 
 
Q.   We heard you might have had a plane ticket already  bought, ready to go home, and see your daughter?
 
PETR KORDA:  What? 
 
Q.   Is it right that you were ready to go home?
 
PETR KORDA:  Are you going to send me there? 
 
Q.   What's that?
 
PETR KORDA:  Are you going to send me there, buy me a ticket? 
 
Q.   We heard you were ready.
 
PETR KORDA:  I wish I could fly home.  I'm a pro. My wife understand what I need in the moment.  I've been with the family.  I've been with the injury after Wimbledon.  Right now I need to be between the boys, play the tennis, you know, work hard.  Unfortunately, I have to miss my family, if I want to be prepared well for US Open, because it's very difficult.  This country is so big.  Fly to Florida, two hours here, two hours there, that's whole day.  Right now I need to practice every day.  Unfortunately, my family cannot travel with me. 
 
Q.   Why can't she travel with you?
 
PETR KORDA:  It's like two weeks old.  I don't think so it would be great to stay in a hotel.  I think you could hurt that kid. 
 
Q.   (Inaudible)?
 
PETR KORDA:  No, the weather doesn't help,  humidity, hot.  I think it's always better if in such a young age, you staying in your own bed.  You never know what can be in a hotel bed for the kids like this. 
 
Q.   Do you find yourself thinking of your new child during matches?
 
PETR KORDA:  New child?  I mean, like I said, I have to play tennis right now.  I mean, really I have to focus what I'm doing in the moment.  I mean, the most difficult for me was last week in Toronto.  I got beat badly.  This week I practice more.  I played more.  You know, my level of tennis, went really, really up.  I beat Goran, I beat Ondruska quite easily.  I had some chances to win a set against Patrick today.  Giving me so much confidence for upcoming weeks.  I feel, you know, if I prepare well myself, I'll be danger next week and for US Open. 
 
Q.   Could you tell me the range of emotions when your first set point came after I believe he double-faulted, then he won the next point.  What was going through your mind on that?  Did you have a surge of confidence when he double-faulted?
 
PETR KORDA:  You're asking me?  I don't know.  I don't even remember that time. I know we played a long point and he (inaudible)  bounce on the line.  I felt they could go out, could go in. They didn't call at all.  Then I miss I don't want to say easy backhand, but I wanted to slide that backhand in the last moment.  I just didn't hit it properly.  Then was 6-All.  I won the next point, I had set point, and another set point I didn't make them.  If you want to beat the hot player like Patrick, you have to make your chances.  Maybe you going to get one chance in the match, and you have to make that chance. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT