REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1998
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Petr, can you clear up one thing for us? Beforehand, there was a suggestion - I think on TV - that you were injured or had some other trouble before you went on court today.  Do you know anything about that?  What can you tell us, if so? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I have a problem with the back again. I just pull out from doubles.  That's all I can say in the moment.  It's not something I want to talk about a lot now. 
 

Q.  Petr, what's happen in the tiebreak in the second set, then in the third set?
 
PETR KORDA:  He played great tiebreaker.  He just came up with the big save on the first point really, big volley dropshot.  He served well, and I had no chance.  I felt like I had a little chance again when I think I was 1-All in the third.  I had 30-Love.  That game, he hit four lines from his serve.  I mean, I was struggling whole match.  I was just kept trying to put the ball over the net, you know, put him  under pressure.  From what moment, I felt he really start to dominate the game.  He was more powerful than I was. 
 

Q.  This is the fourth tournament you were No. 1 in your reach.  All the time you lost to a player who you beat the time before, like Kucera, Rios, Henman and now Krajicek, you beat in Stuttgart.
 
PETR KORDA:  What do you want in the answer from me?  If you want to change it, I'm not going to complain it.  Sit here, I'm going to give you some question.  I'm trying to do the best I can.  Doesn't work all the time. 
 

Q.  I'm asking, something psychological?
 
PETR KORDA:  No, it's not psychologic.  I don't care, you know.  I'm just trying to play the same way every game.  I think, you know, I played -- I didn't play doubles for a long time.  I think, you know, that took me a little bit -- a lot of energy yesterday.  I think I was a little bit slower today.  You know, the guy was better.  What can I say?  He just crushed me in the third set.  I wish, you know, I could play a little bit different beginning of second set.  It didn't happen.  From that moment, Richard was the one controlling the game, not  me. 
 

Q.  Will you play next week?
 
PETR KORDA:  They said I should be two, three days, I should be fine.  But I'm not putting any words I will play definitely.  I'm not going to put my neck on.  I'd love to play home, because I didn't play the tournament for eight years.  I really want to play.  I think, you know, if I'm going to keep the same level I was playing this week, maybe, you know, I can be that No. 1 ranking over there, really finally to shut you down a little bit (laughter).  It can make my life easier. 
 

Q.  What was bothering you more, not getting it or having us ask you about it all the time?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't have any problem, you know. I'm in very compete (sic) person.  I like to compete.  As I said many times, still you want to improve.  At my age, I want to improve.  I'm just putting the best I can.  Really, let me play tennis.  I think it's going to take care of it.  If I'm not going to make it, you know, I can say, you know, "The guys, they were better than I am."  I'm putting my heart, my soul and my hundred percent for the game.  If it's not working in the moment, what can I say?  Plus clay was not my - I don't want to say strongest surface - but I always started really, really  slow.  I never pass second round in Monte-Carlo.  Look where I am.  I'm in quarters now.  I had the chance to make the semis.  That means I prepared well.  Hopefully, you know, the time, whatever big tournaments, Roland Garros, I'll be ready.  If not, then I have to prepare for Wimbledon.  I think it's what Pete said:  Most important ranking is going to be after the ATP Finals.  That's what is going to count.  The best I be in that time, I be happy. 
 

Q.  Did you think about not playing today at all because of your back?
 
PETR KORDA:  No.  I have a stiffness in the back. I wanted to play because I felt I was timing the ball well, everything.  But in the third set, my legs give up, and I just got a little bit tired. 
 

Q.  Petr, what is your schedule if everything goes well with the back?
 
PETR KORDA:  With my schedule?  I'm going to pack my clothes downstairs, take it to my apartment, wash it, and, hopefully, I'll be able to fly back home to get reunited with my family, play tournament in Prague, which I think I'm going to have more pressure than facing No. 1 ranking in the world. 
 

Q.  Then weeks after that? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I have off.  I have off.  I change my schedule.  I used to play Hamburg.  I'm rather to take right now two tournaments, one week off.  I feel more comfortable, plus I had an excellent ten days preparing in Florida for the clay.  I think that was the result of I was playing here.  I wish the result of today, but what can I do? 
 

Q.  So Prague, then Rome?
 
PETR KORDA:  Roma, yeah, yeah, I'll be there.  We can talk again (laughter).  I'm playing Dusseldorf and Paris. 
 

Q.  Since everybody is trying to give you a hard time, I would like to do it, too.
 
PETR KORDA:  Not like yesterday?  I was so happy you didn't make comments about me (laughter). 
 

Q.  I forgot.
 
PETR KORDA:  I came for ten minutes.  Suddenly, you were on the stage.  I said, "What the hell is this guy doing here?" 
 

Q.  I forgot to tell you that a lot of other players say that the most hypochondriacs that play is Korda, he's always injured somewhere, the back, neck, ankle, nose.  What is your reaction to that?  Without joking, is it really something that bothers you a lot, your body, for some reasons, because you're thin?
 
PETR KORDA:  If I would be pain free, I would say I  would not give up the doubles.  I don't want to say I would beat Richard.  That's no way.  He beat me on the court.  I'm not the person is giving up. 
 

Q.  I'm not talking about today in special.  Let's say, in all your career, you had so many injuries, so many doctors.
 
PETR KORDA:  What can I say?  Probably I'm not fortunate with the body like other people.  I have a very long fibers, long muscles.  You can get injured quite a lot. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you're more unlucky than others in a way?
 
PETR KORDA:  I was not having any problems for more than a year, except I had the problem, I had to have the surgery on the nose.  I've been fine for a year.  But since I came from Australia, I'm struggling with the back.  I was struggling.  Since after London, I had a week off, I had no problem at all.  Came back again. Maybe I'm too old.  But I don't think so.  You know, these young ones, they talking about how bad I am.  I want to see them one day turn 30, then we can talk about it. 
 

Q.  You look at Rios, he's 22, pretty serious tendonitis in his elbow, out for a while.  How tough is it on the circuit, balls being the way they are, to keep your  body in good shape, stay healthy?
 
PETR KORDA:  Except the two and a half years which I had the problem with my groins, I always kept my body in a good shape.  Always I had maybe once or twice a year problem with the spine, back, whatever.  That can happen.  I don't know how serious he is injured, whatever, what happened. 
 

Q.  Bad strained tendons in his elbow.
 
PETR KORDA:  I mean, everybody is different.  I mean, I'm coming from the country Karel Novacek was playing in the time, I don't know, 30 tournaments a year.  He never got injured.  But right now he barely can walk. 
 

Q.  Thomas, as well.
 
PETR KORDA:  Look how he's walking right now.  He's limping like he's going to need a hip replacement in the future.  Anyway, if you're not injured through your career, you going to get some bad stuff after you retire anyway. Hopefully, it's not going to be my case; I was injured in the time I was playing.  I'll be fine (laughter). 
 

Q.  You would win Over-35 tournaments.
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't think so I'm going to play Over-35. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT