NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1998
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  First question for Petr. 
 

Q.  Was your back bothering you out there?
 
PETR KORDA:  No, no. 
 

Q.  Just not a good day?
 
PETR KORDA:  He played better than me.  I was playing very short today.  I don't know why.  But that's why he was running the show today.  He was on the baseline, make me run.  I felt I had some good momentum when I was going back.  I nearly made it 5-All, but he played two tremendous points.  From that moment, he just went to another gear again. 
 

Q.  You especially had difficulty winning points against his serve.  Was he serving particularly well?
 
PETR KORDA:  No.  I was playing short.  I hit everything short.  If the guy step inside the box and hits the ball, just makes you run left, right, and you have no answer.  I didn't play deep enough, you know, to made him, you know, make mistake.  I just did for few moments.  But then, you know, like I said, he just changed to another gear, was playing really well today. 
 

Q.  Do you find a problem with the ball?  Pete says the ball flies on him here.
 
PETR KORDA:  I'm not complaining about ball, you know.  I'm just complaining, you know, about the way I was playing today. 
 

Q.  I was wondering, do you ever find a problem with the ball?
 
PETR KORDA:  I had a problem with my stringing today, is what I had.  I just found, you know, my racquets were dead.  When I was hitting the ball, just didn't get anything out of the ball.  If I'm complaining, I'm complaining to myself. 
 

Q.  Because of Pete's loss last night, you could have taken over No. 1 by winning this tournament.
 
PETR KORDA:  Come on, give me a break. 
 

Q.  Did you give any thought to that?
 
PETR KORDA:  No.  No.  I'm happy where I am.  I'm happy I can wake up in the morning without problems, and I don't have to care about what's happening.  I just want to play the game, which is called tennis.  We will see what's can happen.  I'm not putting pressure to myself.  I just want to enjoy this ride.  Maybe it's my last ride ever. 
 

Q.  Is that a completely different attitude?
 
PETR KORDA:  I was waiting for something (laughter).  Can you bring me some scissors, please? 
 

Q.  Is that a completely different attitude to even four years ago?
 
PETR KORDA:  No.  I'm not having -- different attitude I have because I'm healthy.  That's only big difference to me.  It's been three painful years for me on the Tour. I mean, since I commit myself to come back, I said, "I want to enjoy that momentum and to play and to have fun on the court," which I feel I'm still having.  Right now I'm having -- I feel I need to go back to the basic, you know.  I need some more time, which I'm going to practice and prepare.  Been very tough months for me, with the problem with the back, and I was not able to practice a lot.  I feel before the tournaments, I had some good workouts.  I think I'm going to have another four days again back in Bradenton.  That's what I'm looking for.  I would like to bring back to my next tournament the same attitude.  If the guy is better, you know, I am the concern.  I can admit that he played better game than I  played.  I'm not going to complain about the court, wind, whatever, like what a lot of people, they does. 
 

Q.  In Australia, you said at the end of this year you'll sit down and evaluate things.  You've already round down by not playing Davis Cup.  Let's say you and the family decide that you're not really going to play next year.  What will you do?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know.  To be honest, I've been five weeks without the family.  We expecting second child in July, and it can be difficult.  It's very difficult for me. Five weeks alone.  With the attention I'm getting in the moment, I miss the family, I miss family around, miss the support, my wife and my daughter can put me to, I don't want to say another level, but another room immediately, once I finish my day on the court, come home, they just switch me. This is what I miss.  It's going to be a difficult decision, but I'm still hungry, and still I feel I have a room in my game which I can improve, which is I would say that's what's going to count.  But the family matters.  It's going to be the most important in this decision.  If my wife supports me, I know which direction I will go.  If the family and myself, we decide not to play next year, I definite not going to be the media man, that I know.  But I will try to enjoy, probably,  the time to learn some other stuff, how to live like a normal human being, to be father really day by day, not week by week or month by month.  It's going to be something new, new challenge in my life.  But in the case of business, whatsoever, I don't know.  It's too far away.  I just want to concentrate for what I'm doing in the moment. 
 

Q.  What would be a bigger deal for you:  To retire when you're at the top or retire as things are falling away, and you're starting to slide?
 
PETR KORDA:  I mean, what I achieve, I'm not going to retire when I'm going to fall down.  Maybe the ranking-wise, but not as a player.  I mean, when I was with Vladimir, he always told me, "That's the most difficult thing, to find the time when you want to retire."  I think it's going to has to hit me.  I think I already found a time when I want to retire from the Davis Cup.  I think I going to have to come with something like this in the future in my retirement.  But I don't think so I will retire in the middle of season.  I'm always a fighter.  Whenever I commit myself, a year, another year, I just going to go and try to play the best I can.  If it's not going to work, you can't play against age and better players.  
 

Q.  When does Jessica start school full-time?
 
PETR KORDA:  She is having one -- she will start '99 in September. 
 

Q.  Will that be a factor, do you think, if you're still playing?
 
PETR KORDA:  I mean, you asking me the question which I can't even answer.  I don't even know right now. Like I promise, I'm very open in this case.  I will really sit after the season and see.  I'm not having any problems with my body.  I have just slight problems with the back. There is a big chance I be back, but there is also a big chance I not going to be back.  I just don't want to put any pressure on either side.  Just as I ask, let me play my game, let me go on the full speed, and we will see some results.  If I be Top 10 in the end of the year or not, we will see. 
 

Q.  And how old will she be then?
 
PETR KORDA:  She was five in March -- the end of February.  I miss already her second birthday.  She is giving me a hard time already.  I don't want to miss her sixth birthday, definitely. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT