NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1998
Petr Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Petr Korda, winner today.  Will play Marcelo Rios tomorrow in the quarterfinals.  Questions. 
 

Q.  Is there going to be any difference in playing Rios now than playing him at the Australian?
 
PETR KORDA:  It's like another match.  That was in the past already.  I mean, we have good memories and the bad memories, but it's the past.  It's another day of our lives, another match of our lives. 
 

Q.  How many times have you played Rios before?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know.  You'll have to ask the media.  I think it's eight meetings.  I think I'm 4-3 up, but I'm not pretty sure. 
 

Q.  You'd rather play a right-hander or left-hander?
 
PETR KORDA:  Doesn't matter.  I have to play tennis, over the net, to the island.  Doesn't matter if you have a left-hander or right-hander. 
 

Q.  How are you playing now?  Are you satisfied? 
 
PETR KORDA:  I'm not playing as good, like I played in Australia, but I'm winning, which is most important. It's a good thing I still have room in my game.  I didn't practice a lot after Australian Open because I had a problem with the back.  I had a good opportunity to practice four, five days before this tournament.  I just feel my game, it's starting to pick up the pace again.  But I need more time to get for the satisfying level for me. 
 

Q.  You're 31, veteran of the tour.  Do you feel younger than 30, older than 30?
 
PETR KORDA:  I feel very young.  I think you old how much you feel.  And I feel very fresh.  If I'm going to start to feel very old, I think I'm going to use the back door to leave the Tour. 
 

Q.  Petr, this week, even though you're No. 2, you're kind of the overlooked player in the thing with Agassi and Sampras.  Do you enjoy kind of just being left alone in the background to go do your business?
 
PETR KORDA:  I enjoy that much.  I didn't like it the way it was after Australian Open.  I was always I don't want to say like a familiar guy, but I was always rather to be in the corner, really to be myself, to do my own stuff, which my life a little bit change, became a little bit hectic.  But I don't have any problem right now to be in the spotlight or in the dark corner.  I just want to play my game and enjoy my tennis, which is the most important things for me. 
 

Q.  Do you feel your game is strong enough to win here this week?
 
PETR KORDA:  I'm the person which I like to take small steps.  I would love to prepare myself for the next match and try to win it.  This is what I'm going to work for, going to concentrate on.  I don't like big steps.  It's better to take the small ones.  If you going to fall, it's not going to hurt so much as you falling from the big ones. 
 

Q.  Pete says he kind of has reduced his schedule so he can prevent injuries.  Have you reduced your schedule at all?
 
PETR KORDA:  Yes, I did.  I did.  I reduced the schedule.  I'm going to play only two events on the clay, maybe three.  I'm not going to play Washington, because we expecting baby.  I'm going to have a three or four average with tournaments I normally playing in.  Plus Pete never played doubles.  I used to play regularly doubles, which I quit, mostly when Stefan retired.  I don't want to say I didn't have the fun, but I couldn't just pick the right partner on  the same level like Stefan was.  Just mainly I quit the doubles, completely from this year.  I might play one or two doubles this year, just for fun, which means I'm going to have extra energy because before I was playing singles, doubles every tournament. 
 

Q.  Do you think, for example, if you have a chance to become No. 1, and you must put in your schedule a tournament, you do this, or you wait for a big one?
 
PETR KORDA:  I mean, I have -- I'm going to have the same tournament if I'm going to be 45 or if I'm going to be No. 2 in the world.  I'm not going to change anything. 
 

Q.  Your schedule, for example, you have three weeks' break in your schedule.  There is a chance to be No. 1 in one of these three weeks --
 
PETR KORDA:  I'm not going to push anything because I want to prepare for the claycourt season.  I need the preparation.  I want to have a break because after the Australian Open, I didn't had any break.  I had the problem with my back.  Now I'm playing two very difficult tournaments, and I would love to have a break, you know, to prepare, to work on my endurance and to work on my game, to be ready mentally and physically for the claycourt.  That's the very difficult with all the Spanish around.  You have to be fit, you know, to compete with them.  
 

Q.  What is your goal right now at this point for the year?
 
PETR KORDA:  I already scored that goal.  I already scored in January, right in the corner.  I have one more goal, but it's in my personal.  It's a goal for my wife and myself, that's for the baby.  That's our main goal.  That's what give me very high motivation, especially in the end of the year, to work hard, to be probably more focus.  I'm just very thrilled again.  I'm looking forward, which is, I would say, probably is going to be maybe bigger than Australian Open for me. 
 

Q.  When you see Agassi out there, and he's kind of on a roll, looking pretty good, feeling pretty good, does that intimidate some of the players, or does it intimidate you?
 
PETR KORDA:  I think it's good for the game of tennis, especially probably in the United States.  It's give to people big rivalry between Pete and Andre.  I think it's great he's playing well.  You know, the way Marcelo Rios is playing, myself, other guys, I think it's bringing some kind of interesting tournaments, interesting field.  Whoever is going to play well, is going to have the same career like Andre has, either now or in the future, I think it's going to be great for the game of tennis. 
 

Q.  There were a couple times you could have lost the  first set.  Haas didn't convert in the second set.  I think he had three breakpoints.
 
PETR KORDA:  Four breakpoints. 
 

Q.  Do you think it helps to be 11 years older basically than this kid on the other side?
 
PETR KORDA:  I don't know.  You have to ask him why he didn't convert, if he had the problem like a nervous break-up. 
 

Q.  Did it help you?  We did ask him about that.
 
PETR KORDA:  I was playing the same game.  Doesn't matter how old you are.  I mean, probably all the older players, they having much more problem with the nerves than the younger players because, you know, if you young, you don't have to care about nothing, just to hit the ball. Something is happen; if it's miracle, bad, whatever.  But if you older, you think in other ways. Sometimes it's disadvantage to be older. 
 

Q.  How have you fared against Rios in the past?
 
PETR KORDA:  You have to ask ATP guys.  I think I'm 4-3 up, but I'm not pretty sure. 
 

Q.  Petr, when you had two set points against you, you seemed very cool on court.
 
PETR KORDA:  Who, me? 
 

Q.  Yes.  Do you think that changed in you?  Are you playing the big points in a more calmer way or do you still  feel nervous inside?
 
PETR KORDA:  It's always good when you are nervous.  I think it's always -- you have a kind of -- I like to be nervous before the match.  I think it's always a good sign.  I was nervous, you know, when I was 6-4 down.  You can't go for the big shot.  You have to really - especially he was serving - to put the ball everything inside the box, just try to make mistake.  That's what I did.  When I was 6-5 down, it was like, "Come on, let's hit some big serve."  I hit the ace.  Sometimes you are nervous more, but you can't show him how nervous you are because, I mean, he's the one who can show you his frustration.  You can have the advantage of it, which I did especially in the second set. 
 
PETR KORDA:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT