CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2015
Danah Bordner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Danah fabulous 4-under round today.  What was working in your game out there?
DANAH BORDNER: I think just it's been a long year as probably a lot of people know, but there is a lot of golf left out there and knowing that I kind of found a few pieces at the beginning of this week and talked to my husband on the phone about some things.  Really just staying patient.  I feel like I have all year, but fairways, greens, putts I've been sticking to the same routine, but maybe it kind of clicked today.
Q. What specifically, when you said pieces are coming together, what is it in your game that you feel is starting to click?
DANAH BORDNER: Little bit more my irons.  Usually I've been a really strong iron player, but it's kind of faded here toward the end of the season.  So it's kind of coming together a little bit.  I hit some errant shots today, but it's all about the recovery.
Q. You have the unique role of mom and golfer.  What is it like to have to balance that and are your two daughters here this week?
DANAH BORDNER: My two girls are here this week, and I love having them out.  They're out with me probably 75% of the time.  I feel bad I'm taking them away from their daddy, but it's awesome.  I come home and they're there, and it's unconditional love.  It doesn't matter how you play.  It doesn't matter anything.  When you're a mom, it's the best thing in the world, and I'm just happy to be doing what I'm doing and out here with the support of them and my family and Smucker's, of course, with the LPGA Child Care.  I can't do it without them, so it's great to have them with me.
Q. You were talking to your husband; is your husband a coach or how do you guys do that when you're traveling and he's back at home and kind of balancing that?
DANAH BORDNER: He is my coach now officially.  We kind of went to that.  I kind of joked that he's a lot cheaper than a lot of other coaches because I can just cook for him, so he's a lot cheaper.  But with Facetime and Tango and technology these days, it's fantastic, so we're able to do that and stay on top of things.
Q. This golf course I know the two nines are very different, but how does it overall suit your game?
DANAH BORDNER: It's very different.  If you drive it well, and, again, my irons are coming together a little bit better.  I think that you have an imagination with putting, which I do, I think that that really helps.
Q. The greens have some slopes, especially on this side.  Are they fairly firm today?
DANAH BORDNER: They were relatively firm, and we were getting bounces out six to ten yards bounce-out or roll-out as well.  They were relatively firm, but I think with the cool weather coming in, that helped a little bit.
Q. Do you just have to be careful where you position the ball on the greens?
DANAH BORDNER: Yes, you don't want to be long, you don't want to be long on any putt.  Though that last hole worked out well.
Q. Take us through what happened with your ball on 18?
DANAH BORDNER: I was back on the fringe and I think Thidapa made her putt and the crowd kind of cheered, and I don't know.  The ball rolled down like three or four feet.  I'm like, oh, maybe you guys should cheer more often.  So I thanked the crowd and that was great.  It ended up putting me six or seven feet, so that was nice.
Q. So the LPGA still has a daycare at most tournaments?
DANAH BORDNER: Yes, every domestic event they do, and with the Bahamas as well.  There are two ladies that travel full-time with us, and thankful to Smucker's and the LPGA that we can take our kids with us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT