KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2011
Amanda Blumenherst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome, good playing. 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Thank you very much. 
 THE MODERATOR: So all the chatter beforehand was that this course was supposed to be hard.
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Well, maybe they have really hard courses and I play better. It's the easier ones that I don't get. But really I'm playing so well, just the scores have not been coming together. The putts haven't been falling or have kind of gotten -- just haven't been playing as smart as I should. Just everything came together today. 
 THE MODERATOR: The last four holes, did something click? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I made a really good save for par on -- I can't do the math -- was it 13 or 14? A great save for par, and that just kind of clicked things and I just started making some really good putts in a row. I had a few shorter ones, but some really good lengthy ones like the one on 18.

 Q. How long was the putt you talked about making for par? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: That was probably about an 8-footer.

 Q. Are you going to go see Duke play basketball? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I don't have tickets, so if anyone can hook me up (laughing). But I'll definitely be watching it though.

 Q. Overall, what did you like about the course and was there anything particularly hard about it? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Well, the fairways are extremely soft right now, and so are the greens. So it's playing a lot longer than it says on the card which actually suits me because I'm one of the longer ball strikers out there. So kind of the longer the better. The softer the fairways stay, the better that suits my game. 
 I'm just hitting my irons really solid. I've been hitting my long irons as well as my short irons really well. Kind of have to remember that I'm playing it past the hole because it spun back. I hit one and a spin back on number nine, it never happened before. I hit it pin high, and it spun back 170 feet all the way to the bottom tier, so I learned my lesson on that one.

 Q. What were your impressions of the course when you played it during your practice rounds? Was it completely different from the course you played today? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Not really. I played the practice rounds pretty solid. The first few holes, just because it was so cold, played a little bit longer. I believe it was number 3, the first or the second par-5 played a lot different. I had to take it over all those trees for my third shot. 
 But other than that, really the practice round and the pro-ams played very similar to how it played today.

 Q. The course is long enough, but with the weather, like you said, how much of an advantage is it for a long hitter on this course? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Well, for example, I was hitting I think one hole I hit a 9-iron or Marcy hit a hybrid, Marcy Hart. Though she may have put it closer than me. Definitely the hybrids are helping girls having to hit a 3-iron into the greens. 
 But when you're having a 9-iron in your hand even a 5-iron or 6-iron, there is a difference, or even having a 4-iron instead of maybe a 3-wood into a par-3. So it does help.

 Q. Obviously, it's exaggerated with the conditions, but even if it dries out, is it still going to be as much of an advantage? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Maybe the gap will close a little bit. But it's still a long course. It's still a long par and there is one really long par-3. The par-5s aren't reachable, maybe on the last hole on 18, if everything dried out. But really, I don't know how much having the course get much drier, I don't know if it would really change things.

 Q. Are you pretty confident that a 6-under on this course today is going to hold up, especially if the weather gets a little bad later on? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I was very excited, and also I think that it's going to be low. I think any LPGA event -- I've never seen an LPGA event where the scores aren't low for four rounds, so I'm very happy. But I know I have still a lot of playing. There is a lot of golf left.

 Q. Do you feel like it was an advantage to be early today though considering what the forecast is? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I think so. I think I got on the good end of the deal. I had heard it might rain later this afternoon and maybe into tomorrow morning. So being on the sunny side of things definitely helps. And it started getting a little windy at the end.

 Q. How did you end up at Duke? You're from Scottsdale? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Yes. I'm from Scottsdale. I was born there, grew up in Ft. Wayne, Indiana, actually, and went to Duke. 
 It was between Duke and Stanford, and chose Duke. Fell in love with it. So I wanted to go to a good academic school and also one with a great golf team.

 Q. And you do have your degree from there? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I do. Yes, I graduated in '09.

 Q. What had you heard about this course? Had you heard anything about this course before you played it? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: I really hadn't. My dad played it in like '84.

 Q. What is your dad's name? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Dave Blumenherst. He really thought he had the course figured out by playing it 20-some years ago. But he just loved it. He remembers the trolley that he had to take up, which we are not doing. 
 But other than that, I really hadn't heard very much. I'm impressed with how beautiful it is with the scenery around the chipping green especially and putting green on the other side.

 Q. Is your dad here? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: He is, and he's very excited.

 Q. Did he play it this weekend? 
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Actually, he's right there. He's in the back of the room. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT