CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2009
Amanda Blumenherst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round out there, up-and-down, you had a couple of obstacles to overcome.   
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: It was so windy. It was unbelievable. It was probably one of the windiest conditions I've ever played in. Especially because it was very gusty, too. I played very solid, and I was really happy with my tee shots and also my irons and made some great putts.   
 So I'm just happy with how I played and looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. That's great. Coming up to play in Canada, because this is your first time ever in Canada?  
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: This is my first time ever in Canada.  
  
  Q. How is it working out for you, and what are you thinking of the course?  
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: It's probably the prettiest course I've played all year. It's absolutely gorgeous. The scenery is unbelievable, and they are taking great care of us, too. So it's been a wonderful experience.  
  
  Q. This is the first time you've been a professional; how is that going?  
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: It's good. It's different. I didn't think it would be different from college golf, but there are just little differences, travelling with a team. And also you're playing for money, so that is a change.   
  
  Q. What are your goals or what are you concentrating on today at this tournament? What's going to play to your strength for the rest of the weekends?   
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: Well, I'm hitting the ball great. It was really tough playing in the wind. It seems like some of the lower scores were all this morning. I would say that's to my advantage. Hopefully tomorrow morning, go out and play, and play my best and hopefully it won't be that windy and a little bit calmer conditions.  
  
  Q. Do you take any confidence knowing that you're right now tied for third with the world No. 1, Lorena Ochoa?  
 AMANDA BLUMENHERST: That is pretty exciting. Also, I mean, I thought I was so proud of myself, just staying mentally tough and not just giving up or being frustrated.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT