INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
OG Anunoby
James Blackmon Jr.
Grant Gelon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 87, Liberty - 48
Q. James, is it hard to focus or hard to keep focus when you guys get ahead 39, you have the big run?  Is it hard to ease off the pedal a little bit?
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: That's one thing we want to definitely focus on, no matter who we're playing.  Play like we're us and not play to the opponent.
So I feel like we did a good job of that from the beginning and not just picking it up five minutes in.
Q. What do you attribute to the strong offensive start for you?
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: Really just focusing on the things that are going to win us games, like picking up the ball.  I feel like we did a better job of that from the 3.
Rebounding, things like that, just having that focus and then other than that just playing and a good outcome will come.
Q. Question about shutting down the defense.
OG ANUNOBY: We try to be disruptive in passing lanes and box out and just pressure the ball, pick up full court because we knew if they didn't get to (indiscernible) they wouldn't get the shots they wanted.
Q. Question about getting first points.
GRANT GELON: It was incredible.  It was awesome.  I'm just thankful to Coach for the opportunity and just try to do my best every time I get out there.
Q. OG, how does it feel to get that double-double?
OG ANUNOBY: It feels good.
Q. Thomas talked about being a leader, I guess, more of a leader this season.  Feels like you saw some of that maybe against UMass, a little bit of it tonight.  How does that manifest?
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: That's who he is as a person.  He's always energetic and talking to guys.  So he's brought that this year as well and that brings energy to the rest of the team.
Q. Question to James on fixing turnovers.
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: I'm going to watch a couple of them.  I think that I forced a couple of passes that I tried to get into the paint, just not overlooking into the paint.  We want to get the ball to Thomas, but not forcing in there and just taking more care of the ball.
Q. Question on going back to Fort Wayne.
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: It's really cool to me.  I've been talking to the guys.  We know they're going to be pumped up there.  There's going to be a lot of fans there and it's going to be a big game.  So we've got to have a mindset to come out and start from the beginning.
Q. OG, question on implementing defense plans so far.
OG ANUNOBY: I'm not sure how much we're going to put in, but -- we are not where we want to be but we know we'll get there.
Q. James, did you ever play at the coliseum when you were there?
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: Yes, there's a couple of tournaments there.  It's called the holiday tournament.  I played there.
Q. Question on Bryson Scott.
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: That's my best friend, actually.  We grew up together.  So I know he's going to come out fired up.  So I've got to do the same thing.
Q. Question on Juwan Morgan.
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: A lot of energy and rebounding and he also can handle the ball as well.  So just bringing that other dynamic to the game.
Q. James, talk about your friendship with Bryson.
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: We played together since fourth grade, I think, and ever since then we've just been best friends and just grew up together.  Too much, too many.
Q. Can you talk about the Fort Wayne environment?
OG ANUNOBY: It's very important for us the end of the season.
Q. What's the most important thing you have to do playing on the road?
OG ANUNOBY: Just adapting to the environment and not like worrying about how it's a home game for them and they may have more fans there, but just playing our game and not worrying about any outside stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT