INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Thomas Bryant
OG Anunoby
Freddie McSwain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 73, Bellarmine - 49
Q. Is that the kind of efficiency that you guys see in practice?
THOMAS BRYANT: No, it's nothing new.  With the amount of work that OG puts in day in and day out, it pays off out there on the court each and every day, and we expect that from him, and it's really great to see that.
Q. On the defensive focus to hold Bellarmine to 49 points:
THOMAS BRYANT: No, we just focused in on the defensive end because we know Bellarmine has great players that can knock down really great shots, and we just wanted to keep them in front and make them work for everything that they had to do.
Q. OG, what did you work on in the off-season?
OG ANUNOBY: I think I just worked on my game a lot.  Yeah, just that.
Q. Talk about what it means to be back.
FREDDIE McSWAIN: Playing tonight was just a great opportunity.  I'm just glad to be here.  It was just a fantastic game.  I just wanted to just get my feet wet basically, just get used to the game and the tempo and just playing with the group of guys in the locker room.  It was just a great opportunity to just be on the court again.
Q. How do you feel like these two exhibitions prepare you guys for Kansas coming up next week?
THOMAS BRYANT: We're just worried about the now.  We're worried just the exhibition games and getting better each and every day in practice.  The exhibition games were great, going against really great teams, and just we know that we're just going to get right into practice and look forward to the next game, just take it day by day.
Q. Why do you think shots weren't falling tonight?
OG ANUNOBY: We were getting good looks and just weren't making them today, but we'll make them.
Q. What did the defensive play demonstrate tonight?
THOMAS BRYANT: It says that we played really good defensively.  We don't just want to be a good offensive team, we want to be defensive, as well.
OG ANUNOBY: Yeah, the pressure of the ball, got on the passing lanes and defensive rebounded.
Q. Adding a guy like Freddie, what's that do for you?  Is that something that makes this team a little different from last year?
THOMAS BRYANT: Yeah, Freddie brings a lot to the team, being able to switch, even how quick, fast and strong he is, he can be on key guys that can help us out a lot, and it really helps with all of us out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT