WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2015
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Chris, just talk about being out there with Tiger Woods and what that experience was like for you.  
CHRIS PAUL: Unbelievable, man. It's such an honor and privilege. I've had an opportunity to hit a few golf balls with Tiger out in his Tiger Jam in Vegas. To play 18 holes, he doesn't realize he's the reason I even play golf. I would have never been introduced to the game or been as big a fan of the game if not for him so to have that opportunity is truly a once in a lifetime thing.  
   
 Q. How did he inspire you to play?  
CHRIS PAUL: It's Tiger Woods, man, what you mean? He's just great. Everything that he did, you know, as far as the game and stuff like that. So, to see his competitive nature -- heck, we got competitive out there playing today.   
It's one of those things I don't play basketball with my brother and dad as much as I did as a kid so now we play golf. So to see someone like that who has done it so well for so long is really an honor.  
   
 Q. I know you said getting competitive. Still looks like you were having a fun.  
CHRIS PAUL: You can compete and still have fun. We managed to do that today. Mr. McConnell and Franz who played every year in this thing with -- it's such a great tournament. I was just like everybody else who was tracking Tiger's every move ever since they said he may play.   
So, we have some mutual friends. Me and my brother when we heard, we was like, everyday I say, "See, is he playing, is he playing, is he playing?" When we found out we were overly excited like everybody else here.  
   
 Q. Did you give him any pointers since you played here before?  
CHRIS PAUL: It's funny, Tiger never played the back-9. He played the front-9 yesterday. So we got competitive on the back-9 because I knew he had never seen it before but when you're one of the best ever to do it like him, I guess it really doesn't matter and he is who he is for a reason.  
   
 Q. What was the final tally?  
CHRIS PAUL: Final tally? We had a fun day (laughter).  
   
 Q. Who has to buy dinner tonight?   
CHRIS PAUL: Let's say I'm going to keep my wallet in my pocket.  
   
 Q. What were you doing to make him laugh out there?  
CHRIS PAUL: What was I doing to make him laugh? Well, I don't know. We were talking. I like wasn't trying to make him laugh. I think it was just a conversation.  
   
 Q. Chris, what do you think it means to have Tiger playing here in Greensboro?  
CHRIS PAUL: It means everything to have him here in Greensboro. Like I said, I'm an avid fan of the game of golf. I watch it all the time. My wife goes nuts at me because I'm constantly checking to see who is in the lead, I'm watching the tournaments and just like everyone else here, I'm serious when I heard that Tiger was playing, not only was I excited for myself but I was excited, you know, just for the Triad, for everyone whoever gets an opportunity to see someone of his magnitude and it means a lot that he came here to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT