WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2014
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I think I see you smiling a lot, getting a chance to talk to some of these golfers.  
CHRIS PAUL:   Being around them is the fun, great part.   Actually playing with them is the nerve-racking part because obviously this isn't my day job and -- this is the hardest, you know, sporting thing I think I've ever tried to play.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier, you said yeah, I am a little nervous.   You do get a chance to play from time to time, right?  
CHRIS PAUL:   I do get a chance to play from time to time.   Not as often as my brother and dad.   I'm a huge Fred Couples fan.   I watch him all the time.   I swing a lot harder than he does if you guys could tell, but I'm honored and privileged to even get the opportunity to meet him.  
   
 Q.   To get a chance to swap old stories with Bill, what does that mean to you?  
CHRIS PAUL:   That's great.   I tell people all the time whenever I talk about golf Bill is the first person I ever picked up a golf club with when I was in college at Wake Forest.   He used to come in the gym and hoop with us.   I remember him giving me a golf club and me thinking I would never play this game.   Who would have known some years I've fallen in love with it.  
   
 Q.   For you, what's more nerve-racking a free throw in front of 20,000 people or --  
CHRIS PAUL:   I much rather shoot a 3-pointer from anywhere, any situation, any game than hit off the first tee.   I just -- I've been doing that since I was four.   This right here, you just never get comfortable with it.   You got to say a little prayer for me when we go to the first tee.  
   
 Q.   Aren't you glad the mess is over with your team?  
CHRIS PAUL:   Yeah.   It's exciting, you know.   Mr. Ballmer has a lot of great plans and I'm excited with what's ahead.  
   
 Q.   How serious would that have gotten?  
CHRIS PAUL:   I don't know.   I don't know.   We don't even have to worry all that different type stuff.   It's all about moving forward.  
   
 Q.   Chris, you watch a lot of golf, Golf Channel all the time.   What is it like for you to walk out on the range?  
CHRIS PAUL:   I watch golf all day, every day, you know.   I keep my TV on the Golf Channel.   I've never had a lesson, never had a lesson.   I just watch Mike Breed and watch these guys play all the time.   To be out here you really get a chance to appreciate these guys' craft.  
   
 Q.   You like the changes at Wake Forest basketball?  
CHRIS PAUL:   I'm excited with the guy.   I had an elite point guard camp here in Winston this last week.   Codi Miller was there.   He was outstanding.   As long as they got him over there leading that team, they'll be just fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT