THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Roger Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 11th appearance in the Senior Open and you put together three birdies, one bogey, and as you look back on this round, what were the challenges?
ROGER CHAPMAN: Well, the challenge is Royal Lytham and St. Annes and those bunkers.  If you stay out of those bunkers I think you have half a chance at making a decent score.  Funny enough, I played much better yesterday with certainty, but left a lot out there.
Today hung in there made a couple putts, made a good couple of putts on 15 for par, but yeah, just hung in there.  The middle of the round, my irons weren't too good.  Thinned a couple and I wasn't up to the pins, but towards the end, started playing a bit better.
Q. Regardless, you're in the mix heading into the weekend and still quite a bit of golf to be played.  But you've won a Senior PGA Championship and U.S. Senior Open.  Still plenty of golf to play, but for to you win the Senior Open and add it to your already impressive resumé, how meaningful would that be?
ROGER CHAPMAN: To have the Grand Slam of the big ones would be unbelievable.  Still in shock over the first two, and that was seven years ago.
I'm comfortable on this course.  I won the Lytham Trophy as an amateur in 1981, 38 years ago.  It's a golf course I enjoy playing but to win the Senior Open would be icing on the cake, I suppose.
Q. You've been playing nicely all year but come into your own this week for the first two rounds, 70 and 68.  What would it mean to you to win another major?
ROGER CHAPMAN: Everything.  It's been a while.  I've just turned 60 this year.  To win the Senior Open as a 60-year-old would be very special.
Q. You're playing great, renowned good ball-striker, how does this course fit into your game?
ROGER CHAPMAN: It's good.  You have to play well here.  Off the tee, avoid the bunkers.  Once you avoid the bunkers, you've got half a chance.
I was just saying, I won the Lytham Trophy here in 1981, so I've got a little bit of form here.  Depending on what the weather forecast is over the weekend, that could play a big factor.
But as you say, I'm striking the ball really well.  I'm working on a couple of things and moving off the ball a bit on my takeaway, so I'm trying to -- my reverse pivoting, but my caddie says I'm not, so I'll just keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. Is it easy to stay in the moment?
ROGER CHAPMAN: Just stay in the moment.  This afternoon, hit a few shots, unwind, go home, watch a bit of TV and see what tomorrow brings.  You can't do anything about it.  You just do your best and see what happens on Sunday evening.
Q. Happy with that round today?
ROGER CHAPMAN: I was.  Any time you shoot under par around this course is a good day's golf.  As I said in a couple interviews earlier, I played better yesterday.  Sort of didn't get my rewards from yesterday but sort of got a couple today overall, 2-under is about right.
Q. After a long day yesterday, were conditions easier today?
ROGER CHAPMAN: Yes, the fairways were less firry and the greens were a bit more receptive.  There wasn't too much wind and there's nothing now.  We had a little bit this morning, but yesterday, we seemed as though we played every hole into the breeze.  We started into the breeze and then it switched halfway around and so 70 was good yesterday.
Q. Must be nice to finish with two good irons into 17 and 18.
ROGER CHAPMAN: Yeah, just caught the one on 18 a little bit thin, but the one on 17 was really good, a 6-iron.  Just drew it off the wind a bit and ended up three feet away, perfect.
Q. And looking forward to the weekend now?
ROGER CHAPMAN: Yeah, back in the mix.  I've been playing reasonably well, steady through the season this year, sort of a few Top 10s here and there.  Yeah, it would be nice to have a good couple of rounds at the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT