THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
Roger Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ROGER CHAPMAN:   Considering I was probably about five minutes from pulling out this morning with a stiff neck, yeah, sort of decided to have a go.   It was very sore this morning.   I don't know what happened.   Went to bed feeling fine.   Woke up this morning.   Just couldn't have sort of really bad movement in my neck and couldn't hit any shots on the range.     
Went to the physio.   Saw Patrick in there and he sort of manipulated my back a bit.   It was all knotted.   The pillows the room I think were quite firm.   I had a great night's sleep.   It was just unfortunate.   So I sort of hung in.   72, I would have taken that standing on the first tee.  
   
 Q.   One of those things that loosens up when you play?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I took some Ibuprofen and Paracetamol early on, so it didn't really ease up much.   So this afternoon, no shots, just go back to the physio and get physio in the morning and see how we do.   Yeah, I would have taken 72 first out.   
   
 Q.   Many people would have taken that regardless of a stiff in this case anyway, perfect conditions?  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Yeah, course is in great condition, so, yeah, just the course is there for the taking and Bernhard has done that.   
   
 Q.   Any nerves on the first tee?  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Yeah, there was, playing with two legends really.   I got off to quite a nice start.   I only had iron off the tee.   Then getting the driver out, the longer stuff, I got to a position and I knew I had to go further to complete my swing.   It was just very painful.   
   
 Q.   So you were taken back‑‑  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   It was almost just chopping it around basically.   Hopefully it loosens up tomorrow and then we can see how we do.  
   
 Q.   I take it Tom and Greg made you welcome?  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Yeah, they were great.   We were chatting down the fairways and everything.   It was good fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT