THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2012
Roger Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Roger, outstanding performance in the United States, and coming here as a double Major Champion must be a wonderful feeling.   Your thoughts on coming here and trying to win the Senior Major Grand Slam  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   It's all a bit bewildering at the moment.   First time I came here was 1977 as an amateur, played in The Open, and was part of the Duel in the Sun.   I missed the cut and I didn't really know what I was doing here.   
To be playing alongside Tom Watson 35 years on is a huge privilege for me.   Played 18 holes with him in the practise round yesterday and it was‑‑ I have to say, it was a pleasure; an absolute gentleman.   And yeah, coming on the back of two Majors, it's a bit surreal at the moment but it's slowly sinking in.  
STEVE TODD:   Just talk us through the reaction the last couple of weeks.  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   It's been amazing.   I had not seen any of the American guys, because I got a quick flight‑‑ not a quick flight; I was delayed 13 hours in Detroit.   So I didn't manage to see many of the American guys but saw some of the European players at The Open this week, or last week, and everybody has been fantastic.   And the American guys I've met this week, there's been a lot of back slapping sort of thing.   But it's been good fun.   
STEVE TODD:   And the prospect of tomorrow playing with Tom and Greg Norman, as well, fantastic first round draw for you.  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Oh, it's brilliant.   Looking forward to it.   Playing with those two guys on a championship golf course is nothing short of spectacular.   I think my last Open was '86 and I had forgotten how good the golf course was.   It's an absolutely superb golf course and really looking forward to tomorrow.   As I say, playing with two legends of the game.   
   
 Q.   Have you played with either or both before?  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I played with Greg at the Four Stars (ph), Moor Park, when I played with James Garner, Rockford Files.   So it's not that I haven't played with him before.   It was nice actually playing with Tom yesterday, sort of getting used to sort of playing with him.   Might be daunting on Thursday morning.   
   
 Q.   Was Tom a hero of yours?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Absolutely.   My second son, Tom, was named after him.   So I hold Tom Watson in the highest of esteem so to speak, a real gentleman.   The stuff he does off the course for sponsors and everything is amazing.   I was absolutely gutted for him in 2009.   You know, if not for one bad bounce, he could have been The Open Champion winner, and that would have been one of the greatest sporting achievements in sport.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Gave me a lot of belief.   I played 63 holes fantastic at Harbor Shores and sort of got over the line, I could have fought to bogey the last two but I watched the replays of Harbor Shores and then the replay of Indianwood, and I thought I was in control at Harbor Shores but looking at the two it was chalk and cheese.   At Indianwood, I was totally in control of everything and I actually enjoyed something up to then.   One of the few ones I've ever done.   
   
 Q.   Wondered if you had spoken to Gary Player about the fact that you are looking to equal his record.   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Saw him last night at the Rolex Pro‑Am dinner, came over and congratulated me and wished him all the best.   It's a fantastic field this week, and if I did come out on top, then that would be unbelievable.   But you know, two‑out‑of‑three ain't bad.   
   
 Q.   Do you regard yourself as a favourite this week going into the event, or are you one of the lesser‑runners in your eyes?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I've got a chance now, I believe that I can put on a good show.   But you know, you've got Norman and Freddie Couples and it's a roll of honour, this starting sheet here.   
So whoever comes out on top will have had to play some really serious golf on a serious golf course.   So it's a strict par 70.   There are some holes out there, the 5th hole, 479 yards, if that's into the wind, it's going to be a tough old hole.  
STEVE TODD:   Roger, thanks for joining us, and we wish you the best of luck in your attempt this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT