U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Roger Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GLEN NAGER:   My name is Glen Nager.   I'm the President of the United States Golf Association.   We hope you enjoyed the experience and the excitement of the 2012 U.S. Senior Open.
For well over a century, the USGA has promoted and celebrated the game of golf for championships like this one, which was embraced this week by the fans here in Southeast Michigan and around the world, and we thank you for that.
A championship like the U.S. Senior Open is supposed to be one of the toughest tests in golf.   It requires skilled shot‑making, physical endurance, and mental toughness, and I'm sure you agree with me that our champion this year, Roger Chapman, exhibited all of these attributes this week on this wonderful golf course.
Roger, if you could join me here at the podium.   For your victory this week, we have two distinguished awards to give to you.   It's my honor to do so.
First is the Champions Medal.   And second, on behalf of the USGA staff, our volunteers, our partners, and all of the people who made this championship possible this year, I'm honored to present to you the U.S. Senior Open Trophy, which is a time honored emblem of our nation's National Championship.

Q.   Roger, congratulations.   Six weeks ago, you win a Senior major down at Benton Harbor.   Now you win the U.S. Senior Open down here at Indianwood.   What is it about you and Michigan?
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Just a lovely area.   Pure Michigan.
I'd just like to thank everybody for coming out here this week.   It's been a wonderful experience for me and for my wife, for Cathy.   She wasn't here at Benton Harbor, and she's here now.   Makes it very special.

Q.   You come off a bogey at 16, your first bogey of the day.   Tell us about the tee shot at 17.
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Just a career shot.   5 iron, 200 and something yards to six inches.   It pitched in a little upslope perfect and just ran up and just a nice little tap‑in.

Q.   You dedicated your first win to your late teacher George Will.   Do you have someone you want to dedicate this too?
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I just want to dedicate this to my family.   They've stood by me for 20, 30 years.   The boys, C.J. and Tom, and Cathy.   Without their support, I wouldn't be here now.   They're special people.

Q.   So are you.   Congratulations, U.S. Senior Open Champion Roger Chapman.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT