U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Roger Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Roger Chapman.   68 today and is 4 under par for the Championship.  
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Hi there.  
   
 Q.   When do you move to Michigan full‑time?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   It's good here, isn't it?   I love it.   No, it's just, as I said yesterday, feel comfortable here, and everybody makes you feel comfortable.  
   
 Q.   How comfortable are you on a golf course that looks very linksy and very Scotland?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I'm quite happy with it.   My first impression, apart from the trees, was a type of linksy place.   So having grown up on sort of Royal St.Georges, Royal St. Paul, Little Stan, those courses down there on the South Coast, yes, it's nice.  
   
 Q.   Pretty much pick this place up and take it over there and drop it someplace, couldn't you?   It really wouldn't be that much out of place?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   No.   It also reminded me of a golf course that Nick Faldo designed in Berlin.   Very similar, sort of humps and hillocks and wispy grass, has that look.  
   
 Q.   Guys are bunching up, a lot of guys within two or three shots.   What's your theory on why the field is bunching up so much?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I think it's the difficulty of the golf course.   Nobody can get away from anybody.   People are not making mistakes.   They're not making many birdies.   So they're sort of hanging around, 2, 1, level par, 1 over.   And anybody that's still to shoot maybe 66, 66 at the weekend is‑‑ from the back of the field, has got a chance.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions changing much at the latter part of your round?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   The wind‑‑ yeah, the wind just got up a little bit as we finished.   But early on, it was very humid with a sprinkling this morning.   The water sprinkler system.   Then the humidity coming out of the ground.   It was like playing in Singapore.  
   
 Q.   Compare your play for these two rounds to Benton Harbor, where your game is in relation to the two.   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   It's pretty close now.   I went off the boil a bit after Benton Harbor, which is maybe understandable.   Sort of getting used to the status of I'm a Senior Major winner, but it's slowly and surely coming back.   I feel very comfortable driving the ball this week, and that's what I did at Benton Harbor really well.   
Everybody said at the start of the week if anybody drives the ball really well, then they'll score well.  
   
 Q.   Even though you've won a Senior Major now, just a very short time ago, you're still kind of flying under the radar when you come here.   Is that good or bad?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I'm quite happy with it.   I've never really been a person that wants adulation or anything.   I'll just go off into the corner somewhere and do my own thing.   So publicity is not what I really like.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect the scores to stay pretty much where they are for the weekend, or would you like to go a lot lower or closer back to par?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I guess I'd probably take a couple of 67s myself and see what happens.   Because again, I don't think anybody‑‑ with the severity of the course and the driving, I don't anybody's really going to get away from us.   So I think Sunday afternoon could be quite exciting.  
   
 Q.   Are you saying 10 under might be a really good score come 6:00 Sunday?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Yeah, 10, 11, somewhere around there.   Maybe double digits, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How were the greens today?   Did they continue to be soft as they were yesterday?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Yeah, a little bit firmer.   Early on, it was‑‑ the ball was pretty receptive.   But with a little bit of breeze getting up and the sun baking on them, I saw the water sprinklers out there whilst we were playing.   So they must be reasonably worried that they don't want to burn them and get them too fast.   Otherwise, it would be crazy, I think.  
   
 Q.   Why is it such a difficult driving course?   The fairways look kind of generous.   Is it the lines?   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   I think it's the angles, yeah.   It's the angles off the tees and everything.   At the landing area, just goes off at a tangent, and so you've got to be very‑‑ on the 4th hole, all three of us, Olin, myself, and Russ, hit great drives down there.   None of us hit the fairway.   
We were right down the middle, and just on the left‑hand side they come off of the slope.   So that's the danger.  
   
 Q.   Good luck.   
ROGER CHAPMAN:   Thanks.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT