MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS VS DODGERS
October 30, 2017
Brian McCann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm just wondering, you've competed against these guys, who are now your teammates for so long, I'm curious what it's been like to know them not as only as players, but as people over the year in something that may go down in history?  
BRIAN McCANN: Honestly playing against them, you saw the athleticism all of the dynamics, the speed, the power and all that.  But when you get behind the scenes and see what these guys are like off the field, and you see what their work ethic is, they want to be great.  And it's been a pleasure to be a part of this team this year.   
 Q.  As you rounded third and saw the other side of home plate, you got a bear hug.  Talk about that moment.  
BRIAN McCANN: Yeah, we're all sitting in the dugout, and as soon as the ball is hit, within one you know he's going to score.  And I was just making sure he was safe and I wanted to greet him at home plate.  It was kind of -- the emotions were high and everyone was just, you know, the excitement was at an all-time high, and you saw 25 guys acting with pure excitement and pure joy.  And it's making memories right now, it's incredible.   
 Q.  Considering a game where anything can happen, is there a sense to close this out with Justin Verlander on the mound in Game 6?  
BRIAN McCANN: We're not getting ahead of ourselves.  We're taking it -- we're trying to win ballgame to ballgame.  So we're going to show up tomorrow and we're going to prepare for Game 6 and we're going to do our best to win that game.  So that's our mindset.   
 Q.  When you look at the guys you guys have, what is it about them that make you think that they're going to be successful for a long time?  
BRIAN McCANN: Mindset, work ethic, talent.  They're driven to be great.  And when you have that mindset, and you have that ability, there's only one thing that's going to happen.  So, yeah, there are so many guys on the team that they're young and hungry and they're striving for greatness.  And you can feel it when you're around them.  And that's a big reason we're in the position we are.   
 Q.  As a hitter and also as a catcher, are you surprised at how the ball is flying out of the ballpark right now?  Both your teams are offensive-minded teams, but these numbers are historic already.  Are you surprised?  
BRIAN McCANN: I hadn't really thought about it, to be honest with you.  Right now it's two great teams going head to head.  Guys are hitting good pitches.  Guys are laying off tough pitches.  And I hadn't really looked too deep into it as of right now.   
 Q.  You spoke a moment ago about the pure joy and excitement you felt last night.  I know that games are not necessarily connected, but the way you won, how you won, can that have a carryover effect to the next game?  
BRIAN McCANN: Yeah, I think baseball is a sport of momentum.  Last night was a long, hard-fought game.  We're happy we came out on top.  We are going to get on this plane and enjoy the day and get ready for tomorrow.  We'll be ready.   
 Q.  I'm just wondering how are you holding up, a grueling game last night.  Just physically, being a catcher, mentally and physically, how are you holding up on October 30th?  
BRIAN McCANN: I feel amazing.  I feel amazing.  The adrenaline is at an all-time high.  I've never experienced a World Series before.  So you don't feel many aches or pains.  You feel them but it's not like a Tuesday during the season, a day game where the adrenaline is hard to come by.   
 Q.  How much is playing for Houston and that "Houston Strong" on your chest kind of driven yourself to have this historic World Series?  
BRIAN McCANN: It definitely has driven us.  I think  when it was all going on and we were on the road, and people's families were back here and you saw the stories.  People lost everything during that thing.  And when we got back home, a lot of us donated our time and got to meet and shake some hands.  You see people that lost a lot.   
So this has been just historic that we can come back to the city and shine a positive light as far as playing for them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT