NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 8, 2010
Brian McCann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KATY FEENEY: Questions for Brian McCann.  
  
  Q. When Kembril went out there last night, did he show the poise you would expect after watching what he did over the last couple of weeks?   
 BRIAN McCANN: He did. We have so much confidence in him. His first stint when he was up in the big leagues, he was erratic. He went back down and worked on a couple of things, and then came back. And he's showing us over the past month and a half that he can accept a late-inning role, whether it be closer, set-up guy, moving into the future.   
  
  Q. Brian, where do you stand on instant replay? Do you like it?   
 BRIAN McCANN: It's just one of those things I don't have an opinion on it either way. I don't think it would take too long to do, but then again, my opinion doesn't really matter. Either way, I don't have an opinion on it.   
  
  Q. With all due respect, I think your opinion does matter because there are going to be meetings with the union and players about things, and I'm just wondering, based on the play that everybody is talking about from last night, the slide at second base, that's not eligible for review. And some of the guys were, "We don't need to get into that, "But is that the kind of play you would like to see reviewed?   
 BRIAN McCANN: With technology the way it is now, I think if you could do it as quick as you could possibly do it, that would be nice. But to hold up a pitcher to take 5 minutes on a call, I don't think that would be good. But if you could get it quick, everybody would like the right call being made.   
  
  Q. Describe your impression of Tim Hudson this year coming back from the injury, and how does he compare to before the injury?   
 BRIAN McCANN: In spring training, I saw him he was -- his sinker was darting hard and his cutter was cutting harder than it did the year before. So usually it takes you a full year to recovery, and then the next year you're supposed to be on top of your game. And what he's done this year has been remarkable. To be able to come back from Tommy Johns and be a CY Young candidate and carry us to where we are here now, I tip my hat to him. And he's a competitor and he worked as hard as he could to get back to where he is.   
  
  Q. Martin Prado has such a great season for you guys and great numbers against the Giants. How much do you miss this guy especially now against the Giants?  
 BRIAN McCANN: We miss Martin Prado a ton. He's a guy that can't be replaced. He's an all-star. He hits .310, .315, whatever he's hitting this year. Losing him and Chipper hitting in the 3-hole, it's one of those things where -- we've done a great job to get to where we are now, battling every single day, getting great pitching. So, yeah, you definitely miss guys like that.   
  
  Q. Were you out there yesterday when Tommy took the ball off his face and how is it right now?   
 BRIAN McCANN: I was inside, but I think he will be fine. I don't think -- come this time of year, I don't think getting a foul ball in the eye is going to do anything to anybody.   
  
  Q. Brian, you know how much the difficulties your lineup is going through with all the injuries and everything. How much pressure does that put on your starting pitching basically to be perfect or almost perfect?   
 BRIAN McCANN: You know, it does. Coming down the stretch there, they were perfect. That's a big reason we are here today, you know, because of the starting pitching that we've had all season long.   
 We swung the bats. We need to do a better job workin' the counts. You know, last night we ran into a buzz saw. Lincecum, when he's on his game, he's as good as anybody. So last night, tip your hat and move on.   
  
  Q. Have you noticed any change in the demeanor of Bobby Cox this season, especially late in the season, as he kind of approaches the end, really?   
 BRIAN McCANN: Not at all. He's been the same since day one. He's the best. Everybody that plays for him says it. You guys have all heard it. Every player that's ever come through the Atlanta Braves clubhouse has nothing but great things to say about him. He treats people amazing. Everybody wants to play as hard as they can for him, and we want to keep going in this thing.   
  
  Q. Mac, you were talking about how much you miss those guys. Is there still the same confidence in the clubhouse that you can off-set their absence?   
 BRIAN McCANN: Absolutely. You get good pitching and anything can happen. We haven't swung the bats horrible. It's one of those things where we went up against a good guy like last night, that's going to happen. I think last night would have happened to a lot of teams. And like I said, you turn the page and move on and hopefully have better at-bats tonight.   
  
  Q. Brian, do you notice any overt tension between players and umpires that the unions would get together to have a meeting like this?   
 BRIAN McCANN: No, I don't think so. I didn't really understand exactly what you're saying.   
  
  Q. The fact that they're having this postseason meeting to try to settle differences between the players and the umpires.   
 BRIAN McCANN: Yeah, I think the postseason, everything is magnified. I think during the season, I don't know what the statistics are, but a play at second base, they're not going to get it right all the time or a strike called. They're not going to get it right every single time. And in playoffs, every game matters and every pitch matters, and when it gets magnified like it has been, there's going to be a lot of questions.   
  
  Q. But this has spilled over from the regular season, too, it's not just the playoffs.   
 BRIAN McCANN: As a player, all I can speak for is we want to get the call right. Hopefully it can be as quick as possible so people aren't sittin' around waiting on every play.   
 KATY FEENEY: Thanks Brian.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT