STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2019
Drew Dalman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 45, Stanford - 24
Q. Drew, Cam was just saying how he was talking to you already about next season, and his expectations being really high for what you guys are going to be able to do. Obviously this game is still fresh, but what does it say to kind of already be thinking about the positives and what you guys can accomplish together next season?
DREW DALMAN: Yeah. I think there was evidence of it all through out the season. We have had our fair share of hardships and struggles and we have kept battling back and next guy up we have been battling. So I think it's kind of along that same theme, like, we, the game ends, we're obviously not happy with the outcome, we're not happy with the outcome of the season, but we're always looking for the next opportunity to improve and keep pushing and get back to where we want to be. And I think it's a testament to a lot of the guys and the work ethic of that, so I think we're just trying to get back on track.
Q. Can you talk about the young offensive linemen, what they showed you over the course of this season and kind of your projection for them moving forward?
DREW DALMAN: Yeah. I couldn't be more proud of them. I don't think a lot of people know the mental aspect of the game alone to kind of get yourself up to speed so you can play in a game like this as an offensive linemen. So super proud of them for stepping up and learning on their own as well as with us, and then they got better every single week. It was awesome to play next to those guys, get them going in the right direction, and they just did things right. They continued to do it well and continued to dominate throughout the year, so I am, super bright futures for all of them, couldn't be more proud to play next to them, and we're going to get an off-season in them, get them working hard, and kind of see where how it goes.
Q. What's on your plate this upcoming off-season?
DREW DALMAN: Yeah. A ton of room for improvement for me, both in the run game and pass protection. And a challenge for myself is to develop more as a leader and develop more of a voice and kind of get everybody going in the right direction. So for me, it's, I'm not sure there's anything I'm satisfied with, so I can't really limit it to a couple things that I want to fix. But I'm going to get better at everything that I do and keep working and rely on my teammates to push me and push them and we're going to get better.
Q. When you think of the Davis that was in the huddle at the USC game and the guy who played today, where did you see the most growth, maybe in ways that we wouldn't see just watching any of the games?
DREW DALMAN: Yeah. I mean, Davis has been as cool as can be for all the games. So if you took a snapshot of the huddle against USC versus today, I'm not sure you would see that much of a difference. He's always been a guy that's been comfortable, that's confident in his abilities, so any of that kind of validation and confidence is kind of coming from everybody else seeing what he can do. But I think he's always known what kind of guy he is and we have always known what he's capable of, so we're always ready to play for him and play for whoever's playing quarterback, and he's been absolutely awesome this season. It's been great to block for him, great to be with a playmaker like that, so really enjoyed it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT