UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Malcolm Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Does it feel like you're atarting a new season all over again?  
  
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: Yeah, it feels like it. Two-a-days, the tough work. Getting back to the basics, basically.  
  
  Q. You're like that 5:15 a.m. wake-up breakfast call?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: No, I don't. But it's what I got to do. So I do it, and I put a smile on my face and keep going.  
  
  Q. Are you licking your chops to talk Alabama? You're not doing it yet, you're not game planning Alabama yet so from the players' perspective?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: Basically I feel like we need to improve ourselves before we start talking about them, so getting better as a team, as a unit. When we do start working on them, it will benefit us better.   
  
  Q. What is your mindset going into this game? What is the team feeling? What are you thinking? What are you saying?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: We know they're a great team. So we're saying go out there, playing our game, play hard and tough for the whole duration of the game, and just come up with the victory.   
  
  Q. What's it mean to have this opportunity? A life long dream. Have you ever won a championship in your life other than the Big 12? Can you just put it all in perspective?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: No, I've never won a championship, so this to me is the biggest moment in my life. So this is just something I have to enjoy while it's here. When the game comes, enjoy it for the most part and play my game and just try to have fun.   
 Nobody's going to get this many opportunities to be able to be on this stage. It's just one of those things that we have to go out there and enjoy ourselves.  
  
  Q. Anybody told you anything that you might expect going out there yet?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: No, it hasn't been brought up yet. But I expect it to be crazy. I really haven't been in too much of a crazy atmosphere besides being at an away game. So this being the actual big game, it's going to be something that I'm really going to enjoy.  
  
  Q. Talk about last year in the Fiesta Bowl, can you guys talk about how important your job is going to be in being consistent in this big moment?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: Yeah, we've talked about it because we know that we have a really good running game. And we know we have to produce to help the offense. So it goes back and forth. We helped the running game, the running game helps us. So it's one of those things that we have to go out there and do what we know we're supposed to do and to help our offense.   
  
  Q. Is Barrett Jones somebody you're familiar with? Have you followed him at all?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: Yeah, I've followed him some last year and this year. He's a really good football player. And he just, he plays hard. He's a big guy, great hands. Nice speed. He's going to be a really good competitor.   
  
  Q. Have you watched much of Alabama this year? What are your impressions?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: They're very talented. They have a lot of great skill players and big guys that play really well. They've got a great motor on them. They play the whole game. They never quit. It's one of those games where we're going to have to play the whole game and try to come out with it whenever we can.   
 They're going to play hard the whole game. We're going to play hard the whole game and try to compete with them.  
  
  Q. What do you think of Alabama's defense?  
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: I love my defense to death, so I'll have to pick my defense.  
  
  Q. You guys go into this with the underdog kind of mentality. They're number one, we're number two kind of thing?  
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: We don't too much think about it. We know they're a good team. It's all on paper. We know they have a lot of great players. But we have some good players, too, so we have to go out there and play our game and just play hard and try to come up with the win.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised with how quickly y'all remained underdogs and all the talk right after the Big 12 game?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: No, it didn't deter us too much. We weren't even thinking about it too much. It's one of those things it's just a lot of us talk, so we have to go out there and play.   
 Doesn't matter what people say because in our locker room we know what we're capable of doing, so we just have to go out there and play.   
  
  Q. Any comparison from '05 and how big of an underdog they were back then as well?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: Not too much. The '05 team was a great team. And we know they were underdogs to SC, and we're underdogs as well.   
 We don't really worry about that. That's the past. We're living in the now and we have to play now. So it's something that we're just trying to get better now and play.   
  
  Q. What are you hoping for this year?   
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: My favorite I say I was seven years old and I got Optimus Prime from Transformers. That was one of my most favorite. And this year, I really don't ask for anything now. You start getting less and less as it gets older. So it doesn't really matter this year.  
  
  Q. How does Optimus Prime compare to going to the Rose Bowl?  
 MALCOLM WILLIAMS: No comparison at all.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT