U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2001
Joo-Mi Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDY SONG:   She thought she was about 22, 23.  She had no idea that she was 16.  That's why she's so surprised. 

ANDY SONG:   I think just by the looks.  Because she's tall.

JOO-MI KIM:  Yes.

JOO-MI KIM:  Thank you.

JOO-MI KIM:  I was trying to play really relaxed but in the beginning I got into a lot of rough spots, so kind of ended up that I just tried to finish out as hard as I could. 

ANDY SONG:   It was about four and a half, five feet. 

Q.  No more than 6?

ANDY SONG:   No way.

JOO-MI KIM:  I have learned a lot from the experience here, learning to hit out of the rough and how everybody is so polite.  I am not used to it so I really enjoyed the time here. 

Q.  Were you surprised at all about the strength of the competition especially with the younger girls?  A lot of the juniors fared well this week, are you surprised by that at all?

JOO-MI KIM:  I am surprised because usually in Korea it's the older girls that play a lot better than the younger ones.  I am not really used to it. 

Q.  Yesterday you were down 1-up, that good finish to win.  When you got down early did you get worried at all?  Were you still confident that you could catch  --

ANDY SONG:   Majority of the matches that we play she plays better when she's laughing and very calm, so the whole match we were just joking and clowning around and stuff.  Kind of just happens that way that she plays better like that, just happened that she birdies a lot better, easier.

Q.  Was there a part of the game that you struggled with today that was frustrating?

ANDY SONG:   Only thing I can see probably is we were about half an inch off on every putt.  Basically everything was lipping out or we were just a little bit off.  That was probably it.

ANDY SONG:   We were probably the first ones here for the U.S. national before any of the girls.  We were here for about two practice rounds so we got to meet everybody and everybody was kind of talking about she was one of the girls, so that kind have happened.  Then we ended up housing with one of the, I guess, I don't know how to say it, one of the members here.  All the members are the marshals.  We ended up housing with one of them.  They are all friends and they are all telling probably good stuff about her.

JOO-MI KIM:  Yeah, I felt very welcomed and especially the Darts that we are staying with Sammy and Mike Dart, without them I could have never come this far, the top four players.

Q.  Did your father -- did all three of you stay with the Darts?

ANDY SONG:   Yes, we did.

Q.  Would you consider coming back to college here somewhere down the road?

ANDY SONG:   Yeah, that's one of her decisions if she does not make pro next year then she will try to attend college here.

Q.  Any idea where?  Have you made any contacts yet?

ANDY SONG:   She has no idea, nothing so far, but hopefully after this they will probably contact her maybe.

Q.  You are all heading back to Korea after this?

ANDY SONG:   We are heading back to L.A. that's where I live.  I am staying there.  They are going to Korea a day later.

Q.  How did you meet each other?  How did you hook up as her caddie?

ANDY SONG:  My sister plays on the Korean Tour with her, she's pro there and they needed somebody to help them out down here that could help her with her putting and her lines.  So just came and helped them out actually. 

Q.  What is your sister's name?

JOO-MI KIM:  Sandy Song.

Q.  Did you ever feel that when you'd make a good shot that just couldn't seem to take advantage of it because Nicole seemed to come with in with another good shot?

ANDY SONG:   The thing is Nicole is a real good player  -- are you asking me or her? 

Q.  Either way.  If she wants to answer it that would be great too.

JOO-MI KIM:  She usually plays just her game but when she was thinking and making a lot the putts she was just saying wow, she's going to have a real good day, so she has to probably step it up a notch.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT