BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2018
Grant Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Grant Booth to the interview room at the Barracuda Championship.  Just a little bit of your background.  You obviously received a sponsor invite this week.  You went to school here.  You got a little bit of history here at this golf course.  Just talk about your familiarity with Montreux Golf & Country Club if you would.   
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah, I've been in Reno for just over four years now, which feels like a while.  But it's gone quickly at the same time.  So it's been great.   
We've been up here as a team for the better part of four years and really got to know everyone up here well and they've treated me so well.  I've pretty much had full access to the course for a while now.   
So being out here, playing in my first PGA TOUR event at Montreux, it couldn't be better for me.  So really excited.  The course is great.  And just excited to get it going.   
 Q.  Talking about it being your first PGA TOUR event, what are your expectations, and what do you kind of anticipate being at the big leagues now?  
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah, obviously I've been asked that a bit now -- what are you expecting for the week.  I really don't have too many expectations.  A lot of things are new to me.  Just sort of really want to embrace the week and have fun with it.   
And I think as long as I do that, it will take care of itself.  So I haven't thought about any specific goals for the week yet.  But, yeah, just trying to make the most of it and have fun.   
 Q.  You being an Aussie, and a couple of the previous winners here, Greg Chalmers and Geoff Ogilvy being former winners, have you asked them for any advice on the golf course?  Have you reached out to any of those guys to get a little bit of insight?  
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah, I know Geoff won it in '14, Greg won it in '16.  So I'm hoping another Aussie wins it this year being '18.  I haven't spoken to Greg or Geoff yet.  I'm sure I'll see them out here this week.  Last year I actually caddied for Matt Jones, a good friend of mine.  Played a few holes with him late yesterday.   
The way he drove the ball last year was probably the best I've ever seen, I think.  So I think looking back on that a big key around here is just putting it in the fairways and you'll have a lot of chances throughout the week.   
I think with my experience playing here over the years, I think that's going to help me a lot.  So, put the ball in the fairway and go from there.   
 Q.  Any sort of nerves?  You have experience on this golf course.  I know it's your first pro start.  Any nerves there knowing you'll be teeing it up Thursday in a pro event?  
GRANT BOOTH: It probably won't hit me until they call my name on the first tee and I sort of put the ball on the ground.  But so far I've felt quite comfortable out here, actually.  There's a lot of familiar faces that I've seen out here so far.  And obviously being sort of my home course now, that obviously helps a lot in comforting that.   
So feeling quite comfortable at the moment.  I'm sure I'll be a little edgy on the first tee.  But once we get the ball in the air and get going it will be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Were you anticipating getting a sponsor invite to this event?  And what was it like when you found out that you were going to be getting into the field here?  
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah, to me it was quite a surprise, something I'm very grateful for, of course.  Very privileged to be here, talking to you guys now and playing this week.   
So I kind of did my thing the last couple of years and it worked out that I had a couple of good years to finish off college.  And Mr. Chris Hoff got in contact with Coach Wilner and sort of thought it would be a good idea to possibly get a local guy in the field.   
And we met a few months ago.  And, yeah, just went from there.  And obviously now we're here.  So it's been awesome.   
 Q.  What is your status or kind of what are you looking to do now after this week?  What are -- kind of your pro schedule looking like?  
GRANT BOOTH: I've got -- this is my second event as a pro now.  And then play this week.  And I've got some state opens and that sort of thing coming up.  And just really focusing on getting ready for Web Q-School.  That's the plan unless a miracle were to happen before that.   
But that's the plan, just focus on some state opens to keep me busy in the meantime and then I'll go to Web Q-School and hopefully you go through the stages there.   
 Q.  I know the news came out yesterday about Jarrod Lyle.  Did you ever get a chance to meet him?  
GRANT BOOTH: Very briefly.  Years ago back at one of the Aussie Opens, I just got to meet him and say hi, just a little quick chat.  And obviously that's really sad.  And all of our thoughts go out to his family and everyone around him.   
He was obviously a phenomenal guy, for Aussies, a lot of us looked up to him for what he's done over the years and what's gone through.  And, yeah, to see him in that way it's obviously very upsetting.  But he's done a lot of really good things for the game in Australia and over here.  So yeah, we just wish his family the best.   
 Q.  You mentioned looking up to Jarrod.  Also you've mentioned Matt Jones as well.  Anyone else that you looked up to in golf in Australia?  
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah.  I mean you can't really go past Adam Scott.  He's always kind of been our top guy from a young age, the swing and everything.  And he's a great guy, too.   
I think all of them are really good guys out here.  They've been great.  The few that I have met.  I know Geoff Ogilvy, he'll be out here this week.  I've had a bit to do with him the last few years and he's an awesome guy.   
So I think taking all the things that you can from those guys and learning from them is just so good for a guy like me just starting out.   
 Q.  You know this golf course better than anybody.  In the modified Stableford format, what's your approach this week?  
GRANT BOOTH: Yeah, it's a nice feeling knowing that, worse comes worst, you just pick it up and go to the next.  But definitely encourages aggressive play, just like a lot of people say.   
I think if you try to take advantage of the par 5s that's where you can jump the leaderboard, if you can sneak a couple eagles in.  But as long as you're giving yourself looks and making birdies you'll have a good week.  It's definitely a little different, being my first event in the Stableford format, but it's fun.  I like it a lot.   
 Q.  You mentioned being on the bag for Matt.  What was that experience like being on the other side, carrying the bag?  And did you kind of clean anything from getting that experience of being inside the ropes at a TOUR event but again carrying the bag that week?  
GRANT BOOTH: Sure.  I've been lucky enough since I've been over here, Matt's kind of taken me under his wing and I've seen a lot of TOUR events from inside the ropes, kind of going around with him.  And I think to get that sort of insight firsthand is just priceless.  You can't beat that.   
And then obviously caddying for him last year, just how well he plays and how good these guys are out here is, you know, just so good.  So it was awesome.  It was great for me to see, kind of be there with him every shot, talking about the shots, sort of what goes through his head, that sort of thing.  It's definitely helped me now a year later.   
 Q.  You mentioned this is your second start as a pro.  Where was your first start, and how did that go?  
GRANT BOOTH: I played in the (indiscernible) Open last week.  And unfortunately I was back in Reno a day earlier.  But it was good to be back out playing.  That was my first event since the end of the college season.   
So it was good timing to get one tournament in before this one and get back, get the competitive juices flowing again.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT