NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Craig Hillier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I was getting scared towards the end of the first round, but I thought I would -- one of the teams would pick me up eventually. 
 

Q.  Did you have any feeling going in that Pittsburgh had a strong interest?
 
Yeah, they were talking to me earlier and they said they didn't think they -- that we would get a shot, but I guess they did.  They took advantage of it. 
 
Well, I just know they have Ragged (ph) and Brossum (ph); they are getting up there in the years.  They probably have a couple of young goalies in the farm system, but hopefully in a couple of years I will be able to make it. 
 
I guess that is their assumption.  I don't go down over it a lot.  I stand up and I just go down when I have to and I guess that is their style too. 
 

Q.  Do you have a timeframe being ready for NHL?
 
Next year I am just going to work hard and hopefully, you know, I will have a good season.  Maybe the  year, after following it, I might have a good shot at making the NHL. 
 

Q.  Anything in particular that you would like to improve on?
 
Yeah.  There are lots of things like my overall physical strengths and just different things like techniques and stuff, so you know, hopefully a couple of years I will be in the NHL. 
 
Definitely -- yeah, I expected being, you know, a first round pick or early second, so I wasn't really surprised where I went and I am just glad to be a part of the Pittsburgh organization. 
 

Q.  Is there a guy you patterned yourself after?
 
I take a lot of the NHL goalie styles like Patrick Roy, Bill Ranford, Grant Fuhr, Mark, I try to put all the techniques into my game.  I don't really pattern myself just after one goalie. 
 
Probably.  Just means like, you know, I got invitation to a trial and hopefully, you know, in a couple of years I will be on the team and just work hard these next couple of years and make the jump to the NHL. 
 

Q.  About your development.
 
This is real important to me getting  drafted because I guess it puts another step by me in my hockey career and maybe you know, this is like a stepping stone, I guess.  I have one more to go and -- 
 
Stepping stone maybe 1 or 2 more years, I maybe making another step to the NHL. 
 

Q.  Were you worried at all about your draft position?  He got ill in the second game?
 
I really wasn't worried about what happened in the Playoffs.  It is over now.  Hopefully next year we will have a long Playoff run and maybe take the NHL Championships.  I am just happy to be a part of the Ottawa organization, so hopefully I can, you know, just work harder and make the step to the Championship. 
 

Q.  Were you nervous when you saw the numbers going on and the fact that you were the No. 1 goalie and --
 
Yeah, I was getting pretty nervous.  It was a little nerve wracking at first.  I was just last couple of picks before Pittsburgh had their pick.  I was, you know, wondering what is going to happen and you know, I was just praying that somebody would take me and it ended up Pittsburgh took me and I am really happy about that. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT