NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Al-Farouq Aminu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  No. 8 Selection, Las Angeles Clippers  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts and feelings now?   
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: First of all, I'm super happy about being with the Clippers. I really like that team. I really think I can fit in well there. They have great facilities, it's a great city, everything about it. I know I don't sound excited but I am super excited. I just can't wait to get there.   
  
  Q. Talk about young talent with the Clippers organization, and also veterans, as well, how you are looking forward to learning and growing with the team?   
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: I just can't wait for it. I watched Baron Davis growing up, so many things I can learn, Kaman, as well, a great post player.  
 And playing with Griffin, a great talent, it will only make my job easier.   
  
  Q. The cap room and free agency, will you be following that to see how the roster will be growing more?   
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: I just got on the team, so I just started following them I guess. I mean, I'm going to look for into it in the future I guess.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about going to a franchise like the Clippers, knowing their history and kind of the long run of struggles that the team has gone through?  
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: I guess every team has a history either good or bad. When you're drafted, you just try your best to change it for the good. That's what I'm trying to do.   
  
  Q. I'm going to follow up with a question. Having played at Wake Forest in the same state as UNC and Duke, is that great as far as being an underdog in the same market?   
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: Yeah, I guess it is good, like we were doing at Wake, just trying to contend with those schools.  
  
  Q. You are going to a team without a coach; what will it be like when you first get to the team, just rely on your teammates or meet the front office guys?   
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: Both. My teammates, I mean, you're closer to your teammates than anybody so I'll try to get a good feel from all of them, and the people in the front office, as well. I can meet whoever is there, so it really doesn't make that much of a difference to me.   
  
  Q. What's the one thing you feel that you have to work on immediately, especially when you go into Summer League?  
 AL-FAROUQ AMINU: I think that I have to work on my size, also on my ball handling. I think those are the two things I need to adjust right away.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT