AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Anna Redding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about your round out there today.
ANNA REDDING: It was a bit crazy.  I was the first one to tee off, which ask which was a little nerve-wracking.  I had a whiff, so that was awesome.
But I hit 2 in two, and it was just an amazing day.  I hit the ball well right on 18, played it up 10, hit it in there and missed, but it was an up-and-down day.  It's so special out here.  Everything's been spectacular.
Q. As you probably know, you are the first woman in history to hit a tee shot in a tournament at Augusta National in a woman's tournament.  Can you expand on that?
ANNA REDDING: I was shaking, I can tell you that.  I've never seen this many people out on a golf course.  I haven't been to the Masters, so this is as many people as there's ever been.  This is way more that's ever watched me hit a golf shot.
I mean, the four Hall of Famers were sitting right there.  So was Bubba Watson, the chairman, my goodness, there was a lot of pressure but it was so fun, just to have this opportunity to hit a golf shot at Augusta, in competition, was enough, and to be the first, it means a lot.
Q. And what did you think of the shot that you hit?
ANNA REDDING: It was a little left.  But it was okay, so it was good.  Sadly right up against a tree, went left and whiffed it, doubled.  But I really had a great day from there.  It was a great day on that hole, too.
Q. We know you're a competitor, but does the score matter on a day like this?
ANNA REDDING: It does, I'm not going to lie.  I wanted to shoot a lot better than I did, but I didn't leave myself in the best positions out here, and out here, you've got to leave yourself in the fairway and on the green and I did not do that very well.
So I wanted to shoot a lot better.  I was hoping it would be under par today.  But to play Augusta, I'm so incredibly happy.  I mean, this smile has not left my face all day.
Q. Which was the best hole that you felt out of the 18?
ANNA REDDING: Well, on 17, I actually made an amazing up-and-down from the front bunker.  After an up-and-down day, not a great tee shot, not a great punch, but then to have a great up-and-down, it made me feel good.
Q. You've probably been thinking about this day and this tournament all year.  Curious how your thoughts about it and how the reality actually played out.  How do they compare?
ANNA REDDING: Oh, my goodness, since I knew the invitations were coming out and I had it in my hands, I've been so excited for this day.  This has exceeded my expectations by miles.  Again, there are so many people out here to support women's golf, and that's so special (tearing up).
Q. How helpful was it to have played some practice rounds?
ANNA REDDING: It was really helpful to see the golf course, to take a little of the awe out of it, having played it once, but oh, gosh, it's so perfect and spectacular.  It was nice to get around, putt on the greens and understand how undulating and fast they are.  Still got me today, but it was very nice to kind of have that experience and that little bit of local knowledge.
Q. The message that this is sending to girls and women around the country, not just in golf but about opening pathways and roads for people that used to be blocked, I can see the tears forming again, but can you describe what that means to you?
ANNA REDDING: It's so special.  Just to know that we're the pioneers for this stage in women's golf is incredibly special, and just talked a lot, the hashtag, #littlegirlsbigdreams with the LPGA, and this is incredibly special, just to see that, you know, young girls and young women, we can make it and we can do amazing things out there.
So just to be the first, is amazing.
Q. Did you come out and watch the Hall of Famers tee off before you, or were you practicing putting?
ANNA REDDING: No, I was there watching.  It made me a little nervous.  They all striped it right down the center everyone just kind of stayed after they were done.  I thought, maybe if you would leave -- but they all just stayed.  They were incredible.  They were so nice.  We had a great Q&A with them last night and they are so relatable.  I aspire to be like them.
Q. Did Bubba say anything to you?
ANNA REDDING: He said, "Good job."  But I was a little distracted that I was talking to Bubba Watson, after I had just done, I think he said "good job" -- I don't know, sorry, I'm a little all over the place, this is amazing.
Q. Is this the best day of your life?
ANNA REDDING: Up to now, heck yes, absolutely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT