BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
A.J. Dillon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 45, North Carolina State - 24   
 Q.  So Coach is saying earlier in the week that he had a hunch, he had a feeling that you had a breakout game in you. I was wondering if he mentioned that to you, or was it just to us? Also, what did you see kind of -- did you have that same feeling? And what did you see in that NC State attack?  
A.J. DILLON: Obviously, coming off the bye week, we as a team had a chance to catch our breath after the two losses we took and just kind of refocus and reboot. I mean, watching film all week, I studied these guys, I restudied, like I knew every play I was going to do.   
I feel like that showed, but I mean, the offensive line came, and they blocked their butts off. Same in the receivers, on some of those long runs that David and I had, they're downfield blocking. As a whole, as a whole offense, I feel like we really showed that it doesn't really matter who we line up against or what statistical ratings or anything that people have, we're going to come with everything we've got. If we can play like that, we can play with anybody.   
 Q.  A.J., talk a little bit about Dennis starting his first game and how you guys rose up and accepted the challenge to back him up and make him feel comfortable and make him get into a rhythm early.  
A.J. DILLON: I would say one thing. I know he's our backup, but Dennis is a natural born leader. So it's not -- at least -- I don't know what's going on in his head, but from what I saw, he didn't seem nervous. Obviously, it was his first start. That can be nerve-racking. I remember my first start. I was nervous. He came out there, and he controlled the huddle. He made the right calls, the right checks, and I know he's only going to grow better.   
 Q.  In a game like today, A.J., when you have David back there going almost yard for yard with you, what's that dynamic like on the sidelines when the defense is on the field? Are you guys talking on the sidelines?  
A.J. DILLON: Absolutely. I mentioned before David is -- as far as sports have gone, he's the closest friend, brother, I would say. There's nothing that separates us besides blood. So just to see him do what he does, that makes me even more excited then when I score.   
Definitely, when we come to the sideline, we talk about the safeties diving at the legs, and even Pat Garwo, who I'm not sure if he played today or not, he also helps us out a lot. So our running back room, we take care of each other. Pat Garwo will come over and say, oh, I saw this while you guys were out there. It all starts with Coach White, and we have that real family ties in there.   
 Q.  A.J., I understand you're probably a proud running back. You think you can break at any time, or you expect to, but is there a little bit of surprise how much success you guys had today running the ball?  
A.J. DILLON: I don't know if surprise is the right word. I knew, as a competitor -- I know what the offensive line brings. I know what our run unit brings, and I know myself, and I know David very well. We're competitors.   
We heard -- I don't even have Twitter, but I just kept hearing about the No. 1 rush defense in the ACC. Not that it necessarily changed the game plan or that we had anything to prove, but when you're a competitor, you want to go up against the best. So if they're the best rush defense, we want to come with our best. So that kind of got us going, I would say.   
I had a feeling that today was going to be a great day, just the look in everybody's eyes, but, no, I wasn't expecting what we did today.   
 Q.  This has nothing to do with my actual question. When did you get rid of Twitter?  
A.J. DILLON: Right before camp.   
 Q.  Just to get rid of distractions?  
A.J. DILLON: Exactly.   
 Q.  And you still couldn't keep it out. You came in at the beginning of the season, I don't care about numbers, I care about availability, dependability, reliability, yet you're about 75 yards from setting the school record for touchdown yards and two touchdowns from setting the touchdown record. What do those numbers mean to you as you get closer to it?  
A.J. DILLON: So I made it a point not to care about individual stats and individual numbers and just be able to help the team in every way I could. That's something I do hold near and dear. As far as this, the career records coming up, I mean, you look at the running history at BC, you see great backs, great offensive lines. So I mean, even this time that I've been, like been here, just being named -- mentioned with the names that have come before me, it's an honor.   
So as I'm honing in to them, I'm not in the snap like, oh, let me get 75 or two touchdowns. You know, it's an honor to just be up there with those guys. Some great backs have come before me, some great offensive lines, and it's not an individual thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT