BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
A.J. Dillon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 45, Richmond - 13   
 Q.  First and foremost, A.B. said that you are now at a point where you are asking for pass plays. When did this start?  
A.J. DILLON: I guess probably more towards Bowl prep. I realized I really needed to take the next step in my game. Less, I guess, about myself and more about becoming a leader, and that doesn't necessarily translate to stats so much, but I mean, being involved in the pass game, whether it's catching the ball, blocking -- lately, I've been -- like my stats haven't been whatever, but I felt more fulfilled than I had when I got a 272-yard game, and that's not made up.   
Just having that respect, that garners respect from my teammates, and them knowing that, when I'm out there, I'm going to make sure that it all happens, like I'm going to do my best, is the best feeling I can ask for.   
 Q.  Be honest. How much did the ankle situation last year sort of hinder you from taking the step with the passing game that you would have liked to?  
A.J. DILLON: Yeah, the offense we had instilled -- I mean, I think I got my first receiving touchdown against UMass, which was Game 1, and I was slowly working toward being more involved in that because my freshman year I barely took any third down snaps. Then sophomore year, last year was really focused on starting to get in there and do more. This year I feel like I've taken that next step.   
Just being able to help my teammates out, that's something I've been preaching. I'm really not focused on the individual stats or this and that. Whatever I can do, whether it's blocking -- I don't know if anybody might see that block, but if I can block for a touchdown for A.B. to throw to Kobay or Zay or Benny or whoever, that makes me feel like I'm getting the job done.   
 Q.  Looked like you showed some patience and a little deceptiveness on that screen, though. Just talk about how that set up for you.  
A.J. DILLON: Yeah, the O-line -- I haven't seen the film, obviously, but as far as feeling goes, it felt like the O-line blocked well. I've got to give a little bit for them to get to their blocks and get to their assignment. That's something we've been practicing. We have get a lot of -- I'm sure there's something we can correct on it and learn from, but from how it felt, it felt good, and I'm happy to have those big offensive linemen in front of me.   
 Q.  A.J., you guys have shown the ability to have really quick, efficient drives and then really slow, methodical drives. Can you describe your ability as a team to kind of do both and balance those out?  
A.J. DILLON: Yeah, so something we've been harping on is just being a master of the situation. We have been focused, especially the last two years, on tempo, being able to -- so during our camp, we're going from drill to drill. No jogging around, running from drill to drill, that fast pace, that tempo that tends to wear down opponents, and that's something that our offense has been harping on. Coach Addazio, Coach Bajakian, and I mean in the same sense it's gotten our defense better because we're going up against each other all camp, and now they're able to have that ability to stay in long drives and things like that.   
And then as far as slower, methodical drives, I feel like that's just the situation of the game, what we need to do, and I feel like that, once again, is from top down. Coach Addazio, Coach Bajakian kind of instilling the fact that we need to know in certain situations, this is how we need to carry ourselves and this is how we need to execute.   
 Q.  How much does Zay just bring added energy to that offense?  
A.J. DILLON: You guys have seen it. Zay, he's a spark plug, I would say. He's a great guy, energetic, young guy. He's fast, and he makes great plays. He has a lot more than just speed and hands, and that will come with time as he gets more comfortable in the offense, but having him out there, as well as a lot of the guys we have -- we have playmakers at every position. We have depth. David Bailey, once again, playmaker. Pat Garwo got on the field a little bit today at running back, playmaker. Travis Levy, playmaker. And the same thing goes down with the receivers.   
I feel like, with the guys that we have, I feel like we're all starting to mature or are mature now, and I'm really excited for this season and our offense to kind of come into ourselves.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT