CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2020
Fabian Herbers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seemed like watching this team this season there's been inconsistency from game-to-game and is even minute to minute.  What's the cause of that and what are some ways to maybe fix that moving forward?
FABIAN HERBERS:   Yeah, thank you for the patience.  Had some treatment earlier.  I think, yeah, I mean, we're still a new team and we're still trying to find the rhythm, you know, with all the COVID, we had two games there and then another three in Orlando and then a big break again and now it was our first three games where I thought, yeah, Columbus was poor on our side and Cincinnati we did well, and then against a good New York team, I think we had our moments where we had our chances, couldn't capitalize on it, just couldn't do it to get a tie or a win there.  On the other hand we gave up two easy goals.  I don't think it changes from minute to minute.
Obviously you always have a game on both sides of the spectrum.  When one team attacks and then if the other team attacking, it's just when -- when we don't have the ball that we stay more compact, that we track the runs, that we are more aggressive defending on them, especially, yeah, the game against New York where we gave up, yeah, almost like three easy goals and then it's hard to come back, you know, from that.
So basically capitalizing on our moments that we do create and stay more compact and sharper defensively.
Q. Playing the same team twice in eight days is unusual.  Do you expect it to be a similar game and how are you going to try to score a goal in the second minute in this one?
FABIAN HERBERS:   I don't expect it to be similar too much to be honest because we go there, we play on turf.  They probably still have a little bit of a sour taste against us.  Losing 3-0 for them, they will want their revenge and they will be more aggressive coming out, maybe pressing us high up the field and certainly be more aggressive.  Obviously yeah, we try to do the same thing that we did against them at home.  Yeah, hopefully we can score early and an early lead always gives you confidence and gives the group confidence.
Yeah, I hope we can get that, but if not, it's just about staying compact and not conceding an easy goal.  I think our chances will come and when we capitalize on it, then yeah, we go into the game with a lead and it's obviously easier for us.
Q. You went from a guy who didn't get a huge amount of starts this season to a guy Rafa seems to trust, playing you midfield and out wide.  What has this turnaround and this season been like for you?
FABIAN HERBERS:   It's been good.  I all enjoy getting the minutes.  I love being out on the field and help the team, and it's great getting the trust from the coach.  I just try to give back to the team, contribute with my effort, and yeah, with hopefully goals and assist and try to do everything so the team can get their three points.  So yeah, on a personal perspective, it's good, but as a team, we still have to push a little bit to try to be more consistent.
Q. Tomorrow will be the first time you played four matches in a row without interruption this entire year.  How has this bit of consistency affected and you how found your original many as it relates to this run of play?
FABIAN HERBERS:   Yeah, personally, I love having back-to-back games.  Then you can't really dwell too much on the loss that you had in the previous game against New York City FC, you know, when there's back-to-back games, you have maybe one day to dwell on it, be a little sad about it, but then we have another opportunity in three days, and that's just the spirit right now with the team to have a lot of games, you know, to get to know each other better on and off the field and try to get that chemistry going.  Yeah, just get the results.  That's the most important part right now.
Q. You are with a lot of guys that speak a lot of different languages and you speak a lot of different languages.  Out on the field, what different languages do you use?
FABIAN HERBERS:   I use Spanish with the guys in midfield, mainly Alvaro and Gastón and Nacho.  Also Miguel behind me is playing right now, so I try to, yeah, use my Spanish, the stuff that I do know, short command, like let them know what's good.
Robert's English is pretty good, so with him I communicate in English and mostly the other guys, as well.  Kenny is unfortunately injured, so I can't use my German too much right now.  So English and Spanish is the way to go.
Q. Obviously playing all these games back-to-back-to back is tough physically but how much does it help you guys to get to know each other?  You've only played eight games this season.  How do these games one after another help you get used to everybody?
FABIAN HERBERS:   It helps tremendously.  You get to see the movements on the field.  Every player is different.  Some guys like the balls in their feet.  Some like it more in space.  It's important to know all these tendencies.  Yes, we have been training a lot together by now, but like in a game, in a real competitive game, it's always a little bit different.  So it's good.  It certainly helps us all the games, getting to know each other, getting to know each other's tendencies and use that to our advantage to score goals, to create chances and to go forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT