OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2018
Terry McLaurin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 49, Indiana - 26   
 Q.  Terry, having a game like this, a game against your home state school, what does it mean to you and what just kind of came right about the passing game as the game continued?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: I don't really know a whole lot of guys there anymore because I'm like a fifth-year, 22 years old a lot of the guys left.  I knew the punt returner J-Shun Harris, and it was good to see him, perseverance, three torn ACLs.   
The offense is continually getting better.  Our defense stepped up when we needed to get stops.  Obviously they didn't play their best.  We didn't play our best as well.  But at the end of the day we got the W.  And that's all we care about.  And Dwayne was just putting the ball on the money.  As receivers we want to make plays.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) the game went on, obviously a lot more crossing routes, things like that, what changed as the game evolved?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: They were sending in some different types of blitzes.  We wanted to get the ball out of Dwayne's hands a little quicker.  That means as receivers we had to speed up our routes.   
We had a good game plan coming in.  We hit a lot of the routes we practiced all week against the coverages we wanted to see.  We did a good job adjusting on the fly even after two tough picks.   
 Q.  Could you walk us through the touchdown catch, especially the second one, the diving one?  And also what's it like to play with a quarterback -- did you have to feel pretty confident, hit you right in stride, right where it's supposed to be?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: That makes my job harder, but it also makes it easier in the sense that I've got to be on time to be with a really rhythmic quarterback.  But if I run a good route, run out of it the ball is going to be right where it needs to be.   
So they were running a box set.  And we knew they were going to do that in our bunch.  And we knew the corner was trying to keep us from running the post because we've been running, post, post, post and that play we had a corner route.   
So the safety picked me up, already had leverage and Dwayne put it right on the money.  He did the tough part.  The "O" line had great pass pro and we made it happen at a big time of the game.   
 Q.  Felt like almost everybody on the team was tweeting about Dwayne Haskins for Heisman this week.  Why is it that you guys might be a little bit biased but what is the candidacy there for him why do you guys endorse him so strongly there?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: First of all, we're biased because he's our guy.  But I feel like a guy who is a first year starter.  I'm not going to take any credit from the guys doing what they're doing at other schools, but he's beat two top 15 teams on the road in tough environments and through a lot of adversity.  For a first-time quarterback to come in do that with our offense, the numbers he's putting up, I think coach said he was one time away from some type of record.  Helping him out as receivers.  The more plays we make for him the more confidence it gives him and his ability takes over the rest.   
 Q.  Two weeks ago you might have tweeted a highlight of you blocking two guys.  I think Penn State game you blocked three guys on the play.  Any plays today where you blocked four guys?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: No, I didn't have any of those, but Coach Wilson had a couple of plays where we're blocking D end and it may not show up on the TV.  Know I probably got it.  But two knock downs on D end too.  I'm willing to do whatever it takes for the team.   
I know Coach Wilson, it was a big play for him this week especially against his former team.  I'm willing to do whatever it takes to the air, ground, special teams to gets the win.   
 Q.  Did you feel you had to get two touchdowns so you don't get type cast as a blocker?  
TERRY MCLAURIN: Not really.  I don't really care a whole lot about a touchdown.  To be honest, I was more happy for Bin, when he scored.  He's growing up before our eyes.  I want to make the plays when they come to me.  Whatever opportunities I get, I want to make the plays.  And I feel like I'm doing a better job of doing that than I did last year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT