NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 14, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKI SINGH:  First question for Thomas.


Q.  Thomas, how is the leg and what did the doctor say yesterday?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's a hip flexor problem. It was very tight and slightly pulled.  It wasn't -- I mean, it wasn't really too good today.  But at least I could play.  I was all right.


Q.  After the tiebreak, such a tight first set, what happened for the 6-1?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, he continues to play very well.  I just was a little unpatient on my groundstrokes.  I made too many unforced errors at that stage of the match. Because I'm supposed to win my baseline rallies, and he's supposed to win his service game.  Going into a tiebreak, whatever happens.  I couldn't continue playing the way I played in the first set.


Q.  You said yesterday that you were playing 70 percent  because of the leg.  What about today?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I don't know.  Just pretty much the same thing, I would say.  But I moved all right.  He's a different player because he doesn't move you as much around.  When he serves, I mean, it's like a walk in the park.  You have to win your service game.  It's sort of a half game, I would say.  Not too much movement going on, let's put it that way.


Q.  You're pretty much known for patience, one of your things.  Why do you think you were impatient today?  Just one of those days?

THOMAS MUSTER:  No, because I was supposed to win my service games very easy, because he doesn't have good groundstrokes, he misses a lot.  When he serves, it's a one-sided game to his advantage, leading into a tiebreak, as it was in the first set.  In the second set, I just run too much.  I wanted to win my points too quickly.  Obviously, it takes a little more time to win the games playing someone from the baseline that's hitting aces.


Q.  How does his serve compare with some of the other big servers, Sampras, Ivanisevic?

THOMAS MUSTER:  It's a lefty serve, which is difficult to read anyway.  It's obviously very fast.  He can place it.  I  mean, I don't think he places it as well as maybe Sampras, but it's a lot harder.  As I said, it's a lefty serve.  It's a bit more difficult to return.  Anyway, at that speed, I mean, it's hard to control anyway, even if you're there.


Q.  Do you think that speed clock is accurate?  They said he hit 149.

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  I'm not a measurement.  I'm not a speed gun.  I don't know.  It's obviously pretty fast; that's true.  But it doesn't matter if it's 149 or 142.  You just can guess and pick a corner anyway.  If his serve is on, like I said, it's very hard.


Q.  Will you be fine for the Lipton?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  I have to think about it, playing or not.  But we'll see.


Q.  Will you go there now?

THOMAS MUSTER:  We'll see the doctor now, and we'll see then.


Q.  At the U.S. Open, you had your funny incident with Henman when you ran him off the court.  Today you got Greg in the private parts almost.  What is about the Brits?

THOMAS MUSTER:  You know what I was thinking?  I said I hit his nuts, maybe he serves like a woman afterwards, but it didn't happen (Laughter). 


Q.  Thomas, you said yesterday that you would decide when you warmed up whether you could play.  Was there a point while you were warming up that you thought you might not be able to play?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I felt all right this morning, practicing.  But playing a match is always different because you can't hold back.  In practice, sometimes you can.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT