NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Thomas Muster is into the quarterfinals.  He'll play Andrei Medvedev, who was a semifinalist here last year.  First question for Thomas. 
 

Q.  Thomas, the last time you came in this room, you sounded as if you were pretty optimistic about this match. You said, "I'm not going in there shaking because I'm playing Pete.  I think that passed a few years ago."  Is that an accurate surmise?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, that's what I said.  There's absolutely no reason to be afraid to go in and play a No. 1 player in the world, especially being in the same position, maybe not for such a long time.  Obviously, as I've said, I've been around long enough to handle a situation like this. 
 

Q.  Were you really pretty confident?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah.  I mean, there's nothing to worry about.  It was a great crowd.  I knew it's going to be  an evening match, which is mostly with the temperature very nice.  It was a great thing to play.  Conditions were great.  There was nothing to worry.  I just enjoyed really playing. 
 

Q.  Thomas, do you have any idea how come you do beat him on his favorite surfaces, indoor and now hardcourt?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I mean, I've played him many times.  I know it's a tough position he's in.  He's the No. 1 player in the world.  Everybody expects him to win every time he goes out there.  He mostly does.  But, as I said, I'm not afraid playing him.  I will always go out and try my best.  Today I was good enough. Most of the times, I wasn't.  Today it was the other way around.  But I think I played a very good game tactically. I didn't make too many unforced errors.  I served pretty well.  I think anyone who wants to play me and beat me has to at least run and fight to win.  That's everything I can put into the game, a lot of effort.  That's why it's probably difficult to beat me.  It's difficult for anybody else probably.  As long as I have the power and strength, I'll do that. 
 

Q.  Did you see a difference in him in terms of other matches?  Did you sense he felt confused and dejected while you were playing? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, you always play like your opponent allows you to play.  But definitely he wasn't serving as accurate as he used to.  He made a lot of unforced errors.  For whatever reason, I don't know.  He must have explained that from his position. 
 

Q.  He said he's had difficulty here with the ball flying on him a little bit.  He tried a different string. Could you feel him being tentative?  Did you sense that?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, we practiced the other day. I felt he had a bit difficult timing the ball properly.  The same happened today.  But I don't know why.  Maybe, as he says, he doesn't like the way the ball flies here.  It's a very high bounce.  Played a lot of topspin.  As I said, he has to explain it.  I don't really have any explanation for that. 
 

Q.  He, of course, has been on top for so long, has been No. 1 for over four years.  This may be harsh, but in any way do you think he's slipping either with his confidence or intensity or strokes?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  I have to put that really straight.  I think he's one of the best players we've seen in maybe forever.  But you can put him in the category with Laver, Borg, Connors, Lendl, all these guys.  I think to play in these conditions with such a competitive field over the last years, I mean, he has been a  great champion all the time.  He still is and will be.  Just because he didn't have a good start this year, maybe is a little shaky with his confidence, I mean, he's one of the best players we have.  He's been in the No. 1 position for all those years.  I don't think there's anything which is slipping away from him.  I think it will be there when he needs it. 
 

Q.  So you think he's staying at the top for so long --
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Maybe he will be off for a week, two, three, four, whatever.  But I think at the end of the year, might be Pete Sampras again.  If I would have one dollar, I don't have one, but I'd put it on him (laughter). 
 

Q.  How big a win is this for you?  I mean, you obviously haven't played that much this year.  You only played two tournaments before.  Then you come in here and beat Sampras.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Maybe I should take a year off (laughter).  Well, it's certainly a good tournament for me already, whatever happens from now on.  But I've played well here all those years.  I always enjoyed playing here.  I think what Pete maybe doesn't like, I like. That's probably easy to explain.  But I'm happy to be at the position to play in the quarters tomorrow and be back on the  stadium court.  I hope I can prove that I'm capable to play tennis like this through the week. 
 

Q.  Did you have a slight injury in the beginning of the second set?  You were favoring your right leg a little.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I just ditched my knee on the concrete.  Wasn't too bad.  Just slipped a bit. 
 

Q.  I know it was a fluke that you practiced with Pete the other day.  But you mentioned that you noticed he was having a little trouble with timing.  Did it help you to practice with him?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  I mean, you see how someone is playing in practice, but you don't pay too much attention. I'm worried about my own game.  I just had the feeling that he had tried to get his timing together, and it wasn't as good as it usually is. But you can't tell in practice.  Sometimes I've had practice sessions, they were awful, and I played great matches. Doesn't mean too much to me. 
 

Q.  You're a guy who ought to know how difficult it is to come off a severe injury.  Are you surprised that Steffi Graf should have a muscle problem tonight while she's trying to come off an operation?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I don't know.  I'm not a doctor.  Some doctors even call you dead when you're still alive (laughter).  But I don't know exactly what she has.  It's not -- I would say it's pretty typical what happened to her, coming back after such a long break, playing a tournament which is more tense than any practice session, playing long matches. I think that's always difficult, especially for your muscles.  You're probably compensating a little bit.  That could be a reason for a muscle problem.  But I think coming back after such a long time, playing the semifinals in the tournament, that's a great effort.  I hope she will continue to believe in herself, that she can do it.  I'm absolutely sure, knowing Steffi, that she's a great fighter, and she really wants to come back and play.  I hope that she continues -- is going to play better, and her shape is going to build up, and we're going to see her back on the top level. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT