NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Thomas has advanced to the third round today with a three-set win over Cedric Pioline.  Up next is Pete Sampras.  First question for Thomas. 
 

Q.  Thomas, this was your fifth match of the season. Cedric has been playing quite well the last few weeks.  Is this a big win for you?  Is it satisfying?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I just try to enjoy myself when I play today.  I had a bit problems to adjust with the lights at the beginning, because there was a lot of, like, shadow on the court, coming from the stands on the clubhouse.  I settled down after a while.  Think I played a very good second and third set. 
 

Q.  But you consider it as a normal win or the opposite?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Maybe I'm ranked 20 in the world, not Top 10.  I consider myself, if I play well, still maybe  one of the players who belong to the Top 15 or have the quality to play at that level.  Maybe not all year long, but I think I'm still capable to do it.  It's not like -- I won't say it's an upset. 
 

Q.  You said yesterday by the Australian and Dubai, you were a little bit rusty.  Is that over now?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I feel better every match I play.  As I said, when I play these other tournaments, I was still not ready to play.  But I've practiced a lot in the last few weeks.  Coming back from Dubai, I've done a lot of physical work.  I came here really early.  I think I'm prepared well.  I didn't know what's the out coming at the end of the day. 
 

Q.  Would you mind explaining "physical work," what you do?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, biking, running, swimming, all kinds of physical training. 
 

Q.  You had a very good crowd reaction today, didn't you?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  You said crowd reaction? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I think that over the years, I've proven that I can play well on this surface.  After playing, I don't know, 14 years now, people start to know me.  Some don't even know my name, but they know it's the  guy with the knee (laughter).  That's at least something. Maybe if I stop someday, they'll say, "It was the guy with the knee."  They don't know my name (laughter).  No, I think over the years, playing so many times in the States, it's changed a bit.  People do understand my attitude a little bit.  Maybe also the reason why I'm saying certain things.  It was never meant to upset people in this country, to say that I was against the States or against whatever.  I say things against the European Tour, European players, tournaments, as I say, against Americans.  It's nothing.  When I think something, I say it.  I'm not holding back.  I think the honest way is always the best.  Some people just don't like it.  Maybe people started to realize. 
 

Q.  What did you tell the Austrian doctor who said you should think about retiring?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, we'll keep it in the room, what I told him. 
 

Q.  You gave him quite a pep talk?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, as I said, even doctors aren't always qualified to talk.  Maybe they should stay in their room, do operations, surgery, whatever, but don't talk. 
 

Q.  What about playing Sampras?  Is it a good match so you can check what's your shape right now? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, Pete -- I don't know to talk about Pete.  Everyone who faces Pete has a tough match.  I'm not going in there and shaking because I'm playing against Pete.  I mean, I think that's past me a few years ago.  I think I'm going out there and trying my best, whatever is the best of the day.  We'll see. 
 

Q.  Would you rather play him in an earlier round like this one; later; doesn't matter?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't care.  Whenever you play Pete, he's someone who is focused, who wants to win, wants to play well.  He concentrates on the big tournaments.  I think he's a bit under pressure, too, to stay the No. 1 position.  Not playing that well at the beginning of the year.  I mean, he has to play well, which also could put a little tension on him.  Also I know that he will be very concentrated, which he always is anyway.  Doesn't matter.  It's a match like every other. I'm going to play my best I can. 
 

Q.  Do you have something like a target for this year? What you want to do?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  My target?  Not to fall down the stairs, stay healthy (laughter). 
 
No, not really.  Just enjoy myself playing every time I go out, and that's it.  As I said, my goal maybe would be the claycourt tournaments in Europe leading up to  the French. 
 

Q.  Thomas, a little bit surprised to hear you say that you include swimming in your conditioning program.  Many American football coaches don't want their guys swimming because they feel it softens their feet and makes them prone to blisters.  You've never had any problems with that?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I thought they were drown and given floaties.  It's part of my practice.  Being in Australia, you got to know how to swim obviously.  Like biking and running, it's sort of try athlete program.  I just have friends that do it.  I do it with them.  I haven't got any blisters,.  I spent more time on the beach than anywhere else.  That's all right. 
 

Q.  You were the undisputed king of claycourts, Thomas.  Then you started to win on different surfaces like this one.  You didn't win quite so much on clay, strangely. Would your best shot at another Grand Slam still be the French?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I think so.  The time of kings was over, over many years ago.  I don't consider myself a king.  I play pretty well on I clay.  I think I would like to do it again this year.  It's getting very difficult having, I don't know, 85 Spanish players playing very well on that surface.  I think it's going to be a very hard job.  I think I'm still capable to play well on clay.  I  would like to concentrate more on this surface this year than I did last year.  Last year I had a very good start on hardcourt, sort of maybe took a bit of momentum away when I went to clay.  Also the preparation wasn't long enough, the problem changing to a longer racquet, which worked out fine, on hardcourts wasn't quite adjusted yet to clay.  Took me several months to actually do that.  But this year it will be fine from the beginning on. 
 

Q.  There's a reason why you are so much better on clay, why the others aren't?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I wasn't last year, so it's going to be a different story this year.  We'll see.  Just try to give it a shot.  I can't tell what's going to happen.  Definitely I would like to win one or two tournaments on clay, if I can, and play well at the French, whatever that means. 
 

Q.  I read in a French paper when you were in Dubai, you said something like ^ even if my ranking drops to the 80s, I will always be able to win the French Open."
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  That's right. 
 

Q.  Does this mean that the ranking doesn't mean anything to you?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's a game on every Monday,  I guess, for everyone.  But I think there's certain players out there, playing maybe 14, 15, 18 events every year, and other players they play, 30 events every year.  They take a lot more opportunities to gain points.  Some just go and play, even Boris today is capable to win a tournament indoors or on grass, even if he doesn't play much.  Jim Courier is ranked I don't know, 30, but he's capable to win a tournament when he goes on court.  That's just the fact.  We talk about Pete being No. 1.  I mean, he's winning all those Slams, he's just playing very well all year-round.  Still he's playing 16 events a year. 
 

Q.  What I was really asking was if you face the ranking issue in a different way nowadays?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I do.  I do.  For me, as I said, I'm maybe ranked 20 in the world, but I still feel I could win a tournament.  Even playing someone like Pioline is not an upset, I would say it's an even game. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT