US OPEN
August 27, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Thomas, a really tough first round draw? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I said at the beginning it is a very tough first round draw. He is not
somebody you could warm up against, and if you don't have a real good rhythm and timing,
it is easy to lose that match. Tim served well and took his chances and he covered the net
very well. And, I obviously made too many mistakes at certain stages of the game. 
 
Q. He said when he saw the draw he was looking forward to the match. He thinks his game
plays well against yours. Did you feel that way?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, it might be that, you know, he feels like that he is a player that
-- not a great spring, really wasn't successful because he had an injury. So, it is really
-- so, he was looking forward to playing. I think he played better the last few weeks and
got his confidence back and felt like he could come in and put me under pressure and that
is what he did. And, the conditions were quite windy and it is hard to really place the
ball. And, it is always an advantage for somebody who attacks more than for somebody who
has to pass really, close to the lines, because he is covering the net so well. 
 
Q. You have had a good run up to the Open yourself, you must be pretty disappointed to
lose so early?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, it is disappointing, but it is no shame to lose to someone like
Tim Henman. We will see how he continues. If he keeps playing and serving the way he
played today, he has good chances to win. I don't know who won -- Wayne Ferreira,
probably, so I think his chances are there. So, it is a tough section anyway that -- that
we are all in. 
 
Q. There seems to be quite a good spirit, Thomas, on the court between you and--
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, we get along very well. I mean, I think he is a very nice guy and
also, I mean, his coach has just been voted onto the board and we are just, Tim and
myself, are on the ATP constantly, so we have quite a few things to do together. He is a
good spirit and he is good for the game, I think. 
 
Q. Have you ever chased anybody off the court before?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That was more like fun. Well, that just -- you know, situation that is
happen on the court and I just a bit of fun too, sometimes. 
 
Q. Would you have done the same thing last year or is it something this year that are
lighthearted?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That was the only thing I was looking forward to the beginning of the
year, just to be like that at the Open. (laughter). 
 
Q. How did you like the new stadium?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It is very good and I think the people in the last row must be very
pleased. (laughter). 
 
Q. Thomas, how would you assess Tim's potential, h will be around a long time. Where do
you think he will get to?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I said he has great potential. He has a very stylish game, and
especially on indoor surfaces, or on grass, I think that is where he has great ability and
good game. As I said, I think he has a good coach and I think they both together can
develop, you know, the game and work on his game. And I think, I mean, looking to his age,
I think he is one of the few guys -- if you look at younger players -- who has potential
to be in the top 10 for quite a while. 
 
Q. Thomas, we received today a release from the ATP Tour more about a rumor about you
being tested positive in Cincinnati. Did you ask them to do that release and did you check
where the rumor came from?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know where it came from. I am just sick and tired of -- I mean,
that rumor has been going on six, seven times this year. I have heard comments about being
tested positive at tournaments and I haven't been playing at -- haven't been there and
there was no drug testing there. I am very surprised that I have been tested positive in
Cincinnati as somebody said, since they haven't even unsealed the doping test from
Cincinnati yet. Somebody must have known really well. Really good quality, I mean, that is
something that really pisses me off. That goes on since years, and I don't know, it is not
my fault that I might have better lungs than somebody else or bigger lung volume than
somebody else. It's just disappointing to hear that all the time. Somebody has really
interest to put it in the locker room or somewhere else. That is just a bit disappointing
over the years. 
 
Q. Is that something you would take legal action against?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, what do you have a chance for if some stupid paper puts a question
mark, what can you do? But, that is -- obviously that is the way it is. 
 
Q. What is the difference between the Muster of few years ago and when you were on top
of the world and now?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. Less hair, bigger bank account, I don't know. (laughter) I
don't know. 
 
Q. Did you get your pilot's license? Were you successful with your pilot's license?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yes. That was something I was successful at. 
 
Q. Thomas, in Chile today they announced that you play against Marcelo Rios probably
after the end of the U.S. Open, is it true?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yes. 
 
Q. So you will go there?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, if it is true and it obviously -- 
 
Q. Yeah, but you say yes, probably.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, but today it is not probably. It is yes. 
 
Q. About the doping question, do you feel that the controls are strong enough in tennis
or not?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, from my side I have been tested several times, on-court,
off-court, during practice, I don't know how many times. But, in my career I have been
tested probably, I don't know, 15 times. It just -- 
 
Q. Why?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Somebody just --  
 
Q. Why? Is that an invasion of privacy this constant testing?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know, somebody dislikes my style of play. I don't know. Somebody
has a problem with my attitude on-court. I don't know what is the problem. But, I just --
I think that the doping program is very consequent. They do it really in a good way and it
is good that it is done because I am somebody who is really against this and I think
tennis should be a fair sport and there shouldn't be any drugs at all. That is just the
way it is. I think it should be based on a fair level. I am somebody who really protects
that and I am strong for the controls and I don't know why somebody has a problem or is
always taking my name. I mean, -- 
 
Q. Do you feel like a bit of a target at times? Do you think people are looking at you
and trying to look for something?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I have -- I still have a very aggressive style of play and I mean,
I have played very well on clay the last two years and I am famous for playing good, two,
three months and playing consecutive, I don't know. I can really play well for a while and
some guys get tired after a tournament or two and I have been playing well for quite a
while. And, people always ask the question: "How is it possible." Then there are
stories here and there and that is -- it is just sad to hear. 
 
Q. Have you got -- you have said -- you have heard it a couple of times this year. Have
you just gotten used to it and just say, well, that is the way it is going to be or does
it anger you?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: As I said, it is sad because people come up with the story and then I
have asked myself three times to be tested. 
 
Q. This year?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, this year one time and after Boris had made the announcement -- I
have asked myself to be tested because how you are going to prove that it is wrong what
they said. That is the only way. 
 
Q. You seemed to have a lot of fun on the court today. What about the fighter in you--
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: How do you know that. 
 
Q. We see you are a fighting man and today just --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: You must be reading papers. That is the opinion which is all around the
world and -- 
 
Q. I have seen it many times.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: You have got to change your opinion maybe. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT