GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GREG SHARKO: First question for Thomas.

Q. Is he now unbeatable when he's at his best?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I don't think that somebody is unbeatable. But it's very
difficult. Because he has a good serve, he has good groundstrokes. His only weakness maybe
is his backhand. But this one he covers very well at any time. And just every time he gets
a shot it's a winner. Every time he gets a forehand it's -- I mean it's not only that it's
in the corners and it's very good placed, it's a very hard shot. I mean there's not much
you can do.

Q. You played quite a few long matches this week. At what point to you did you kind of
feel (Inaudible.)

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, yesterday after this match, I went to sleep at 2:30 in the
morning. I mean you don't sleep in the morning until 11:00 or whatever. I slept until
8:00, I mean, whatever. Same as everyone. I mean there no way you can sleep, so I just get
like five hours of sleep. And that's really hard when you have five hours of sleep and
then he you gotta come out and play and you feel the concentration is a little bit off and
you're a little slower in reacting. So that's the difficult part. And he hasn't lost a
match all week. He had easy matches, not easy, but not really long matches. And I had two
really tough matches. Just one after the other. And that's something you feel a little bit
and your not as sharp. Which is not an excuse but I probably could have done a bit better
on my own service games and could have put a little more pressure on him.

Q. Is he especially difficult when you're in the condition you're in because he goes so
fast serving?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. I mean he doesn't give you anything on his serve. So you have to
concentrate on your own serve, maybe to get in the tie break. And there's -- I mean I
broke him once and he immediately broke back. That's something when you're really fresh
that shouldn't happen, because you should get confidence out of this.

Q. Was there ever a point today where you thought you could see some daylight?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. When I broke him, when I broke back. I said okay this could be a
point where I could possibly put pressure on him. Get him a little unsecure and shaky. But
I played too bad on my own service game.

Q. Does playing him require a different level of concentration?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, he just doesn't allow you to do any mistakes. I mean you really
have to play that way so that he always feels the pressure. That he has to do something he
has to hit a winner or -- so you cannot give him any doublefaults or anything.

Q. You're one of five players who broke (Inaudible.)

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, you just have to see which speed he's serving, which is about 120,
125, between this area. It goes up into 130, his first ace was 130. It's a different level
of speed. And, no on the groundstrokes -- if you can move him around it's all right. And
then he starts missing a few shots, but off his service it's very difficult. And if you
return the ball quite good, he's so quick at the net that he punches the ball on his
volleys, so you never get to a second shot a or third shot. It's impossible.

Q. Is there not a an agreement that you play every call the way it's made? If I'm
wrong, tell me, but then you game him a (Inaudible.) At 2-3, him was serving.

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, you see, I mean that ball was clearly on the line. Why is should I
take it away from him. It's the finals, I mean he was leading. I just felt that way.
That's the decision you make. It's not something you have to prove that you fear a guy.
You see the ball is on the line, why wouldn't you give it to him? Why should I take it
away?

Q. Hold you rate his chance of winning the French? (Inaudible.) 

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, with his game, it's very hard to survive two weeks of playing
claycourt tennis. Because he's used to playing fast, he's used to playing fast points, but
-- he's a quick guy, but I don't think he has a great endurance. But that's my personal
opinion. But I've seen many, many times that he's facing that problem. I mean, I don't
know. The I way he's playing right now, and the game he's playing, I don't see there's a
chance to survive two weeks. Because at the end of the day he's going to miss too many
balls. But if he everything works fine, why not. You never know. Clay is much different
and he has to work a lot harder on his service games. And if he has two or three tough
matches over. Going meet some Spanish players and it's going to be difficult. There's
always a chance. I mean never say no. But if he's going to do that, that's the most
difficult part in his career is winning the French.

Q. How badly did you need a good lead like that? When you came here, you didn't have so
good results. Did you badly need a week where --

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. But you I didn't expect to play well, because I played on clay.
But now, I came back on hardcourts, so. My favorite surface. I expected to do better. It's
good for the confidence. If I just see my claycourt season is quite positive, and it was a
good week for me. Also last week I played good tennis, but not as successful. I had my
chances, but this week I suddenly turned it into results and that's pretty good for my
confidence, too.

Q. Do you think it hurts tennis that there's a layer like Pete Sampras that dominates
tennis the way he has? Is that good or bad?

THOMAS MUSTER: Do you think it hurts that Tiger Woods drive 350 yards? It's good. If
you get somebody who's a great player it's good for tennis. It's the same in golf. And you
have exceptions, and there are there. And he's one of them in this sport.

Q. There have been some people that have held the No. 1 ranking that haven't handled it
too well, the pressure of it. Do you think that Pete handles it better than most people?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I don't know him too well, but he seems pretty mature and pretty
quiet and he knows what -- it seems like he know what he's doing. And he sees his job
serious and a player like this deserves the No. 1 position. It comes back to your question
before. We need somebody who's steady guy who's leading tennis as the No. 1 player, and he
is the No. 1 player at the moment.

Q. (Inaudible.)

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I think he pushes himself to lay on that level, because he could
be over the other way around. What the hell, you see, I'm just going to play up and down.
But he's pushing himself to play on a high level which is very difficult.

Q. You were tired today, but you went out 20 to 30 seconds early on every break and he
sat and waited for them to call time. Why were you out there so early?

THOMAS MUSTER: Because I don't want to sit.

Q. That was a good answer.

THOMAS MUSTER: Getting bored. What do I do? I mean I had my drink, took my towel. That
only takes ten seconds. What should I do, wait for better times? I don't know.

Q. Bring a book?

THOMAS MUSTER: What's that?

Q. Could they make it shorter, the time?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. For some players. 80 percent say that's it's already too fast. But
it doesn't really matter, because if you're standing there and if your sitting there and
your attitude and what you're used to.

Q. You played with the crowd a little less today than the last two days. Is that
because you're more tired?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I think he was dominating the match from the beginning on, and
there was never really a moment which -- there was never a point where the crowd maybe
thought it could be a turn around. They would maybe like to see third set, but
realistically I just have to say that I played a good week, almost three sets each day and
at the end of the day I was a little bit tired today because I had a real long match. I
would probably not change anything. I would have slept 24 hours.

Q. Does this change your attitude going towards the Open, do you feel like another
level better about how you might play there?

THOMAS MUSTER: No. I'm just taking it step by step. I had two good weeks now and I
still, you know, I'll be able to play with the best still in the game. And after the good
hardcourt results in Spring, I continue to play well on this surface, so there's no
worries about the Open. I'm going to be confident.

Q. Taking next week off then?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah.

Q. (Inaudible.)

THOMAS MUSTER: No. I'm going back to Europe tonight.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT