GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: Thomas is the winner over Siemerink in three tie breakers in two hours 43
minutes. The first match here in Cincinnati since 1984. Playing Chang or Kuerten tomorrow.
First question. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.) When you win tough matches like that?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, no. I could have taken it easier. It's not that I want to play
forever out there. Jan played well today. He didn't miss many shots and he really played
solid. There's hardly anything he missed, and I know his forehand is his weakness, and
that's probably where I won the match. Still I was down almost all the match. And when I
came back at the end, probably was a bit lucky, but I've left a few matches this year with
unluck, so. 
 
Q. You seem to play well in streaks and then sort of have stages where you don't play
so well. Did you feel it was an odd match?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I just try to enjoy them. I'm not going out there and being crazy
about winning every point. I mean I'm going out there to play well and don't tire myself
out. I'm not at that stage anymore in my career where I'm cramping up when I'm going out
there. I try to enjoy myself and play as good as I can. It works much better than being
tight up and just try to force it too much. 
 
Q. You seemed very relaxed. You're smiling between points, you were bouncing the ball
on the end of your racquet?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, what should I do? I sit down and wait until he calls time, I mean
what? 
 
Q. No. Earlier Pete was saying that a few years ago he would worry between points and
he would get all tensed up and now he just let's it go.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That's what I'm saying. That's not the key point to be tight and play
well. Because if you have timing and you're fit and everything all right and then you
don't need to be really tight up. And why should he, he's the No. 1 player in the world?
This year he won two Slams. Why should he cramp up at the quarterfinal in Cincinnati. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Oh, yeah. Sure. 
 
Q. We're also I guess used to seeing matches like this in Grand Slam events, not so
much in all the other events Super 9, where a guy would stay with it. I mean it would have
been easier to lose and you didn't? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. But it's not that I'm not fighting, it's -- that's different. Not
fighting and being relaxed is different, is a different thing. But I think it's just a
question of to be focused, but be relaxed at the same time and enjoy what you're doing. I
mean that's -- if you play 30 weeks a year you're not going to make it very long. 
 
Q. Did you have some trouble finding your rhythm against him. He's the kind of a player
that (inaudible)?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: He doesn't give a rhythm at all. I tried to keep my percentage of the
first serve up. Not to give him too many chances coming in to the second. But still, he
puts a lot of pressure on you, because you really have to pass every time. He just gives
you maybe one, two meters where you can pass. And that's why I tried to lob so many times
he's coming in so close, but I didn't lob well except that last one; maybe the most
important one. It's really hard to get a feeling for the court and what you're doing. 
 
Q. That's what we were saying. Like when you got that last one, like the first lob you
got him. (Laughter)?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. 
 
Q. Because of the way that he sort of comes I mean it looks like he was not quite -- he
was in a weird spot.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: He knows exactly where he's standing, but he covers the lob well. He
knows that people lob a lot against him, so he's prepared for it. But I mean even Chang
would have I don't know, played a volley out of this one. I mean they weren't really
great, but in the end that was all right, the last one. 
 
Q. You won't know who you're going to play tomorrow until tonight. Is that somewhat of
a handicap?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I'm still going to enjoy my steak. I don't care who's going to win. I'm
not going watch it. 
 
Q. (inaudible)?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I'm not thinking about it. Maybe tomorrow morning. I got plenty of time.
Start worrying the day before, it's too much thinking. 
 
Q. How much does a match like this take out of you for tomorrow? Were you pretty tired
at the end?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I'm not tired at all now, but I'll know tomorrow morning when I wake up.
Because now I'm still basically in the match. It takes a while to drop it off. But you
feel it in the morning. 
 
Q. The crowd really seemed to be behind you out there. Is that something that you can
feel on the court?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I think that they enjoyed the match. I mean they haven't seen much of
the match before, because Pete was dominating too much and they I think that -- it was
partly a great match partly, you know, I mean you play three hours, you can't play on top
all the time. But I think they got get everything they wanted. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It's not fun to be out there three hours and 43 minutes, but I mean I
can take it easier, I can play nine holes of golf instead of playing the third set.
Anyway, it's just the way it is. I mean I cannot -- it's not the always -- it's in my
hands, but mostly when you play an opponent you cannot make a choice you play two sets,
three sets, one hour. I'm happy I won. I'm not the complaining about two hours 43 minutes. 
 
Q. When did this changeover come to you where you didn't get tensed up between points?
I assume it was gradual, but --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That came I think mainly winning the French Open and then going and
being No. 1. After that I really, I mean it's not that I don't want to achieve it again,
don't get me wrong here, but I think that if you have achieved it it's nothing somebody
can take away from you and that's -- this is -- I mean that was my goal all my life and I
achieved it. And now I'm really playing to enjoy every day I'm playing out there. It's not
the pressure I'm feeling. 
 
Q. How much more enjoyable is it, I mean you were interacting a bit with the crowd, you
know, can you just sort of describe the feeling of being out there and enjoying it?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, you can't over do it, but you can -- if you feel to say something
say it. Years ago I was like so focused and I was disturbed if somebody was talking and
saying something, but now I don't care. I just say whatever I think. And that's the way it
is. Some days I do it more some days less. It just depends how I feel. 
 
Q. Do you think that's why they are beginning to like you so much?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Like Connors, they hated him before now they like him. (laughter). I
don't know maybe they like the game. Maybe they understand more what I'm going than they
did years before. And as I said a couple days ago, if you have an image people stick with
it, they don't drop it. And that's what the papers write. That's what they think, it's
true. And hardly anybody knows me in a private way, so if they could only tell what I am
when I'm playing. So that's something -- people read it in the paper and they think it's
like that. They take an opinion which they think the papers have, and it's been for four
years like that, so some people start finding out it's a bit different. 
 
Q. Did you think your image is good in this country? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. It's a big country. (Laughter). I don't know which part
you're talking about. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not an Agassi, I'm not Sampras, and
I haven't played that much the States, so people probably know me, some not. 
 
Q. (inaudible) said that being No. 1 isn't as important to them as winning a Grand
Slam. You've done that, haven't you?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well I think both is important. I think if you have won eight Slams in
your career and you'll be No. 1 and you'll enjoy that, but I think since you got both I
mean that's true. He's playing -- I'm kind of talking about Sampras because he's maybe
playing on a different level at the moment. And when I was No. 1, I was playing at a
really high level for myself. Really, really high. It's difficult to say, but he has a
game which is great for all the fast surfaces, maybe not so much on clay, but that's not
so important for him and that's why he's No. 1. I know Chang, it's easier for him, but he
has a great game. 
 
Q. (inaudible)?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I think the French was very important for me and then No. 1 came. I
think the Slam in that case was for important for me. But I'm saying both things together
are great. I mean not being No. 1 and never won a Slam is a same disappointment I think
for a great player if you have the game and the possibility to do it. 
 
Q. Can you get to No. 1 again?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. I don't know. It's very difficult to say after this seen.
But definitely I would likely stay in the top five. You never know. We played the
claycourt season and we'll see how the rest of the season is going. If I could turn back
the time another ten years, I would say. Yes, but I don't know. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT