GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Were you feeling like they are getting to know you here, the crowd?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I thought I played a good match and it was quite entertaining and
the crowd liked it and that was it. It is not like I have won the tournament. It is
another match.

Q. Quarterfinals of hard court tournament seems to be in line with your game plans. Are
they particularly gratifying?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I thought I played well last week already so didn't -- picking up
now and getting into it and my return is getting better and I am improving my speed on the
court and I am placing the balls better, so I am getting quite confident in what I am
doing.

Q. How would you assess Martin's play?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I had many chances, that is the way it goes. On hard courts you
hit two good serves, somebody goes for a shot and you miss it, then it is done. But
obviously I was up a break in the third. He got lucky to break me back there and just --
that is the way the game turns around. That is what is so fascinating in tennis, until the
last point is played, you can't tell who is going to win in a match like this.

Q. Talk about that last game, you know, he got -- he missed the one volley, but he had
some pretty good shots?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I mean, he didn't really serve that great in this game. I mean, I
played a great first point. He missed it -- it looked easy, but it is a difficult shot to
put away especially under pressure. Once you are down Love-30, you got to do something --
I felt great and he wanted to play well and he got that first serve wide and I just
chipped it in and not much you can do. I just passed him there with a good shot that was
too quick for him and the last point, Love-40, I think it was a bit of resignation there,
a little bit -- just went for the forehand down-the-line. But it would have been difficult
anyway.

Q. Thomas, when the clay court season ended you switched to the hard court. What was
your feeling as soon as you first stepped on the hard court? You started hitting? Did you
feel like, oh, I like that or did you feel like -- 

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I felt comfortable because it suits to my game better at the
moment. I am -- just the way I am playing. I am playing with a longer racket. I mean, it
is just -- all my game fits better, when you hit, it is not such an effort when you hit
strokes. You can play with the speed of the other. It is just different. That is the way
my game has changed. In a way I might like it even better, but the fact is that all my
basics from my success comes from clay, but it might have just moved a little bit, my
philosophy, of approaching the game, I mean, just maybe changed more to faster surfaces,
not grass or indoors, that is something different. But, saying general, faster, just
faster, faster clay or hard court.

Q. How does the longer racket affect your tennis on clay and on hard?

THOMAS MUSTER: The serve is better on hard court which is more important than on clay.
You can get more pace out of your strokes because longer racket you get -- you can hit
flat and fast, but on clay it doesn't help you because I mean, Pete has that problem.
Everybody is playing more like flat as a pro because you have got to play topspin,
topspin, topspin; on clay you have got to aim with the ball and run forever. It is way
more difficult do play well on clay. It is more physical. It is more -- but longer racket,
I cannot play the angles I want to play.

Q. Basically gives you more power, but more flat?

THOMAS MUSTER: More power, more flat. I can block the balls better. I can volley
better. All these things, you know, that is important on hard courts and I can also play
topspin. But, it is not effective enough on clay. I cannot get the angles I want to get
because it is such a longer racket and I cannot flip it as I used to. That is one thing
that -- I said I want to play well on hard courts and I have got to do something in that
way and I just or orientated my game in that direction. A lot of points, way more points
maybe on faster surfaces than there is on clay, and way more clay court specialists these
days coming from Spain, they are going to share those points and you are not really
getting anything out of it at the end of the day. I cannot play on clay -- I cannot get my
ranking where I want it to be. It is impossible. I know that I can play well on clay any
time I want to go back and I want to let my game go in there, I need to change a few
things. But, then it is going to be back where it was and I am going to play two, three
hard court tournaments and I don't know how many matches on clay and then that is where I
have been two years ago or three years ago and I don't want to move back. I want to go
ahead. That is what it is at the moment and I'd like to go and play.

Q. Do you know when that happened? Was it a revelation or did it come to you slowly?

THOMAS MUSTER: I think it has been always there, but it hadn't really been my desire
because I just had the problems physically to maintain on hard courts for a long time and
it still is. So I still cannot play five, six weeks on this stuff. Just playing one
practice session a day and just doing less on this, but there is no need to because I can
do my physical work somewhere else, in gyms or whatever. So, I just need to spend that
one-and-a-half-hour-day practicing, keeping my timing which you cannot do on clay. On
clay, you need to spend hours on the court.

Q. Your decision is to take next week off and then play--

THOMAS MUSTER: That is different. I have to go back because I have a few things to do
in Europe and that -- it is nothing to do with my physical.

Q. You guys already played quite a few good matches these year, your opponent, next
match?

THOMAS MUSTER: We played two good matches this year. I have won both of them. With
Goran you never know, when he is on fire you have a nice walk on the baseline when he
serves, just enjoy yourself 'til the next changeover. You never know.

Q. Why did you miss Wimbledon again?

THOMAS MUSTER: I played Rosmalen and I had same problem with my muscle and my hip.

Q. How frustrating was that not being able to play?

THOMAS MUSTER: Not so frustrating -- I mean, it is just I put a lot in in the last two
years to play Wimbledon and I prepared well and I played all right on grass. When it comes
to the point -- you know, to play Wimbledon and practicing three, four weeks you have to
do really a lot for your legs, you need to bend your knees a lot and that problem is that
I am just imbalanced with my muscles and my knee doesn't bend as well on the left side. So
I am putting a lot of stress on my ham strings and my hip. And, that is the same indoors,
actually, but have to really play on a low, low level. That is where my problem starts
because the ball bounces so low. On hard court, that is much better.

Q. The way things have gone on hard courts this year, do you feel optimistic about the
Open? Do you feel better about it than you have ever have?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know, I have been three times in the quarters. I mean, it is not
that I haven't -- that I have never been there and I didn't have my chances. But, the Open
is different. You have got to play every second day; get the best of five. I mean, I could
have lost the match yesterday. I could have lost today and just can't really tell. You can
lose today, you can lose to anybody, I mean, on the Tour.

Q. Do you still suffer from playing a lot of hard court in general?

THOMAS MUSTER: That is what I am saying, I cannot play too many weeks, not too many
matches. It is just this year, I have really won a lot on this stuff. It is not that I
played more tournaments, just played more matches; that is the whole thing. That is why it
appears to be, you know, that I am taking more care for hard courts, but it is the same
schedule I have always played. 

Q. Realistically how much do you think you can play before it starts to hurt?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. I am saying I have played now two weeks and it ask all
right, few problems here and there. But, like I said, I cannot go and play -- like
preparation, I play an hour a day, one-half hour a day, no more. I cannot go out there and
play three, four hours and then now I am playing a match two hours and go out and hit
again an hour, so it would kill me at the end of the day. So, I have got to take as much
time as I can to prepare and try to get really early matches to get a lot of time.

Q. You said you do your physical work somewhere else. What else do you do?

THOMAS MUSTER: Gym, I can do a little bit of weight training and running and
stretching. All those things, I mean, I can do those off-court.

Q. So running doesn't hurt?

THOMAS MUSTER: No. Run on grass or something, it is okay.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT