MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 22, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What is your feeling about this game? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I lost.  That's my feeling.  I think he played a good match; was fighting for every point. The chances I had, I didn't take.  Set point in the second set, had many opportunities.  He took his ones and he played a good tiebreak. 
 

Q. Thomas, do you think this is the sort of result which might happen from time to time now because you're having so much extra success elsewhere?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  As I said many times, it doesn't mean because I've won a lot on clay the last two years, hardly lost a match, that things like this can't happen.  It's just that people maybe think logically I would probably lose less matches on clay than I lose on hardcourts, which was just the opposite this year.  I always said, the ranking is based on the best of 14 system.  Wherever you make your points during the year doesn't matter, as long as you make them.  I lost last week and this week, but there's still four weeks to go until the French.  There's a lot of things I still can improve.  It's not that I'm playing bad.  It's that I'm not using my chances as I used to do.  Sometimes that happens. 
 

Q. Thomas, do you feel fresh psychologically compared to other years in the past, this time of the season?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I've played maybe less tournaments in years before, but I played more matches. Maybe up till now, it would probably be even.  I play better on hardcourts.  The last results on clay were not what I expected, a bit disappointing.  But, as I said, I'm just looking forward to the next tournament which gives another opportunity.  Physically, I'm quite all right.  As I said, I'm not using my chances.  I will improve in the next few weeks, I think. 
 

Q. Thomas, in spite of your loss today, you've won three times here.  Is this tournament any specialty, considering you live here?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It certainly is, because I think it's one of the nicest tournaments in the world.  I said  many times that every time you go on that center court, it's a special feeling.  Living here for more than ten years, being successful here in the last ten years, I played quite good tennis here.  It's a bit disappointing.  It's just what happens sometimes.  Somebody else will win this year. 
 

Q. Thomas, when you say you're a little disappointed, are you more disappointed at having lost the match or one or two key moments, like the double-fault, the second set, then a double-fault on the next point?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It's just the way I lost it.  I didn't think I played that badly.  Every time I had the point set up, I sort of missed it.  I think going into the third set would have given me a great opportunity to win this match.  The breakpoint, double-fault, even serving the game at 5-4, unforced errors there.  As I said, it's not as bad that I'm saying I'm not confident and not playing well, just that a few things aren't working the way I wanted.  I am playing about 60 to 70 percent of my normal capacity.  That's not enough.  If somebody is playing well - which most of the guys do today - it's not enough. 
 

Q. Thomas, you made a of changes with your game; progressed in a lot of ways.  What do you make of the way Santoro has remodeled his game the last few years?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Didn't grow probably, that's  definitely true.  I don't think much.  He's running very well.  I think he has a good dropshot.  I mean, he's moving great, as I said.  Just trying to wait for the mistake of the others.  He played some great serve and volley game today. He's a pretty complete player, but mostly I think he's waiting for the mistake, counterpunching. 
 

Q. Can we say that you are better on hard surface now?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  You can say whatever you want.  Maybe, I don't know.  Put me as a hardcourt player, I don't know.  Maybe I'm not supposed to win on clay.  I just played a good hardcourt season at the beginning of the year.  Just happened that in two and a half years, I lost my fourth claycourt match.  It's really disappointing. 
 

Q. Somebody like you, with your work ethic, what do you do?  Do you get straight out on the practice court and practice this evening or leave it alone for a couple of days?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  At that stage, I just take a couple days off, have enough time to prepare for Hamburg, which is a different situation anyway.  It's going to be way colder; conditions are going to be different than here.  As I said, it's not a question of my game.  It's  just a mental question, a barrier I have to break sometime, and I'll be all right again.  As I said, it's not my goal to win every single claycourt match I play.  The French Open is something I'm looking forward to.  The last years I played incredibly well up to the French Open.  So far this year, I didn't.  As I said, there's still, I think, five weeks left to go till the French.  That's plenty of time. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT