THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thomas, what can you tell me about the efforts of the European players to organize for a better representation with the ATP, what's happening there?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's like this is a political question, more or less.  Europe tries to get a player on the board.  That means we could by election get many more guys on the council, which possibly would give us more opportunities to get stronger.  The European players realize that they want to do it, and they come together -- they came together more or less and decided that they want things changed and they don't want decisions made above their heads.  They want to talk about certain issues to improve the Tour.  Everything should be set up within the rules of the ATP.  It's nothing against the ATP.  Everything is under the rules and laws of the ATP.  Just trying to get established there and then get going to improve the European  representation, representation of the European players. 
 

Q.  How do you hope to go about that?  Are you forming a union as such?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  We have an association of European tennis players already, which was formed at Indian Wells. We're having further discussions with the ATP, how we can set it up.  We haven't really -- the board hasn't really decided yet.  Have to think about it.  They need a little bit more time.  We had meetings in the last two weeks.  We will get there sooner or later.  It's always difficult, politics, involves a lot of people.  It's always difficult to get through there.  But we hope we'll be there soon. 
 

Q.  Any particular thing that triggered this?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  That's out of my hands now.  Since decisions are not made yet, the issues are not supposed to be public, I cannot put them on the table here. 
 

Q.  You've accepted to represent the Top 10 at the council.  That's a big involvement.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I was voted in as a Top 10 representative last week.  I will do that until the end of the year.  Then there's going to be new voting.  The representation of the Top 10, of course.  But in the meantime I'll be serving on the council. 
 

Q.  Which ones are your next tournaments this year? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  The next tournament? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Davis Cup.  The next tournaments will be either Estoril or Barcelona.  I haven't decided yet if I'm going to Estoril. 
 

Q.  Thomas, just a question for the French Open program for a survey.  If you hadn't been able physically to become a professional sportsman, what kind of job would you have liked to do?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Carpenter. 
 

Q.  Why?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I always liked to work with wood and always did it when I was a kid.  I spent a lot of time in the carpenter business.  I've been looking around, collecting wood, whatever, putting things together.  That's what I wanted to be for a long time.  Didn't work out, I had to play tennis (laughter). 
 

Q.  What about painting?  Do you paint?  Do you have a particular style in painting?  A painter that's favorite?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I like a lot of painters like Van Gogh and Kandinsky, more abstract paintings.  I don't really think that I can come up with paintings like that.  Maybe I have to die first before they get famous.  It's just a hobby.  I like to do it.  I just figure it's better than to have white walls, to put something  there.  I just started it off.  Don't worry, I'm not going to be in the museums. 
 

End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT