NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  How much did you pay Joe for that introduction?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Nothing.  You guys call me claycourt specialist. 
 

Q.  Are you at all surprised at the way you would come into this tournament thinking the serve and volleyers would prevail, and yet it looks like more like the baseliners are left in the pack at the quarterfinals?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Let me ask you a question, who is a serve and volleyer and a baseliner, in your opinion? 
 

Q.  I would say Sampras and Goran are kind of serve and volleyers.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  But Goran as an example has never really done well here.  Sampras has, but he's not only a  serve and volley player.  He's more aggressive.  He's an all-around player, as he's proven many times.  The rest I think is just kind of an all-around game.  When you can serve and have good groundstrokes, more or less sometimes better serve, sometimes better groundstrokes.  That's just limited by the surface and the speed of the balls.  We're playing outdoors, not indoors on carpet.  That's just the reality. 
 

Q.  A lot of players have been complaining that the balls are really flying.  If you don't hit it really square, you don't really know where it's going.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's very dry air here.  The resistance -- the friction is usually more, more moisture in the air.  That's certainly an issue here.  In that case, if you say somebody has a good serve, it should be an advantage because you can serve harder.  That would make it up, more or less.  I don't have a problem.  It's a really high bounce, which maybe is good for topspin, because the ball takes off after it bounce.  There's not much of a difference. 
 

Q.  Do you think those are legitimate complaints that these guys have or do you think they're just kind of excuses when they lose?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Got to say something. 
 

Q.  When you see all these upsets, supposedly, Agassi  and Sampras, everybody losing first or second round, are you a little wary or do you think any tournament that can happen?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  That can happen anytime, any round, any tournament.  Last year I lost as No. 1 player in the world, and everybody was complaining that I'm not a good player.  Sampras lost, this year he's the No. 1, so what? He's not a good player?  I don't hear anybody this year, so.  I haven't heard any comments this year of Agassi or anything, so.  Pretty quiet, boring. 
 

Q.  Realistically, should the semifinals of this tournament be considered the finals?  I'm talking about when you could be playing Michael Chang.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It could be, but it could be Philippoussis/Chang, it could be whatever.  I don't want to make any comments now who is going to be in the semifinals or finals at this tournament.  We've seen many upsets, a lot of strange matches. I'm concentrating on my next match.  We'll see. 
 

Q.  Can you look ahead to that quarterfinal, either Moya or Philippoussis?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Both are very interesting matches, because Philippoussis I played once in Munich on clay and I won.  He's on the run, he's serving big, certainly very  confident.  So is Moya.  Already Philippoussis/Moya is an interesting match.  Playing Moya as a young, upcoming player, doing well this year, especially in Australia, I think it will be very interesting, too.  Either match is a good challenge for me. 
 

Q.  With a 14 and 2 record, semifinals at the Australian, and your title at Dubai, do you think some of the talk about you only being a claycourt player has quieted a bit?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I say it every time I've been asked about it, people didn't realize two, three years ago that I'm playing well on that stuff, I just can't play enough on it because my body doesn't allow it, then either you don't understand tennis or you're blind.  It's not my best surface.  I've won more tournaments on clay, that's a reality.  I think even Cliff Drysdale doesn't realized when he introduced my seven tournaments that I won Essen like two years ago.  Once it's in your head, it's tough to get out. 
 

Q.  Realistically, how many hardcourt tournaments can your knees take?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it depends.  It's my fourth tournament this year, and we are March already.  It's the least tournaments I've played since I'm a professional up  till March.  It's worked for me taking breaks in between, giving my body rest.  So far my results this year were pretty good. There's no sign of burn out or injuries.  That's good. 
 

Q.  Having won a Grand Slam, dozens of tournaments, obviously a lot of money, why are you bothered about what people say about you?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I'm not bothered.  It's just everybody -- I think every human being wants respect. That's one thing.  I think I'm respected, some people might be jealous.  That's one thing.  It's just everybody keeps asking me the question.  I'm sick of it.  I'm just trying to make my point and say if you don't realize or people don't realize that I've been playing well on the stuff for years, even back in '89, then they might have a problem with understanding tennis and technical parts of tennis.  It's true that I improved it in the last years because I've paid more attention to it. 
 

Q.  Did you ever doubt your ability on hardcourt after the injury?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Excuse me? 
 

Q.  Did you ever doubt your ability on hardcourts?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Not at all.  I knew I could play on it, maybe my best surface without an injury in '89.  There's  no reason for me to mentally go on hardcourt and say, "I can't play on it."  If you play 100 matches a year on clay and 10 on hardcourt, that's just so uneven all over the years, you play so many more matches on clay than hardcourt, your success will not be the same.  Nobody ever talks about Agassi being a hardcourt specialist.  Since the French Open many, many years ago, he hasn't done much on clay.  That's the reality.  Some players play well on clay, some better on hardcourt, whatever they feel better to play on.  That's where they going to have the best results.  That's very easy. 
 

Q.  Are you doing anything special for your knees, Thomas?  When you're playing hardcourts, do you spend extra time icing them down?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Change them every night (laughter).  No, not much.  Try to stretch well, just try to keep the muscles loose, just take rest, try to recover for the next match as good as possible. 
 

Q.  Thomas, I know you're not very fond of the people around Agassi.  What do you think of Agassi himself?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I'm the wrong person to ask. 
 

Q.  Do you dislike him?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I'm seriously the wrong person to  ask. 
 

Q.  Do you dislike him?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It's not that I dislike him.  I respect him.  I'm the wrong person to ask.  You better ask himself what he thinks about himself.  That must be the probable question. 
 

Q.  Another question about him.  What do you think his chances are of winning the French Open before he retires?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Is he retiring (laughter)? 
 

Q.  Maybe in the next five years or so.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Sure, he can win it, yeah.  He could win any tournament at any time, if he wants to. 
 

Q.  Do you think he's willing to do what it takes to win it?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  That's what I'm saying, ask him those questions. 
 

Q.  Who do you see as the top contenders for the French this year?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, Spain (laughter). 
 

Q.  How does it feel where every season there's a whole new generation of Spaniards, you barely know their name? How does that feel?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's very strange.  It's like young players coming and coming.  Probably had a very heterosexual life producing more and more players every  year.  I think they do a good job as a federation.  They have I don't know how many claycourts.  They have feelings and techniques how to start on clay.  That's why they're very good.  They always had good claycourters from generations back.  They're realizing they can play well on faster surfaces.  That's not the only game, clay.  You have to play well, if you want to be in the top, you have to play on at least two surfaces.  They're really good. 
 

Q.  Are any of those young Spaniards particularly standing out to you, that you've seen?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  All of them, Alberto Costa, Moya, Bruguera, don't forget him.  There's so many.  There's like 10, 15 guys.  They really have the ability to win a claycourt tournament at any time. 
 

Q.  Earlier you talked about respect.  Where do you feel the lack of respect comes from?  Is it the American media?  The American players?  Who?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's just the people since years tried to -- I don't know why it is, maybe only clay, but I have the feeling every time I come to the States, it's not media, but sort -- respect is maybe not the right word.  They probably always underestimated my game.  When  they look at the match, in America, everything which is fast, which is loved, hot, cold, it's great.  If it's just a solid game, it's not a hundred percent, you have to serve two million aces or serve two million double-faults, it's great.  You have to do something extreme.  I'm not that way. 
 

Q.  Do you think it might be just a matter of style then?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Maybe, yeah.  Maybe. 
 

Q.  Do you expect to win here?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  Maybe I have to have five earrings. 
 

Q.  Do you know Dennis Rodman?
 

Q.  Following up on your commentary on extreme. There's been all this news in the papers about cloning the sheep and so forth.  If you could clone one player you either played against or you've heard about from the old times to be the toughest out there, who would you want?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Jesus, I don't know.  Maybe a player close to retirement.  I don't know.  It's very difficult because tennis is so complex.  You need speed, you need power, you need to have a feeling for the game, all kind of things.  It's very hard.  If I could, I would probably take  the quickness of Chang, Sampras' serve.  I don't know.  I would probably keep my forehand. 
 

Q.  You said feel for the game.  Who would you pick as a player?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Probably McEnroe's game because he used to anticipate very well what's happening on the court. Even Sampras does, good anticipation of what's going on. It's very difficult who to pick. 
 

Q.  Backhand?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I'm not sure I if I should take a two-hander or one-hander.  I don't know.  I like my backhand actually.  It's not that bad.  From the groundstrokes, I can't really complain.  I probably would take Rosewall's volley. 
 

Q.  Thomas, I have a lot of respect for your game.  I want to say one thing.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  You don't have to excuse yourself. 
 

Q.  Were you taught that forehand or was that a natural thing you picked up as a kid?  It's so great.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's something you can't really learn.  It's not in the books.  If you look at most of the strokes this year on the court, you can't compare it with what you see in the books.  It's like in all other sports, the extremes are  going to be different than what you learn on the court.  My forehand, they always said it was carried out of the woods, so. 
 

Q.  You were just gifted?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Over the years, it's something I always tried to improve.  Even if I was a kid, I tried to get it better, more accurate, more spin, wanted to make it stronger. 
 

Q.  It's great.  You're a great player.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It's bet getting better. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT