ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you realize in the first set tiebreaker your opponent has set point?  I mean, you want to continue.  The game was over and you want to continue in the game.  It seemed to me.

THOMAS MUSTER:  Which match did you watch?  It was tiebreak.  It was 7-3, 7-4.  I don't know what you mean.


Q.  Obviously the call on the doublefault was pretty big. Did you feel that was --

THOMAS MUSTER:  In the third set?


Q.  Yeah.

THOMAS MUSTER:  It is very hard to say.  I mean, I haven't seen -- maybe you watch the camera to see with the  infrared and -- but usually lefty serving coming in that way, it is not much chance it is out.  I had the feeling it touched the line, but it is too late anyway.  But, well, it could be -- it could be a very crucial point, that is right.  Especially if you play a big server like this.


Q.  How would you sort of assess the way you played this year compared to last year and just the way you felt it went?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I had a very good season.  The fall, where I didn't play too much because of injuries and I wasn't sure if I can make it bodywise to come here and play well.  But, I think I played a good match against Michael.  I played a pretty good match today.  I had no real chance against Goran in the first match, but I felt the chances I had -- yeah, I took it and it was against Michael and the other two guys are big servers, and if you don't serve well, yourself, or close to where they serve from a percentage, you are going to lose. Because it is no chance that you can make it up with groundstrokes with what they do with their serve.  So it is too uneven.  So, that is why I think I lost today, but I am quite happy with my performance all week.


Q.  Even Sampras was saying that he thought the surface was too fast.

THOMAS MUSTER:  I think all players agreed.  I think they signed a paper, all of us, that this tournament should be played on hard court.  And, I think it has a pretty good chance  next year ATP Tour Finals is going to be played on hard surface like the U.S. Open or something similar.


Q.  You are saying that even Teraflex is not slow enough? You want it to be --

THOMAS MUSTER:  Not me.  Everybody.  All of us agreed, yeah, this should be.


Q.  Like a cement sort of surface?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Right.


Q.  When was this thing submitted this letter or --

THOMAS MUSTER:  Today.  And, I think it was signed by everybody.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT