ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








The decision has been made and there was a verdict which was not very understandable for me because maybe if they think that Austria has done something wrong or I have done something wrong, I don't think that Brazil has done everything 100% right.  So I don't think it is fair to ask to punish us with the amount we have been punished.  And, Brazil has gotten away with it.  I am very happy that the United States has to go to Brazil now and I am very pleased that Mr. Snyder probably has to go there himself who actually said in our meeting that the security was perfect and everything was great. So, I am going to see now the next event - what is going to happen in Brazil.  I really would like to see the first facts which went to Brazil, probably was the security, I don't know.

I think it is something I have to do and I want to support the young players.  And, if we are strong enough to go back in the first division in the World Group, then we are strong enough.  I think right now we are not a world team because we are a one-man team.  And, we don't have enough players.  So, I think probably the young players need another one to use to be strong enough.

You cannot go and say this is a developing country.  Ten years ago it was worse.  The fact is with a decision like this, you are on the line, the behavior of the Brazilian crowd and that is what it is.  If you keep doing this, there is going to be problems sooner or later.  Because if you allow the people to make the pressure on the players and because they don't see the team winning by tactical play, then I think it is wrong. Bottles and stones were thrown and all this.  And personal comments, I mean, it is getting too personnel

Well, after Paris I didn't really know, but since about two weeks I felt quite all right and I could go along with my practice.

Well, the first moment after I took the medication and I got better everyday, then I felt  like I still have enough time to prepare


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT