U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A tough match for holding serve for both players.  Was it just the fact that you are both good returners or style of play?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  He is a tremendous returner and I think that he has probably the best returning game in the world.  I mean, it is when you watch matches against Becker, big servers, when they serve better than me, he is there and he makes everybody play volleys or he doesn't make unforced errors.  He takes the serve, the second one, he takes very early and he puts a lot of pressure on you on the first points, so that is maybe why.  I have a pretty good return game as well.  He is not a big server.  That is maybe why it happens. 
 

Q.  Are there one or two things you can point to were the difference in the match?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  He is playing inside the court and I was pushed back -- I am usually the one that is dominating the game and he dominated me today, and that is what he does very  well on this surface and it is not enough time for me to set up my shots, but he played very concentrated. 
 

Q.  I know you like to say that things are history; that they don't bother you, but can you comment a little bit on things that Andre has said about you and your ascension to No. 1?  Did it make it a little bit more incentive for you to go out there tonight and does it make it a little bit more stingy the loss?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No, not at all.  Tomorrow this match is history for me.  That is the way it is.  I don't care what he says about me or anybody else because it is not much meaning to me.  For me it is a tennis match and I try to go out there and do my best.  It is U.S. Open quarterfinals. 
 

Q.  You did at one point complain to the referee, I assume it was about the loudness of his box; is that fair to say?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It is just not fair that they comment on every shot while I am playing, they are making noise and comments and whatever.  I mean, behaving like a bunch of idiots.  It is nothing new. 
 

Q.  Did you hear specifically what they were saying?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I mean, I have to play too, but it is not nice every time you have a shot, something comes out there, you go back to the corner, they go now "break, break," whatever, trying to break my balls, so..... 
 

Q.  Did you discuss the rain delay yet?  Has anyone asked  you about that?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No, I mean, it was just four, five minutes. 
 

Q.  At that point it looked like you were well back into the match and he seemed to be a little bit despondent and tiring.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, he got tired.  I think that could have been a turning point, but I mean, he got four, five minutes to relax again to think about what he has to do and he came back strongly and just got, you know, really good shots. First three points he played incredibly well.  And there was a break and from that time on he was going for his shots again and he was confident again.  But it could have been a point there, I mean -- 
 

Q.  Would you have liked your chances if you would have gotten into a fifth set?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I think that, you know, even keep the fourth set open would have opened up my chances more, but not such an early break. 
 

Q.  Do you think they were being loud on purpose to bother you or it is just the way they are?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, what do you think they say?  I mean, what do you think why they do it, because they are nice guys? 
 

Q.  I mean, was it specifically aimed toward you to rattle  you or they were being loud because they are loud?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Come on.  You know when they say something, I mean, come on.  It is not worth talking about. Don't worry about it. 
 

Q.  Aside from them, what kind of respect do you have for Agassi as a player?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I have a lot of respect as a tennis player, for what he does. 
 

Q.  Going into the match, if you had a plan of attack for Agassi, if it wasn't working, if you are getting beaten by him did you have a plan B.?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I had a strategy and I tried to play my strategy, but it is very hard because he doesn't give you time to set up your shots twice.  You have to hit a winner on the first -- mostly on a running shot, so -- he doesn't put the ball twice in the same corner, not very often, so it -- he plays left right, left right, almost half volley, so it is -- doesn't give you time to think what you do.  Some players they give you a lot of time, but he doesn't, and the only thing I could have done is probably step in more, but then sort of played ping-pong, which he does better than I do, so.... 
 

Q.  There is no taking the pace off with him; you couldn't change pace?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  If I take the pace off, he is going to  run over me; he is going to play angle shots.  I mean, how can I take the pace off?  The pace off -- I can loop the ball or I can slice it, but either way he is going to put pressure on me.  If I play the ball high, it is not going to bounce like on clay.  He is going to take the ball early and put it away.  If I keep it low, he is going to play angles and he is going to come in. 
 

Q.  What kind of game can beat him then?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Aces. 
 

Q.  That is it.  In other words, it is going to take a Sampras or Goran to outserve him?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, but it is not fast enough probably.  You have to be consistent very consistent, so, I mean, that is a game which could beat him. 
 

Q.  Your friend Fergie seemed to have been watching the match.  Did you see her?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know how many people sitting out there.  I haven't seen her.  I can't look for everybody, so..... That is okay. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT