U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How is the stomach?

THOMAS MUSTER: It's better today. Definitely wasted a lot of energy yesterday playing
with it. But I think it's going to be all right tomorrow.

Q. Thomas, did you lose a lot of weight, do you know?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, usually during a Grand Slam you lose a lot of weight because
temperature, especially the humidity, you lose a lot of fluid. Yeah, being sick is taking
a lot out of you, sure.

Q. When did you get sick, Thomas? Did you ever think about not playing yesterday
because of it?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I felt terrible in the morning, but it got better during the day.
Played pretty late, so I still could take some medication which took the pain down a
little bit. And I felt all right when I walked on the court, just a little tired. Once I
started the match, because you're drinking a lot, stress and everything, it comes back.
There's not much I could do. I just tried to play as good as I can under these
circumstances and that's it.

Q. Did you have cramps during the match?

THOMAS MUSTER: I had stomach cramps, yes.

Q. Additionally, it looked like you were beginning to limp in the second set. Was that
because of the stomach, because of cramps, or what?

THOMAS MUSTER: You have an upset stomach, everything, you feel cold, hot. Stomach
cramps, everything, sometimes you feel tired, you get better. You've just got to deal with
it somehow.

Q. Was this something you ate?

THOMAS MUSTER: It was fish poisoning.

Q. Fish?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yes.

Q. Swedish fish? It was food poisoning?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yes.

Q. Where did you eat, Manhattan?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah.

Q. Won't go there again, I suppose?

THOMAS MUSTER: I ate there before and never had any problems.

Q. Thomas, has the doctor said anything specific to you? In other words, did he say,
"This will last for 24 or 48 hours and then you should be recovered"? 

THOMAS MUSTER: I tell you, I haven't spoken to the doctor. I mean, once you eat
something wrong, you feel you know what it is.

Q. What kind of fish, so that we can avoid it?

THOMAS MUSTER: Swordfish.

Q. Was it a bass, sole?

THOMAS MUSTER: Swordfish.

Q. How long did you practice today and how did it feel?

THOMAS MUSTER: An hour, easy. I was all right.

Q. Did you play with Gaudenzi in doubles at the New Haven tournament in preparation for
here? It seems like you're coming to the net more, playing more aggressively?

THOMAS MUSTER: I played doubles with him there, but I just wanted to practice. He asked
me if I wanted to play doubles, so we played doubles. I didn't want to play at all
doubles, so I went on to Toronto and had an early exit there, gave me more time to prepare
here.

Q. Can you focus your mind on the match against Agassi as you want it to be or you want
to do?

THOMAS MUSTER: It's not a problem. Still a day to go. It's not really in my mind too
much yet.

Q. How are your chances, your real chances?

THOMAS MUSTER: 50/50 because it's zero-zero when we walk on the court. 

Q. Is that rivalry anything more than just a tennis match?

THOMAS MUSTER: Excuse me?

Q. Is the rivalry with him anything more than just a tennis match or do you think too
much has been made of your differences of opinion?

THOMAS MUSTER: No. I think there's not any problem. Andre is a very good player. He's
facing somebody who doesn't know how to play on this surface, that's it. We'll see how it
goes. With his expertise, he should beat me easy.

Q. Thomas, last night before your match was over, Andre said that given a choice, he
thought Enqvist would be a tougher opponent for him than you.

THOMAS MUSTER: So, maybe he should play him. I don't know. I don't care.

Q. Can you assess your performance up to this point in your mind here at the Open? Do
you think you're playing well, better than the past?

THOMAS MUSTER: I think I played all right the first three matches. Yesterday I tried to
survive somehow. Hopefully my strengths will be good enough tomorrow. Let's put it that
way. I should be fit enough to play tomorrow. I hope that I'm a hundred percent fit so I
can give it a hundred percent to be as good as possible. Whatever is the outcoming, that's
another story.

Q. Are you feeling more comfortable on hardcourts now?

THOMAS MUSTER: I never felt uncomfortable playing on hardcourt. It's just the people
watching me felt uncomfortable for me. (Laughter)

Q. Are you eating again?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, I'm eating again, perfect.

Q. When you lost the third set, did you feel that you might -- it was 6-1?

THOMAS MUSTER: I think maybe Enqvist was a bit affected by it. Maybe he felt that I'm
not a hundred percent. It's always difficult to finish a match if you know your opponent
doesn't feel well, you just got to put the ball in. Sometimes that's the most difficult
thing. I think that I focused well on the points I had to make, played quite dangerous for
him. Even though I wasn't a hundred percent, I think I played tactically a good game.

Q. Have they told you when you're playing tomorrow, Thomas?

THOMAS MUSTER: Obviously at night, I'm pretty sure.

Q. What do you think it's going to be like because of the nighttime, the crowd and
everything tomorrow night?

THOMAS MUSTER: It's going to be dark. Hopefully the lights are going to be on.
(Laughter)

Q. What about the atmosphere and the fans? It's going to be a pro-Agassi crowd, don't
you think? Is it difficult? Do you relish that?

THOMAS MUSTER: "Muster go back on court 16." "Muster No. 1." Some
are going to say, "Agassi is great." "All go home." I don't know,
whatever. Normally, as long as you get your popcorn and hamburgers, it's going to be fine.

Q. Thomas, if you could handicap the match tomorrow, what do you think you have to do
and how would you handicap it? How would you break it down and evaluate?

THOMAS MUSTER: A match against Andre?

Q. Yes.

THOMAS MUSTER: I think for me to reach the quarters is quite an effort, four years
being in the quarters three times here. There's no pressure on me playing against Andre
because, I mean, nobody is going to expect him to fail. That's it. I mean, it's not really
emotional for me. It's a normal tennis match. We're going to go out there and play our
match, and that's it. I mean, it's not a war; it's just a tennis match. That's it.

Q. Back in 1994 when you played Agassi at the French Open and here, you seemed to have
a mutual respect and friendship for each other. What went wrong after that?

THOMAS MUSTER: Gilbert, that went wrong.

Q. What did he do?

THOMAS MUSTER: For him, I mean.

Q. What did he do?

THOMAS MUSTER: What?

Q. How did he inject himself into the mix to create a different environment?

THOMAS MUSTER: Gilbert doesn't like anybody. That's not a secret. That's it. I mean, I
think Andre is the same. Gilbert never liked me, so that's not a secret either. That's
always been his problem. If you have somebody talking to you like a radio all day, you
must get nuts.

Q. You said so many nice things about each other back in 1994. Have you ever talked to
each other? He said there were so many misunderstandings.

THOMAS MUSTER: We did. We spoke to each other at Monte-Carlo. We had a talk about 45
minutes. I have a lot of respect for the game Andre is playing, what he did in the past. I
mean, that's all right. That's what I'm saying, there's no emotions when I go out there
and play him, you know, like enemies or something; it's just a tennis match. Everybody's
trying to win the match and go into the semifinals.

Q. But did he make clear to you that he respects your game and your achievements?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. I mean, he respects what I do on clay, but his opinion would be
probably eight tournaments a year and all played on hardcourts. It cannot only go one way.
I mean, you have to respect the others, too. I think, as I said, I respect him as a player
and what he did. And he made clear that some things he said in the press, some things
which came up in the press, that that wasn't what he said. I mean, it's really hard to
believe that every journalist is pulling stories out of their fingers. But, I mean, he
apologized for it and that's okay for me.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT