GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Looked like he was pretty much on today, wasn't he?

THOMAS MUSTER: He was playing very well. Took the ball very early; had good timing and
I had probably chances at the beginning when I broke back, played quite even, but I just
had a few -- I would not say unforced errors because they were, more or less, forced
because he just didn't give me the time to hit and he just never really played the ball in
one corner. He just played it pang, pang, pang, and I was on the run most of the time and
I mean, that is obviously very good what he did and that is the way we know him how he can
play, so, I mean, he deserved to win because he played really well today.

Q. Is he difficult to play against because of maybe he disturbs your rhythm because he
plays so fast?

THOMAS MUSTER: I always had easy time playing him like years ago because I had pretty
good record against him just, I mean, last years we always played on fast surfaces, okay,
like U.S. Open, whatever, or Grand Slam Cup but for an example he takes the ball really
early and gives everybody a hard time and even when you serve well, he has very good
reflexes so it is not even easy to ace him because. He just gets every ball back and then
once he is in the rally, he is strong, I mean, so it -- today he played really well,
didn't really make any unforced errors which is really good.

Q. Looked like at the beginning as if you were on your game; first few games you played
-- you were hitting the ball really well.

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, but it was forced. It was forced that I missed more shots because
I had to take more risk and I had to put more speed on my balls and I had to, you know,
gain the speed of the ball and that means I had to risk more, to force more and that is
forced error, --

Q. That made you get out of your rhythm?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, yeah, he had a breakpoint and he had that ball just on top of the
net and one time it was 30-All and I mean, this would have been a break point for me, but
the ball fell over. I mean, just -- that is -- the better one has the luck, I guess, too.
That is just the way it goes.

Q. Do you think he is better than you?

THOMAS MUSTER: Today he was, obviously, I mean, today he just -- he just played better
than me and in the second set, I mean, at the end, he just let it roll on, I mean, he just
cracked every ball. That is too good.

Q. He used a lot more dropshots today than --

THOMAS MUSTER: It looks like that, but he has played me out more or less. He could have
picked any shot there, I mean, obviously he played two drop shots because I was far behind
the baseline, so -- but I was played-out anyway.

Q. Was that your plan to stay that far back today?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, I tried to come in more, but it is impossible because he is just
staying so close to the baseline and if you don't have that serve , you know, like Pete
has for example, if you can ace him twice a game and you make him play more aggressive
even -- than he is used to, then he makes mistakes too, but we sort of play the same type
of game, he probably plays one more meter inside than me that means he controls the court
and I am running. So that is the way it looks and then I have to take more risk against
and that is the way it builds up and one has to do the mistakes.

Q. Have you done this week as well as you had expected or --

THOMAS MUSTER: I have done better than I expected because it is my first hard court
event after Lipton and I haven't done too well at Indian Wells and Key Biscayne. I was a
bit sick there because I had a flu and I had to take antibiotics and I was really playing
bad there and I didn't really feel good. But here, to come here, I mean, was good
experience for me and to build up on that stage I think it is good for me and looking
forward to the next tournaments. I play in Toronto and then the U.S. Open, I think, gives
me good perspective --

Q. Where will you go next weekend to practice or --

THOMAS MUSTER: Probably go to New Haven; have a practice there because Andrea Gaudenzi
is going to play there and I am going to hit with him there and my coach is going there.

Q. You said this is better than you expected this week. How far did you expect to go?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, anything better than, you know, -- I mean, than the first round
loss and -- but I expected maybe quarters or something and I really played a good match
yesterday and playing Andre, I mean, he is coming from the Olympics obviously, you know,
playing all right, played three sets everyday and he is getting his game together again
after playing an awful spring, I would say, and summer, so it is probably fun to play over
here.

Q. Can you compare him now versus the last time you played him, I guess, was two years
ago? Does he seem any different?

THOMAS MUSTER: Not much. He has always taken the ball early. If he plays bad, he plays
really bad. Because he stays so close to the baseline and if he doesn't get his game
together, the balls are all over. But once he is playing like this, it is really hard to
do something. You can't play him really out because he just -- he plays crosscourt shots
exactly like the ones down the line and there is -- there is no -- just controlling the
court really well. That is what he has always done.

Q. Did your knee bother you at all today?

THOMAS MUSTER: A little bit, but it is not an excuse because it is not a new story, I
guess.

Q. Did you see him playing this week the previous matches?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, a little bit yesterday where I think he probably made a little
more unforced errors; second set he gave away really easy, I think, at the end. It was
like sometimes almost semithinking (sic) and then he had fun to play again, but I think
today he was really concentrate every point and probably his coach told him to play every
point and he just played very professional game until the end, so, I mean, probably more
professional than the last games I have seen him play.

Q. So you were expecting him to play that well today?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, not really because I didn't really know how his shape was, how his
speed would be, but I mean, he was on from the first point on and I think, you know, that
-- he knows that I am not going to give him an easy game, so from all what he said in the
spring, I think he didn't really want to lose today. That would have been, you know,
probably would have been a shame on him then. That was his pressure, but he took it well.

Q. Do you think he played that well because he was playing you?

THOMAS MUSTER: Definitely, yes. Plus he wants to go on and get his points defended,
sure.

Q. You want to talk about that about what he said (inaudible)?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, not really. Brad Gilbert keeps talking all day long anyway. He is
like a radio, like, you know, nothing much talking because you don't even need a review of
your play because he is going to comment on it I anyway. You just need to be in there.

Q. You were very gracious today. Did you feel that way earlier when he was saying those
things or did you just let that go right by you?

THOMAS MUSTER: For me, I am a professional. I take it. For me it is not a problem. I
know what I have done. I know what all I have been through and what I can play and what is
my strengths and where my bad parts of my game are, and the same with my personality, so,
I mean, there is no secret anyway and you just got to go out there and that is my job. And
once the job is done, that is it and there is a tournament next week and the week after
and we will just go on and play. We are doing a job. We are tennis players and -- but one
day I would -- our life is going to stop as a tennis player and you have to live as a
personality. You have to wake up in the morning and you have to face the mirror and say
that is where I am. It doesn't change today. We know it is here, just you have to be
happy, that is it.

Q. You said that he obviously played that well because he was playing you. Did you feel
any extra pressure to beat him today because of everything --

THOMAS MUSTER: No, I was not supposed to win since I don't know how to play on hard
court I am not supposed to win (LAUGHTER)

Q. What would it have meant to you if had you won today?

THOMAS MUSTER: That I would have to play tomorrow again.

Q. Nothing else?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, not really. I mean, it was a match and it would have given me extra
points which would have been great and being in the finals here, but as I said, I have
done good this week and I am happy the way I performed and I just played somebody who
played better today.

Q. You are obviously being sarcastic about not being able to play on hard court?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, I am serious (LAUGHTER).

Q. Do you feel like you learned some things this week just playing this caliber of
tournament on hard court?

THOMAS MUSTER: After thirteen years, I mean, there is always something you learn until
you die, probably, but I don't think it was a really a learning process for me, but --

Q. If you continue with this success on hard court, would you incorporate more hard
courts in the next year or would --

THOMAS MUSTER: If you give me a knee, I don't know. I hope it is healthy. If I don't
have any problems with it then I will probably go and play more. I just can't play more
than four, five weeks, I mean, not even in a row, but that is why I am taking off next
week; hopefully be all right for Toronto and the U.S. Open and I can keep going for three
weeks, or so.

Q. Is it still too early for you to gauge where things are with your game as you look
to the U.S. Open?

THOMAS MUSTER: I think I can play better than today, but I mean, it depends on the draw
a little bit, but I think -- I have reached the quarters two times there, so why shouldn't
it be-- should not be able to reach the semifinals once? One time I had three matches
points in the quarters against Volkov and it just didn't happen. I think I have the
ability to be semifinalist there, so -- but it is all, you know, depending on the draw a
little bit --

Q. In another aspect if you were to take the way you played today and more than likely
you would get the No. 2 seeding on the rankings of the moment, where would you suggest on
the favoritism stakes where you think you would be compared to some of the others?

THOMAS MUSTER: That is really hard to say, but the way I played today I would have
probably beaten a few other guys because they would have let me play my game. Andre just
didn't let me play my game because he just -- he just rushed me on any shots and that is
what I am saying, if I play Ferreira or whatever, Jim Courier, I got more time to get my
game together which I can't against Andre. So it is very hard to say where I put myself,
but as I said, the ability is there to be semifinalist and being seeded No. 2, it is
probably because of my ranking and that is -- since U.S. Open is not Wimbledon, it might
be a good chance.

Q. How much differently do you hit shots depending on who you play against?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, depending on the tactic. Somebody has a weakness in the forehand
or backhand or likes to play, you know, flat balls or likes to play topspin, like to come
in more, it just depending really on who you are playing, but.

Q. Do you feel like you have to play Andre differently (inaudible)?

THOMAS MUSTER: Against Andre, you have to kill him with power either with serves or you
have to play faster than him which is almost impossible, or you just destroy his rhythm or
you get him to a stage where he gets tired, but he doesn't really---if he is playing like
today, he doesn't really let anybody, you know, taking the chance like making him tired or
overpowering him, he doesn't give you that chance because --

Q. How does your knee handle the courts in Australia compared to here (inaudible)?

THOMAS MUSTER: That is better for me because Rebound Ace is really sticky and here
sometimes you can slide a bit if you got the right shoes, but in Australia you can't. When
you try to slide, you twist and it is hot. It is really sticky so that is probably better
for me than playing on Rebound Ace.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT