GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Why did you decide to come here this year?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Because I had a designation. 
 
Q. How about the heat?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It bothers me the same than the others. It is not that I am -- I don't
know, that I am steel and I just reflect the heat or something, or whatever. I just
probably can take it a little better than others, I mean, it was extremely hot. If
Michael, who is pretty fit, struggled today, it is difficult conditions for everybody
today. 
 
Q. Do you make any concessions for the heat because it changes the way you approach the
match at all?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: You just make sure you have enough fluid in your body and take a lot of
minerals and make sure you have your cold towels, but there is not much you can do when
you are out there because concrete doesn't really absorb the heat and it just reflects it
and it is really -- the humidity is really up, so there is not much you can do. 
 
Q. Been kind of an odd summer with the Olympics thrown in, sort of changing peoples'
schedules. Can you tell us how that has changed your preparation?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, since I haven't played the Olympics, not at all. 
 
Q. Did you change your training or think about doing anything different --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I knew from the beginning that I am not going to play the Olympics
so, for me, it was quite easy because my schedule was up with Stuttgart and I am playing
Kitzbuhel and having a week off and coming here, so it really hasn't affected my schedule
or preparation at any stage. 
 
Q. Are you certain you are not going to play next week and just play in the Canadian
Open?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I can't play too many weeks because my body is not going to take it, so
I have to take a week off in between. I am not going to last four weeks on hard court. 
 
Q. There were quite a few fans that were here for you. I guess people here don't get to
see that you often. Can you just talk about the reaction of people when they have seen you
play?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: There have been Austrians over there. I guess they are here for training
camp or something and so I mean, I just played, I think, twice here in my career, and I
think one was 1988 or 1987, I don't know. I played qualifier and then few years ago, I
think which was a short time, but it is a nice tournament, I think, to play because -
especially in front of -- before the U.S. Open as a preparation and I think people try
really hard to make it a good event. 
 
Q. Do you find that people are knowing you better this year in particular because of
reaching the No. 1?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I mean, I think especially winning a Slam last year and then on
top of it becoming No. 1,, I think people know about me and they have been reading about,
you know, the controversy about Andre and myself, maybe, discussions were going on about
rankings and so forth, it was quite disgusting. I am still known more in Europe because I
play more there. 
 
Q. Did you notice, though, that you had more of a reaction from the crowd since you
have been here?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, many people know who I am, yes, especially -- I mean, if you are a
tennis fan, I think if you don't know the former No. 1 or 2 player in the world, I don't
think you are really interested in tennis, but I think there are surely more fans and more
people approaching me for autographs and -- I think so. 
 
Q. I know you answered this previously this year, but players have been complaining
that claycourter who would be No. 1 I didn't see you (Inaudible.) Could you repeat what
your feelings are on that?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: My feelings is just stupid argument, from it doesn't matter whoever
brings it up because I said that there is no supermarket where you buy your points.
Whoever makes the points at the end of the year is there and if you don't make it, you are
not there. You see, Andre lost points; he didn't make any, so he dropped back to 7 that
easy. So I mean, as long as you are making your points wherever, you deserve to be No. 2
or 1 in the world, whatever. Let us say Pete hasn't won a Slam this year, does he deserve
to be No. 1? You can bring up anything you want. He is the best player right now and that
is because he got the most points and that is it. 
 
Q. If you could change the rankings at all, what would you do? Would you start a new
one every year and not perpetuate --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: You can do anything. You can go by the prize money like the PGA. You
can-- who makes the most prize money, has played most and won the most tournaments, you
can do it either way. Start from the beginning on every year. You can do the averages, but
there is always going to be argument from somebody. Whatever you do there is going to be a
mistake. There is always something for good and something for bad and that is the system
we are in right now and that is what we have to play with, we have to live with and that
is it. You have to respect that. 
 
Q. Especially in a year like this one where there have been different winners in the
Grand Slams, and different people have different arguments why they should be No. 1, do
you think this is the kind of year where people just make up their minds who they think is
the best player and they sort of have that in their head no matter what the computer says?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That is what the computer prints out is reality every Monday. Nothing
you can change. That is it. 
 
Q. Do you agree then with the computer?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I have to. If I stand on my head now and say it is wrong, it is
not going to change because that is what we agreed on and that is why we have to play with
it. I mean, the players made the ranking and the players decided what is happening on the
Tour, so why should we complain afterwards. It's a federalistic system where you vote and
that is it. 
 
Q. We believe in that here.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, that is good. 
 
Q. Are you proud that you became No. 1, I mean, was --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Oh, sure. It is always going to stay there. I mean, it is always going
to be there whatever I do after now, it is still No. 1 in the world. Nobody can take it
away from me. I mean, tennis is my job and if you become the best in your job what else
can you expect? It is great. 
 
Q. You said a little while ago that the heat affects you less than others players. Do
you feel you have any kind of a mental edge on a day like this or a physical edge? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I think there is, sure. Let us say in the third set, it is 3-All, and
you got broken, just broken, I mean, it always leaves the other one open and your body
language goes down, but I think it is pretty even because if we see the matches today,
they are going to the end of the second or third set. I mean, the level of tennis goes
down from both players because it is just so difficult to match it. 
 
Q. What gives you the ability to persevere on a day like this?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I can't tell you because I haven't played in the heat like this for a
long time and I hadn't really had a -- top notch today, so I can say where my edge would
be in that heat. If you look at Edberg or Medvedev, Chang, that was the kind of matches
you can ask those people where their edge is. 
 
Q. Especially against lower ranked players, don't you think you have somewhat of an
advantage when you walk out on the court just when you walk out on the court here--
(Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Zero-zero. 
 
Q. Is there an aura about you that --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Zero-zero. I don't think I have an advantage because I think that
everybody goes out there and tries to nail you down for bonus points; trying twice as much
to win the points even he if is dead tomorrow he is going to try today as good as he can. 
 
Q. In your career you never went out on the court against a player you thought you had
no chance to beat?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, I can stay in the locker room; take a shower right away and go away. 
 
Q. Can you talk about how it is different for you when you come out here and play a
tournament in the United States as opposed to what things are like are in Europe? I mean,
do you just have a different feeling about it? Are you uncomfortable? What are the
differences?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It is like American players go to Europe, they don't feel uncomfortable,
but it is not where they are living. It is not their culture. It is not -- it is just
different for them to stay over there for 7, 8 weeks and it is the same for us coming
here. It is not what we are used to in Europe. We are used to different tournaments. We
are used to just different things and that is what makes it difficult. It is just a
question of how you adjust and some players like to stay like Jim Courier likes to stay in
Europe a lot. I don't know, the other guys, they like to be in the States a lot. It is
just different anyway. 
 
Q. Do you struggle with it when you come here?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, I don't have a problem with it, no. It is not that I am staying here
for weeks anyway, for 10 weeks or -- some guys they just play in the States, some
Europeans they just play in the States. For me it is not -- it is not affecting me too
much. 
 
Q. I have seen a picture of you on the (inaudible) at that point, were you just
thinking?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Which picture? 
 
Q. When you were playing with one leg practicing. At that point were you just thinking
I want to get back and be a good player or did you have aspirations that some day I am
going to win the French Open; some day I am going to be No. 1?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I was young enough to come back and to believe in myself, but it is
always difficult because even if you can run on the court, you still mentally have that
little luck up there that if you don't get to a ball or you are missing balls that you
have in your mind and say, well, before that accident I would have got to that ball or I
would have run down this ball. So that is something you are thinking until you start
winning again, because once you believe in yourself again, then it is all over. But at the
beginning, you know, you are struggling a bit mentally, but when I was in that chair, I
just wanted to get back on the Tour as fast as possible. 
 
Q. Before the accident did you have definite thoughts of being No. 1?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I was No. 6 after Key Biscayne and I had -- actually, I was No.
10, but I moved into No. 6 even not playing because we had average system, so I could have
been in the top five that year easily because I had the semifinals of the Australian Open;
finals of Lipton, so I mean, there was pretty good chance to be there earlier, and after
that, I had to struggle a lot because I had made it back to No. 6, but then I had a really
burnout in 1991, so it just took me actually years to come back and I had to adjust my
game, but I was really happy that I won the French Open finally and then became No. 1
player in the world at the age of 28 which is quite an effort, I think, and there has only
been one player, I think, John Newcombe, what, at the age of 30 or 29 being No. 1 in the
world at that age, so I think that is quite amazing. Sort of two careers. 
 
Q. When you see a guy like Stefan Edberg retiring at age 30, does that affect you at
all, do you think (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I think if he feels to retire and for him, I don't know what his
ranking now being number 30 or 25 or whatever, it is not good enough for him personal. He
feels probably he is tired; he doesn't want to do it anymore, and he has been for ten
years in the top 3, that is like, I don't know for somebody else being 150 now comparing
it being 25 in the world. If you used to be in the top 3 and then you have to fight every
round and you are not winning tournaments anymore you start asking yourself what am I
doing out here and then and I think if he feels he wants to spend more time with his
family, he wants to retire, I don't think we have to support him with money anyway, so it
is fine, so that is all right. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). If he finds another interest in his
life, I think that is more to respect than playing with age 45 still playing around the
satellites. 
 
Q. How long can you go?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know how long I could go. I know my day anyway when I am
finished. That is set anyway, but for me it is not a question of my body or it is not
mental burnout or ranking because I have set a date I want to finish my career and that is
it because I have other interests in life and I don't want to play tennis all my life. 
 
Q. You have already set that date?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yes. Personal for me. My coach knows it and I know it and that is it. So
-- but that -- 
 
Q. Even if you are ranked No. 1 on that day?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It doesn't matter. That is it. 
 
Q. Would you do a farewell Tour type of deal like Stefan did?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, I have no space for all those presents you get. 
 
Q. How much did your life change this year, I mean, did you sort of move into a whole
new superstar kind of stratosphere when you became No. 1? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Oh, sure, I am superstar. 
 
Q. Like hiring security guards, all that kind of stuff?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, sure. I have a limousine driver. I have security. I have locked up
my doors (kiddingly). No, nothing has change in my life. As I said, I won the French when
I was 28 or 27. I became No. 1, at 28, so I think I am too much experience and mature
probably to have any kind of fantasy with this and any reason to freak out. It is just
probably if you become No. 1 when you are 19 or 20, it is difficult because everything
comes on top of you because you make more money and this and that, so it is quite hard to
take, but what, it is going to change my life? I have played for ten years before or
eleven years and -- 
 
Q. Do you walk unnoticed on the streets?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I mean, I don't know. I don't realize. If people look at me, it is fine.
In Europe, people recognize me more than over here or more than Australia, probably, but
that is something which is all right. But I got to live with it anyway. I don't think it
is really bothering me. I am not just -- I think I have the right to go out there and go
on the street whenever I want. That is it and I just -- I don't think I need to hire
anybody. Nobody is going to steal me anyway. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT