EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 28, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel?

THOMAS MUSTER: :  Yeah, I feel all right.  It was a very long match, which I expected.  I said that yesterday. At the end I had probably the better physics and maybe more routine to win the match.


Q. Do you think that you won because you were physically stronger?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, probably.  As I said, I probably used my power better at the end, and when it was necessary, I put more pressure on him.  He really got -- he was tired at the end, I think.


Q. Thomas, the fact you are playing Munich, the tournament you didn't play last year, is it the only way of getting points comparing with last year or just because you feel you want to play again?  Are you not tired?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I mean, playing four weeks in a row, this is quite tough.  Winning a Super 9, going to Munich, I try my best there, whatever happens.  I don't think I have to put any pressure on myself.  Munich, I have to -- I have the week of Hamburg off.  I hope that I play  well in Rome again.  As I said, I try my best in Munich to play as good as possible.


Q. You played Costa three times five sets.  What makes him so tough that others don't do it against you like that?

THOMAS MUSTER:  The fact is every time I play him, it was the best of five match.  I mean, usually we play best of three, and every time in Kitzbuhel and Paris and here it's the best of five matches.  It lasts longer than others.  That's pretty normal.  I mean, he's a good player. He plays good angle shots, and he is, physically, very fit. I mean, we have long rallies because he's not somebody that comes in all the time.  We play every point until the end. That's why it takes so long.


Q. How is your back and why did the trainer come?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I've had back problems three or four weeks, because of the conditions, it's most of the time windy and cold, and I have that problem many times.  I just asked him to put some hot cream on my back so I don't feel the pain.  That was it.


Q. Do you think that Alberto could be your successor when you will retire in a few years?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  You'll have to ask him that.  I don't know.


Q. Because he's playing well.

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, he does.  Probably he can. 


Q. Do you think he plays better than the other opponents you met recently on clay?

THOMAS MUSTER:  He's a very tough opponent, but he's very young.  He has to prove many more times that he's a very good player.  I mean, he beat Courier last year at the French Open; beat Agassi here badly, so he's obviously a very good claycourt player.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT