EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 27, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Thomas, we have the impression that match after match you're playing better and better, always more solid.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah.  I mean, playing the first round, then playing the semifinal is a different thing. After one week, you get used to everything.  You can adjust better.  That's why you play better.  That's very important for tournament play, you can play better each round; you have to. 
 

Q. Next round you're playing Costa, Alberto.  He beat you in Kitzbuhel and had you to play five sets against him in the French Open.  Is it your nightmare to play against him?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It's not a nightmare at all to play him.  It's great for me.  It's great to be in my fourth final here.  Winning this title two times, having a chance to win it another time is great for me.  Whatever happens tomorrow doesn't matter.  I mean, I almost defended my points from last year, which is good.  I'm on my way to reach my goal, to make about two, two and a half thousand points this year.  I look ahead tournament by tournament,  match by match.  I don't care who it is, who is on the other side. 
 

Q. However, Thomas, what do you remember about that last loss?  He is one of the few people to beat you on clay.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know what you're trying to tell me, that I should lose tomorrow? 
 

Q. No.  I'm just asking, what do you remember?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Nothing.  I have a short memory. 
 

Q. You're talking about the points you have to defend.  Is this a pressure on you between the short period between Estoril and the French Open?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Not at all.  It's great for me to play and try to do it.  I know what I have to do, and that means to play well.  As I said, for me I cannot expect to do the same as last year.  My goal is to stay in the top ten until the end of the year, and then -- and I'm on my way to do that.  Everything else doesn't matter. 
 

Q. But last year, same period, we had the impression that your fitness was not as good as it is this year.  So are you even better this year than last year?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I made my physical tests, and they're better than last year.  Doesn't mean because you're fitter that you play better.  It's good for me, you know, brain and for my concentration, that I feel better.  As I  said, it's not a guarantee. 
 

Q. Do you prefer heat like last year or humid like this year?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  For the finals? 
 

Q. In a general way, just to play, what would you prefer for conditions?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Usually I make a phone call in the morning.  I say, "I would like to have very hot weather." They never do what I like.  I prefer warmer weather; faster than it is here, too. 
 

Q. Did you feel at any time that Pioline was tired?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  I mean, he started very aggressive, and then I changed my tactics.  I started to play higher balls, didn't give him the opportunity to hit this many fast balls, so he had to work more for his points.  I don't know, he probably got tired, but you'll have to ask him what he felt.  I don't know. 
 

Q. Except Pete Sampras, all the best players in the world were in this tournament.  All the other players are not there anymore; you're the only one left.  Is it a special satisfaction for you?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  It's not a special satisfaction for me.  I mean, this is my best surface.  I like to play on it.  Maybe it's not so easy to play on this surface that some other people think, you know.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT