EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Thomas, you played recently against two young, promising guys.  I mean, Rios and Shack.  What impressed you more between the two?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I think for the moment, Rios maybe is the more solid player, you know, probably has more possibilities than Schalken, but Schalken is very young.  I think being that tall, he can improve his service game and his serve and volley game.  Definitely off the baseline he hits good shots, hit good shots at least today, I have to say.  If he can always play like that from the baseline, and also improve, you know, with his height, his net game, I think he can be very dangerous.  But, I mean, most of them, they have to prove for a longer time that they're consistently good, which I think Rios did already in the last months and also last year by winning tournaments. Schalken is probably younger.  I don't know if he's younger, but he's not so long on the Tour yet.  I think he's unexperienced, I would say. 
 

Q. At the end of the first set, when the rain came, you seemed not to be agree with the decision? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, because if one of the players complains that the court is bad or slippery or dangerous, I agree, but why has the umpire to get into the match and say it's dangerous?  The rules say that both of the players have to agree to continue.  But why does he ask?  I mean, he said the lines are slippery.  But the court was okay, we could have continued playing.  It was raining now, which I think it was nonsense to stop the match at that time. 
 

Q. Thomas, down 2-0 in the third set, did you feel your winning streak might be ended or did you feel still in control?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't think about winning streaks when I'm out there, but I definitely had a good chance to go up 3-Love, even if it was only one break, when he missed the forehand volley.  This was a good opportunity for him, but on the other hand, he played so many lines all the match, I mean - I don't know - maybe 20 lines.  Sooner or later, the luck has to be over.  Maybe this was a sign.  I think from that point on, when I broke back, I was in control of the match in the third set. 
 

Q. Thomas, Schalken said he that likes to hit backhand to backhand, but because you're a left-hander, he has to hit down the line.  Do you feel because you're a left-hander that you can break the right-hander players on claycourt? Do you feel any advantage? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Not really.  I mean, it's just that usually the serve on the ad court, especially indoors, faster surfaces, is an advantage, maybe.  I think on this court we cannot talk about it.  I think it doesn't really matter because if you're a complete player, you can play either side.  For me, it doesn't matter to play against a left-handed player.  It's just a matter of changing tactics. 
 

Q. Do you feel, Thomas, since the older, best ranked players are out of the tournament, do you feel danger without the challenge to play the best and being considered, by and large, the favorite of the tournament?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Winning eleven tournaments last year and defending it this year is challenge enough.  I guess I don't need the others to do that.  No, for me, it doesn't matter.  Either way, it's fine.  I mean, I have to play my game.  If I play well, I win, if I don't, I don't deserve it anyways, so..... 
 

Q. Apart from the fact that you win the match, are you happy with the overall level of your game today?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  The court is very slow.  The ball is very heavy.  Topspin didn't have the effect that it usually has, so it makes it more difficult for me to hit winners.  I probably could have, you know, got points  easier.  I made a few unforced errors.  Yesterday, I played really good.  Today, I probably didn't play as well.  Still, I'm winning, so that means -- even if I'm playing 10 or 15 percent less, I'm still winning matches, and that's a good sign. 
 

Q. Thomas, players sometimes are happy when a match is suspended and they are back on the score.  This time it was different.  I mean, he was 6-5 up, serving for the set.  You should have been happy that they interrupted the match. It's different, no?  Don't you find it strange?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's not strange because, I mean, if we play and it's possible to play, let's play.  Why would you close a shop if the shop should be open?  I mean, it's like being in a business.  I mean, I want to play, win or lose; I want to get it over.  I don't want to stay here all day just because somebody thinks it might be a slippery line.  It's like you have customers in front of your door in your shop, they want to buy something, you say, "Huh-uh."  I mean, just keep playing. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT