EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1996
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Short day in the office.  How are you feeling today, Thomas?  Got that match out of the way after having waited.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  As I say, after the match, I got two days.  The first day was awful windy, which is very hard to practice normal and get a feel for the ball.  Yesterday we had mud all day.  I mean, actually I had almost no practice.  It was the first time playing on center court, which is always different.  The first match, 10:30, really early.  All those things, you know, it didn't make me feel too happy going on court today, but I think during the match I managed to get my game together a little bit, get used to the court.  Still making too many mistakes, but slowly in the game I had good feelings about things coming along.  I think tomorrow will be much better. 
 

Q. Did you get the feeling through Estoril and Barcelona you were improving through the tournaments?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  You get more confident; you know what you do.  You lose maybe two, three games.  You know  what your strengths are; why you won the last two weeks; why you won matches.  It's a matter of confidence, for sure. Those tournaments, winning them back to back, actually; repeating the wins, I mean, that's very good for me. 
 

Q. How do you compare how you feel now at this point, this season, compared to last season?  Can you draw from your experience last year now?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  There's no difference.  Last year started the same thing off, Estoril.  Not develop expectations, play well, better and better.  Every tournament you have to start again each week, first rounds hard to play.  I feel -- I don't think there's a difference. 
 

Q. You don't feel maybe there's more weight of expectation on you from everybody around?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't care; as long as it's not mine.  Others should worry.  I don't care. 
 

Q. Tactically are you any different at all?  Do you feel you should shorten the rallies?  Do you feel you should do that more?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  If I feel I should shorten the rally, I better stop playing tennis.  That means I'm getting too old.  As long as I have the power to play, I play my game.  That has been working pretty well the last season. There's always a few changes you make and adjustments, but  not the basics of the game or tactics, which are different anyway every time you play somebody. 
 

Q. Your coach is mentioning your back injury.  How is it going at the moment?  Is it improving?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, the weather the last two days didn't really make it better.  You know, warmer days are coming up, I hope.  I'm getting treatments and such.  It's not too bad.  It's not that I'm really worried about it at the moment. 
 

Q. Is it something that's not getting worse, but it's not getting a lot better?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It has been worse; it has been better, so..... 
 

Q. Do you feel sad or sorry you couldn't be part of the --
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  What's that? 
 

Q. Do you feel sad or sorry you couldn't be part of the awards last night?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  I don't feel sad or sorry.  I needed my sleep.  That's fine, you know.  I mean, I like awards.  If they're going into my schedule, you know, if there's another opportunity, I will take it if the time fits better. 
 

Q. What does it mean to you to be the Iron-man of the Year? 
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I'm not iron -- whatever. (laughter) It's just an award you get.  I don't really know what it's for, I mean, nobody explained it to me. 
 

Q. You traveled the most.  I just read that you traveled the most last year, and that's why.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I should get a good bonus on my frequent flyer card, better than the Iron-man.  I don't know what it has to do with Iron-man, flying. 
 

Q. Are you surprised it keeps going like this, the same as last year?
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  What keeps going? 
 

Q. Everything is going so well.
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's good.  I'm working, doing my job, I try to be good.  I keep doing what I have to do.  There have been worse days in my life, better days, but I feel quite confident and good at the moment. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT