IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thomas, you came here with hopes of going to No. 1.  With this loss, do you think it is still possible for you to reach the --

THOMAS MUSTER: I didn't come here like that. Everybody said or talked about it.  But I never said that.  So it doesn't matter for me.  I lost the match and two more to go and well, it is not very -- let us put it that way, it is the first match.  It is diappointing.  There is still some hopes there and if not, it doesn't matter either.


Q.  You have had real success against Chang in the past.  What was the difference in tonight's match?

THOMAS MUSTER: I didn't use my chances.  I had breakpoint in the third set and I was playing great until 6-4, 2-All and I was already playing the way I expected myself to play.  Then I went a little bit down and that is it.  I basically lost it.


Q.  If you compare that with clay, what are the keys?  You are so much better than him on clay. 

THOMAS MUSTER: The difference is that certainly when you hit a good shot that you can't slide and you can't -- I mean, it is a different tactic to run.  It is more depending on the serve and things like that.  But as I said, I beat him on hard court, so it is just -- I have beat him so many times; now, I lost. That is all right.  I have worked on my serve which worked very good.  At the beginning, I was playing aggressive. Everything was going my way, so I just need the confidence that I can do it for three sets, four sets, five sets, whatever.


Q.  Who are you picking to win the tournament now?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, the favorite is Pete as I said anyway.  Well, if you look at the groups, maybe -- I don't know.  Actually, it is going to be very interesting how the group is ending with Boris and Pete and we have to look at our group, but there is so many matches to play.  I would go for Pete with what I saw in the last few weeks, but so many things can happen in a tournament like this.


Q.  How does the combination of the court surface and the ball compare to Essen here?

THOMAS MUSTER: It is the same.  I think it is  very nice to play.  I think the court is nice to play. The balls are fair.  There are no complaints there, I think.  It is great.


Q.  You just sad you like Sampras's chance to win it.  You have been playing great all year.  How about your own chances?

THOMAS MUSTER: I make myself where I am not the favorite.  Pete is the best indoor player together with Boris.  And I won indoor tournaments; that doesn't make me the favorite here.  But still, as I said, there are a lot more matches to play and I just lost one, so we will see how the group turns out.


Q.  Thomas, you had two game points to make it 5-3 in the second; then you seemed to fade back a little.  Do you think you could have stepped on the pedal a little and tried to win that second set?

THOMAS MUSTER:  That was pretty difficult because I went down a little bit in the second set and when I got broken, I was a little bit down mentally and so I could have won my serve and then tried to, you know, tried to go for it, but so I mean, I started off the third set alright and I had my chances in the third set and I didn't break him, so he took his chance and I think it was a good match,  I mean, from both sides.  I think we were hitting the balls hard;  taking the balls early, and serving all right.  I mean, it is just, as I said, he had the -- I don't know, he is more pressure at the end and he didn't miss the big shots.


Q.  Is he the quickest tennis player on the circuit?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know.  I don't have any -- he looks fast, but I think Pete is pretty quick too.


Q.  Did you feel he was injured towards the end of the third set?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, people always say I fake injuries, but he is always injured.  People always say I am injured at the end, but every time he plays a close match, he is injured.  But maybe it is just to put the pressure on others.  That is what people always complain about me, so I just-- I just play the ball to him now.  You have to ask him if he was injured.  I don't know.  I just saw that he was cramping but he was pretty fast for cramping.  That is all right.  But people should not always complain about me when I don't feel well and I still win matches.  You better ask him those questions.


Q.  That really bothers you; a lot people say that about you? 

THOMAS MUSTER: It doesn't bother me.  Him playing against Lendl; playing against Skoff in Davis Cup; playing against me today, I mean, there are plenty of examples when he did it and winning and running pretty good.  Ask him how he plays with cramps.  Maybe he plays better with cramps.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT