IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, what I am, I am, but..... 
 
Q. What sort of paintings do you paint?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I like abstract paintings. One of my favorite painters is Kandinski and
Miro. I think that art -- a lot of -- musicians, whatever, creative world, there is a lot
to do also with sports because it is individual and that is why I like it. I don't know
about music, but I also enjoy music, so to listen to music, also to make music, which is
-- my kind of music is more noise than music, but anyway I enjoy it. 
 
Q. What do you think about Mozart?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I think that he is one of the biggest historical persons we have in
Austria in music and he was a genius which is going back to what I said, every individual
which is really great in something and it also comes back to the same point of Mozart. 
 
Q. When did you start painting and where do you paint now?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I started painting four years ago and was connected with an art
exhibition which was, with my coach, there was, I mean, he also has a management company
and so it happened that there was an exhibition for young artists in Austria. I went there
and I got inspired by those paintings. That is how I started and I have just enjoyed doing
it. But it is not a big deal. As I said, it is not like I want to go out -- I don't want
to go out and sell paintings because it is not my business. I just enjoying doing it. 
 
Q. How many have you painted roughly in four years?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: 20. I don't have much time. 
 
Q. Would you like to have a Kadinski in your home?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It doesn't really matter to me to own a painting of Kadinski or
something. It is just that he was somebody who made things look this way and also made
them enjoyable to others. That is what I like. It is not to own it. 
 
Q. You make time to visit museums in Paris and --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. As I said, there is not that much time to visit museums or things
like that because when you play, you practice twice a day, so there is not much time to go
to exhibitions. You don't have time to do those things.  
 
Q. Is it possible to speak about art with players?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Not much. I think that I believe that two times like John McEnroe who
was buying paintings and collected paintings and I don't know how much he understands from
paintings, but there is Fibak like he started when he was a child with his father to get
to know art and the biggest collection of Polish arts and so he has an understanding for
it so he knows what to collect and whatnot. He is really someone who is a specialist, so
he knows about art. Probably more than anybody else in tennis, so I mean, he would be
probably somebody I would ask if I would buy a painting. I would go to him and ask or
through his connections, but I don't think there is really somebody right now, you can
speak about art; not that I know of. 
 
Q. Do you feel sometimes like an artist?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Not really. I don't think my game looks very artistic - but in terms of
fitness, but not in terms of style. 
 
Q. Thomas, when you look back at the current season, there are so many players who only
ever win one circuit. When you broke that sequence and managed to win off the clay,
psychologically, can you tell us the effect that had on your game and might do in the
future?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No psychological effect. I always knew I could do it. It was a question
of preparation and believing in myself that I can do it, but it doesn't mean that I am an
indoor specialist now or it doesn't mean that I am going to win Wimbledon next year or
anything like that. It is just - I always believed in that and I always knew that my game
was good enough to win a Super 9 and on an indoor surface. I think that the fact that the
balls are getting slower and the surface are getting slower, I think there are more
chances for players like myself to win tournaments indoors, but as I said, it has no
special effect. I think people - they always put me in one spot and say this guy is only a
clay court player. They weren't watching my game. 
 
Q. When you look back to '89, does it make you more proud of the achievements that you
have accomplished since especially this year?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, I just proved one thing that I could have reached it earlier because
I had the same chance to do it in '89 and be in the top five already in '89, but it is a
long way back and, you know, it is like six years - it took me six years to get back where
I was in '89 and, I don't know, I am not too old to hold against it for another, two,
three years, but this is something I can't answer now, but -- this could have happened in
'89, but in another way, I have learned a lot of things out of it. There were many
ups-and-downs in my career which gave me a good impact into my personality and in my life. 
 
Q. Thomas, in your book; correct me if I am wrong, in your book that has just been
published, you put yourself in the same category as players like Borg, McEnroe, and
Connors. Do you think that is being over arrogant or do you think it is a fair assessment
of your game?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I just said they were achievements which this year which only Nastase
did winning three events like Monte Carlo, winning Rome and Paris in one year, there was
nobody else. And putting myself in the category of Borg, I would never because I wasn't a
five-time Wimbledon champion. I haven't won Paris six times, whatever, I mean, so it
wouldn't be fair, but I said having achievements like winning over 40 matches, -- winning
12 tournaments a year, puts me in a category maybe even if it is just for one year like
Borg or McEnroe. That is what probably I meant and there was a misunderstanding. Winning a
Grand Slam tournament puts you up, even if it's one title, puts you in a different
category, because you can win as many tournaments as you want, but you don't win a Slam,
you are always going to be a third middle class player. If you win a Slam, you are better.
That is a better achievement. That is it. It is a great surface. The balls are pretty
fair. I think the group I am in suits also to my game. So I have a realistic chance to
play well. The Masters is very, very hard to play and -- 
 
Q. Despite your excellent achievements this year, you still have, rightly or wrongly,
among some of your rivals, gotten a reputation of being a very difficult opponent to play
for temperamental as well as expert tennis reasons. Boris has said it. Forget has said it.
Why do you think you got the reputation of being too big for your boots?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't want to be a nice guy. I don't want to slip my game to others. I
don't want to be nice to players -- it would be nice to play against; lose against
everybody. I would be a nice opponent, but then probably would be worthless to win against
me so I rather be a tough cookie than -- you have to realize that tennis is not played
only by shots. It is played by mind. So..... 
 
Q. Do you personally feel that you go a bit close to the edge of gamesmenship or --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I have got three warnings all my life, I will tell you, so if you
compare it to other players in the world, I am probably one of the fairest players ever by
warnings, by fines, whatever. You can go make a research by that, so it means I am playing
within the rules, absolutely within the rules, so... 
 
Q. How do you get yourself in that aggressive mood for a match?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't need to put my opponent in the mirror in the evening. I mean,
for me, it is my job. It is my work. We play for points, we play for money. We play for
everything, so it is -- we play for prestige. We play for numbers. That is it. That is --
and tennis world is what you achieve and tennis and the numbers they make you a good
person or a bad person or a good player or a bad player. That is the way it is. 
 
Q. How do you do that in a third round?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I am just saying if you are playing well and you are rich, you are nice
looking person. If you don't play good and you have nothing, you can, you can
(Inaudible.), that is the whole thing and I am not saying because you are playing good
tennis you are a better person. That is one thing, but people outside the court, they do
it. 
 
Q. You play for money, for prestige, for what?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I play because it is my job. Whenever I finish playing tennis, I can ask
myself if I possibly did everything to be as good as possible. And if I can answer that
with a yes, I could be happy for whatever is coming afterwards. If I have to answer that
with a no, I always have to ask myself all my life why I didn't try harder or why I didn't
not do this or that. That is what I am playing for. I have to be as good as possible and
to use all my possibilities I have. If I don't do that, I have to answer no and then it
would be bad. 
 
Q. How important is winning Essen to this week for your confidence?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't think it has any effect. Anybody believes that if I was just a
clay court player for the last ten years, he wasn't watching my results carefully and
wasn't watching my game carefully. Because I have had more success on other surfaces than
on clay.  
 
Q. In the book it says you are excessive about manners and that if a fan comes up with
you and asks you for your autograph you prefer to be called Mr. Muster than Thomas; is
that --
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: This is -- it is not that I want to be called Mr. Muster, but I am
talking particularly about the pledge of Austrian people. That is why I say if somebody
comes up to me and says could I please have an autograph or could I please, whatever, it
is some Austrian people, they don't have the respect and they come up to you in a certain
way or slang and talk to you; that, I don't want to be; that is my answer is just it is
just another one that you would expect if you want an autograph, but that is the only
thing I want to have is a little bit of respect and when you come in somewhere you say
hello or you say something. I don't try to educate people, but there is a certain limit.
But this is just a -- particular for Austrian. Doesn't mean that I am going to go
somewhere -- (inaudible). I think there is no time to lose and the first of January is
early enough to start a tournament, so I think that it is a nice tournament and I like to
go there before the Open and I have played many -- Sidney before the Australian Open and
so I am just trying something else this year and I heard it is very nice to play. Just
think it is the biggest year, that is it because altogether it is not Paris, it is not
Essen, it is not the Masters. I think it is altogether, but I am not that far. I am about
2,000 miles away from being No. 1, so I don't really bother myself with that question.
Statistically there is a possibility this way, but as I said, I don't really pay too much
care and I think the best chance would be the spring next year. 
 
Q. What advice, with someone of your mental strength, would you give to somebody like
Goran Ivanisevic behind us, who has been trying for years to do even half of what you have
done this year and yet mentally isn't up to it? Do you feel sorry for the predicament like
he is in?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: As I said, tennis is not having shots. Tennis is not only having back
and forth or big serve or big volley. Tennis is a head game. You have to have a good mind
to play and it doesn't hurt to be talented. You need certain temper and he -- his temper
is a little bit too high, but whatever you take, I think that Goran is one of the most
talented; probably best players in the world and this year wasn't his best, but it could
be next year, but he is going to be No. 1 in the world, we never know with Goran. He was
twice a Wimbledon finalist, so I think that he is a real good player and I don't think it
is -- I am not a psychologist, so I can't judge is mental problems, and I don't think I
should do it. 
 
Q. How did you get better mentally?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It is a process of about 12, 13 years when I started. You cannot change
in one minute, in one hour, in two weeks or even in two years. You can improve, but I
think you have to realize when you are young and I always was reading books about mind,
about concentration, about, you know, certain things you need for sports; not only for
sports. I think it is pretty much based on rules in life. It is not so much particular to
tennis. It is going more to social life, to behavior in life, to goals, to so many things
connected together that you can build on your mental strength. It is not possible and I
wouldn't do it because all the good things I don't want to miss and all the bad things I
don't want to miss because that is where you learn the most. 
 
Q. Why did you choose tennis?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Because it was, from the dangerous side, it was less dangerous from
other sports. It was not so much travelling and -- well, that is what my father said. And
it was basically for the moment the cheapest thing to do, but it turned out after years
that it didn't happen because I had to go to practice somewhere else and I had to go by
train everyday for hours to get to the practice center and I had to do all my home work
and everything in the train, so -- but if I would have stayed with football, two times a
week -- I started playing tennis; I went everyday, that is how it turns out. At the
beginning my father said it would be the better way. 
 
Q. Did you ever to think long about it?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I was convinced pretty early. My father said you can play football.
If you don't make it, tennis, you still can go skiing, but I think it would be the best
choice, so we somehow worked it out, but it took me a while to get rid of football. I was
playing tennis and playing football and in the same week and finals in tennis, playing
football -- I was going back and forth in that area where we lived, so. 
 
Q. When did you know the first time that you would become a successful tennis player?
When did you realize it?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I still didn't realize it yet. I am still trying to become good, so. ...
We will see. It just comes. You start winning, winning, winning, and you become better and
you become better and you are beating some players; became national champion at 16 and I
mean, I held certain records in my age, so that is, I think, why I always believed that
you really-- I always knew that I can play on this surface. I had a lot of success on this
surface. It is just, as I said before, really, I think people always believed that I am
only a clay court player. They haven't watched my results in the last years and they
haven't watched my game in the last years, so to me, it is not a surprise. I think also
the balls and the slower courts are helping a little bit to become better on this surface,
but it is not a question of confidence. I always had the confidence that I could do it. As
I said before, the biggest chance would be the spring next year that I am still 2000 miles
away from being No. 1. 
 
Q. Do you watch other sports on television?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, I like golf, car racing, and all kind of sports, track and field.
I mean, I have a lot of respect for everybody who does sports, especially on a
professional level. 
 
Q. When you are in Austria do you go to the soccer watches?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, I watched one just lately, so, I mean, for me, it is enjoyable to
go to those events and... Right now I practice 3-4 times a week, Saturday morning I ran
15. 
 
Q. Do you think you are the fittest player?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No, I don't think so. I wish I could say that, but I don't think so. I
mean, everybody works hard on that level. Everybody tries to be in good shape. We have
seen that in the last years, that people improve and improve; especially physically,
because otherwise it is untouchable to play 25 weeks successfully. You need to have a
certain shape to prevent injuries and things likes that. 
 
Q. Do you feel that you are getting older?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, it looks like that, no? I don't feel it, but it shows every
morning I look in the mirror, I feel I am getting older, so.... 
 
Q. Do you need more time to get recuperated after a match? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, you feel it, but it is -- 28 is not 56 or whatever. It is -- I
think that it is still -- I think you need more time and you need to schedule your
tournaments better and your rest and practice sessions. It is experience; not only the
age, I think. Not much. I mean, I am pretty aggressive on the court, but I am pretty quiet
off the court, I think. But I try to have everything very straight up. It doesn't matter
if it is at home, in my apartment, or if I have to do something, business or whatever, I
try to be straightforward with everybody and which doesn't mean you have always friends,
but I rather take it straightforward and people know what I am; what I am, and let them
know, but I just want to have everything really straight and clean and no problems and if
you want to call my and say what was in 1986 and on Tuesday, you know, I just go look in
my books and I know what happened. So that is -- that is me. I am very, very straight
forward. Well, he doesn't have to stop because I didn't win the U.S. Open so probably he
was right, but for me it doesn't matter. 
 
Q. Maybe next year?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. It is a long time. Maybe I don't play anymore next year in
October, I don't know. (LAUGHTER). It is too far away or September, at least, I don't
know. But maybe he doesn't play a year even if I didn't win the U.S. Open. 
 
Q. Do you really know when you are going to stop?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, pretty much. 
 
Q. But you don't tell us when?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. It is only within myself. I have been asked that many times.
Everybody had to play it which I think it is a mistake of the ATP, if we take it -- take
up this issue. I think it was the same problem with opera singers and they went together
and were union and they said, okay, you charge us 56% of tax you -- we put up the prices
56%, but the government realized then that they have to pay-out of their pocket so they
have an exception, but if there would not be any tournament played or the ATP says,
listen, there is no more tournament in France until you solve this problem, I think that
would be easy to solve the problem. But this is a weak union we have and this matter, I
don't feel myself really -- I think it is ridiculous to ask somebody who doesn't live in
France or doesn't do anything in France to charge 56%. I mean, 20% is fine. 25, 30, even
you said 30, but I think it is really ridiculous. I mean-- 
 
Q. Did you try to speak to the ATP?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: We spoke about it. How can you come up and say three years back we are
charging you 56%? They are coming up saying we have this law change in 1990; now you have
to pay three years back. I don't know, people had to pay over $1 million, some of them. I
mean, just like that. They send it to you. I mean, it is really -- I mean, this is really
something. But France is special with all those things. I think I can play, but it takes
me longer to adjust. You need to practice certain strokes and you know, I think it is --
probably need somebody to help you who really has experience on grass. We will see. I am
the older one. 
 
Q. Does it mean something?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I am not bothered. It is just the fact that I am the oldest. Somebody
has to be the oldest. 
 
Q. Do you think Kafelnikov is one of the next generation?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Kafelnikov. We saw Agassi. We saw Enqvist. We saw a few guys coming
through this year and if we look at the whole-- a tough pick. We see guys like 22, 23
years old, so even younger, some of them, below 20, I think we can see the change slowly
proceeding. I don't know how many guys, but -- but a lot are really young and -- 
 
Q. How do you see tennis in five years from now?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: On TV, for sure. That is how I see it. I don't know what it is going to
be like. 
 
Q. I mean, the nature of the game?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. Maybe there is somebody coming up with materials, new
materials; maybe there is faster balls, or slower balls, or, I don't know, we have changed
so many things in the last years that I really can't tell where it is going. But I hope
that the tennis, the economic is going to stay up so -- but that we are not going to lose
sponsors, things like that. I think that is very important; that the credibility of the
game is there. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT