U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Thomas, what was it that Jim did so effectively today to keep on top of you?

THOMAS MUSTER: Just played. Served pretty good and hitting forehands pretty strongly
and that was actually it. There was not more to do for him.

Q. How much did the problem with your foot hinder you?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, it was no problem. I just played bad.

Q. Will you say that he is back; he is in top form?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know if I can judge that. I mean, he was obviously playing very
well today, but I don't know if this is enough to win. I have no idea.

Q. When you come up against a top player on a hard court, is there something mentally
you need to have to overcome that you don't have to on clay as far as confidence level? 

THOMAS MUSTER: No, it is not a question of confidence. It is just -- I have put
everything in the first three matches. There is nothing left today.

Q. Do you have any sense that if you can get out of the third set you might be able to
get on a roll?

THOMAS MUSTER: Could, but I don't know. I mean, I was always behind. Never had the
chance to go ahead and even the tiebreaker, I was playing the first points against the
wind which is pretty hard today. It is really tough, but he played better than me and he
deserved to win.

Q. Was the wind a factor?

THOMAS MUSTER: It is the same for both players. Tiebreak maybe to start with the wind
would have been a little bit of an advantage, but I don't think it would have changed the
match drastically.

Q. But did you have to change the way you were playing because of heavy wind?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, just wasn't in the match in the first two sets at all and -- I had
nothing left to put into the match energywise and mentally.

Q. What had drained you, the last match?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, I mean, been playing since months on very high level and for me to
play on hard court, just puts so much more problems to my body that I cannot resist that
for, whatever, certain amount of hours and that is the problem I have.

Q. Did you feel that coming in today or did you feel it only once you were out on the
court?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, I mean, I am having problem with my feet already even on clay, so it
is affecting me even more here, so it is really hard for me to run. Just once you have
only tapes on your feet, it is just really hard to take it. But I mean, he proved that he
is is a very good tennis player and we will see what is happening now.

Q. Would you change the way you come into the Open next year, Thomas?

THOMAS MUSTER: Why should I?

Q. Because of the--

THOMAS MUSTER: So I am already having troubles two weeks before? Not really.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT