U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Regardless of whether you play Carlsen or Courier, I assume you are going to have to
play better than that.

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know, maybe. Depends on Courier.

Q. Thomas, have people told you that the way to play on hard court is to get to the net
occasionally?

THOMAS MUSTER: If I win from the back why should I come in?

Q. Do you think there will ever be situations playing against certain players where you
will find the need to come in?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, maybe, because then I might do it. Yeah.

Q. I am just thinking back to when Lendl was playing and he had the same sense that he
could break everybody down from the backcourt, and then I think later in his career he
regretted that he didn't try to come in or work a little bit on that aspect of his game.
Do you think --

THOMAS MUSTER: I am not 14 years old. I cannot change my game from one day to the other
like that. I improved it a lot in the last years even on clay, so...

Q. Well, clay especially.

THOMAS MUSTER: Would you call Agassi a serve and volley player?

Q. No, but he comes in.

THOMAS MUSTER: To shake hands.

Q. Thomas, I know you spoke briefly about this the other day, but if you could talk a
little bit more about the situation at the tournament in Croatia, was there any sense of
turmoil? Was there any sense, across the country, that there was war or was it just like
any other tournament? Could you take a moment and describe what it was like there?

THOMAS MUSTER: It is great. I have played three years now out of the last four and
there have been wars since many years and there was no problem at all. It was safe. I
mean, there was no feeling of war at all at this area, and it hasn't been any war in this
area. So, whatever happened in other parts of the country, I don't know, I haven't been
there. And as I said, it is pretty secure and there was no doubt about it, that this
tournament done well.

Q. You had no fears?

THOMAS MUSTER: No. No reason for it.

Q. What is wrong with your feet? What happened?

THOMAS MUSTER: Pretty big blister or I have actually four, but it is split up on two
legs. The one bothering me is on the left leg, just came up in the fourth set and I had to
do something because I have new insoles. I had problem with my right foot, I am not really
adjusted to those insoles yet. They were fine on clay, but I haven't got a chance to try
them on hard court, so that was the first real match I had to run a lot. And so I just
came up in the fourth set and it is a real big blister on the bottom of my feet.

Q. Affects your serve, because when you were serving for the match --

THOMAS MUSTER: No, nothing to do with it. Made it pretty difficult to run; even I had a
big lead in the fourth set, took me a while to get used to that situation playing without
insoles.

Q. Will it be all right?

THOMAS MUSTER: It is pretty bad, but I think it should be all right.

Q. Were the balls bothering you; were they kind of heavy?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, they were all right. When you have two guys playing from the
backcourt, they are getting pretty fluffy. So, I just think it is ridiculous to put No. 3
player in the world out on Court 16, which I think is pretty stupid to schedule it like
that. I mean, if Americans come to Europe, they would always -- because they are No. 3
player in the world, they would play on a good court and not putting somebody out on Court
16, which I think is ridiculous.

Q. How much does that affect you when you come in?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, it didn't affect me because you have to take the court anyway, but
I had a little discussion yesterday with the referee, and I mean, it is just because some
players are American, I mean, they are playing on that Stadium Court and Grandstand, I
mean, which I think it's a little bit respectless anyway, but it is okay.

Q. They put Zina Garrison Jackson on Court 16, what could have possibly been her last
match, do you think it is just because you are European or is it just silliness in
general?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, it is in general that I think if you are No. 3 player in the world
you don't deserve to play on Court 16, and the referee said yeah, but Courier played out
there. I said, but not when he was No. 1, 2, 3 in the world. I am saying if somebody is
coming from America or wherever to Europe and you are No. 3 player in the world, you would
play on stadium or grandstand and that is ridiculous, as I said, to put somebody out
there. That is what I am saying. Okay, it is not my fault Todd Martin is maybe just 15,
but I don't think it is very spectacular match to have Martin and Hadad playing on
grandstand just because he is American. That is the situation, I mean, it is nothing
against Todd, I mean, he is a great friend, but I think the scheduling is pretty stupid to
start now today on Center Court at 12 o'clock. I mean, why don't they keep up the schedule
like it was?

Q. Do you think it is just disrespectful or do you think they might be telling you
something?

THOMAS MUSTER: No, but for years they were telling me I was not good enough to play on
all those courts now I am No. 3 in the world, they still put me in the garbage out there.

Q. Did it affect you in the first set -- what happened in the first set?

THOMAS MUSTER: Didn't affect me. I played there last year, great match against Enqvist,
so I am just putting that in as --

Q. What happened in the first set?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. I wasn't there.

Q. What did you think of your No. 1 fan out there yelling out your name, that one guy?

THOMAS MUSTER: Maybe he wants to coach me. Follow me since -- every game he is there.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT