VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 30, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thomas, on the first matchpoint, Boris played  the second ball at, I think, 196 kilometers.  What do  you think about this?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, if it would have been  on the line, it would have been a winner.  If not, I  would call it as a mistake, but I mean, that is a  decision he makes and you have to ask him why he did  it.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised that he went for the big  second serve?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, I was actually because  if he would have just kicked it in and come in as he  would have been slightly more chance to win the point,  but maybe if you want to win something so badly, this  is just a reaction which comes from inside and he just  did it.   
 

Q.  How did you feel at the beginning of the  match, okay?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, I felt okay, maybe a  little bit too relaxed even the way I played and actually I just tried to play point by point and after  losing two sets, I tried to force more.  I tried to be  more aggressive on my own service games and -- but I  mean, if you are matchpoint down and two sets to love  down, I mean, all this -- I mean, there is no  explanation why you are winning matches like this,  and -- but I think it was a very good clay court  match.  And I would like to change that offer from  Boris to take one title from Wimbledon to give him  one -- his name down here in the corridor.   
 

Q.  This one?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Not this one.  The one  before.   
 

Q.  Thomas, what has changed since your match  against Gaudenzi and if you have talked with him about  the match of yesterday?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  What happened is that  yesterday I went -- well, they took me to the locker  room and I got all this infusions and with sugar and  all this.  Then I went to the hospital after that.  And  they were checking my blood and were checking  everything they possibly could, yesterday from  heartbeat and ultrasound on the heart and lungs, I  mean, everything and I was until 8:30 in the hospital,  and still my sugar was down there and they gave me another infusion of sugar, and well, I just went to eat  last night normally and that is it and I slept about 11  hours and that is what I did.  I haven't -- I haven't  spoken with Andrea about the match yet and I don't  think we should talk about it.  I am very happy that  which I have to say honestly, this medical service here  is one of the best in all tournaments in the world and  the doctors are very, very good here and that is  something I really have to say about this tournament.  It is perfect.   
 

Q.  What exactly did the doctor tell you  yesterday and when did you decide to play?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, we checked everything  and then we -- he said that everything is okay; my  stomach is okay, my heart, my kidneys, my lungs,  everything is perfect, and the only thing was missing  was electrolytes and sugar, most of all, and that would  cause the breakdown yesterday.  After all the infusions  we look at the blood and it was balanced completely and  today I just got fluid food with a lot of -- well,  magnesium and everything which is necessary.  I just  eat a little bit of rice and I just tried to get as  much energy in my body as possible.  There was a  biologist who came this morning who gave all the food  to me and he advised me exactly from the morning until the match what I have to eat and to drink and he  prepared everything.   
 

Q.  When you made your our own doublefault in the  tiebreak, did you think at the start it was over?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  It was a very crucial moment  to make a doublefault, but his one was even worse, I  think, than mine, so, you know, at that stage you can't  really tell; as I said before why you are winning the  match and losing them.  You do what you have to do and  either you win or you fail, but there was somebody up  there today who was turning the ball the right ways and  probably and -- yeah, that is it.   
 

Q.  What have you been eating during the match,  was it sugar?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, it was just sugar, to  keep the sugar level up.  That was the most important  thing.  It was just like energy tablets.   
 

Q.  When you decided to play, did you decide to  play not only because it was the final of the  tournament or did you decide to play because you felt  you were able to win?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  First of all, I played  because I wanted to play the finals to walk out and to  go and play because I think --  I think it is the  nicest thing if you walk out there, here, on Sunday and play this final.  Either you lose 3-0 sets or whatever,  but -- and I am the last person that would give away a  match if it is not really necessary, and as I said,  when I walk on the court, I just try to enjoy myself to  play; that is maybe I was a little bit too relaxed and  I didn't really believe maybe at the beginning that I  could win this match and even now in the fifth set, I  didn't feel tired at all.  And when I won the fourth  set I really felt now that I could really win that  match and I had got adrenaline and I was like -- when I  played the last game, I felt like the match just  started and that -- that shows how much energy you  still -- your body can produce, if you had and you can  see in his game how much it takes out of your body when  you are down, you see the balls he missed or the shots  he missed, he would never have missed in the second  set.   
 

Q.  What were you thinking at the beginning of  the third set after you lost the first two, I mean,  what were you really thinking?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I was thinking when -- now it  is very important to win the first game because as  stupid as it sounds, but I thought if I could get over  somehow in the third set, I know that he will get tired  and I know that he will slow down his serve; I know he will slow down his movements and so the most important  thing to me was to keep on playing and at the end,  actually, it paid off because I knew that when it was  4-1, he gave away the third set, 6-1 and the advantage  was that I started serving, so I always was ahead in  the fourth set, so it is just -- there are so many  decisions you take during a match, but I really  believe, you know, after the fourth set that I could  win it now and I have a very good chance, but to get to  the chance, I knew I have to start after being down to  zero, that I have to do something and I knew when I had  the break now, there might be a change in the game     
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT