VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 29, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thomas, what happened?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: What happened is I didn't eat  for the last two days.  I slept probably a total of six  hours last two days and I have no explanation for  that.  What happened, it is just that I dehydrated  completely.  When I came into the -- I mean, I had no  memory what happened until I was in the locker room and  I was just told I had 40 degrees temperature and I am  going to the hospital now to make all the tests and  check for the blood and heart, and so we will see.   
 

Q.  Don't you remember anything about the match,  you mean?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: I don't remember the last  points.  I cannot recall what was the score at the  end.   
 

Q.  What is the reason you didn't eat, because  you weren't feeling good or something like that?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER:  I had no appetite.  Every  time I touch something to eat, I felt like throwing up,  so -- and I had that already in Estoril.  And so what I  am doing now is definitely I have to make a complete  body check, whatever reason it is for, and you never  know.   
 

Q.  What will happen tomorrow, do you think you  can play or you have to see a doctor?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know.  It is not my  decision.   
 

Q.  Before the match you were feeling okay?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: No.   
 

Q.  From the beginning?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: I went to bed last night at  10, I didn't sleep until 3 and I woke up at 5:30 the  first time, so I didn't eat anything for two days; just  very little things and all I was thinking to eat was  like in fluid form.   
 

Q.  Thomas, was there ever a moment when you  thought you just couldn't go on?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: I mean, I was -- as I said, I  didn't feel my body anymore.  I was just waiting to  fall down if -- I couldn't feel my legs.  Whatever I  did was instincts.  I had no idea.  I could not think  what I did.  I had no idea.   
 

Q.  As you are a good friend with Gaudenzi,  wouldn't it have been wiser to let him get through as  maybe -- you know, I mean, he has a big chance tomorrow  and maybe you won't be able to play?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: So what?  I am professional.   
 

Q.  If there had been a third set would you have  continued?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: No.   
 

Q.  Thomas, you say it is not your decision.  Are  you going to allow the doctor to make the decision of  whether you play tomorrow; is that what you mean?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: Yes.  The doctor and my coach,  definitely because it is his responsibility too, and if  there is any mistake in my system, I don't want to risk  any heart damage or anything.  It is nice to win Monte  Carlo, but not with a heart attack.   
 

Q.  This decision has nothing to do with the fact  that you are going into the match not feeling good  tomorrow, but you can lose a match and you have 21  straight now; has nothing to do with your decision,  this fact?  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: No, no.  It is just -- it is a  --   
 

Q.  I mean, if you don't play, you don't lose and  you keep your --  
 
THOMAS MUSTER: But I don't win.  That is true  what you said.  I mean, the biggest wish for me is to  compete, to go out there and -- it is the biggest wish  for players to go out on that Center Court and play  here.  I mean, it is one of the nicest center courts in  the world, and if you play here on Sunday, that is  something that has a special meaning to the player, but  there is a certain price for things that you pay and,  you know, that is -- the question is how high is the  price.     
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT