NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Thomas, how much was the rain a factor or the delays?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, of course it is more of a disadvantage
for me than for him because I was playing well, so there was no
reason for me to stop and I had several breakpoints and things
like that.  So I think especially the end of the second set, I
mean, I got screwed first of all, in the breakpoint and then in
the baseline and then on the sideline at 4-All instead of 15-All,
it was Love-30 and then the rain delay again for a few minutes,
I mean, all these things, it is not very good for me.  And it
is better for him.

 Q.   The last suspension came after you got screwed on one
point.  Now, you are behind Love-30, so you go back and you got
to start serving again at Love-30; isn't it difficult to get your
serving rhythm back?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yes, that is what I said; instead of 15-All,
Love-30, that is the whole thing, I mean, and then after losing
the second set, then he finally-- was just -- I couldn't believe
that the  linesman can miss a ball like that.  That is, I mean,
I shouldn't think about it, but it is difficult.  It is like you
are on your way to the bank; every time you step into the door,
somebody just locks up the door in front of you.  I mean, it is
nothing you can do, if you get a call like that.  I don't know,
it is like -- like you get raped; nothing you can do.

 Q.   I am sure you have been in that situation before where
you faced tough calls, but you have been able to get yourself
back into a match.  Why was that different today?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  It is not because if you get two breakpoints
against this guy you got to make it. If he misses a shot and --
actually broken his serve, then this is it.  I don't just understand
these people; how you can miss a shot -- they are not even fast.
They were two shots.  They weren't even fast and there is a mark
there; you can see it.  There is nothing you can do.

 Q.   In your on-court interview after your match against Chang
you noted that your game has changed. You sounded very optimistic
going into this match.  But you didn't say how your game has changed.
 How has it changed?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I think I am serving  better.  I am --
like on the return I am like moving more forward.  Today, I mean,
I was returning very good until set and 3-All; should have been
like 5-1 for me, I would have had my chances there.  That is the
next thing, if you are using those shots and it is 5-1 we don't
have to talk about a tough call at 4-All -- be in the locker room.
 That is the way it is.  Yesterday three matchpoints down, he
went in today; he have all the chances in the world to beat Edberg
and he just didn't make it, but my game, as you asked, that is
two main things that probably changed and probably moving more
into -- even my groundstrokes; more covering the court inside,
and waiting for my chances to come in, so that -- probably more
aggressive.

 Q.   Thomas, what about -- Stefan is known for his kick serve.
 Did that have anything -- because he was getting more of them
in the third set.

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, but this is like if you are two breaks
up, doesn't matter what you do, I mean, then you raise your game
and the other one goes down. Soon it is even, you know, you have
to make those shots if you are up two breaks; you can fail one
or the other.  That doesn't matter third set.  It was no match
from the break in the first game of the third set; there was no
more match.  I was just too disappointed.  I couldn't make those
shots and actually -- well, a break, which could have meant a
win, you know, in the second set.  It was taken away and I just
WAS too upset with that.  It was my mistake - whatever it means.
 It is always human being that screw you.  It is like that.

   End of FastScripts!    

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT