NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1995
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.   Thomas, this was one of your most satisfying wins coming
back from three matchpoints down?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I have done that before, but I have lost
matches when I had match points in Monte Carlo against Bruguera
a couple of years ago and it is coming from three matches points,
down one was just 30-40, but one was 15-40 which I think was much
tougher, but yeah, you can't really say that -- I mean, it is
luck that you win, but because it could go either way, but I think
that we played a good match, both of us, and I could have decided
the match in the second set already.  I had many chances which
I couldn't use and he couldn't take.  That happens, but I think
the most important thing for me is that I played good tennis and
I hung in there even though I was down two matchpoints and basically
I think I deserved to win like he would have deserved to win.
 So that is all I can say, but I am happy the way I played.

 Q.   Are you looking forward to playing Edberg tomorrow?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah.  I have never won  against him, but I think
that --

 Q.   It is a preview of the Davis Cup against Sweden?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Not really, because Davis Cup is different, anyway,
because they can choose the surface, the balls, everything they
want, so that is -- that is anyway different, but here I think
it is just two players, they have the same chances to win and
go out and there is 50/50 chance from the beginning on. Davis
Cup is always, you know, it is a different point of view to take
it.

 Q.   But it would affect the outcome of the Davis Cup match
if, for example, if you win tomorrow?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  No, it wouldn't.

 Q.   Give yourself confidence?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  It wouldn't.

 Q.   No?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  It wouldn't, because it is a team game and
even if I win two matches, it doesn't mean we win the Davis Cup.
 Davis Cup is completely different because we don't have such
a strong team and we are completely outsiders and I mean, we are
happy that we beat Spain and we stay in the first division so
far, so it is-- it is not that we go to Sweden say, we have a
chance.  I mean, we are trying  to play well.  This is different.


 Q.   Thomas, the week before Indian Wells you have won Mexico,
three times in a row.  How have you been able to win that same
tournament three straight times?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  I have won Florence three straight times, so
it is not unusual for me to defend a title.  That shows that I
can play under pressure and, you know, and I like the tournament
there and it is always fun for me to play there and I don't go
there and feel the pressure; I just go and play and enjoy myself.


 Q.   Would you call it one of your favorite tournaments?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, there are many tournaments I like, it is
just -- if you lose three times first round, you say it is a terrible
tournament; if you win three times, it is great, you know--

 Q.   Have you been able to deal with the altitude and the
smog there?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, pretty well.  It is the first time I came
from there I don't use antibiotics because I had a bad throat
when I came back, but it is the first time I could handle it.


 Q.   Where does this tournament rank for you in the U.S.?


 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it is probably best tournament in the states,
I would say, it is nice because you just so close to the courts
and you are staying in a hotel; just walk over here.  It is very
easy because everything is in one complex; you don't have to drive
very far; get caught in traffic, whatever.  I think it is very
relaxed.  I like pretty much like to play here.

 Q.   You like this more than the U.S. Open?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, that is a Slam.  That is completely --
that is not the way you like it or not.  You just got to play
because it is a Slam, so it is nothing to complain because Grand
Slam is a Grand Slam whatever they make, selling hot dogs behind
the court, it doesn't matter, it's a Grand Slam, whatever. You
can't complain.

 Q.   Coming off of a clay court tournament in Mexico, was
it hard to come to hard court, how hard?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Mexico is three times faster than here.  It is
not because of the color.  It is red thing, but they call it clay,
call it -- call it whatever you want, it is pretty fast clay,
so that is really slow here.

 JOE LYNCH:  Your shoes are a lot cleaner.

 THOMAS MUSTER:  You can use shocks two times,  only thing that
is good, two, three times.

 Q.   I heard that you had some pretty serious injuries in
the last year or so?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  No.

 JOE LYNCH:  That is five years ago.

 THOMAS MUSTER six years ago.

 Q.   You moved around great today; you looked 100% plus?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  That is what they said in court.  They said operation
is nothing, they said when I got to court for the lawsuit, they
said you are better than ever before, everybody should get knee
injuries, so that is good; that is what they say in court.

 Q.   Is that lawsuit settled?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah.

 Q.   You had some big volleys in the third set?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Big volleys?

 Q.   Yeah.

 THOMAS MUSTER I missed a few, yeah.

 Q.   You had got a few in though?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, sometimes I do.

 Q.   Are you coming in more than being more aggressive?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  I am pretty aggressive, but  it is -- to come
in and volley, it is not my natural game.  I try to do it more
and I know I have to come once in for the shake hands so that
is -- I know I have to do that.  The other thing, I still can
decide.

 Q.   What about when you jumped over the net and what was
that?

 JOE LYNCH:  During the tiebreaker at 4-2.

 THOMAS MUSTER:  Just wanted to not go around.

 Q.   How much do you think you intimidate the other players
the way you play?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  You have to ask others.  I don't know.  I can't
answer that because I don't know how much I do.

 Q.   In the three years in your Tour stop at Mexico City have
you had the chance to go around the city to take a look?  Do you
Tour?

 THOMAS MUSTER:  I went to the shopping mall on the other side
first time in three years; that is all I saw, but I would have
loved to go somewhere, but when you play, it is not -- we are
not there for sightseeing.  Everybody thinks so, but we are not.

 JOE LYNCH:  Thank you.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT