COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thomas, with Andre, it is always very  spectacular, how do you rank this match?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I think he definitely  is in great shape right now.  He is physically fit, and  he is hitting the ball extremely well.  And many times   -- on all surfaces he is world class and an  outstanding player.  That is something I have to  accept.  That is the way he played, and I think to my  game I could have served much better and would have  been easier for my game which I think from the baseline  was pretty even.  From the point of my serve, it was  very weak, and that cost me basically the match.  


Q.  Thomas, were you disrupted by when he sort of   -- when he looked up at the video replay when he hit  the ball between his legs; a doublefault after that  hit, didn't it sort of ruin you or did it affect your  concentration?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Not really, because there was  no other choice, and I made point.  There was no reason  to be tight there.  So I think as I said, I served  extremely bad, and I tried to force it too much, and  then I hit too many doublefaults especially in the  first set.  And 3-All was fine and at 4-3 we changed  balls, and I lost my rhythm a bit.  And he just came  over me, and then I got back pretty well in the second  set and again bad service game cost me the match in the  second set.  


Q.  You played him twice before this year, where  would you place this match in this season between the  French Open and the U.S. Open?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  What was that?  


Q.  Where would you place this match between the  French Open and the U.S. Open?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it is not -- nothing I  could compare with because it was almost on different  surfaces.  I beat him on clay court, and all the time,  actually except one time when he was very young, I beat  him on hard court.  But every time I beat him was on  clay and now every time I lost was either hard court or  supreme court.  And as I said, he showed on grass and  all surfaces that he is an outstanding player.  To  place it, it is very difficult for me.  


Q.  Is it a bit like playing yourself, playing  Andre, somebody who hits the ball all the time?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't think my hair will  grow any more, that long.  But especially the same, I  think, if two players playing the same style, it is  always good tennis, I think.  And if two servers are  playing, you can just watch it.  That is the whole  secret.  So I think, as I said, I lost the match with  the serve today and that is the way I see it.  


Q.  Davis Cup, talking about advancing the dates;  what do you think about this?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it has been this way in  the past.  There has always been a lot of changes but  after all, the problem is always to get from the  Australian Open, the long way to where the Davis Cup  had been played otherwise -- semifinal, final, that is  what makes it difficult, if you get through the  semifinals or finals at the Australian Open; then it  becomes critical. But otherwise most people eliminated  before aren't there, so they have time to travel to  their Davis Cup venue.  


Q.  What about the crowd, did you ever see the  crowd reacting after a wrong call?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I think it is right  because the umpire doesn't see the ball.  The ball is  very fast from the line and so he could repeat it.  I  mean, I gave one point to Andre at the U.S. Open and in  a way, that was his return today, but I don't  understand that overruling when they don't see a thing  and they don't see the ball they ought to see.  So this  is something I am really a bit mad about.  


Q.  Playing Munich is playing at home for you?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, in a way it is funny  playing here because there are many fans I have got in  Munich and I can feel people support me and did so  until the end, which is great and I have been playing  here a couple of times now and at the Bavarian Open I  played here quite a few times and the proximity to  Austria, maybe the crowd is prepared to support me, but  this is what it was like last year, too.  


Q.  Is your funny cap and jacket the answer to  Agassi's white and black socks?.  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, they call me Alpine  Boris, so I must play this role.  


Q.  Any problems in the end with the surface or  the carpet?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I was moving too fast,,  so the glue dissolved and I had some problems with the  court behind the baseline, yes.  Some deformation.  That doesn't have to be a problem with these prize  monies, they might be able to buy a new carpet.  


Q.  Are you going to stay as a spectator now?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  No, I have seen such a lot of  tennis these eleven years, no, I am going to Australia  next Friday.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT