U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1994
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thomas, you and Bruguera have mostly played each other on clay, how did this surface affect the way you normally play against each other?  Was there much difference? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't think the surface is much of a difference because the balls are slow and the court is pretty slow, so we were both hitting topspin balls and so I think it is pretty much the same, except that when you hit a winner you can make your shots easier, you make more points when you serve.  I think I have been serving better than he did today and that was mainly that I had easy points off my forehands sometimes and I got a few free points.  I had a lot more break chances especially on the first set.  So it could have been easier in the first set, but I think I played a good tactic and I have a good record against him, so I don't really think it is a big upset. 


Q.  In the tiebreaker, he said he was in front 3-1; is that correct? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  No, 1-Love.  He played a great first point, a great get and he made the first point, but then I was up 3-1, so -- 


Q.  You were up 3-1? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah. 


Q.  What was the key to the tiebreaker? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I just -- I went into the net a couple of more times than he did, and I think he had more pressure than me, and I think I played a good tiebreak.  Tiebreak.  I was way inside the court and he was just hitting topspin balls and waiting for my mistakes. 


Q.  Do you generally wait until a key moment like that to go to the net, because most of your points were baseline rallies? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  See, my coach and me talk about the tactic today.  In the restaurant he told me to come in more, so -- 


Q.  Could you identify your coach for the record? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Ronnie-- everybody knows.  That is about it.  So, not to be confused, but I think he really told me to come in on important shots and, you know, we really -- I have been working on that. 


Q.  Do you get tired out there? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Last year I was, but we finished around 2:30 in the morning because of rain, but sometimes I do.  I think this week I have matches that were short and I played good game out there and, I mean, that is -- I am used to running on clay, so it is not too much effort for me to run on hard court, even it is different because you have to sprint much more, but to play like this from the baseline is not too much effort. 


Q.  Once you won the tiebreaker, did you feel that with Sergi two sets to Love, down, that his tendencies would be to give in a little bit in the third set? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Not really because, maybe that is what he meant that he was up 3-1 in the third set by games.  So -- and then I won my serve and then I went to change my pants because they were really wet.  I mean, just because of sweating, of course.  Not to be misunderstood.  And then I broke right a way, maybe -- I broke his rhythm maybe there. 


Q.  And when you doublefaulted to lose your serve in that set, what happened up behind you in the stands? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  There were some Spanish music.  It was affecting me, I don't know, but you know, if you have music all the time probably wouldn't affect you.  But it starts for short moment, and then stops.  It is probably bothering me.  When you doublefault at this point, you look for excuses anyway.  It doesn't matter. 


Q.  Thomas, in an earlier interview, Agassi said he looked ahead in the draw and he saw an opportunity for revenge against you for Paris? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  It is definitely there now, the chance. 


Q.  Do you think that gives him an advantage? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  I like the discomfort in me that I am getting from the courts, you can see that we are good friends.  I gave him also the chance to win the Open in the beginning when I saw the first two matches. 


Q.  You said a few days ago that in a Grand Slam tournament that is played on hard courts or grass a quarter or semifinal finish, is something you could be satisfied with, but the way you are playing right now, what do you think of your chances? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, there is always a match to play, I mean, as a chance to win.  When you go out, it is 50/50, and, of course, you can win.  But, I said when I come here, people don't expect me to take the trophy.  To be in the quarters was my goal and I have reached that.  So whatever happens now is even more -- more success for me than I expected, you see, because I had two first round losses, in Cincinnati and Indianapolis, coming to the Open, you know.  Expectations are really not -- you can win the cup, but I am happy winning round by round and I am in the quarters now.  That is what I did last year, and I am happy with that, you see, for clay court specialist. 


Q.  Does it take any kind of unusual preparation to have to face Agassi here with this crowd like you will have to do now? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  No.  I don't think I have to dress like the Jensen or anything to be competitive, but I put on the same shirts, the same thing, you see, and the same rackets.  It is -- I just go out there and try to do my best.  I have a good record against Andre, and if he wins I am happy for him because I think he deserves it to play well here in the States and he has been through a lot of injuries and I think if he wins, I am happy for him.  If I win, it is a great effort for me.  And because we are really good friends and all through the years even when he was in the top five and I was not way below 20, you know, we were good friends and practicing together.  So I really look forward to that match and to enjoy myself and have is a good time on the Center Court playing Andre. 


Q.  Your first serve percentage was very good today.  You were constantly attacking the ball, controlling the point; is that what you planned to do when you play Agassi, that strategy? 

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't really want to say what I am going to do against Andre.  If you -- if you excuse that because I think that is a very important point when we play against each other and I don't really want to come out with that. But I think it could be a tough match and I mean, he is hitting the ball extremely well, timing the ball well.  I have been playing okay, so it can be an open match, but the last time we played on hard court, I beat him in five sets, when he was 16 and he was like-- had wildcard for the Lipton and Nick told me that he is going to be one of the best players in the world and I didn't believe him at that time.  So, he was right, actually, you see, and now we are facing each other a couple of years later and we will see. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT