U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Are you and the chair umpire on best of terms again? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't have a problem with Richard. He just -- he doesn't see very
well. That is his problem. That is the only thing. But we have heard it a few times before
about him. That is his thing. He is a real nice guy, sometimes messes up, I mean...  
 
Q. You seem to have a lot of support out there. Are they Austrians or just American
fans or what? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. I am not a resident here, so, it must be Austrian. I don't
know if I am that famous. No, I think I got some fans here, particularly what happened in
'89, I think, Key Biscayne, many Americans, they like the way I fought back and many times
I have been asked about this. So I think they like this kind of attitude and I think they
like the way I play and so they are also behind me.  
 
Q. Thomas, now that you are through the first week, going into the second week, next
week, are you happy with the way you are -- you need to step up the way you are hitting
the ball, or is the way you are hitting the ball now good enough to let you advance even
farther in the tournament? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It is good enough for the guys I played right now, but to win probably
against Bruguera or Goellner - I don't know who is winning, but I guess Bruguera; I am
just making a guess here - I probably need to serve a little bit better and more
consistent. I need to come in a little more because Sergi is not going to give me a lot of
free points like I got into in the first three matches, but you make your mind up before
you play somebody and you just put your tactics the day before and the last practice you
go ahead and try different things and then you go out and try to put it in the match. I
think a player like me is experienced enough to change his game enough from one match to
another, whatever he needs to play. You have the basic game, but you can really go and
change it in a few ways and depends on the opponent. That is what I am going to do,
definitely. It is not a matter of how I am hitting the ball. I am hitting it very clean
and good. It is just a matter of changing tactics, actually.  
 
Q. Just in case it is Goellner, do you any thoughts about him that are different than
the thoughts about Sergi? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Just a different game. Goellner is -- a lot depends on his serve. His
whole game is built up on his serve. If he is serving well, it is going to be very
difficult. If he serves bad, just going to be broken early and then you sort of come over
him, then it is tough, because he has a big forehand and a big serve. Those are his
biggest weapons, so if one of those two doesn't work, then he is in trouble.  
 
Q. This is the tournament that a lot of players like to have a lot of comments about
the problems here. Have you come to like it more over the years you have played here? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I am telling you, the more you win here, the more you like it. I would
put it that way. If you come here with an attitude, say I hate hamburgers; I hate the
planes; I hate the city; I hate the travel, then stay home. That is the only reason. If
you come here and you just accept what is happening, otherwise it is very difficult. You
can't compare Australia or European or the tradition of England or Paris even the
Australian Open, it is different.  
 
Q. What about the first time you came; is this how. . . 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: First time I played here was probably in '86 qualifying, '87, maybe,
must be one -- '86, I guess.  
 
Q. Did you initially not like it and then develop this philosophy that you better not
have an attitude and not come? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: When I was young I had a problem. I didn't accept anything, so that was
my biggest problem at the beginning to accept things, you know, and I just accepted to
play my way and on clay and I needed to change that attitude also to play on other
surfaces and with changing this attitude I start looking hard courts more and made me more
successful. In '89 when I was in the semis in Australian Open, Key Biscayne, finals, so
once -- if I know I can play, that is tough, I start looking to play on it; then I had the
accident and I couldn't play much on that, but I never really hated to play.  
 
Q. You and Sergi have some similiarities. You both want to stay in the point as long as
possible; and have a lot of patience. . . 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I have no patience, I don't want to have long points. I want to win
quickly, but I think we got the same game, yeah.  
 
Q. Is he one of the players that can make you try to overhit or go for too much because
of his consistency? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I think that we both have to do something otherwise we are going to need
the court all day, so one of us has to do something at one point and I think the player
who comes in more and who is serving better at a certain stage and then that is very
important because we both can run from the baseline and play, but the one who takes more
chances I think is going to win.  
 
Q. In other words, you have learned to love of Flushing Meadow; is that fair to say? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Amazing, history about the city, everything, you know, I really learned
a lot in Flushing. My English improved, I guess, everything. I know the Hamburger prizes,
it is just fantastic -- No, I like the city. I like to stay here two weeks, but I am
really happy to leave then.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT