US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Happy with your play today?

THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah, not too bad. All right.

Q. This was a rematch of the Estoril final. Is this surface better for you against him?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know, probably, yes. But I was a set up there and then he really
played well and I don't think -- can't turnaround as quickly there as he probably would
like here because balls are faster and the balls are bouncing more flat so don't have
much, much time to set up the shots. So if you just keep moving the balls around it is
probably more difficult because he tries to cover his backhand corner, you know, almost on
every shot.

Q. Are you lucky to be a left-hander when you play him, get it all into his backhand --

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, that doesn't matter too much. I think maybe because my forehand
crosscourt is quite a good -- quite a strong shot that it gives me an opportunity to open
the court fairly good and then can set up my shots and open the court.

Q. How do you see the tournament, in terms of who is playing well? Any idea on the
first day what is going to happen?

THOMAS MUSTER: I tell you. I haven't seen the draw. I can't even tell you who is
playing who, but obviously it is very difficult to see clearly who is probably the
favorite here or who is going to be in the semifinals. It is very competitive. We have
seen so many different results this year, I mean, it is getting tougher and tougher every
year and hard to say.

Q. Are you satisfied with the preparation, your preparation coming in?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I have had several matches coming into this tournament which was
pretty good. I have had several weeks in the States and it is good.

Q. How have you progressed?

THOMAS MUSTER: I think I play better every week and I had -- the last two weeks I
really played well, even maybe at the end of the day they weren't the results I would have
liked to achieve, but it is good preparation.

Q. How important was it to win the first set? 

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I was up 4-1, I was controlling the match and I dropped a little
bit and -- but I think I played a good tiebreak and I was always ahead, so, I mean, if you
play someone like Berasategui, it is always important to win the first set and because it
is always physical. When you play someone who moves the ball around, pretty well, but then
I think that he probably got a little bit upset with himself and tired and he had a lot of
unforced errors in set 2 and 3, so --

Q. He said it is more difficult to beat new five-set matches than three-set matches.
Would you agree?

THOMAS MUSTER: Probably comes down to endurance, maybe, yeah. I think the longer the
match goes the better the chances are for me, that is right.

Q. How do you feel your chances are?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know, what is the odds? I don't know. 1 to 1000, I don't know.

Q. That bad?

THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know.

Q. There are certain players you don't feel like you can beat in a three out of five
set match on hard courts here?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I think I could beat anybody on a particularly good day, but it is
always difficult who -- depends who you play against, but it is always difficult to come
out and play well everyday and it depends how you adjust to your opponents. But I cannot
really say that I am afraid going out against anyone.

Q. Who is the player you least like to play?

THOMAS MUSTER: Myself.

Q. Why is that? Do you trick yourself a lot?

THOMAS MUSTER: Sometimes. I try to. It is not easy though.

Q. Goran said that Becker is the best player of all time for his money. Would that be
your choice, or if Sampras wins here and ties Emerson, would you consider him the best of
all time?

THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I mean, I definitely think that Pete is the player of the last
probably, I don't know, six, seven years, but I think, I don't know, there hasn't been
anyone maybe beside Borg or Emerson, very few guys that reached that level. I mean, Pete
has won on clay. Becker never did. He has never won the French, but that is -- and I think
comparison to Becker he still has a chance to do so, so -- just the weeks of being No. 1
and the pressure he has handled the last years, there is -- I think there is not much to
say against Pete there.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT