VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1994
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   How are you?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Good.


Q.   What do you think was the decisive element in your game today that was working very well?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I think that I played a good effort game and he was trying to force the game to play hard, to come in on his shots, but unfortunately - or, I mean, he missed too many shots.  It was good for me, but I think I just played very good from a tactical part and he missed quite a lot of shots.


Q.   Your serve was working very well today; wasn't it?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I wouldn't say it-- but it was better than the last two matches, improved, and I was working yesterday a little bit on my serve in the afternoon and so it worked out pretty good today.


Q.   Thomas, are you sort of just happy to be moving along in a contented way leaving all the focus of attention on other people at the moment here this week, because, I mean, you haven't got on the Center Court yet; at least the last two rounds?

THOMAS MUSTER:  It was not too much focus on Agassi because he played so late, I would say.  It is good to play down there quiet and show up on the Center Court once in awhile.  I like that.


Q.   Do you think if he had won one of these two breakpoints in the tenth game of the second set, he would have taken the second set from you?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I can't tell you that, but I know that it would have been an open game again, yeah, definitely; there is a chance to lose this match, of course.


Q.   Do you share the opinion of some of the others this year that there seems to be more good clay court players around than ever?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, definitely, I think there are more around, players, so if we follow results, you can see that the same people are winning on many surfaces.  So that is why the top players have so many points, and you can see that they play very well on all surfaces.


Q.   Staggering entry for the French Open, top 151 players have all entered?

THOMAS MUSTER:  So, I mean we will see that it is-- the competition is amazing and it is -- I mean, it is good for the tennis in one way.  I think that they are not always the same people winning on clay and always the same people winning on the other surfaces, but basically you see almost every week the same players in the quarters; then in the semifinals, which means they are really on the top and there is also, I think, good competition.


Q.   Do you think it is maybe even then too early for to us start getting excited about what might happen in tennis, say, after Rome it will be the same 6 or 8 of you who should come through?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I think after Rome you can see more because Chang hasn't played on clay and Pete hasn't played, so we will see what that will bring up.  But certainly it is going to be a tough battle for the French Open.


Q.   Have you played Edberg before on clay?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, I think last time was in Dusseldorf at the Nation's CUP on clay when I lost, but I was ill  when I played him on clay, so -- but-- so I have never won a match in and the last match we played was in the Australia Open where I played a great tennis match; where I had no chance at all, so -- but he is the favorite and I mean I have reached the quarters; I have nothing to lose, actually, it is okay.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT