COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you feel?  You are leading 40-Love,  and then 3 aces?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  As long as people put on these fast surfaces,  there is nothing a player like myself can do.  This  will -- cultivating player personalities like Pete  Sampras and Ivanisevic.  


Q.  You did in fact make a lot of good returns,  were you reading his serve?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  There is not much to read when Pete is  serving, because, I mean, he is just mixing it up very  well.  He is just placing the ball so well.  It is  consistently like 185, 190, and even if he is serving  wide, I mean, it is very difficult.  You have to take  so much risk on the serve.  There is not much that you  can do on a surface like this.  I mean, that is the way  it is on Supreme, the one who is serving better -- if  Ivanisevic would have been on the other side today, it  would have been a tiebreak, and somebody maybe makes  the returns, you know; sometime that is how it would  be.  But it is -- the question, is if it is  interesting to play a match like that even for a  player, I mean --  


Q.  Does it bother you that the two big events at  the end of the year, ATP Finals and this, both on  surfaces which a claycourter has really no chance at  all?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, I mean, Bruguera won yesterday.  He won  a match, but it is just, I mean -- that is what I said  before, if I would have played maybe somebody else,  Brett Steven or even Bruguera, I think on that, our  fast -- I think is a much better chance for me to win  the match.  It was unlucky for me to play Pete in the  first round.  That is the draw.  But basically, I think  there is -- there should be also some changes, because  players are qualifying on different surfaces; the Grand  Slam Cup, they qualify for the Grand Slam Cup on  different surfaces.  There is not one supreme  tournament.  Not one Slam is played on that surface.  And the Masters, people qualify for the Masters on  different surfaces.  Always played on the same surface  gives always the same chance to the same players.  


Q.  What do you think the solution is for events  this time of year taking them to different parts of the  world or putting indoor clay down or --  

THOMAS MUSTER:  We have seen the most interesting things when  Davis Cup ties happen, so everybody is able to put the  clay court indoors-- not even clay court, but just put  another like hard court, like Green Set, I mean even  Green Set is better.  I don't really want to complain  because I lost the match.  It is just the basic  discussion, maybe I would have played on clay today and  would have lost too, but I am just thinking about the  idea of doing that.  We have seen it for years now  playing all these events.  It is always the same  players.  


Q.  What about the crowd, the audience in the  hall, I mean, they -- it was like playing in Austria,  wasn't it?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, I felt the crowd was behind me, and  this is something very positive.  They know me being a  fighter and going long rallies and long matches, and I  would have love to show off my game, because here it is  only serve and volley and just one serve it is  finished.  The character of player doesn't really show  here. It is always three or four players who really  have such a type of surface under control.  I would  have loved to show more of my play here.  


Q.  What about the Davis Cup, because it is going  to be Austria against Germany; what do you think about  this?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I can't truly tell you because I do not know  who will be on the German team.  I don't know where we  are going to play.  I don't know the facts, and I  cannot answer this.  Only thing is I believe we do have  our chance.  


Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT