ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thomas, it's been an interesting year for  you, but your goal was to get to the final of the ATP  Championships, and now you have the frustrating job of  sitting on the side lines.  How do you feel this week?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's not frustrating. I think I had a  great season. I never expected to be at the finals  because I knew at the end of the year I had to go to  the States to because of the trial going on for the  lawsuit for Key Biscayne in '89, so I knew I had almost  no chance, and the only chance was that the other  players were playing bad and Goran Ivanisevic was  playing very well at the end of the year and I think  everybody up there deserves to be here, so I had a  great year; my goal was actually to be in the Top 10,  and I qualified for the Grand Slam cup, so I really  really can't complain about the season.  


Q.  As you set up to your quarter final defeat at  the US Open against Alexander Volkov, the most  frustrating thing about it is not that you missed a  match point, but had you won, you would have qualified  for Frankfurt.  Is that INAUDIBLE because you just  missed by one place?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's basically 50 points, INAUDIBLE.  The win against Sergi Bruguera in Monte Carlo, the  tournament.  The win against Volkov at the US Open or  any other match I lost, I mean 50 points is nothing in  comparison to what 50-thousand something you have to  make over the year.  It's just a pity I didn't make  it.  But as I said I'm not really frustrated.  I'm  looking forward any way to INAUDIBLE, to improve my  game, so I'm not really INAUDIBLE.  


Q.  INAUDIBLE.  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I think my biggest chance to win the Slams is  probably Paris.  I proved this year that I can play on  hard court. Again, I was in the finals of the Sydney  tournament, quarter finals at the U.S. Open,  semi-finals at INAUDIBLE.  So I think it shows that I  have good potential to play on the surface.  I'm very  happy with my performance, but, of course, I'm missing  a little bit-- or sometimes I miss the Grand Slam  results, but what can you do.  


Q.  One surface you haven't yet mastered is grass  --how do you feel about playing on a grass?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I really enjoy playing on grass, but I just  don't have the possibilities to practice too much on  it, and next year I'm probably going to do more about  it.  We'll probably play one or two preparation  tournaments and we'll take a little bit of a risk to  improve my game and to improve my ranking which I can  only do by playing the bigger tournaments on hard court  all over the summer.  And also playing some indoor  events, and also grass court.  Grass court is an  exception because it's only three or four tournaments  played on that surface.  So to me it was not always too  serious because I had to make up some points at the  smaller tournaments and particularly after the French  Open because I wasn't too satisfied with my ranking,  but let's put it that way, maybe next year I'm better  after Paris, if I have enough points, then I can take a  little bit of a risk on grass court.  


Q.  How much does the accident of '89 affect your  mood? Does it influence your choice of tournaments and  how many you play on which surface?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  It really doesn't.  But perhaps my schedule  because I cannot play too many weeks on hard surface; I  cannot play four or five weeks in a row.  I have to  play very precisely, rest time in inbetween the  tournaments.  It's just a different way of scheduling.  I cannot do whatever I want, so I really have to be  focused in planning my season very well.  


Q.  Going through it all as you did the last  couple of weeks with the lawsuit in America, did that  bring it all back, get a little emotional for you?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Not emotional, I mean you have to be  on  trial, you have to be present, ten hours in the court  room.  I mean, it was quite interesting in terms of  American law that says -- I mean I could have  practiced, I pulled out of tournaments in Europe, and I  would have gotten maybe a chance to be Number 8 player  so I had to do the other thing and I was planning for a  long time to go there, so it's a pity.  At least I won  the lawsuit, so...  


Q.  Another thing that's happened in the last  week is that you've been named Davis Cup Captain for  next year and you haven't played Davis Cup in over a  year, and that's quite a comeback, isn't it?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, I think it's a very good comeback, but  the strangest thing is playing next year against the  German team I think INAUDIBLE and I've been selected as  the Davis Cup Captain which is very INAUDIBLE very  emotional for me and it's very nice of them.  I know  it's a very difficult job, and INAUDIBLE my coach going  to be on my side and helping me out with other things  around Davis Cup, and going to the draw and things like  that.  After I have to concentrate on playing  INAUDIBLE, but INAUDIBLE checked with this decision but  I think we stayed together and we try to work it out  again I think we have a good relationship.  


Q.  Are you going to sit alongside INAUDIBLE on  the court as the captain?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  No, I'm not going to go because that's I  cannot sit 8 hours a day and then playing my own  match.  In case I'm injured or let's say I finish in  playing one or two years or three years or whatever  INAUDIBLE by doing everything which is necessary that  has to be done as Davis Cup Captain.  But while when  I'm while playing as I said my coach is going to sit  there and going to give the courage for me INAUDIBLE.  


Q.  You got to the semi-final in 1990, do you  think this is a new dawn in Austrian Tennis, the fact  that you're all playing?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I think so INAUDIBLE INAUDIBLE and I think  everything that happened in two years, everybody has  learned from the last two years, and we know what it  means to play Davis Cup together, and I think it's very  good from the sport's side, for the country and for  tennis, but also for the federation.  


Q.  And does that make a difference that your  playing Germany?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, maybe emotional, makes it a bit of an  extra kick, I would say, for the crowd, but basically I  think the best that the team is playing and the Spanish  team is playing and I think INAUDIBLE and I think  everybody is really excited about that even though it's  five months away, but I think it could be very good  like it was against the U.S.  


Q.  Finally, Thomas, what would be a successful  1994 for you?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, basically I think to reach -- maybe at  the spring time around six or five in the world would  be a goal for me.  Playing well in the Davis Cup and  being successful there, I think is another goal.  And,  of course, reaching the ATP Finals and the Grand Slam  cup.  It's all a wish, but every player has that wish.  And, of course, to be Number 1 if the world is always a  dream for me and I don't know if it's coming true, but  I'm going to try my best.  


Q.  Thomas, were you not playing tennis now, were  you not caught up in sports, what do you wish; what  would you be doing at this time in your life?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  I don't know.  I'd probably --  a tennis  court probably, and probably studying economics or law.  


Q.  Why those two?  

THOMAS MUSTER:  Well, it's something I say that in my mind if  I'm not playing anymore, and I think it's a very  interesting combination economics and law.  And I  always enjoy it, and since what I saw especially now  what I saw in the States, I think it's a lot of  competition in law, and I like competition.  


Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT