REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What happened today?  You were playing well in Estoril, Barcelona, then here.  Is there a problem?

THOMAS MUSTER:  No, there's no problem.  I just, in the first set, I had two or three chances in the beginning of the first three games to be ahead.  Instead of being 2-1 on my side, probably I was down two breaks, 3-Love.  I just played too defensive.  He just played better.  The second set, I think it was a very even game.  I had a big chance to come back to 4-All, which I didn't use.  In general, I didn't think I played aggressive enough.  I should have played all the match like I played parts of the second set.  I didn't do that, and he took advantage of it.  I mean, even as young, he's an experienced player and can take advantage of things like this.


Q.  If you compare with '95, do you feel you're physically as strong as that time?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Comparison to my results, when I do  my physical tests, there's no difference in strength or condition by numbers.  But I guess tennis is not always being physically fit.  Running five thousand meters in a certain time, doing jumps at a certain height.  I think it's part of a technical game, mental game.  If everything fits together, then you're winning.  But, unfortunately, not everything was the same today.  It's not a very easy first round draw to get into a tournament.


Q.  You didn't seem to be very happy with your racquet.  You switched back to your former racquet, right?

THOMAS MUSTER:  It's just -- three centimeters shorter.


Q.  You feel better with it?

THOMAS MUSTER:  Yeah, much better.  That's not the problem.


Q.  In what direction will you work the next weeks in order to be in very good shape in Paris?

THOMAS MUSTER:  I think I'm physically in top shape.  That's one thing.  I have to play aggressive from the beginning on.  But that's part of a mental game.  On the other hand, maybe I'm trying too much to force too much from the beginning on.  I'm not playing maybe loose enough.  Maybe I'm trying too hard.  That can be also bad.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT