PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 24, 2014
Mike MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  COACH MACINTYRE:   It's an honor and privilege to be here at Pac‑12 media day.   I have two phenomenal young men here with us that represent our football team really well and two of our captains.   We're excited about the future at Colorado.   The future is now for a football coach always.   But our new football facility, our $143 million football facility we're building has already broken ground.   You'll see it.   Our first game playing Arizona State, you'll see they've already changed the stadium, and it will be ready next April. 
So things are moving well, and we're excited about our future.   We're ready to get ready with the process of practice, which we start on August 1st.   So it's not far away.   The hard work we're going to have to do to be successful this year in the Pac‑12, which I think is the best conference in the country, and definitely the best conference with the best quarterbacks, no doubt.   It's going to be fun for us.   I'd like to introduce, Nelson Spruce, our wide receiver.   Phenomenal player for us No. 22. He's from Westlake High School here in the LA area. He is not only a great football player, a phenomenal young man and great student. 
Juda Parker is from Hawaii.   He plays defensive end for us and has moved into defensive tackle, No. 56.   Another one of our team captains and does a great job for us and excited about those two guys.   We will go from there and take any questions you have.   Thank you. 

Q.   Having gone through what he did at San Jose State, does this make it easier to come back?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I've worked the plan before, so I have faith in the plan and what we're doing.   I was able to bring a lot of our staff with us.   Not only on the field, but a lot of our auxiliary staff, and strength coach, and academic coordinator and offset that type of thing.   I feel like we're moving in the right direction.   It's exciting what they're doing there at Colorado with our program and all the facilities. 
So I feel good about the way everything's headed.   It's just a process.   I see us improving and getting bigger, and stronger and making big gains.

Q.   Are there things you've learned before that have helped streamline the process? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   It's hard to quote streamline.   I know we've made mistakes before if that makes sense.

Q.   Are there any specific things you're doing differently now? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   When I first went to San Jose State everybody on my staff was brand new.   So I had to teach them what the defense wanted, the offensive, special teams they came in with me, so now all we had to do was tweak things.   This spring we went through and looked at the strengths of our quarterback, different strengths of our offense, defense, and different things we needed to do to stop people in the Pac‑12.   So we were able to tweak some of those type of things to help with the strength of our players.

Q.   From a recruiting standpoint, is that an area that's good for recruiting? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Yeah, and this is another year that we're out in all the schools in Colorado.   Hitting areas locally, local States in Utah.   We have a good basis in California, and we have a good basis in Texas.   So we're getting out there and going after it, and making more relationships and working at it.

Q.   How are the players dealing with losses mentally?
COACH MACINTYRE:   It's just working hard every day.   You set goals in practice and meetings, and they reach those goals and you get more confident and then it happens.   You know, it's not something you dwell on every day.   I try to dwell on the positives more than I do any negative type of situations.   I feel like the young men are buying into that.   Our seniors and captains and all those guys are excited about what's going on and have a very good attitude.

Q.   What is the wrist band there? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   It says  “Uncommon ”.   It's our slogan for our team this year.   We wanted‑‑ we don't want them to do the common things.   We want them to do the uncommon things.   For example, it's common to skip a class or skip a workout or take the easy way out on different situations.   We want them to be uncommon in everything they do, every single thing they do.   I'm seeing that throughout our team.   Want them to be uncommon men.   One day want them to be uncommon father, uncommon husband, all of that is the process of that, and that's what we're built to.

Q.   Kyle Whittingham said he was petrified of Paul Richardson. Are there any players on this year that could  “petrify ” like that? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   We'll see as the fall starts.   I definitely think we've got some good running backs.   I think Nelson Spruce is a player that made a ton of plays last year in different ways made a lot of plays, especially as the year got going on, and I feel good about that.   I feel good about that.   I think BB's gotten better and better.   Bryce Bobo and some of those guys are going to make plays on the receiving corps.   I think that Sefo, some of the things we're doing with him a little bit different are going to take care of more of his strengths.   So I think we'll be able to hopefully move the ball more consistently and score more touchdowns instead of kicking as many field goals as we did.

Q.   Is there anything good about not having Paul Richardson?
COACH MACINTYRE:   You do have to utilize the whole field a little bit better knowing they are going to isolate on Paul some.   So I think it gives a better repertoire of our football team on offense, and being able to utilize different strengths.   One of the things we need to do is be able to try to run the ball a little bit better, especially on third downs and red zone, and getting in the end zone.   And that helps us focus on that more knowing that you don't have to go to fall.   So I think that's a good question.

Q.   On the depth of quarterbacks in the Pac-12: 
COACH MACINTYRE:   The class quarterbacks in the Pac‑12 to me is by far the best in the country.   There are quite a few of these guys that are going to play on Sunday.   They're also dynamic playmakers.   They can not only beat you but a few of them can not only beat you with their arm.   When a play breaks down, they can make plays.   But they also design runs for them, which is really hard to stop.   So they make you work all 53 yards, which is hard to stop.

Q.   Do you think upward mobility is difficult to achieve in the Pac-12?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think it's relative to every league.   You always see guys rise up and move on.   Last year I think in the SEC, Auburn won three games the year before, and Missouri won five games, and nobody in the world picked them to be in the championship game and they were.   I think college football is unique in that way.   You're still dealing with really, really young men that have a lot of maturing to do, a lot of different things.   So a lot of things can happen. 
But we'll move up eventually.   I hope it's this year.   But we'll keep moving up.   We'll do it.   I think it's all a process of building it.   I think you see it all the time.   Every year you see some people move up and work at it, and people come out of the woodwork, so to speak.

Q.   How do you get the mentality to do so?
COACH MACINTYRE:   You always have to work that way that you're going to go get them.   Different things happen in the game of college football.

Q.   Where specifically have you improved?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think we've improved in a lot of areas, but specifically on the football field we need to be able to play better on third downs, both sides of the ball.   That's not where you go and it's just unbelievable.   But you have to improve three or four percent from where you were last year.   Get two more first downs than you did the year before.   All of a sudden you're in drive, going into the red zone, getting into the end zone one more time a game, two more times a game type of thing instead of kicking a field goal.   That is a big, drastic change.   It changes momentum.   But the red zone area of emphasis we have, and third down areas of emphasis we have, we need to improve in those areas.

Q.   This season's team, where is it going to be most improved compared to year two before you got here?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I don't know yet, because we have to go through fall.   Spring you're experimenting and doing things and trying to find out your strengths and weaknesses, trying to get guys in playing position, competing at different positions.   Going into the fall, you have a few competitions at positions, but you're really trying to shape your offense and defense and special teams completely. 
I think that we're going to be better at running back.   I think we have more depth there.   I think we'll be better.   We'll be a little better in the secondary.   I think we have more depth there.   I think we've got linebackers that can run and tackle people in space in our league.   So on the defensive front, I think we'll be good inside.   We'll be young on the outside. 
But they're calm and athletic kids.   Offensive line wise, if Jeromy Irwin had come back, he would have started for us last year.   Stephane Nembot has gotten better with a year under his belt.   I think we'll be improved everywhere.   Now we just have to make a difference and get a lot of those games in the fourth quarter and win them in the fourth quarter.

Q.   You have a couple of guys that sat out the spring to catch up on their academics. 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Justin Solis is in good shape, and Samson [Kafovalu] is still trying to get it figured out right now.   I think those are the two you're talking about.   Justin's doing well, and Samson's still working on it.

Q.   On linebacker Woodson Greer III:
COACH MACINTYRE:   Yeah, Woodson is a young man from here in LA from Serra Gardena High School.   Played SAM linebacker for us, and did some good things for us last year.   And he'll play that also for us this year.   He's doing a good job.   The hard thing about our league is there are so many games that a SAM linebacker doesn't play a lot, so he'll play special teams too because when you play spread teams you're playing with five or six DBs.   So it's hard for that guy to get on the field as much in those games.   But I've been pleased with what Woodson ’s doing and how he'll come along.

Q.   Was he injured?
COACH MACINTYRE:   Yes, he injured his shoulder at the end of last year.   Had a bad stinger.   Didn't come back as quickly as we would have liked.   But we didn't have any problem in the spring, and everything's going good in this fall.   He's put on more weight and strength, so hopefully that doesn't bother him again.

Q.   What ’s it like to have the rivalry game between CU and CSU to open the season? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think it sets the standard all through fall camp that we're pushing for that game.   There is a lot of excitement around it.   There is a lot of intensity around it.   So I think it pushes your team knowing they're getting ready for that game.   So I like that factor of it.   Would you always want to play your big rival, in‑state opening game every year?   I don't know if you would or wouldn't. 
But the way that our guys are approaching it and doing it, it's a fun game last year.   I know it will be a fun game this year.   So I think it adds intensity to our practice, and a lot of anticipation by our fan base.

Q.   Does the success of men ’s basketball help fuel the facility construction? How do you see the facility helping? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   I definitely see the facility helping us get to where we want to be.   I think if the facility wouldn't have been built there is kind of a ceiling in a way that you don't really realize is there.   But this opens that ceiling up and lets you move on to the level you want to try to get to.   So I'm excited about that opportunity and for us to do that.   That was something that was promised to me and their promise to get it done.   So that's exciting to me personally and all of our players.   I definitely think it is to the Buff fans, there is no doubt.

Q.   Kyle Whittingham touched on how the Conference has improved over the past three years since joining. Do you agree?
COACH MACINTYRE:   Last year was my first year in the Pac‑12.   I thought the league was very good.   I think it's going to be good again.   The Pac‑12 to me, that's why I came to coach in the Pac‑12.   That's why our players come to play in it.   We want to play against the best and eventually beat the best.   So that's what we're striving for.   I'm glad the league is good.   We've got to keep improving to be able to compete and do what we want to do.   I think the league is a very good football league.   When you have this many good quarterbacks that makes week‑in, week‑out really, really tough.   Sometimes when quarterbacks leave places, it kind of dips a little bit as far as week‑in, and week‑out.   But right now at the quarterback level play it is, it's going to make every week an extremely tough week.

Q.   Do you sense a lot of frustration from the fans when they come talk to you? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   They don't always tell me the frustration, but I do sense a great pride, a striving to be the best again.   I also sense in them the understanding of the people that talk to me about how they realize it was down and how they want to get it back, and they see all of these things happen and they want to see it happen. 
So I see a lot of pride in the program.   I guess you see some of the frustration because they want to be good again, and we will.   And I think they see it going in that direction with everything not just the facilities, but the team focus, the atmosphere, all of the things that are going on.   I think they feel like it is building back towards the right way.

Q.   Talking about Sefo, how can he improve? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Number one, just more repetition helps you.   Two more plays a game, he sees the right thing and gets to the right window.   The other thing is us as a coaching staff really look at things that he did really well and he's really good at and tweaked our offense to put that in there to help him.   Jordan Gehrke also has some things I'm very excited about Jordan.   So I think we have two good quarterbacks in case anything happens to Sefo.   And Brian Lindgren does a great job with the quarterbacks after he's been around those guys for a year now, he has a good feel of their strengths.

Q.   How do you tweak your offense for a quarterback like Sefo? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   There are certain strengths that he has when you're installing an offense that you don't know yet exactly what it's going to bring.   So you're putting in your offense terminology, you're trying blocking schemes, you're trying formations.   So now that he's got all that and we've got everything in, you go wow.   He's really good at this, he's good at that.   So those are things that we need to utilize more and help build on.

Q.   How do you think year two is going to go for you?
COACH MACINTYRE:   That's kind of a crystal ball question I think.   But you do see the process of the young men.   I see the work ethic, the attitude.   I see the responsibility and accountability.   So to me that shows me we're heading in the right direction.   Now they've got to do it in the heat of the moment and do it in the games.   We've got to do a good job of coaching in the games and those types of things.   All of a sudden you'll a get a win you weren't supposed to get, and you get more confidence, and the next thing happens and the next thing happens.

Q.   How did Sefo Liufau improve from going to the Manning Academy?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think it was great to go to the Manning Academy and be around those guys.   There were a lot of other college players there, so I think that was fun for them.   Anything that can give you confidence I think is good.   I think when you get out there and get right beside a guy that's starting at other schools and you're throwing beside him, you go oh, I can make the same throw he can.   I think that kind of makes you think, yeah, I am getting better.   Like when you go out and play golf, if you can't even hit it near him, you're like I'm not going to play.   And then you come back and say, wow, I'm right in it.   So I think that's the confidence.

Q.   I know the pressure of the job that you signed up for, but the success of your program means the success of the entire athletic program at Colorado. Is that a weight on you?   Is that a burden on you? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   No, growing up in the business, understanding that through my dad.   I understood that since I was a little kid how the football program helps out the school really.   Especially if the school is down a little bit or trying to grow and kind of grab new heights, so to speak, again.   That is an area that gets it.   Understand, I know I talk about my dad a lot.   But my dad went to Vanderbilt, and they averaged about 12,000 people a game, and when he left they averaged 40,000.   So all of a sudden, same way with us.   We've got to do better on the football field, and pack the stadium all the time, and that helps every sport. 
So that's kind of how it works and I understand that.   So I think that's part of it.   I enjoy being able to hopefully in some way help the other sports.   There are a lot of great coaches at our place.   Lot of great kids need that benefit, and I'd sure like to help out on that.

Q.   Who got in better shape this offseason, you or your players?
COACH MACINTYRE:   I sure hope our players.   But I do know this, when I tell them they've got to get in shape, and I wasn't in quite good shape, now I am, felt good about all of that.   If I don't take care of myself, I can't take care of everybody else.   So I look in the mirror and said I got to start taking care of myself.   I read a book called "Why Diets Fail Us", by Peter Greenlaw, and then I started getting this stuff from New Zealand called isogenics, that is low in calories, high in nutrients, and it burns all the toxic fat, because there is so much toxic stuff in our food.   Started doing that, and eating right, and stopped drinking diet cokes and just drink water.   Made myself get up early in the morning and go run or workout, and that helps your whole day flow.   So that's what I've done, and I'll definitely keep doing it.   I was a nervous eater.   I know that.   I would think about stuff, like how to stop Marcus Mariota, and get home and watching film, and now I'll drink one of those shakes or doing something and eating the right type of stuff and putting the right stuff in my body.

Q.   How much are you down now? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   55, 56.   I've leveled out there.   I've just got to firm it up a little bit.

Q.   How long did it take you? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   I started after Christmas and got going.   I had all my blood work done about two months ago because they said I was going to take cholesterol medicine which I did and all that.   And now all my signs are awesome.   I mean, off the charts.   Went back and redid all of my insurance policies, and went from baseline to plus preferred plus, plus.

Q.   Was this something you always wanted to do or did a light just click on? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   A light clicked on.   I had to put my parents in a nursing home, my brother and I during the middle of the season last year, and that was tough on us.   Then the first time I was actually able to see them was after the season.   I came back home and woke up about 3:00 a.m. and went oh, my gosh.   I'm 49.   I'm thinking I'm starting to get a little older, and just kind of had a kind of an experience that I better get my act together, and this is the time to do it, so I did it.

Q.   Is being able to be around players in the summer given you a better idea this year of who is who? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Oh, yeah.   I tell you, I think you're coming in your first year it's even better.   You go through spring, and you're running and you're recruiting, and you can't see them for three months.   Plus now we see them in the weight room basically every day and have small meetings with them and really get to know them.   I've had guys over for occasional meals now.   You're able to have them over at your house for dinner, and really get to build a bond with them.   I've really enjoyed it.   I have.   I think the players have too, I really do.   They know we're around and caring about them and we're going to talk to them more, push them more.   I've enjoyed it.   I really have.

Q.   How about the newest players in your program, the true freshmen, have they given you a better idea? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   A great idea.   We've still got to see them on the field, but now when they came in before you would see them in study hall for a few minutes and do all that.   Now you can go in the weight room with them.   You can meet with them a little bit.   They're around you so you build a quicker bond.   I think it's definitely accelerated their learning process.   I imagine that's helped every team, but I feel like it's definitely helped us, and I imagine being around the freshmen, it will allow some of them to be there quicker mentally.   It might have helped last year.

Q.   This is a program that's had to use true freshmen.   Are you still at that point this year? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think we'll use some, for sure.   But I think we're more of a sophomore laden team now with two of our captains being sophomores.   So I think we're in that process.   That's a good thing and a bad thing.   A good thing in the fact that you're young and they've got some game experience already.   The bad thing, they're still young and you're still going to have some ah‑hah moments.   But there is nothing that can replace experience, and I feel good about those men and what they're doing.

Q.   There ’s a couple of players from the LA area on your roster. Could you talk about them? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Yeah, Tedric [Thompson] played for us last year as a true freshman.   Played safety and special teams.   Cade Apsay is a really good quarterback that we're excited about.   I get to see him here August 2nd when we get on the field.   Seems like he's fit in school well this summer and in the weight room and everything.   So I'm excited about Cade.   I think he has the ability to move in the pocket and make plays and moving around.   He has a very accurate arm.   So we're excited about Cade.

Q.   What does Tedric bring to the defense? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Tedric brings a toughness.   A very physical player, and he brings the special team.   He's what you would call a run‑stopping type safety.   He can definitely play the pass too, but his best attributes are physical, on the run and different things like that.   He can drop it down in the box and do different things like that, like another linebacker which is good because he can play in space, and you need to be able to do that in our league.

Q.   Are the kids hanging in more this year than they were? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   I think they started getting the mentality of and I think they are now still the mentality of we don't need to care about the other people's helmet.   I've said that a bunch.   Now they're starting to understand it.   It's what's going on in our helmets, our practice, in our mentality.   If we do what we do the best we can, we've got a lot better opportunities to win a football game than worrying about what they're doing or who we're playing against or who their quarterback is and just play.   I think they're starting to understand that.   We definitely have to get to more fourth quarters when the game is tight.   That's something we're going to prepare in practice for.   We prepared for it a lot last year, but now that you have everything in, you have more time to prepare for that practice.   We should be in those situations more. 
So therefore our kids need to know how to react.   We need to know how to coach them.   And they need to be thinking just like we are on the sidelines.   Here's what we're going to do.   It should work like clockwork, and it allows you to calm your nerves in those situations and make plays to win football games.

Q.   Do you know for sure right now if you're going to be a position coach this year? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Charles Clark is going to coach the secondary.   But one of the things that we looked at over the off‑season with so many receivers playing in this game, the defenses, I guess, are a little behind.   Offenses are going to think we have an ability to catch up, we decided that I could help with the corners and meetings.   I could help with an individual and that kind of thing.   Charles can work with the safeties.   Nate Taye can work with the nickel backs. 
So we want one coach to every two players.   There is more expertise and more knowledge.   They can come back to you and ask questions quicker, and practice and be there with them.   I'll still be able to walk around and do some things.   But in individual meetings and in individual periods you're able to give them more expertise and things that would be their trade to be successful. 
If you're just off a little bit with the guys we played in, and also the D‑line that enabled Andy LaRussa to coach the defensive ends because they're young.   And Jim Jeffcoat to coach the tackles, and Kent Baer to coach the two backers.   So now you have more coaching expertise.   The kids have instant feedback, and we can catch more things, get better.   So if we can just improve 2% all around the board there, we've improved.   So that's what we'll do.   But Charles will be the secondary coach, especially during camp and on Tuesdays and Wednesdays when you need a lot of individual time.

Q.   One coach for every two players? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   What I'm saying is there is one coach for two corners and one coach for every two safeties in practice.   If you're sitting there watching practice, and you don't have one guy over there watching five guys, does that make sense? We can't do that according to NCAA rules.   It's when there are 11 guys on the field.   Then when you break them up to do individual fundamentals, you break them up by corners, D‑tackles, by safeties.   They do different things.   D‑ends do a little bit different things than D‑tackles.   Corners do different things than safeties, so that's why.

Q.   Are you going to add anybody to your roster before camp starts? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   No.   Well, we had young Travis Talianko has come in.   We've added him.   Nobody for sure right now.   We'll know when August hits how everything works out, and we'll go from there.

Q.   What do you like about Travis? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   Travis is a big safety that can run and hit and do a lot of good things.   Can play on every special team and can also play safety.   He's an athletic young man who played at St. Francis High School in LA.   He played both ways, so he brings a lot to the table for us.   Intelligent guy who I think will help us this fall.

Q.   Looks like you have a lot of options in the secondary.   What's it going to take to sort that out? 
COACH MACINTYRE:   The good thing is, what I would like to do more than we did last year, when you play those fast‑paced teams, I'd like to substitute more and they're fresher because they're running on receivers after two or three plays and your guys are tired.   So if we can get enough good coaching and feel confident, we'll be able to play more guys and keep them fresher.   You knock one more ball away because you're fresh can make all the difference in the world.   So I'm hoping they'll be able to play more people on defense.   That's one of the things we looked at too.   We didn't play enough because we didn't feel like we could.   Now I feel like we have an opportunity to do that. 
That is one of the reasons to move Juda inside, he can be a good pass rusher inside on guards and stuff.   Then we have guards and stuff.   Then we've got length outside of defensive end and we'll rotate them.   So I'm hoping to play more people on defense. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT