FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: OKLAHOMA v FLORIDA STATE
December 31, 2000
Bobby Bowden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Coach, have you been around too long to have the nerves start settling in here or is
it too early to tell?

COACH BOWDEN: The nerves? You mean here in Miami? No problem on that. My nerves don't
work anymore. I'm getting too old for nerves.

Q. How about the players, are they beginning to respond to what is coming up here?

COACH BOWDEN: They seem to have responded real well so far, our players. I haven't seen
anything out of line. Of course, you've still got three more nights; so you keep your
fingers crossed any time you have this many boys away from home. Keep your fingers
crossed.

Q. You watched what happened at the Sugar Bowl with Miami and Florida, do you keep your
fingers crossed regarding that kind of thing as well, about trying to stay in line?

COACH BOWDEN: You know, I never like to play Florida in a major Bowl, and I never like
to play Miami in a major Bowl. It's just too contesting. Now, Florida State and Oklahoma
don't have that. Their kids don't know our kids and our kid don't know their kids, and
when they have run into each other, it has been very cordial. But if Florida State runs
into Miami or Miami runs into Florida or those things, it's just that the kids are raised
together and there's a competition among them that can lead to what happened the other
night.

Q. You look at videotape of Oklahoma, do you keep looking for maybe something you
haven't seen from previous times?

COACH BOWDEN: You're always, when you look at film, you're looking for a flaw you're
looking for some kind of flaw. You're looking for something they are doing that's not
sound that you can pick off. So you look at them over and over and over and try to find as
much as you can.

Q. Find anything on them?

COACH BOWDEN: I wouldn't divulge it if I could, as you know, but, no, they don't get to
where they are having a lot of flaws.

Q. Last time you faced Oklahoma you won. Does it seem that long ago? 

COACH BOWDEN: I don't know, I couldn't answer that one. 

Q. Are you interviewed-out at this point? It seems every year the Bowl game is
stretched out a little more with the pre-game stuff?

COACH BOWDEN: No. We'd rather be doing this than not doing it, and I don't get very
tired of it.

Q. Does it seem at all weird being in Miami with all of the BCS stuff? Do you hear any
of that around town here? 

COACH BOWDEN: Haven't heard a bit of it. You know, I get asked that a lot. I haven't
had one person say anything offensive about us being here and the University of Miami. And
sure, they must feel that way, but nobody has mentioned it. I imagine now they are pulling
for us. If they are Miami fans, they are pulling for us so that Miami will have a chance
to win the Associated Press No. 1. 

Q. Do you mind sharing a National Championship? Do you need to have it to yourself?

COACH BOWDEN: If you give it to me right now, to share it right now, just to have it,
no, I would have no problem with that. If we were lucky enough to beat Oklahoma and win
the BCS, I have no problem with what happens at the other Bowl.

Q. Are you a New Year's resolution kind of guy? Did you make any for 2001?

COACH BOWDEN: Did I make any New Year's resolution or will I make any resolutions? No.
I don't need to. (Laughter).

Q. Rare are the teams that have a winning record against you, perhaps these games are
disconnected a little bit, but is it important that you start to chip away at that
differential between Oklahoma and the success you have not had against them?

COACH BOWDEN: Well, you're right. As you go back down through your history, there are
always some teams you simply could not beat. Now Penn State was always that way with me. I
never could -- when I was at West Virginia, we could never beat Penn State. And when we
came here for years and years, Miami just kept getting us, but we began to even that out
somehow. But Oklahoma is one that I never was able to beat Coach Switzer, and never have
beat them as a head football coach. So you would love that to happen. My kids would not
pay any attention to that if I mentioned it. They were not even born. They were not even
born the last time we were down here. Naturally, you would like to win that game.

Q. How have you changed as a coach since 1981? 

COACH BOWDEN: Well, how many days are there in 20 years? A lot of days, a lot of days
have passed since 1981. We're better. We have better people now than we had back in those
days. 

Q. This 14 years, has this snuck up on you? Do you have an appreciation for what the
program has achieved or is it just from day-to-day?

COACH BOWDEN: I know you would wonder about that. You've just done this, your teams
have just done this. You had 14 teams, Top-4 finishes, are you elated over that? No. Why?
Because I've got another ballgame. If I retired, would I be elated? Yes. I'll write you
all a letter about it and tell what you it means to me. But when you've got another
ballgame, you're always afraid you're going to get whipped, and the equalizer is right in
the next moment. It will get you level-headed right quick. So I don't look back on what
has happened.

Q. Does that mean fear bothers you? Does that mean fear pushes you? 

COACH BOWDEN: Fear pushes me, yes. I've always felt like fear pushes me, yes. I've
always felt like fear pushes me. I felt like I've always been motivated by fear. I coach
hard. I try to coach -- I try to get everything planned before the game because I'm afraid
of making a mistake or something like that. That motivates me. 

Q. Can you talk about how your basic philosophy has changed? 

COACH BOWDEN: Since the earlier days, not so much the philosophy. It's just that after
years and years of experience at the same school, you begin to get better players and
become more successful. That's what's happened here.

Q. You've got the most experienced big-game team in the country. How important is that?


COACH BOWDEN: Well, how important is that? You hope it would be important. You wish it
would be important, the fact that we've been three here years in a row -- but I think that
is all up to Oklahoma. They will determine how important that is.

Q. A lot of Oklahoma fans have expressed a little bit of disappointment that they are
such a heavy underdog despite the fact that they are 12-0. Are you surprised that you guys
are as big a favorite as you are?

COACH BOWDEN: Yeah, I'm surprised, us being No. 3 and 1 Bowl and 2 in the BCS and them
undefeated No. 1. Yeah, I'm surprised. When we played Nebraska right here in 1994 for the
National Championship, we were 17-point favorites. They are were No. 1, we were No. 2, and
yet we were 17-point favorites, and, of course, they led with us with about two minutes to
go and we finally won it. I know that you get into this ballgame here and those old point
spreads don't mean anything. In fact, what I'm seeing on television, it seems the
underdogs are winning more than the favorites, it seems like. 

Q. Talk about Josh Heupel, your impressions of him? 

COACH BOWDEN: Well, there's no doubt about it. The guy that makes us click is Chris
Weinke, and he is the same thing to them. I think what Chris means to us, he means to
them. Both of us must have our quarterbacks.

Q. Talk about facing the OU defense? 

COACH BOWDEN: The Oklahoma defense is like all defenses: They never get the good words
that they should. You look at Oklahoma's football team, and like all offenses -- offenses
struggle. Offenses struggle, and their defense has been so good. It's been able to keep
them out of the losing column. It's been able to hang in there until they could get things
going. Their defense is like ours and everybody else's; it's the most underrated part of
their game. They have got a super defense.

Q. You said that you're still motivated by fear, but your nerves are not working much
anymore. What are nights before games like now? 

COACH BOWDEN: The night before a ballgame, I meet with the offensive staff and we go
through everything we can think of that could possibly happen in that ballgame and record
it, and that's our game plan. After that's over, I have no trouble sleeping.

Q. Does anything happen anymore that you didn't think of? 

COACH BOWDEN: Well, it seems like something comes up that you didn't account for.
That's why we try to cover everything that can happen, and after as many years as I've
been coaching, I've heard a long list of things that can occur.

Q. When people retire from the game, does that make you reflect on your longevity?

COACH BOWDEN: It sure throws up to the top. You know, it is amazing, I could be
surrounded by other people like you, I go to a meeting or a coach's clinic and there ain't
old people around there except Joe and me. Where's George? Where are the guys our age? It
makes you wonder, should I be in this darned thing? (Laughs.)

Q. When you started, did you consider the possibility that you could be coaching into
your 70s?

COACH BOWDEN: No. Never. 

Q. Last year you sat here pretty comfortable talking about your kicker and kicking
situation. A year later, how are you feeling about that? 

COACH BOWDEN: Well, we felt like the Achilles tendon of our football team going in was
a seasoned kicker, and we had not seen anybody in spring training that looked like they
were the answer. So you bring a freshman in and pulls a groin muscle and can't kick; he
struggles. So it has been our biggest liability so far, our kicking. It's gotten better.
It has got better, kicking, fielding extra points and short field goals; and then Munyon
will still have to be the long ball kicker because he has got the best leg, but we are not
as confident as we would like to be.

Q. You mentioned how you were surprised that you were a big favorite against Nebraska.
Is it flattering that people think so highly of your team, even when the polls suggest
that the other team should at least be closer?

COACH BOWDEN: Is it flattering? It is not flattering until after the game. Again, I go
back to the scaredy-cat. I'm scared. So don't flatter me yet. After the game, it will
flatter me a little bit. 

Q. Why do you think they place you so high over teams? 

COACH BOWDEN: I don't know. I do not know. But we simply have not been an underdog in
so long, I forgot what it was like. I think the last time we were underdogs was against
Florida when they beat us for the National Championship here. I think that's the last time
we were underdogs.

Q. Do you like that? 

COACH BOWDEN: Well, it's the way I was raised. I was raised as an underdog. Always,
when I played college ball, we never won over five games. When I coached my first couple
years, we won one game one year and two the next. When I was at West Virginia we were
always underdogs to Penn State and Ohio State. So down here it has been the other way
around. It is different for me. 

Q. One of the coaches were saying they met up with some of the Oklahoma coaches
yesterday. Were you part of that? 

COACH BOWDEN: Yeah. 

Q. When you saw them up close, they have good guys on that staff that don't even shave
yet?

COACH BOWDEN: They are so young, I can't even believe it. They are young, but they are
very intelligent. They know what they are doing. He's done a great job. Don't forget, we
were young, too, right? 

Q. You turned this program around when you got here. You said the other day it was
Homecoming University. Are you surprised how quickly he has been able to turn around
Oklahoma?

COACH BOWDEN: Yeah, it is amazing, but that seems to be the trends nowadays. Tommy goes
to Tulane and he went undefeated his second year; and Terry goes to Auburn and he is
undefeated his first year. Now, the old man coached 45 years and never went undefeated; so
the trend with these young coaches is amazing. So, Bob, it is just amazing. I don't know
how he did it so quickly.

Q. Can you compare your coaching style with him? 

COACH BOWDEN: My style with Bob? I would think, you know, just what I've known about
him, I would think me and him are a little bit alike. Probably a little bit alike. I'm so
much older, but when I was his age -- he does some things that reminds me of things I
tried to do. 

Q. How so? 

COACH BOWDEN: Attitude. Positive attitude. That's the first thing I picked up on him.
Nothing is negative with him. It's all positive.

Q. A lot of your players have been saying they look at you almost like a father figure.
Has that happened as you've got gotten older or were you like that when you were younger?

COACH BOWDEN: Older. When I first started coaching, I was too young, really. I was 25
when I got my first head job. I was older than some of the -- that was after the war and a
lot of the kids came back from the service. I had boys 26, 27 -- not many, but I was 25,
and trying to look old. It seems like so much of my career I was too young, and then the
first thing you know you're too old; so it gets away from you.

Q. You're known as a guy who really gives a lot to his assistants --

COACH BOWDEN: I think the older you get, you have to.

Q. Why is that?

COACH BOWDEN: I just think the older you get, the more you realize the dependence that
you have on your assistants. And even more than that, I think football has changed so
much, you simply have to turn more over. It used to be you could sit here on the
sidelines, and some coaches still do this, but not many -- Steve Spurrier he'll sit on the
sideline and call his offensive plays. I'd rather be upstairs where you could see what's
happening better. So with the way formations are nowadays and the sophistication of
offenses and everything, I think that you have to see it up there. 

Q. Is it hard for you to relate at your age to younger players? 

COACH BOWDEN: Is it hard to relate to younger players? Yes -- I try not to let it be
something that would stand in the way, but it is hard for me to -- I think I can
understand, but it's hard for me to accept some of the ways of the young people nowadays
that we didn't do when we came up.

Q. What is one thing that stands out? 

COACH BOWDEN: The morals of the young people nowadays are so different from when I was
in high school or college. We were not any better. We were not any better. Back in those
days, there was three things you can get into, and now there's 300 things that you can get
into. It's tougher on these young kids.

Q. Do you ever take a step back and look at all of the things you've accomplished with
this program? You're not getting older; you're getting better, so to speak? You're playing
in the National Title every year? 

COACH BOWDEN: I don't do that. You don't because you've always got another game. If I
was retiring, then I'd reflect back and probably enjoy it for about an hour. It don't last
long. It don't last long. If we lose this game, it won't be a success.

Q. In '93, you said you wanted one, then you said you want two, and now you've got two
--

COACH BOWDEN: That's the way it goes. I think that's the way we all are, people. If you
made $1 million, you want two. If you get two, you want three. Nobody is happy. Nobody is
satisfied. Same thing in coaching. I want one every year. Every year.

Q. Do you think about retiring at all? 

COACH BOWDEN: No. My health would have to dictate that. As long as my health good, I
have no desire. 

Q. Fire is there still?

COACH BOWDEN: Fire is there. 

Q. How will you know?

COACH BOWDEN: I really don't know. People ask me why, I don't know. 

Q. It seems like parity plays a big role in football, yet Florida State is in the Top 4
every year. Does it amaze you that you have been able to continue that type of success? 

COACH BOWDEN: We have just been doggone fortunate, and it goes back to having good
players. You've got to have good players, and then you've got to have a good staff. I have
been very fortunate that we have the good staff part of it. If you notice, last year I
lost a coach of 18 years, and this year we're losing one that's been with us for 15 years.
So we've got our work cut out.

Q. Is it realistic at all, Oklahoma in the position they are in, if they win this game,
it could be the start of something like what you have? 

COACH BOWDEN: I would think that you would have to say it is the start of something. It
definitely can be the start of something. But what has happened to us, I don't know why we
have been as fortunate as we are. What's happened to us these last three years is harder
now than it was 15 years ago when a team like Alabama or Notre Dame -- (inaudible) -- they
have your players and theirs. You don't have enough scholarships to take other people. So
parity is a little bit more obvious today, and that's why I -- I don't know how or why
we've been able to do what we've done.

Q. Are you comfortable with your kicking game? 

COACH BOWDEN: Not with the kicking. I am with the punting, but not with the field
goals. Not with the field goals. We felt like we've gotten better at it. We have made some
strides on it. The biggest change, the last time we played in this stadium right here, we
came in with the idea if it was fourth and short, we were going to go for it rather than
kick a field goal. But we don't have any confidence on field goal kicking, and we were
right. We went from about 12-yard line -- (inaudible) -- so we started going for it and
didn't make it and got beat by three points. So I feel a little bit better now kicking
than we were that day, but it is still a liability.

Q. Is it something where you're inside the 30, would you go for the field goal now or
go for the first down?

COACH BOWDEN: Inside the 30, the ball is inside the 30 or the spot of the ball is on
the third? We're kicking from the 30 or we're snapping from the 30? See, if your snapping
from the 30, that's a 47-yard field goal. It's a fourth down -- if it was short, we'd
probably go for it.

Q. How about a 30-yard field goal?

COACH BOWDEN: I think we've improved, yeah. 

Q. Is that where you're comfortable at? 

COACH BOWDEN: Yeah, I said I want to be perfect for extra points and field goal inside
the 30. If we can just do that, at least we don't -- we kick that field goal. Anything
out, we've got to make a decision.

Q. Can you talk about what Dave Van Halanger has meant to the program the last few
years?

COACH BOWDEN: He is as important to me as any football coach on our staff. Not only the
great job he's done with strength of our team, he's made this one of the strongest teams
in the country. But the leadership that he deals our players, it is immeasurable. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

COACH BOWDEN: The most I can remember, I think we lost 14 starters seven or eight years
ago, and we still overcame it with a 10-win season. So now next year is going to be that
type of a found-out-what-we got. So we're going to change from a team that is mature and
experienced to a team that's young, inexperienced, but talented. The talent level is not
going to change, but experience level is. And you can't coach experience. You can't coach
experience. It's just got to happen. So we'll be fighting for our life next year. That's
what makes you -- that's what makes you enjoy coaching. 

Q. What about the losses of coaches, you've seen two coaches now leave in the last two
years?

COACH BOWDEN: Boy, I hate that, too. We lost quality coaches, but I've got other
quality coaches on the staff. I hope I don't lose anymore, but I could. A lot of guys want
to coach at Florida State. I know that. So we'll go out and get the best replacement we
can.

Q. When Chris came back, did you have any idea that he would reach this level of
success?

COACH BOWDEN: No, I didn't realize -- I did not realize he would reach this level. I
was hoping. I really felt like when Chris came back. I felt like, No. 1, we've got a
chance. We are now back in the fire. No. 2, I did think that he's going to have a chance
to win a Heisman Trophy, but I didn't think he would be as good as he is.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT