FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 14, 1999
Ted Tryba
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TED TRYBA: You know, I don't know how I felt when I woke up. When you wake up at 5:30
in the morning, I don't know how anybody feels waking up that early. But I got my rest. I
was fortunate to get that. Woke up with a really good attitude. I know it's the last leg
of the marathon, and just had to go out there and keep hitting good shots. I was kind of
hoping I'd hit a bunch of them, but when it got really windy out there, I had some concern
because it just didn't seem like very scorable conditions. So I kind of tried to stay
tough and I just made a bogey early and hit it in the bunker -- hit it the left rough on
2, and I played for a little flyer and didn't get it. Buried it in the front bunker. They
warned us that the bunkers were all shoveled up and raked; so I hit a shot out there of
about six feet and spun it out about 360. That kind of just -- I think that woke me up a
little bit like today was not going to be an easy day. You were going to have to work hard
and focus and concentrate. Parred the 3rd hole and 4th hole and went for the par 5 on 5
and hit a really super short in there. It was a good yardage. Hit a 2-iron 247 yards to
about 12 feet and made that putt for an eagle. Kind of got me back on track I felt like I
was making up for the bogey by making eagle. We went along and I birdied the 8th hole. I
can hit 7-iron one day from 167, and I hit 223 yards with a 4-iron. That's how difficult
the course played, I think, early in the day. I made a little bogey on 8. Just kind of
played for the wind to move the ball to the right. It didn't. Hit the side of the green
and didn't kick down there. Didn't get a very good lie. Chipped up and missed about a
10-footer. Parred 9. Went to 10; got a really good number. I was looking forward to
playing that left pin, because it looked like if I can get a good club in there, I can get
it in there because everything kicks towards the hole. I was lucky to hit it in there
about three feet and make birdie. Went to 12. I think it was 117 in the fairway, which is
perfect for my wedge. Hit it in there; almost holed it. Hit it in there about a foot and a
half. Next hole is a par. Went to the par 3. Just tried to hit a nice -- it was a good
5-iron for me. Just get it on the green, anything on the green. Hit it just off the fringe
in there and two-putted for par. 15, I pulled 2-iron left. I really moved on it. I was
really concerned about the wind. It was kind of coming into us, chasing down left to
right. I think I overhooked it and hit it in the left rough, and hit a good shot out of
the rough and made par there. 16, probably hit my best driver of the week. Needed to.
Stepped up over it the first time and backed off. What really helped me there was I had my
friend Fulton Allem came up to me while I was on the putting green and kind of grabs me
and goes: Look at me. He says, Cousin, you must -- you must take your time out there. He
told me to just take my time. Any time I felt a little rushed or I felt uncomfortable, to
just take a step back and take my time. I think it really helped me there, because I hit
probably the best tee shot of the week there. We got a good number because we had 234 to
the hole. We normally hit a 4-iron there the other day, 236; so it was the perfect club
for us. We hit that in there, and I was lucky enough to make that eagle. And the par on 17
was just basic down-the-middle, get-it-on-the-green, and get-it-in. 18, get it in the
fairway and get it on the green. I kind of stuck the club there. I had a good number, but
I just didn't want that ball to go left, and I just was kind of trying to force it out to
the right a little bit too much. And the club just stuck in the zoysia, and lucky enough
to two-putt it. 
 
Q. What went through your mind as you're putting -- after you putted through from the
fringe on 18, after you stuck that great drive?
 
 TED TRYBA: After I putted that ball? 
 
Q. Yeah.
 
 TED TRYBA: I was -- when you looked at the whole situation, I was really trying to get
that ball below the hole. I wanted my second putt to be an uphill putt. I didn't want to
be too cozy and leave it above the hole where I had to get cute or anything. I wanted to
either tap it in or be aggressive up the hill. I told myself: Don't mess around with this
thing. Don't take too much time. Don't think too much. Don't overthink it and just get it
past the hole it. Just kept going. I mean, I got in there about 10 feet. 
 
Q. You started off early with that 16 up on the board, and it seemed like maybe that
was the number that people were just trying to beat, and you were able to get a couple
strokes past that and your opponents all ended up at 17. Do you think that was something
that was maybe going through people's minds and you were trying to go past that?
 
 TED TRYBA: You know, you had to get past Jose. I guess he birdied the par 5 16th, and
he set the number early. I think Hal got to 16. A couple guys got to 16 quick, and I was
thinking: Man, it's still going to be a birdie barrage out there. As we kept playing, some
of the clubs -- I hit 4-iron into 7. I hit a 5-iron into 9. I had 191 to the hole. That
hole was a little wedge or a 9-iron all week. I knew that it wasn't going to be that easy.
So I just stayed tough, and, you know, keep the ball in the fairway, and if things happen
for you, you're going to have a chance. You're going to be close. It just worked out right
that Timmy did not make too many birdies and catch me.  
 
Q. Did this feel like you were surviving an endurance contest? The mental strain and
whatnot, was toughness an important part of this?
 
 TED TRYBA: It does. You can take any sport in the world, and they go up that day, and
except for a series, you know what I mean? You know, you go into the game and the game is
over in three hours or four hours, and that's it; you go home. The race is over. In four
hours or a rain delay or something, golfers have got to come out here and a lot can happen
between Thursday night, Friday night, Saturday night, Sunday night, and now we had to add
in Monday night. I mean, you can wake up with a bad back, bad neck, sore anything. There's
a lot that can happen in a matter of five days. So you kind of hope for the best that
you're going to get through that. It sounds kind of crazy, but I've seen it happen. 
 
Q. Did you sleep well last night? Any problems getting the rest?
 
 TED TRYBA: Slept like a baby. I knew I had to get some sleep, and I went right to bed,
no problem. 
 
Q. What was your feeling after 16 when the eagle putt went in?
 
 TED TRYBA: I thought that was great, because Timmy, we were both playing pretty solid
all day. Timmy made the birdie and I still picked up a shot on him. I think if I had not
done that, I think a one-shot cushion, I don't know, maybe I might have got a little more
nervous, or Timmy might have thought he's got a really good chance to win that thing.
Timmy has won three times out here. He's a great champion. I would not think he was still
trying to play for second if he was within one, one hole to play. 
 
Q. As you're standing over that 10-footer on 18, what's going through your mind?
 
 TED TRYBA: I'm just thinking all I've got to do is two-putt it. I putted ball outside
left. What are you worried about; just knock it up there. I just tried to make it as
simple as I could. I didn't do it mentally that simple, but I tried to do some mental
gymnastics to try to make that as easy on my brain as I could. 
 
Q. What's the timetable now? Are you going -- when are you going to Pinehurst, and
what's the schedule for the rest of the week and can you comment about confidence going
into that tournament?
 
 TED TRYBA: Well, we'll be there tonight, and I'm sure we'll just take it easy. Back to
the grind. We've got to play 18 holes on Tuesday, 9 on Wednesday and tee it up -- I've got
6:40 tee time. I've got another five o'clock wake-up call. It's one of those situations
where I guess, these golfers have a full-time job; no days off. 
 
Q. How about your confidence going into that?
 
 TED TRYBA: I feel good. I've never gone into a U.S. Open playing this well. I've always
gone, June, I don't know whether it's biorhythms or whatever, I've never gone into there
playing well at all. I feel confident that I can go in there and at least have a chance to
compete. 
 
Q. How exactly did you hurt your ribs again?
 
 TED TRYBA: I separated my ribs from my sternum Monday at TPC, Tournament Players
Championship. I knew it when it happened. I was under my dock fixing my irrigation line
lines and had some cinder blocks that had been underground for two years. You're trying to
hold your breath under eight feet of water and pull these things up. I got myself down in
there and pulled myself up. My feet went down; my body went up; and it just was a weird
movement the way I was holding my breath. And I guess that's what happened. I learned my
lesson. I guess I'd rather have the trees die and get somebody else to do it. But I never
would think at 32 years old with the shape I'm in that I would get hurt, but it happens. 
 
Q. Your second shot on 15 was -- seemed like a big one. You got a nice opening to get
through there?
 
 TED TRYBA: We were fortunate because it was wide open. We had to get over the tree,
which was not a problem with the club selection we had. I had a whole green to work with.
I did not have any water to play with. It actually was not as difficult a shot as it
looked. I think Tim's was more difficult because he had the water to contend with. 
 
Q. Talk about the four years between -- since you've won and the struggle of
continually trying and trying and trying and how it feels now?
 
 TED TRYBA: It feels great, because you know everybody wins one tournament, not
everybody does, but I won the first one when I was 28 years old, and maybe some people can
chalk up as a fluke or this or that. But I felt like I was a solid player out here, and
you keep playing enough tournaments and you keep performing, you win. And this was a nice
one to win, because you didn't just back in it. You went out and shot 66. It felt good. 
 
Q. (Inaudible).
 
 TED TRYBA: It would not matter to me at all. It would not have made a difference to me
whatsoever. If I would have hit it in the rough, I would have chipped it out on the green;
wedge, wedge, it would not have made a difference to me. I don't think it would have made
a difference to anybody else either. 
 
Q. Just a general comment about how 12 was to your game?
 
 TED TRYBA: That did, because you don't want to have -- I didn't want to have to come up
16 knowing I needed a birdie to just get close. Getting to 17, that pushed Tim to 16; got
us out in front, I think. I think the focus kind of shifted just to me and Tim. 
 
Q. Had you had good success on 12 all week? How had it played for you?
 
 TED TRYBA: I birdied it twice this week. I had two other good opportunities I burned
the edge on. But that hole kind of plays into my hands. It's a little dogleg right, and I
cut the ball and I'm fortunate with the hole setup. 
 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT