GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 25, 1998
Ted Tryba
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TED TRYBA:   Felt good, pretty good today.  I felt pretty relaxed, pretty good.  Got out there; it was a great day.  And, we haven't played too many rounds this year that haven't been, like, blowing 30 to 40 miles an hour, so, it was kind of a relief not to see that.  Went out and played well.  Not much more I can say how the day went.


Q.  What got you started on the great round of play?

TED TRYBA:   Well, today, teed up on 1, made a good par and drove it in the fairway on 2.  And, I had my -- finally hit that fairway on 2.  I have been hitting it in the rough everyday.  Knocked it on the green; made an eagle.  I was ahead of the gun right there, 2-under through 2.  So, I kind of got that first one out of the way and, kind of played pretty steady from there on in.  Had some looks; hit some good; but didn't make any of them.  9, chipped it up; made birdie there.  Bogeyed 10; that sort of kind of woke me up because I with a kind of walking around, cruising, not really -- and then I birdied 11.  Missed a good bird on 12; thought I made that putt. Then birdied 13, 14, 15.  Parred the last 3.  So, all and all, I couldn't -- it is hard to play much better than that for me.


Q.  How do you feel about your three rounds together?

TED TRYBA:   The first round, I had a good one going and I let it go.  Had a little misfortune on the 14th hole, but I know there's good rounds out there for me.  I have played well here in the past.  I really enjoy playing here.  Some courses fit you; some courses don't.  A lot of the shots around the dog-legs just fit me perfect with a 3-wood or 2-iron or something and I am pretty comfortable on all the tee shots so that makes it a little better.


Q.  You are ready to go out and win tomorrow?

TED TRYBA:   I am going to go out and play as hard as I can, I will tell you that much.  It wouldn't be over 'til -- you know, for me, it is never over until I hole the last putt, but that is the way it's got to be.


Q.  Considering the conditions, are you surprised that the two leaders didn't, you know, forge ahead, everybody else kind of caught up?

TED TRYBA:   I am surprised, but this course doesn't give away a lot of low numbers.  I don't know what the record is here, but those guys are 12-under through two rounds here,  I mean, this is Greensboro; some heavy rough out there. Doesn't take much to make a bogey.


Q.  Are you teased a lot about that putter?  It is not the most conventional looking thing.  It is hard to get a look at it on TV; looks like almost the old long handle kind.

TED TRYBA:   That is what it is.  It is the same putter Lietzke uses and Scott McCarron.  Heck, I don't want to get into it.  I have, like, an eye problem in my left eye; makes it very hard for me to line up every time.  I would set the putter down to look at the hole.  I couldn't keep the hole and the ball and the blade in my peripheral vision together, couldn't match them up on the line.  I could never do that my whole life.  Then, I always played with Ping clubs.  I was stuck using the Ping putter.  They didn't have that option for me. When I got away from that, I just made a commitment that I was go to try things, and, when I tried that putter and I set it down, so it doesn't move, I could turn my head all around and it doesn't move.  So I am very confident where I am aiming from there; I just stroke it.  And, I mean, heck, Bruce Lietzke played a long time with that putter.  Scott McCarron; nobody could make him another one.  I just tried it, cut it down and it worked.  I was kind of lucky.  I put it in in Tucson.  I have only missed 1 cut since then - missed L.A. by a shot, I think.


Q.  You say you don't want to get into it.  Is it about the eye, I mean, what -- excuse me if --

TED TRYBA:   Yeah, I don't think me playing good has any -- I don't think the story should be about my condition. But, you know, it is no big deal.


Q.  It is nice, you have made some highlights today. (pointing to television replays).  Is it nice to maybe make the eagle?  Nice shots today.

TED TRYBA:   You know, I birdied 14 today.  Hit a great 7-iron in there, hit pin-high, just skipped over, and I drew a great lie.  It was one of those lies where if you don't chip it in, you are going to be very close.  I mean, I could have hit one of four clubs in my bag and got it close, and it just happened to go in.  So that was kind of, you know, justice with the golf gods.  That was an unfortunate situation.  Club just sheared right off at the hosel, so we got it fixed and everything is okay.


Q.  Was there a flaw?  What happened to it?

TED TRYBA:   I guess the shaft got a little brittle, and there was nothing to really brace the impact; the club head and wall off the sand; it probably vibrated it and  shattered it.


Q.  Looks like you are going to have a very tight race tomorrow.  I mean, nobody has run away with it.  So now it is like 20 guys could.

TED TRYBA:   That is going to be great.  I mean, you guys should be pumped about that.  I mean, wouldn't it be nice to have one of ten guys winning your tournament instead of one guy?  I mean, let's say Bob Estes gets to 19.  He has got a 7-shot lead, I mean, that wouldn't be a lot of fun.  I mean, it would be great for Bob (laughter).  But, I think it is great for the fans and all you guys; it is going to be super for the tournament.


Q.  Pretty tall range of guys.  Is that an advantage for you out there at all or give you more of a chance to --

TED TRYBA:   I don't really look at it that way.  I started off at 6-under par today and I got it to 8; then I dropped back.  I was hanging around 7 for the longest time and 7 was like 12th then 10th, 13th.  Every time I looked the board, it was moving all over the place - guys are making birdies and bogeys out there.  So, tomorrow, I really don't look for any specific guy.  There is a lot of guys playing good.  Anybody can win. You have got to go out there and any number of these guys can five, six, seven guys can win it but the guy who goes out there and hits a lot of fairways, and gets a lot of -- a good break here and there and makes a putt here and there, he is going to win.


Q.  What kind of score do you think it will take tomorrow?

TED TRYBA:   I don't know.  16, 17.  16, 17 I think you are safe.  It may take less.  But I think, you know, there is a lot of guys that -- I mean, I guess probably going to be five guys at 11 or 12.  Bob is at 13, so, you are going to have to -- if 13 is the number, you are going to have to say 16 or 17.


Q.  Do you all expect it to be down tomorrow to still play the ball up?

TED TRYBA:   I don't know.  It was close today.  On some of the holes we could have got away with it.  Some of the others are still very wet, kind of -- would be unfair if one guy hit with a big clump of mud on his ball and the other guy not.  I mean, scores aren't that low that we are not blowing it apart.  It is not Palm Springs out here.  You know?

TED TRYBA:   I eagled 2.  Hit driver, then I hit like 238 out 240 middle, I hit 3-wood right in the middle of the green; made about a 40-footer.  Then I birdied 9; went for it in 2.  Just hit it  just short; chipped it up, made about a 6-footer.  And I hit a wedge into No. 11, 131 yards; made about a 12-footer there.  Knocked it on in two on 13, left it right in the heart short about 2 inches for eagle.  So I tapped in for birdie there.  Chipped in from about ten feet, on 14.  15, went for it in two.  Hit it in the front bunker, hit it, sand shot out, and made about 8-, 10-footer.  And, got it up-and-down on 16.  Parred 17, 18.  That is it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT