SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JONATHAN BYRD: Let's see, I don't know.  I can't really -- I think mentally I'm doing a good job.  I'm kind of having fun competing this week, last two days.  That's kind of where my focus has been.
I went out on -- I didn't feel great about my game coming into this week, but on Wednesday I just went out and had a fun pro-am group, and we just were jabbing each other back and forth just having fun.  I made seven birdies and shot 7-under.
I'm like, we just got to have more fun this week and just try to relax and just compete.  Compete with what you have.  I think that's what I've done best.  I've hit plenty of poor shots, but I've battled back and made some good up and downs and hit some good iron shots.
My putting has been pretty solid this week.
Q. What is the status this season?  I know you played Web finals...
JONATHAN BYRD: Past Champs.
Q. You're playing Past Champs?
JONATHAN BYRD: Uh-huh.
Q. Okay.  So Safeway, was that a sponsor?
JONATHAN BYRD: I got a sponsor exemption for Safeway, unexpected sponsor exemption.  Made the cut there; missed the second cut.
Yeah, I'm going to play under this category and then play the first four Web events probably, three or four, and see where am at.
Q. Norman and Cameron are up there.  What do you remember about those first few weeks and years of pro golf and just kind of maybe it seems easy and youth can be --
JONATHAN BYRD: Cameron Champ and who is the other one?
Q. Norman Xiong.  He's 19.
JONATHAN BYRD: Is that Oregon kid?
Q. Yes.  He turned pro -- his freshman year at Oregon was middle of his senior year of high school, so he should be a sophomore in college.  Couple young guys.  Pro golf probably seemed easy when you're young.
JONATHAN BYRD: I just think it's different, you know.  I can't relate.  I can't relate to being a sophomore or freshman in college.  I did win on tour when I was 22, so I was young - especially for back then.  There just weren't many guys our here at 19.
So I wasn't mature enough in college to be out here, nor did I play well enough.  I needed that extra time to get better.  These guys, I look at my son and these college-age guys, and at 12 my son is way better than I was at 12.  He's bombing it out there.  And just the equipment and TrackMan and all that, they can hit it so much further.
That's an advantage.  Get their equipment to fit them.  These college guys are such good athletes and they're aggressive.  It's fun to watch.  A lot of good talent coming up.
Q. So is it just as simple as a change in mindset for you this week?
JONATHAN BYRD: No.  I don't know.  I mean, if I knew exactly when I was going to play well I would do it every week, but the mindset never hurts.
I've hit some good shots, made some good up and downs, and made some key putts.  I started off terrible today.  Missed a makable putt on 10; and then the downwind par-5, 11, I made bogey.  Hit it in the water.
Had a 15-footer for par on 12.
Anyway, I made that putt on 12 and then just slowly made a couple birdies and shot 4-under on the front.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT