WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jonathan, 1‑under par today.   Comments on your round? 
JONATHAN BYRD:   I got off to a great start today.   I was lip‑out on 17 away from birdieing all the par 3s, which is pretty special around this golf course.   Other than that, I just started to kind of get out of sync on the back nine, just made a few bad shots.   I made three bogeys on the back nine and that was pretty much it.   Played great on the front, though. 

Q.   You had a flop shot on 15, flop on 16.   Were those both just impossible shots or did you just not get the chips that you wanted to? 
JONATHAN BYRD:   They weren't really good spots.   They're kind of spots where you want to hit a hero shot, and I didn't have great lies on either one of them to be able to do that.   If I would have had the grass down grain, it would have been a lot easier, but I was into the side green on both lies and I just took my medicine and tried to make the putts. 

Q.   How is your confidence going into the weekend, so far up the leaderboard?   Since the wrist injury, you haven't been, I don't think, as high in these kinds of tournaments.
JONATHAN BYRD:   I've almost won this golf tournament, so I feel like I can win this golf tournament.   I'm playing well enough and putting well enough.   I hit a lot of good putts today.   So I just feel like if I can sharpen it up a little bit, tee‑to‑green, I got just as good of a chance as anybody. 

Q.   The weather seems to be cooperating, and there are good scores to be found out there on the course.   Sort of seems like there will be good scores to be found on the end, too. 
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah, this course has always played that well.   If you're struggling off the tee you're going to struggle around the golf course, if you're not hitting it well and the course gets tough.   But if you're driving the ball well, fairways are running out and you can get some shorter clubs in, and there are a lot of birdies out there, and fortunately, the par 5s and the drivable holes on the back nine, there are a lot of opportunities to make eagle. 
I actually went for it on 15, in between clubs.   I knew I didn't want to hit it over the green, but I went for it to hit it on the back of the green to see if I could get a look for eagle, and I hit it too good and it was over and it was dead.   But there are opportunities out there. 

Q.   Since you're right there nipping on the lead at the turn, does that do anything to dampen your momentum the second nine at all or still feeling great about yourself? 
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah, you want to keep pressing forward and improving on the back nine.   I wanted to keep trying to make birdies.   It's a hard golf course, so I made two good pars coming in on 17 and 18, so I will leave with that good end to my round and just try to go get it going on the front tomorrow again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jonathan, thank you.   Appreciate it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT