PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2014
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here with Jonathan Byrd on the 18th green.   Jonathan tell me a little bit about your round.
JONATHAN BYRD:   It was a solid day.   That's the best way to describe it.   I've played the par‑5s good this week.   I think I've birdied most of them, and I did that today.   I birdied all four par‑5s and made one other birdie, so I stayed patient, and I didn't hit it that great, but I just kind of made some good 2‑putts when I needed to and just kind of hung in there and was able to make two good birdies on 15 and 18 coming in.

Q.   It's been a diverse week.   You had wind on Thursday, yesterday a little bit of rain, and today's been kind of quiet.   Tell me a little bit about the course.
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah, it was pretty calm today.   You know, it was probably only blowing 10 miles an hour, and you're just kind of waiting, like all day you're waiting for the wind to come up, and it just never really did.   And the course was soft again, so you knew you had to stay aggressive out there, and you knew guys were going to shoot some good scores behind you trying to catch up. 
Our group never really got off to a hot start, but we just kind of stayed slow and steady and fortunately was able to not make a bogey today.

Q.   Tell me a little bit about how you're feeling about your game.
JONATHAN BYRD:   I feel good about my game.   You know, I think mentally it's probably‑‑ just my mental game is probably the best thing I'm doing this week.   I'm not really getting ahead of myself.   I'm just kind of plugging along, playing the golf course, and trying to give myself a lot of opportunities.   And I'm making some putts when I need to and hitting some good shots here and there.   Pretty much just keeping it in play.   That's pretty much how I'm playing.

Q.   How do you like Puerto Rico?
JONATHAN BYRD:   I like Puerto Rico.   I think this is my sixth time.   I came here four times in college, and this is my second time here.   It's a great golf course.   The hotel is nice.   Everybody's treating us great. 
We've had great dinners every night.   So no complaints. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT