THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 7, 2013
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under, 68 in round one.   I think you're leading the local guys.   
JONATHAN BYRD:   There's a lot of golf left.   I'm just happy to‑‑ happy to wind died down.   The last couple of days it's just been whipping around here.   The last two weeks it hasn't been like that.   
It's nice to get a nice, pretty, calm day on the golf course.   It was breathtaking out there, so it was hard not to have a good day.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions about as good as they are going to get for scoring today?  
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yes, yes, absolutely.   You know, both par‑5s were ‑‑ the wind was not hurting, so I think I couldn't get to the first one but could the second one.   Any time you have that where it's only blowing about five miles an hour and the greens are running this good, it's about as good as you can play.  
   
 Q.   Pretty good putt on 18 to finish off your round.   Was your putter working well today?  
JONATHAN BYRD:   Not quite.   I had a really good ball striking day today.   I hit it close a lot.   I had a lot of opportunities.   I didn't putt that great today.   You know, I didn't birdie the par‑5 on the back.   I had a club in, a 5‑wood in.   Not complaining, but I left a few out there.   So I'm going to go putt it a little bit this afternoon.   But it hit it an eight times inside 12 feet, 15 feet.   So I had a lot of opportunities.  
   
 Q.   Conditions are very different than when you play here during the year.   But you live here locally, does it give you an edge to play here as many times as you have?  
JONATHAN BYRD:   Absolutely.   If you've played in this tournament every year and played all four rounds, that's enough rounds to know a golf course, after you play a course three years in a row.   
I had two weeks off coming in here, so I got to get four extra rounds in.   I had different winds every day.   I think any time you play a course with a different wind, it's a pretty big advantage.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT