NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2012
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That was a tough day out there, three birdies, one bogey on 14.   How tough was it and how satisfied are you? 
JONATHAN BYRD:   It was good.   I looked on the scoreboard on 18 and I had hit six greens, and it's hard to shoot under par hitting six greens around this golf course.   My short game was marvelous, and I've put a lot of time into it.   I feel really encouraged by that because I haven't been doing that as well.   Pretty much I scored really well today, and I got a lot out of it today, so I'm pleased.

Q.   What do you look to do tomorrow because you probably need to hit more than six greens tomorrow. 
JONATHAN BYRD:   Hey, you never know.   Faxon has done it before, right?   No, I've definitely got to be a little sharper tomorrow.   But I'm not far off.   This course gets you kind of‑‑ can get you a little off, and it's not because I'm not swinging well.   I'm swinging great.   I've just got to go work on it a little bit and go out there and keep playing.

Q.   When you say you worked on your short game, explain what that means. 
JONATHAN BYRD:   Well, I've always had a great short game, but sometimes it kind of gets in your head and you just don't have as much confidence with it, and you start just defensively hitting chips instead of trying to hit chips to make shots and being aggressive and instinctive, and I've just been a little careful and thinking my way through shots instead of just getting up and hitting them.   Today I was just kind of reacting and feeling my way around it and just hitting them really nice. 

Q.   It was a lot of fun to watch.   Are you excited about tomorrow?   How nervous will you be?
JONATHAN BYRD:   Well, am I in the last group? 

Q.   It remains to be seen.   You could be last group or penultimate. 
JONATHAN BYRD:   I'd love to be in the last group.   And no, I'm not nervous.   I've been here a good bit the last couple years.   I'm excited, always excited to get in that position and see what I have.   I think I've got what it takes to do something special.   That remains to be seen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT