THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2011
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: Like to welcome Jonathan Byrd into the interview room, a nice 6-under par out there, on the heels of all Slugger had to say, you probably are glad just to get today over with before tomorrow.  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely. Nobody knows what's going to happen with the weather and the golf course and the tournament. But you know, I've seen tournaments cut to two days, three days, and so it's always nice to get off to a good start. And so I'm thankful for my round today and happy to get off to a good start.   
  
  Q. Do you change the way you play at all knowing that there could be -- that the final round could be cut off?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: All you can do is just go play the golf course, see what you have that day and stick to your process. But in the back of your mind, you're thinking, you know, the course is going to be playing soft, going to be perfect conditions. When you get out early on a day like this with no wind, you know you need to get a good score.   
  
  Q. Say you're on 18 the last day, and you're in contention, down by a few strokes, do you play more aggressively?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I'm hitting driver on 18 with wind in my face, so I'm going to play the hole the same way every day and try to knock it on the green.   
  
  Q. I'm not sure how much you heard of what Slugger had to say --  
 JONATHAN BYRD: We won't be finished on --   
  
  Q. You won't be finished on Saturday. Putting yourself in his shoes or the Commissioner's shoes, what would you like to see done?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I just think that they have to do what's best for the players and the sponsor and the FedExCup. You know, we have to get the tournament in. There's a lot of points on the line and we are supposed to knock the field down to 125 or 100, so we have got to get a full tournament in, best chance of playing we can, if we can. You know, so I don't know what that looks like.   
  
  Q. Would you rather finish on Saturday with 54 holes or Tuesday with 72, if those are your two options?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Can you --  
  
  Q. A long pause. (Laughter).   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Can you -- well, I'd say finish on Saturday 54 and just let everybody -- so everybody knows that's the deal.   
  
  Q. You have to know that before -- if you know now -- the sooner the better so you adjust accordingly?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I don't know. It's a great -- I mean, it's a big predicament, because there's just a lot on the line. So I say if we can't play 36 holes on Saturday and get 72 in, we have to play 54, and then just wait around and see what happens. You know, see if we can get the last one in and if we can't it's a 54-hole finish.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been a part of a tournament where we are not even through the first day and people are talking about 54 holes and hurricanes?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: We played the Viking one year and we never teed it up. So I was a part of that.   
 I played in L.A. the year that we only got two rounds in. And I've played the Viking my rookie year last tournament of the year where it got shortened to 54, and I was in the second last group with a chance to win.   
 This is my 10th year out here and I've seen it happen. As a player you just get used to the fact that you are just going to have to wait around and we have to stick to our bylaws and stick to the plan and just see what's dealt.   
  
  Q. Did the course change much from the delay, being out there early and then coming out there in the afternoon?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: It did. You know, the ball was starting to skip out on the greens with your iron shots. It was starting to run down some of the fairways. The course was playing shorter, and then I was in the middle of the fairway on 9, and got out and was going to have to -- ball was going to skip out on that back tier, and now I was worried about it spinning back off the green.   
 And then I got on the 10th hole and it plugged in the middle of the fairway, because that's a real low point. It's kind of like 13, 14, and it just plugged.   
 So the rest of the golf course, you've got no roll, you couldn't get to the par 5, No. 12. Worried about spinning it off the green on 12 -- I mean, yeah -- 11, and so you had to adjust.   
  
  Q. Is it disappointing to come off the course, play a really good round and only get questions about weather and course conditions?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: No. No. (Laughter) I'm going to enjoy my round and go relax in my hotel room.   
  
  Q. Glad you're done?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Go call my kids and see what they did today and my wife.   
 LAURA HILL: Thank you very much.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT