THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 4, 2011
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 3-under 69. Got to feel pretty good about that. 
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, any time you get in the final group on Sunday you've done a great job, and today I played well all day. You know, I made some great up-and-downs to keep my round going and only one bogey on the card because of a bad tee shot on 11. But I had a lot of opportunities, and I did everything well today. 

 Q. Did you hear some of the roars? He went out in 31. How much did you pay attention to that. 
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I was just kind of laughing, you know. I'm happy for him. I enjoy it when guys are playing well, especially Stricker, it's hard not to pull for him. But when a guy is holing out from the fairway there's nothing you can do. It just makes me try harder to make some birdies and try and catch up.

 Q. How much confidence do you have you can go out and win this thing?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely. I felt like I left a couple out there today. I'm playing great golf right now, and you never know what's going to happen. This is a tough golf course. You can make bogeys at any stage of the game, and you've just got to keep playing and give yourself a chance.

 Q. How different is it when you're in the final group on Sunday? Is it just kind of a different mindset knowing that everyone is sort of following you and watching your game?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah. I mean, it's just a fun environment to be in. Any time you get paired with Tiger or any of the big-name guys, it's just a heightened environment and everybody is watching what you're doing. It makes us kind of block everything out a little easier because there's so many people and you kind of just focus on your game and play your best.

 Q. So you enjoy that sort of pressure?
 JONATHAN BYRD: I do. I tell people sometimes it's easier. I think the hardest environment to play in is when there's like two people out there and they've got a bag of chips and they're just making so much noise. But when there's a ton of people you just block everybody out.

 Q. A lot of guys had trouble keeping in the fairway because they're getting so much bounce in the fairways. Did you have any issues with that?
 JONATHAN BYRD: You know, I've gotten to play here two years ago late on Saturday and Sunday, and I think that experience today really helped me because I got up on tees and I looked at my brother, and I said -- like we stepped on 18, and I said, I think it's a 3-iron off the tee, when normally we're hitting a 3-wood or a hybrid. And I just told him, This ball is going to run out farther than you think. And that enabled me to judge the speed of the greens and the distance with my irons and tee shots, and I did a pretty good job of that today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT