WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2011
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great start to the tournament. Just your comments on the day.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, other than the obvious, I made more birdies than I made bogeys today. I made seven birdies, one bogey. I just felt good out there today. I felt calm. I've always enjoyed playing this golf course, but I always haven't played well here. I've had one good finish here. Just started off, had a birdie early, and just kind of kept the momentum, just kept hitting good shots all day.  
  
  Q. How much is strategy a factor out here? You just can't miss it anywhere with these greens.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I think some tournaments you can play a little more aggressive and hit some errant shots and get away with it. This course you just can't do that. You have to be mindful where the wind is because in these trees the wind can kind of switch and catch some gusts, and also on the greens and your approach shots, also. You've got to think your way around this golf course.   
  
  Q. Is this one of the odder track records you have on this course?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: It's pretty odd. You know, if it wasn't close to home, I might start saying, you know, I just don't play well there, I need to go home. But my family is close to home here in Columbia, South Carolina, and it's not far from Clemson. They just knock it out of the park at this golf tournament, and it's a tournament I can't miss.   
  
  Q. And the outfit is great, but no orange. You're going to have to bring some of that out, right?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, we might have a little orange later in the week. We've got a lot of Clemson guys in the field, we've got a lot of Clemson fans out there, and I'm sure we'll see some orange.   
  
  Q. What does this do for your confidence? You said you really haven't had the greatest rounds here, so to have a round like this today I would assume you feel really good about your game going into round 2?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely. I've always played this golf course -- I've played this golf course well maybe in practice rounds. I feel comfortable on it, feel like I can do well. You know, and having a good finish two years ago kind of solidified that. Other than that I've had like six missed cuts. I think a lot of the poor play is just from wanting to play well too bad, which happens when you get close to home sometimes.   
  
  Q. The course strategy for today, you talked about the wind, being mindful of it. With the conditions as cool as they were, do you sort of have to know what clubs work best and what don't, and what would those be for conditions like today?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, most of my clubs work pretty good, it's just a matter of execution. I drove it -- you have to drive the ball well. I feel good about my driver right now, and I'm putting well. So that sure takes a lot of pressure off when you're looking at a cut or over a shot, that you know I can take the pressure off and hit it 20 feet and trust my putter and try to make a putt.  
  
  Q. Is this maybe as confident as you've ever come into this golf tournament as far as how you've been playing and your standing right now on the Money List?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: After today it is. You know, starting this morning I didn't really know what to expect. I hadn't played my best golf lately in Hilton Head and the Masters. I had two missed cuts. But going out and playing the way I did today, I'm just going to try to keep that momentum and that mindset and just kind of enjoy the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. With one hole to play Lucas was one shot behind you. Does that kind of make it a little extra special to have one of your old college teammates right there with you?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, it's good to look on the leaderboard and see guys like David Toms, who I really am a big fan of David Toms, and then also Clemson guys like Lucas playing good. I always like seeing that. You kind of go, I'm glad he's playing good, but I just want to be right ahead of him, because he's your buddy. That's pretty good.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT