JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2017
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jonathan, what a good day.  Only missed one fairway; only four greens.  I think off the tee that set you up for a good day.  
JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely.  The rough out here is brutal.  They give you plenty of room off the tees, but kind of gave it some extra umph this week.  It's hard to just even get out with a wedge and control it.   
I'm just trying to keep the ball in play.  Had good putting today, so just trying give myself opportunities.   
 Q.  You won here in 2007.  That is not long ago, is it?  
JONATHAN BYRD: That's a decade.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  But you still have good memories?  I mean, you obviously love this place.  
JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I've had a lot of good tournaments here.  I mean, it wasn't like a one-hit-wonder.  I finished in second in I think '03 to Vijay.  So I have plenty of good vibes around here.   
I feel like I know the breaks on these greens and know how to play the golf course.  It's pretty simple:  Just go make a lot of birdies and take advantage of the wider fairways.  I did that pretty well today.   
I was very pleased.  I haven't been in this position for a while.  I've been playing the Web.com Tour.  I'm very happy to be here.   
 Q.  Keep it going, because that swing, it looked like the old Jonathan Byrd out there.  You had it under control today.  
JONATHAN BYRD: I feel old at times, but I do want to capture some of the magic.   
 Q.  I think you hit 13 of 14 fairways; solid second round.  How did you put together a 65 today?  
JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I played solid all day.  I felt a lot better on the course today on the greens.  I felt like I was reading them better and the ball was starting online.   
So that was probably the main thing.   
Made a couple good birdies early.  For whatever reason, the last couple years I've been making a lot birdies on par-3s.  I think I made two or three.   
Very solid day.  I'm pleased to be this position.   
 Q.  It's been a grinding season for you.  At this point, what do you feel like is clicking?  
JONATHAN BYRD: It's been a little bit of a grind playing the Web.com Tour.  It's been a good experience for me.  There is a lot of talent out there, and it's been and fun to be around those young guys.  It's been energizing.   
I think clicking-wise, my ball-striking is just getting a little more solid.  My bad shots aren't as bad.  I mean, I always putt good and my short game is great.  It's really as simple as my bad shots aren't as bad.   
 Q.  The Web.com Tour that schedule and workload is not easy.  When you come back to a place you won in 2007, how refreshing and energizing is it?  
JONATHAN BYRD: You know, I got in the field late at the Greenbrier last week, so it's energizing to me as a guy who spent a lot time out here, 15 years on this tour, just to be back out here.   
It's energizing for my family last week and this week just to be -- this is what feels normal for us, is being on the PGA TOUR and traveling.  So it's energized my game and I think my family as well.   
 Q.  Talk about the round today.  To shoot 6-under, 65, what was working for you out there?  
JONATHAN BYRD: You know, I didn't have a real good warmup this morning, so wasn't feeling great starting my day.  Hit a couple good tee shots the first couple holes and couple good iron shots.   
Most of all, I felt like I kept it in play and I started to putt a little bit better.  I started to get my putts online and hit them a little more solid.  Made six birdies today.   
 Q.  What did it mean to be the first group off?  Everything had to be perfect for you.  
JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely.  I think it was a good tee time.  You know, to get to play the course for an afternoon wave yesterday early in the day, you know, that's a lot of guys on the course.  Greens aren't quite as good in the afternoon.   
I feel like we had good greens in the afternoon yesterday and just perfect greens this morning.  Course is in phenomenal shape.   
 Q.  You've won here before.  What did it mean to post that number?  You're only a couple back at this point.  
JONATHAN BYRD: Well, at this point.  Guys like Zach and Charles Howell are playing some good golf, so I look to see them run away a little bit this afternoon.   
I'm very happy to be in this position.  I've been playing the Web.Com Tour to year, so I am just happy to be to at a PGA TOUR event honestly.  And to be playing well and in good position going into the weekend is just icing on the cake.   
 Q.  What does this round do for you confidence-wise as you get ready for tomorrow?  
JONATHAN BYRD: It's just a good day.  It's another good confidence boost.  Obviously I am going to plug that away and use it for tomorrow.   
You know, once you wake up tomorrow it's a new day.  You got to go out there and plug away and make some more birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT