JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2010
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JONATHAN BYRD: There were a lot of birdies. You know, this golf course when it's not firm, it takes a lot of teeth out of the golf course. And the hole location and the way the greens are shaped and everything. But the ball is not going quite as far, and I've hit it very well the last two days. I've given myself a lot of options, and I've putted well. 
 It's been a pretty fun two days.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 JONATHAN BYRD: I really didn't look at the leaderboard. I didn't know where anybody was. You see who's at the top and then if you get tied for the lead, you stop and you start trying to make pars. So I was just trying to hit as many good shots as I could coming in. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 JONATHAN BYRD: I have. You know, I didn't -- I haven't had a great season. I only played the first FedExCup event. So I had four weeks off after that, and then I needed -- I was 130th on the Money List going into the fall. So obviously I needed to play well. 
 And I finished tied for fifth in Jackson, and I made the next two cuts after that. So I've played solid. I played well in Jackson, and I've played pretty much well since I missed the cut in Canada in the summer. I've played good ever since then. I've just kind of put it together the last two days. 

 Q. (No microphone). You made bogey. Was it important to have in your mind knowing that you had so many other scoring opportunities.
 JONATHAN BYRD: I let it get to me just for a minute I hit a poor tee shot -- not that poor. Just I pulled it a little bit, and I had a pretty easy shot, just kind of bumped -- run it up from 100 yards on the green. I hit it over the green, made a bad chip, bad putt to make a bogey. And I came back right back with a great birdie on the next hole.
 I was starting to think, man, I gave one back, but then I came back with a birdie on the next hole and kind of got rid of that. That helped a lot.

 Q. (No microphone). Was the rain a factor?
 JONATHAN BYRD: No. I pulled the umbrella out once. I didn't even bring my umbrella, like a lot of guys last week or this week and it's rained both. 
 So I pulled it out on the eighth hole. We just pulled it out pretty much because we wanted to feel like we used it somewhere. And that was about it. The course was in great shape. It was a fun day. It was easy. 

 Q. (No microphone). Does it change at all or do you wait and see what the weather like tomorrow and is it supposed to clear up? 
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, the hard part is I'm going to go out there, and by the time I tee off, everybody's going to have made a bunch of birdies, and I probably won't be in the lead by the time I tee off. So that'll probably make it easier. It only becomes hard if my mindset changes. I'm playing well. I'm having fun. My caddy and I are doing a lot of good things. It's really simple. I just gotta go try to keep doing what I'm doing and getting in the right mental process and just enjoy it. You know, I haven't been here all year. I'm comfortable being there. So and I enjoy the golf course. So just go play.

 Q. (No microphone). 
 JONATHAN BYRD: Oh, yeah. We have a good time out there. He's been really good for me the last couple years. We've been together for about two and a half. He's the best. Adam. 

 Q. What's his last name?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Adam Hayes.

 Q. H-A-Y-E-S?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Uh-huh.

 Q. Did you know him from childhood or something?
 JONATHAN BYRD: He's caddied out here. No, I've known him since I've been on TOUR. He used to caddy for Vaughn Taylor. 

 Q. (No microphone). With the course having a little bit of water, did you have to adjust any club selection today or were you able to hit what you would normally hit on a dry day? 
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I think you probably hit a few more 3-woods around this golf course when it's dryer and fast. But now the ball is not running down the fairways as much. I mean these fairways are pretty tight around here. So that's probably the thing that's made the course -- I hit it pretty far, so the distance hasn't bothered me. Instead of me hitting wedges or sand wedges I'm hitting 9-irons or 8-irons. So it's not that big of an adjustment.

 Q. (No microphone)?
 JONATHAN BYRD: More direction, you know. The ball is staying in the fairway. It's a little easier to hit fairways. When it's wet, it always makes them a little wider, but there's some pretty narrow tee shots out there.

 Q. Were you a little more aggressive, though, on your approaches?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Oh, yes. I mean there's some tough pins. Usually on this -- they put them right next to some little ridges and if you just miss it it'll run all the way away, and right now you can be a lot more aggressive with them because they're not bouncing.

 Q. They're holding?
 JONATHAN BYRD: They're holding easily. They're really holding.

 Q. (No microphone). 
 JONATHAN BYRD: I would think so. It might dry a little bit. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT