THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 31, 2010
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your day. Very solid 66. You got to be pleased. 
 JONATHAN BYRD: I am pleased. I played good all day. I got off to a pretty good start. 
 You know, looking back on my day, I hit a ton of greens. I think the only green I might have missed was on the par-5 there, where I hit a great shot. 
 I thought I hit a good pitch on 17, and just hit a hard spot on the green - it's happening every once in a while on these greens - and then it just skipped over the back, and fortunately made par there.
 You know, I birdied a lot of the hard holes today. I think I only made one birdie with a wedge all day. So I'm a little disappointed I didn't hit it a little closer with my wedges. 
 But if I keep birdieing par-3s and driving it the way I am, I'll be in pretty good shape.

 Q. You've been out here a long time. You birdied six of the first 11. Does 59 cross in your mind, or you been out here too long to do that?
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I haven't shot 59, so haven't been able to do that yet. 
 I haven't had a hot round going in quite a while. I was just pleased to be in that position and stay out of my own way and stay aggressive and make good swings and putts. 
 Unfortunately, I didn't play great coming in. I hit two or three good putts that didn't go in, but that's just kind of the way it goes. You have kind of have streaks throughout a round, and I had my streak kind of in the middle and the beginning, and wasn't able to finish it. 

 Q. Health-wise you're good? The hip problems, have they all gone away?
 JONATHAN BYRD: I haven't had hip any trouble since my surgery back in '04. I had one injury in '06, I think. Other than that, I've been great. I work with Mike Bender on my swing and my ball-striking is pretty tidy, good week to week. 
 And my health is good week to week. For me, it's just kind of making a few more putts and just scoring well.

 Q. Now you got a shot tomorrow. 
 JONATHAN BYRD: I think so. I'm definitely playing well enough. Just looking forward to the opportunity. Looking forward to the concert tonight. Gonna be a good concert tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT