TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Five birdies, nice birdie on the last hole, just the one lone bogey, but a 4-under par 67, has to feel good. Give us some kind of sense of what kind of shape your game is in right now.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: That's a good question. I'm not exactly sure what kind of shape it's in. I have missed the last two cuts, two tournaments I've played in, and feel like I've been doing some pretty good stuff. I've been working real hard. But just had some good stretches, bad stretches and just has not come together real well.   
 And I'm just kind of coming into this week trying to have no expectations, which is hard. And went out today and did not hit it well, and usually that would have bothered me, and I probably won't have scored very well, but I just kind of stayed patient, and planned to stay patient, because you have to on this golf course, and made some putts and scored well today, and then I shoot 4-under. So I wasn't expecting it.   
  
  Q. But is that one of the characteristics of an old-style golf course where you can get out there and play a few miss-hit shots, but you can get away with it if you manage yourself properly around the golf course.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, I think so. I think any golf course, when you're not hitting it well, you just have to manage it, because there's a correct side to miss your shot on that you can get away with if you hit it there. If there's trouble left, well, I can't hit it there, but hanging out to the right, I can play from there.   
 I managed it well today. I missed it in some good spots and short game saved me but certainly on short golf courses, long is usually not good. You want to err short, below the green, and I certainly did that today.  
  
  Q. Speaking with Jeff Quinney, he said the par 3s here, he got a little tire of the hybrid, especially on the 17th, 200 yards plus. Is that the key, if you can go around and make pars on all of the par threes, if you can slide by those, chances are excellent that you're going to post a good score.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Absolutely. And throw a bogey in there every once in a while, and you're doing fine.   
 I think every week on TOUR, our par 3s are getting longer and getting harder. They are just waiting for us to start hitting drivers on par 3s here and there, every other week. But you play the par 3s 1-over for the tournament, and here, maybe 1-over for the day, you're not losing too much ground.   
  
  Q. This is our third week in Florida. This is not Florida weather. I'm ready for some warm weather.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: This is definitely not Florida. I have a sweater and sweater vest on. I'm used to sweating in Florida. I'm looking forward to maybe sweating this weekend, maybe next week, but we'll get out of it.   
  
  Q. You played well here last year and I know that you play well here every year, and it was probably kind of poignant here for you last year with your family and everything; are you reliving some of that at all?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Not yet. Not yet. I didn't think about it a whole lot today. This was the last tournament my dad was able to come to, and we kind of felt that that was going to happen. Maybe that will come back this weekend. That's always a -- I welcome that. It's a good thing to have good memories of my dad. But yeah, I enjoy playing this golf course when I'm thinking about that, or I'm not; it's just a fun place to play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT