THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 7, 2009
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jonathan, when you started to play today, did you have a score in your head you thought I have to shoot this if I have a chance? Or did you just start running?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: I think you just go out and play the golf course, just see how things go. You've got to wait until you get to the back nine.   
 That leaderboard, I knew I had to shoot 3 or 4 under at least to have a chance.   
  
  Q. Twice this week you've had a bad, bad situation, and you bounced back both of those times. Can you talk a little bit about your consistency and how pleased you are with your play overall in the four days.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah. If you take the whole week, all four days, three big numbers, two doubles and one triple, and I think I only made four bogeys otherwise the rest of the week. That's still pretty clean. Just worked hard.   
 You know, just disappointed with how I finished the last six holes obviously. But for the week as a whole, I played fantastic.   
  
  Q. Talk about that eagle a little bit on 7.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: I hit a good tee shot. Fortunately, I had the layup. I think I had 81 yards, and I just hit a perfect shot. You know, you don't always make those, I mean, obviously, but I hit it right where I wanted to, the trajectory I wanted to, and I got lucky, and it went in.   
  
  Q. Were you watching the leaderboard? Were you aware of what Tiger was doing?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: To a point. After I made the double at -- the bogey and the double at, say, 13, 14, that was about the first time I looked at the leaderboard. Really didn't feel like I had to up to that point. I knew I was in a good spot. I was just trying to keep playing the golf course.   
  
  Q. After that eagle, did you think this was your day?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Not so much after the eagle, but, you know, when I birdied 12 to get to 12 under, I felt pretty darn good. And then I hit a great tee shot on 13. I was in a good position in the middle of that fairway. Then, you know, three-putt and a double, that hurt. That stung.   
  
  Q. There have been a lot of people who question whether Tiger's back yet. Would this lead you to believe -- he birdied the last two holes, including here on 18 -- that he's back then?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: It just depends on what you consider the word "back" is. I don't know where he went. Obviously, he's a great competitor. I still don't think he's playing to his potential. He's not driving it as good as he can.   
 But he's always going to have a chance to win with as much talent as he has.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT