THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If we can just get some general comments on your day if we can.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: I had a solid day today. I got off to a great start this morning, birdied the first two holes. That was kind of a hot start. Then I had some pretty good opportunities on some par-4s on the front nine and just didn't take advantage of them, made a couple good saves. I had one three-putt on the 7th hole that kind of got under my skin a little bit, and I came back and made a good par on 8. Birdied 9, and then just played really solid on the back nine. I had a birdie opportunity I think on every hole and just played solid, made three birdies on the back and had a good day.  
  
  Q. What's your strategy playing this course?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Strategy is to hit it in the fairway and hit it on the green. I think if you're always missing in the right spots on this golf course, it takes a lot of the teeth out of the golf course. You start getting too aggressive, you start trying to force the ball into some of these hole locations, you get yourself in trouble.   
  
  Q. Can you just give us, a lot of good numbers out there. Is it just playing all right?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, the greens aren't that firm. I mean, they're as soft as I've ever seen it just because of the humidity and not having any wind. Not having any wind and the ball is going a long ways, the greens are perfect. It's just ideal scoring conditions for this golf course.  
  
  Q. How much confidence did you have coming into this week? Did you feel this coming on, a round like today?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, I shot 6-under the final round at Quail Hollow last week, was tied for low round of the day. So I've got plenty of confidence coming into this week, and my game is great. It's always hard to make that into a good score, and I was able to do that today.  
  
  Q. It's got to be fun playing here. You're kind of an area guy?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: I live an hour and a half away, so you get to see people from home in the crowd, and that's always nice. I had a few buddies from my home club out yesterday walking with me, and that makes it fun.   
  
  Q. We've seen how much the wind can change this course. When it's hot like this and still, do the conditions change at all as the round goes on or as the day goes on or is it pretty consistent?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: This afternoon the wind might switch a little bit, but this morning -- the wind might come up five miles an hour or so, but it did not change all day. It might go from still to five-mile-an-hour wind but not much.  
  
  Q. What they've done with the course and talking about being able to control the moisture in the greens and so forth, pretty consistent from your first hole to your last hole?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, pretty consistent. If anything I felt like they got almost softer. I was able to get -- maybe that's just because you start off thinking they're going to be so firm, but as the day went on I kept telling myself just kind of fly it to the hole. I don't know if the humidity did that or that was my perception.  
  
  Q. It must be nice, you don't get many opportunities to do that.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: No, I had to keep pinching myself, like stay aggressive, because you're not going to have it like this again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT