TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2009
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JONATHAN BYRD: It's so dry and so fast, and you throw in the wind that came up pretty good today, it's a tough golf course.  
  
  Q. What do you learn now by going out at roughly the same time and conditions today as you will tomorrow? What do you learn that you'll have to do in the final round?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Well, I think it always helps to get off to a good start. I came out and I had about a 6-footer for birdie on 1 and I missed that, and then I bogeyed 2. I birdied 5 to get it back to even, but just could not get a birdie to get under par going into that back nine.   
 I think you get off to a good start; birdieing 1 helps. And then you've just got to get some of those easier holes before you head in that back nine. The back nine can be pretty tough.   
  
  Q. Did you teed off today, if someone told you you could have an even par round, would you have taken it?   
 JONATHAN BYRD: I wouldn't. I'm playing pretty good right now, and I've played -- today was one of my best rounds of the week, I feel like. I just couldn't get some key putts to drop during the round. I don't know if I was trying too hard or it just wasn't my day with the putter.   
 I struck the ball nicely. I hit more greens than I have any other day. I only made two bogeys, as opposed to four or five. I made a lot of bogeys yesterday. So I had a lot of chances. If I just could have made the 8- and 10-footers I needed to make, it could have been much different.   
  
  Q. Do you concur with the general consensus that we are hearing that the golf course has gotten harder every single day?  
 JONATHAN BYRD: Definitely. Coming down those last five or six holes, those greens have been real crusty and it makes it hard to keep the ball close to the hole, stop it around the hole and the 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-footers are very difficult. The greens are so much faster and they are breaking twice as much.   
  
  Q. You had a 3-putt bogey unfortunately on 17.   
 JONATHAN BYRD: Yeah, I hit some good shots coming down the stretch. I had a very quick putt going down the hill on 16, and then 17, I just wanted to make it so bad. I wanted to make sure I get a chance, and it was a lot faster than I thought around the hole and I hit it by and missed it. You know, just the way it goes. I stayed aggressive, which was my goal for the whole day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT