WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2008
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I talked with a gentleman who said he caught up with you before the tournament and said you were really confident going into today.  Is it just the course, or you felt like in match play you had a pretty good chance today?   
 JONATHAN BYRD:  Well, I've played well this year, yeah.  I feel good about where my game is, and I think a week like this, you've got all to gain, nothing to lose.  The way the format is, if you're playing really well coming into this, you can catch somebody on a good day and you're done.  So I mean, you can't have any expectations.  You can go out there and play miserable and win and play great and lose.   
 I just was really excited about having the opportunity to play this week.  I barely got in the field, so I was excited about being here, excited about having a good match with Ernie Els, Top-5 player in the world, and I went out there and played some really good golf.  It was fun.   
  
  Q.  Talk about just what did you have working?  What went well for you today?   
 JONATHAN BYRD:  I drove the ball really well today.  I didn't have a great warm-up starting out.  I always tend to putt well.  I didn't have a great warm-up, and then right at the last ten minutes I started to really feel it and get in a little groove.  I got to the first tee, and I did a good job of staying aggressive and really trusting my swing.  I just kind of kept hitting good shots.  You know, he didn't play great, so that -- I shouldn't have been more than 2- or 3-up after nine holes, and I was 6-up.  He obviously helped me out a good bit.   
  
  Q.  People don't quite understand the small difference between the No. 64 player in the world and the No. 2 player in the world and what have you.  There's no real thing that's an upset out here, but some people might say it was an upset for you to beat Ernie.  Talk about the small margin of difference between 60 and the Top 10 in the world.   
 JONATHAN BYRD:  I consider it an upset because I have a lot of respect for Ernie and his game.  He's one of the best golfers in the world, period.  I knew I was going to have to have a good game.  But anybody can lose out here.  Anybody can get taken down.  That's why they have that new cut rule, because the fields are so good and the scores are so good.  There's not much separation between guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT