CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2006
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JONATHAN BYRD:  Today was a struggle.  I felt good on the range.  I felt like I had a good practice last night coming into today.  I felt good about my ball striking after hitting it poorly yesterday.  Just came out today and hit it terrible.  Struggling from the first hole out.

You know, I was very resilient today, very patient.  I kept telling myself, Hang in there, you'll start playing better in the end.  I made some awesome pars.  I made some great up and downs when my playing partners were just making it look real easy, hitting it 10 feet on every hole.

So it was hard to stay patient.  Justin birdie ing the first three holes, probably should have birdied the first five.  But, you know, they hung around, kept making pars.  I kept making pars.  I birdied two out of the last three.  I'm one back.  I'm extremely pleased.
Q.  Feels like you got away with something today?  Didn't play your best, got a good score, still in the thick of it.
JONATHAN BYRD:  Totally.  I mean, I got away with a lot today.  But a lot of that was just staying patient, hanging in there, feeling like I could get it done.  If I could just stay within earshot of whoever was leading going into tomorrow, I could get a good practice tomorrow morning, get ready.  I got a great chance to win this golf tournament, no doubt.

You know, you just keep hanging in there.  That's what I kept doing.
Q.  I'm sure if this was an American event, you would have been getting fed football scores.  Was anyone giving you any Clemson updates?
JONATHAN BYRD:  30 seconds ago they told me we lost by one in overtime.  I didn't have my phone on out there.  Sometimes I'll have my phone, get some text messages, check the scores.  I wasn't thinking about it too much today.

We lost a close one to BC last year, too.  It's a tough loss.
Q.  This wasn't maybe a normal PGA TOUR Saturday, threesomes.  Seemed like it took a long time to play today.  Did that have anything to do with you out of your rhythm, not having your best day?
JONATHAN BYRD:  I wish I could blame it on that.  No, I just    you know, you kind of get into gear when you wake up in the morning.  You're going to play twosomes.  When I got to the golf course, found out we were playing threesomes, it was going to be kind of wet out there.  You knew it was going to kind of play slow, especially playing in the second to the last group.

It didn't bother me a bit.  I had every reason to be feeding off my playing partners 'cause they were playing well.  I just kind of didn't have it.  You know, kept making pars.  Took advantage of the opportunities I did to make birdie.  Worked out.
Q.  When you were put on the clock, did that bother you at all?
JONATHAN BYRD:  It bothered me a little bit.  I just didn't feel like our group was    I felt like we were out of position.  I thought the circumstances, we weren't holding up the group behind us at the time.  It got our group kind of moving along.  They timed us I guess for three holes.  We got back in position.  It always bothers you a little bit.
Q.  They timed the guys behind you.
JONATHAN BYRD:  Did they?  Got to get us in for TV, I guess.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT