BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 1, 2006
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Jonathan, you made six birdies on the back nine which is a BellSouth Classic record at this course.  Good playing, and you're right in the thick of it.
JONATHAN BYRD:  Thanks.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Just talk about your round today.
JONATHAN BYRD:  I'm sort of in the thick of it.  I went out with a good game plan today.  I didn't want to be foolish and start recklessly aiming at flags trying to catch Phil.  As well as he's playing, it wasn't the smart thing to do.

So I just went out trying to play the golf course and if I make some putts and get it going, hey, great.  And I played the front nine well, didn't hit my wedges real close but gave myself some chances and bogeyed the par 5    birdied the par 5.

Went to the back, staying patient.  Didn't birdie 10 which was disappointing and just kept smiling and having a good time and I caught my run to birdie 12 again is always a good birdie and then 14, 15 and 16 are pretty fun.  And then 17 was a great surprise.  I hit it over the green long left and chipped it in.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Special to play good in the Atlanta area?
JONATHAN BYRD:  I think so.  My dad worked for BellSouth for 30 years.  He was a Federal lobbyist for them.  I heard the word "BellSouth" in my house a lot growing up.  My dad enjoys coming here, and I really love this golf course.  It's just a good feel and a good golf course.  It's visually pretty and I enjoy hitting the shots that we do on this golf course.  It's close to Clemson and it's close South Carolina, and so it's good.
Q.  I know Charles is one of your good friends, what is it like to play a round with him and is it relaxing and enjoyable to play with Charles and hang out with him for a day?
JONATHAN BYRD:  Yeah, it was good.  He text messaged me last night before I got off the range to tell me we were playing together.  I saw him at dinner last night.  And, you know, we didn't really exchange words like we were in college, not telling each other how bad we were going to beat each other or anything.  We look forward to it.  There's a lot of Clemson people out there today saying "go Tigers" all day.  It was a good environment.  Charles had a good front nine, he had a pretty decent round going and some disappointing bogeys on the back, but I always enjoy playing with Charles.
Q.  How shocked would you be if you had a chance tomorrow?
JONATHAN BYRD:  Well, I mean, I guess he made double on the last hole, so that shocks me enough right there to make that kind of mistake with that lead.  I don't know, you never know what's going to happen out there.  In fact, to have a kind of run like I did on the back nine on the front nine, you never know.

Like I said, he's playing some good golf and I'm just going to go out there and play the golf course.  If I get it going, I get it going.  But if not, I'm just going to try to play a good round.
Q.  Is there a way to describe the feeling when the birdies just start coming like that?
JONATHAN BYRD:  Yeah, you can describe it    I guess it's kind of like being in the zone.  The best way to describe being in the zone when you're making those birdies is just not trying.  I was having fun and I get over a putt and I didn't care if it went in, I was just trying to hit a good putt.  I probably cared the most on 18, just trying to grind that one in and I missed it.  That's always a good lesson going into tomorrow.

You know, just don't try, you just play and you start    things start going your way and you just kind of ride it out.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Good luck tomorrow.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT