CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 17, 2003
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Jonathan Byrd, 2-under 70.  You started off with a bogey today and couldn't really get it going, yet still 8-under par for the tournament.

JONATHAN BYRD:   I'm pleased with the way I hit it today.  I didn't have much of a chance to get it going, for one thing, so I felt I was getting it going just making pars, and some of the two putts I had.  Bogeying the first hole, it's one of the easiest holes on the course, I was obviously disappointed.  I birdied the next hole and birdied 7 and birdied 9, and I guess a birdie and a bogey on the back, but a bunch of good par saves.


Q.   This is your second year on Tour.  You've made over a million from two straight seasons, 54th on the money list with three events left.  Is the Tour Championship still on your mind?

JONATHAN BYRD:   Definitely.  More so just trying to win a tournament than the Tour Championship.  If you win a tournament that takes care of anything else.  I had the same goal last year and got one at the very end.  I like this place, it feels like home for me.  Being in North Carolina, it feels like South Carolina.  I've got a lot of fans out there and I'm going to try to put it together on the weekend.


Q.   Did you think another win would come quicker after winning last year?

JONATHAN BYRD: Yes.  You win one and your eyes get wide and your expectations go through the roof, which is a good thing, You want to see yourself doing great things, but I have done some great things this year.  I've had some good finishes in majors and I haven't won, but I've done some things I didn't do the year before, so it's just moving forward.  As long as you're getting better, you're doing the right thing.


Q.   Did you watch the game last night?

JONATHAN BYRD:   I watched it.  What game?  No, we watched it.  We actually went to bed in the sixth inning of the ball game, and the third quarter of the football game.  We made it close, but I was hoping for a victory.


Q.   You said you hadn't been hitting it where you would like, if there had been more rough out there would it have been a different story?

JONATHAN BYRD:   I would have had a tough day.  I had said that to my caddie on one hole, I'm glad the rough isn't high this year because I'm taking advantage of it.  I don't think I hit more than five fairways today.


Q.   You have Mike Hicks working for you.  How is that working?

JONATHAN BYRD:   It's good.  Mike Hicks works for Lee Janzen.  I parted with my caddie about two and a half months ago, right after the British.  I've been trying new guys out.  And Mike, he had an off week with Lee, so he offered to caddie and we'll see how it goes.  I just learned the other day he picked up Scott Hoch two years ago and won, so I'm hoping for the same fate.


Q.   When you're a young player like that and looking for a caddie, how many guys do you get calls from?  Are they on you every tournament you go to?  How does that go?

JONATHAN BYRD:   I've gotten calls from 15 to 20 guys total, which is a good problem to have.  I've just taken the approach that I just call them back and tell them I have their phone number and I would keep in touch.  I have a certain idea of what caddie I want, personality-wise, and I've tried to find that and I've had about three guys caddie for me.  It's going pretty good, I'm just hoping by the end of the year I will have somebody set up.


Q.   What's your caddie's name this week?

JONATHAN BYRD:   Mike Hicks, but he caddies for Lee Janzen.


Q.   There are guys fluctuating.  There's going to be different guys coming up and going down.  You're 70.  You said you recovered today and it may be a good round in the long run.

JONATHAN BYRD:   It depends on what the wind does out there.  Certainly if it blows on this golf course, it swirls.  I saw that in the practice round.  I saw it last year.  You have to be extremely patient.  If you're striking the ball well, with the four par 5s, you should still -- we're going to see a 66 or 65 out there, I would think.  If it's one of the leaders, I'm going to be way back.  I like my position.  I'm definitely going to be trailing going into the weekend.


Q.   Are the conditions a little harder today?

JONATHAN BYRD: Yes.  It was cold this morning.  I know it was cold yesterday, but I stepped on that second tee and into the wind and I knew I had to hit two good shots to get to that hole.  Some of those holes played a lot longer.

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your bogey on No. 1.

JONATHAN BYRD:   The flare driver, the first one of the day, in the right bunker, hit it in the front bunker and plugged it.  That was one of my two bunker shots today.  A good bunker shot, lipped out from about 10 feet. 

2, hit it just short of the green left, got it up and down.

7, 3-wood in the right rough, hit it about eight feet, made birdie.

9, hit my best drive of the day, and had a 5-wood in, left it just short of the green and got it up and down.

My bogey on 12, clubbed an 8-iron in the bunker, not much of a chance, but I almost made par, almost made a 15-footer. 

And then the par on the next hole, I hit the water off the tee on the next hole, 40 yards off line, dropped it and hit a 5-wood on the back of the green and then a great 2-putt for par.

And then the other hole, I left myself 40 yards short of the green on the other par 5, a tough pin, made a great up and in birdie.  And then 3 pars coming in.


Q.   So you weren't trying to go over the water on 13?

JONATHAN BYRD: No, not with a 3-wood.


Q.   Are they actually considering using that up tee perhaps one day over the weekend, where you could drive it over the weekend?  Is it something you would go for?

JONATHAN BYRD:   With the right wind, I'm certainly one of the hitters that can hit it over.  In the right situation and the right wind, you can bust it.  It's a 5-wood, 3-wood into the green from the fairway on the right.


Q.   What's 16 playing like today?

JONATHAN BYRD:   Into the wind again.  I hit a good drive there, right side of the fairway, and hit a knockdown 5-iron on the back of the green.  It's probably the windiest spot on the course because you're highest up going downhill.  It's somewhat like 11 at Augusta, if the wind is in your face, you want to try to keep the ball down, but it could be on the little upslope.  It's a tough shot.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT