PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 6, 2015
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about the conditions out there the last couple of days with all the wind and what you're doing well.
JONATHAN BYRD:   Well, I really enjoy playing this golf course.   I think it's just one of those courses you gotta drive the ball well, and I told David Duval yesterday you gotta‑‑ he asked me just about the course and the conditions.   I like playing here.

Q.   Even with the wind?
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah.   I think with the wind, you just gotta hit your shots solid.   You can't fake it around the golf course.   And I haven't been hitting it that well the last couple of days, but I've hit it well enough to kind of keep it in play and not have any errors, and I've made a couple of short‑game mistakes three or four times the last couple of days but overall I've played solid.

Q.   It's been sunny the last couple of days, but it was somewhat wet.   Has it dried out?
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah.   It was still pretty damp today.   Yesterday afternoon it started to dry out a little bit.   The ball started rolling down some of the fairways, but for the most part, other than a couple of holes that tend to dry out, like 16 green, a lot of the other holes the balls were holding on the greens for this morning.   I think this afternoon it's going to dry out a little bit even more. 
A few easier hole locations today than yesterday I felt like.

Q.   The injury situation you've been through the last few years?
JONATHAN BYRD:   What injury? 

Q.   Exactly.   What injury.   Is all that stuff behind you?
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah.   My wrist is not bothering me at all.   I'm just kind of‑‑ I think at the end of last summer I kind of put it behind me, finally. 
And you know, it inhibits my practice a little bit at times, but for the most part I don't really have an issue.   I do have two kidney stones right now that are kind of wreaking havoc, but the wrist is fine.

Q.   Are you confident you'll get back to that level you were right before all this string of injuries?
JONATHAN BYRD:   Yeah.   I see myself getting back to that point.   You know, I'm still hungry, and I still see shimmers of good golf.   This year it's kind of strange because I'm kind of waiting to get in.   So I can't guarantee it, but I can sure see it and I believe it, and that's all I can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT