MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 3, 2002
Jonathan Byrd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Jonathan, for joining us here in the media center.  Great round, 4-under par 67, and probably a fun place to come back to since this is where it all started when you turned pro.
JONATHAN BYRD: Definitely.  I was driving in last night and I was thinking two years ago how excited I was driving up the road and I remember seeing my agent parked up the road and they were just thrilled that I qualified, and they were trying to set everything up for me because I was like a deer in the headlights for a couple of days.  I didn't know where to park, what I could do, what I couldn't do, but they helped me get around.  I love this golf course and it's fun to come back.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Now, you Monday qualified for this event.  Did you finish first in the Monday qualifier?
JONATHAN BYRD: I think so.  I shot 66 and I was winning so I knew I was going to qualify, so I came straight over and practiced a little bit and got some free clubs and the whole bit.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions.
Q.  Just, I guess, go over your round, best things you did today?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Do you want to go through the birdies first and then he can make some comments?  You started on 10 and you birdied 11.
JONATHAN BYRD: I hit a 3-wood, 7-iron about seven feet just short of the hole, made that.  The par 5 I had 5-iron in, should have hit 6, hit 5 over and made par, and think I parred in, and then  -- where were the other birdies? 
The par 5, hit driver, 3-iron about 40 feet right of the hole, two putted. 
And then 6, I hit just a 5-wood, sand wedge about four feet, three feet, made birdie. 
And then I got up and down on 7, hit driver, 6-iron in, got up and down for birdie, and then I made two good saves on the last two.  I hit decent iron shots, missed the green.  It's tough to hit any greens because of the rough.  I hit them about five feet, six feet, and made them for pars.

Q.  Both of them, five  -- six-footers on 6 and 7.  How about 8 and 9?
JONATHAN BYRD: Same lie.

Q.  Any other interesting shots, saves, anything else that stands out in your round today?
JONATHAN BYRD: Hit some good shots; didn't convert many.  I seemed to have some good numbers today.  I had four 7-irons about the same yardage.  The back nine was my first nine, and I hit them all inside 15 feet, didn't make any  -- made one, and I hit some good shots on the par 3s.  I put them on the right tiers and left myself inside 15 feet.  I hit some good putts, just didn't make anything.  I think I hit 14 or 15 greens, I think 14.

Q.  Did you pay any attention at all to the leader board and seeing Hoch, Toms, Duval, seeing those names up there or do you not do that on Thursday?
JONATHAN BYRD: No, their names aren't any different than my name or anybody else.  I've been seeing their names all year and it's second nature now, just letters. 
I like seeing my name on the board.  I liked playing early on Thursday because you par the first two holes and you're on the board.  Par the first hole and you're leading, and that's always nice to see.  You just want to keep yourself up there.  It's nice being up there and it's nice being around those names.  I want to be at the top on Sunday.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Did you win the Virginia Beach  --
JONATHAN BYRD: I finished tied for second, played well.  I was tied on the last day and I finished second, finished tied for second.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  So you're familiar with this area.
JONATHAN BYRD: I've got some friends up here and my parents are driving up tonight.  My brother lives in D.C., so not too far away.

Q.  What kind of shape is your game in coming into this week?
JONATHAN BYRD: I think it's good, a little shaky last week, but I got some good practice in this week.  My game has just been increasingly better all year.  The scores haven't shown it, but I'm getting better every day and I've just got to put the score up.

Q.  So you say that you like this course or this tournament.  Is that because it was the first pro tournament or because you like the way the course sets up for you?
JONATHAN BYRD: First tournament, that makes a difference.  You've just got good vibes and good memories.  Yesterday driving in I just said I've got to treat every tournament like this because like that first pro tournament you're so excited and you just can't wait to get on the golf course.  It should be like that every week.  You never want it to get like old habit or like, I don't know, where it doesn't mean as much or you don't get as excited.  I think the golf course is really good.  I wish the greens were a little firmer, but, you know, there's so many good hole locations and good ridges and you've got to hit good iron shots to hit good putts.  With the rough thick that helps guys like me; I feel like I can get it out there maybe a little better than some other guys.  I'm a little stronger and just driving good.

Q.  You talk about just good memories.  Anything else stand out in terms of just memories here since, I mean, this is kind of the last one, the last Michelob here?  Anything else you can think of from the year before?
JONATHAN BYRD: About this tournament? 

Q.  Yeah.
JONATHAN BYRD: I just remember making the cut and thinking, man, this is great, I'm going to make money this week.  I remember how close I was to finishing in the Top 15 and thinking, man  -- I remember leaving thinking this is not that hard.  I didn't play that good, I played the par 5s badly and I was about 35th, a couple shots better and I'm right in there, and that was my first inkling that  making it out here, I didn't consider  -- that week made it easier.  That was a big step.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Are you guys all set?  Thank you, Jonathan. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT