NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 16, 2017
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mike Brown just blamed you for his late arrival and your bus and the police threatening to stop him.
COACH POPOVICH: He was so funny.  Somebody's got to teach him if the California Highway Patrol tells you to move over, you move over.  He didn't do that.  But it was funny.  They did a great job, by the way, getting us here.  It was pretty cool to watch them.  Everybody's getting out of the way wondering what's going on.  It was much easier than normal.
Q. Jonathon Simmons, is he starting, and what does he bring to the table for you?
COACH POPOVICH: He is starting.  He is kind of a neophyte, hasn't played all that much.  In past years he's been with the D-League team, and this year started to get more and more minutes, starting to figure it out.  He's a fine talent.  Somebody that is going to have a good future.  He plays well at both ends of the court.  He is pretty fearless and just learning about how to play solidly.
Q. Since you put Dejounte [Murray] in the starting lineup in Houston, up until this point, what have you seen from him and the confidence he's shown when he's on the court in the playoffs?
COACH POPOVICH: He is just absorbing everything.  He is a "rookie rookie," for sure.  Every time that we've played him he has shown a propensity to not be intimidated by the moment or anything like that.  Makes some mistakes, does some good things.  Just enjoying the experience and doing what rookies do to get better as time goes on, as they get minutes.  He has been a positive for us.
Q. What was your reaction to the fact that Kawhi's injury, no structural damage?  How do you plan on using him going forward?
COACH POPOVICH: How do I plan on using him?
Q. Yeah, do you expect to have him?
COACH POPOVICH: Well, he is ordering dinner at the hotel.  I don't understand your question.
Q. Do you expect to have him in Game 3?
COACH POPOVICH: I have no idea.  Just depends on how the ankle heals.  I'd probably list him as questionable.  But the thing that worries me is that he did it again, the exact same thing.  So one would logically think maybe it will take longer, but I'm hoping that's not true and we'll have him for Game 3.  But I don't know.  I don't think we're going to know until Friday and Saturday, probably.
Q. Do you stand by your comments about Zaza Pachulia from yesterday, or was that more of a heat-of-the-moment thing?  Did you know he's gotten some death threats? He's had to take down his Instagram page.
COACH POPOVICH: I said everything I was going to say about that yesterday.  Tonight is Game 2, and that's what needs to be concentrated on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT