NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 29, 2012
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How have you been so effective keeping teams off the line?   You're having a lot of guys in the paint, but you're not sending guys to the line.   
COACH POPOVICH:   Well, that's been our history.   It's something that we work on an awful lot, and we usually are usually the first or second least fouling team in the league.   But that's something we concentrate on all the time.  
   
 Q.   Do you go from game 1 to 2 in anticipation of the adjustments you expect from them or do you stay focused on what you guys are doing?   
COACH POPOVICH:   A little bit of both.   You can't really change your stripes too much.   Whether you win or lose one of these games, it's pretty tough to say, well, we're going to change our offensive system or our defensive system.   
Coaches tweak things for a variety of reasons, but it's more a tweak here and there than it is a real change or a big change, that kind of thing.   
Then you think about what the other team might do a little bit.   But it's more important to do what you do well, because that's what brought you there anyway.   
   
 Q.   Ginobili played 34 minutes I think in Game 1.   Can he keep that kind of workload six games in a row?   
COACH POPOVICH:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   But you're not ruling it out?   
COACH POPOVICH:   He's probably never done that before.   So I don't know how to answer that.   He's a heck of a competitor.   He's had a lot in the tank because he hasn't had to do that very often, but it's playoff time, and there are no back‑to‑backs.   So my guess would be that minutes aren't a problem.  
   
 Q.   On James Harden, is it your thought that he just had a bad game?   
COACH POPOVICH:   We didn't come up with any newfangled defensive miracle or anything like that.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) chronologically they've won, but do you sense a difference in the way they approach a game and their confidence this year?   
COACH POPOVICH:   Well, I'm not in the locker room, I'm not on the bus, I'm not at their practices.   That's something I couldn't answer I have enough trouble figuring out my own team let alone someone else's.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT