NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 27, 2012
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pop,   Blair has fallen out of your rotation, but for two years he's killed the Thunder.   Any temptation to get him in tonight?   
  
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, we certainly are aware of the success he's had, and the game will tell us what's appropriate and what's not.   He won't start.   We're probably planning to do what we've been doing, but the game sometimes calls for something different.   If it does, I'm sure he'll be ready.   
   
 Q.   Pop, in the two separate weeks off that you've had between rounds, have you been able to tweak your offense at all, add a play or two, or change some things?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Not significantly.   Most of the time is spent trying to stay in shape, trying to keep a rhythm, keep the people focused, but not burden them too much with extraneous things that don't really matter.   
Sometimes bringing in new plays, you think, like a light bulb, going to be something nobody ever saw before.   That works against you most of the time.   
   
 Q.   Pop, how has Kawhi progressed defensively to make him better as the primary assignment on Kevin Durant that he was during the regular season?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, that's a coordinated sort of judgment I really can't make.   One would think a player at the end of the season is a little better than earlier in the season.   I hope that's true.   I think for a while everybody he guards in the league, it's an education for him.   He's done Bruce Bowen.   He's learning quarter by quarter, and he'll learn more about Kevin Durant tonight.   That's just the way it is for a kid who went to college for one year.   
He'll do the best he can and he'll give the effort.   I'm sure at times he'll do some good things; other times Kevin is going to drill him.   So it will be a little of both.   
   
 Q.   Have you noticed any differences or growth in Kevin's game in the playoffs that you've witnessed from their standpoint?   (Indiscernible)  
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I wouldn't know.   I really don't know.   He was great at the beginning of the playoffs, and he still looks pretty great to me.   I don't know what the big difference would be between the beginning of the playoffs and now.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT