NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've heard the media reports that you couldn't get along with Gary, is there any truth that a coach of your stature, that a player can say to a coach I've had enough of this stuff?  
 GREGG POPOVICH: I don't even get involved in that sort of thing. People need stories. Stories get written. I ignore them.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to you to be coaching the game?  
 GREGG POPOVICH: The best part of it, actually, the humbling experience of being in the same room with these guys, the best players on the planet and you're actually in the room with them watching them go out on the floor and play with each other and the fun they have with each other.  
  
  Q. What does it meaning at the celebrity game, Justin Bieber is going to be with us --  
 GREGG POPOVICH: It would be disingenuous of me if I told you how excited I was to see Justin. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. There are so many supporters of the San Antonio Spurs in Russia right now, and most of them think that 2011 is a very good year to repeat to win the title again. But the question is, your team is supposed to be the smartest one in the NBA. Do you test the IQs of your players before enticing them to your team?  
 GREGG POPOVICH: No, I do not. That's very flattering, but I think it's probably more accurate that our players have been together for a while and they react to each other very well.   
 We don't test IQs before we bring people on.   
  
  Q. How does it work coaching an All-Star team in terms of preparation? Do you have a white board session or do you have a few sessions or let the guys commandeer themselves? How does it work?  
 GREGG POPOVICH: You've heard the old saying of roll the ball out? It applies.   
 The players are going to exhibit their talents. These are the best players in the world, and we won't stand in their way. We want them to play with abandon and display all of the skills that they have because that's what the people want to see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT