NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the key to making it work?  
 COACH POPOVICH: Well, it was the same offense we ran in L.A. and we lost. So you win a game when your offense was great and smooth. If you lose a game, you stood there and that kind of thing. So....   
 Same offense.   
  
  Q. Making shots, you had the same shots in L.A.?  
 COACH POPOVICH: That's part of it. Making shots is part of it. No matter how you slice it, no matter how good your defense is, the ball has got to go in the hole. And we did a better job of that. So we'll see if it continues.  
  
  Q. It almost seems like y'all's problem in L.A. rubbed off on the Lakers and they took over those problems last night offensively.   
 COACH POPOVICH: Okay. (Chuckles).  
 I appreciate your coaching tip.  
  
  Q. Kobe said their problems were they missed a lot of bunnies last night.   
 COACH POPOVICH: They did. They missed some shots. It could have gone in without a doubt. He is exactly right.   
  
  Q. Pau and Lamar particularly struggled last night and you would not expect that to happen next time around?   
 COACH POPOVICH: No, I would not expect that to happen at all.  
  
  Q. Can you gauge what kind of night you guys had defending Kobe?   
 COACH POPOVICH: We just want to make it more -- we will never stop him. He is too good. I don't think we ever have stopped him. But I think we always make him work and as long as we're doing that, we will be in the ballpark.   
  
  Q. Tony was a big key last night?  
 COACH POPOVICH: He was much less tentative than he was in L.A., and I think that helps us when he is that active.   
  
  Q. When you talk about (indiscernible) willing to take the perimeter shot as well as get to the rim?  
 COACH POPOVICH: We see a little bit of everything.  
  
  Q. Obviously it is another win at home last night. In the playoffs, do you ever worry about teams getting too comfortable about being at home and, We've won here before, look what we did the last series?  
 COACH POPOVICH: No, we don't play any of those psychological games. We try to play the game. No matter if it is home or away. Where the pressure shifted, who is doing this or that, that's what you all do. We just come and play. We just do our job and do the best we can.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like this team thrives and relishes the pressure situations, being down 2-0? I am not saying you subconsciously put yourself in that position. Do you feel like this team relishes that pressure?  
 COACH POPOVICH: I think they don't beg to get into a 0-2 position. So whatever position you're in, you just try to play as well as you can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT