NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 25, 2008
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hey, Coach. 
 COACH POPOVICH: Yes.

 Q. Just like in Game 7 of the New Orleans series, do you anticipate that your team's veteran leadership and experience will come into play in this important game tonight? 
 COACH POPOVICH: I certainly hope that's true.

 Q. I know you have been asked this throughout the play-offs because we have been asking everybody else this about the play-offs: Why do you think the home-road thing is so pronounced this year as opposed to other years just because it keeps happening, and by big margins? 
 COACH POPOVICH: You're accurate, obviously. But we don't know yet that that's true in this series. So I'm not talking about this. 
 But previous series, it's been true and I really don't have a very good answer. I have attempted it a few times and after I answer, feel rather foolish because it didn't make a lot of sense to me. So the best answer, I think I've given is it is what it is. There doesn't have to be an answer. You know, if you look at play-offs, different things happen in different play-offs. There's no real reason. 
 It is a game. Ten people trying to play and five of them are trying to do the opposite thing as the other five. If you look at all the series from the entire NBA history, there are probably other weird things that happened, too. That's just what's happening this year. I don't think it is -- there is a real reason for it.

 Q. Pop, after Game 2, Manu said he actually felt better than Game 1, even if he didn't look it on the floor. Do you need to tell him to be aggressive or does he just figure that out himself?
 COACH POPOVICH: No, he's -- he's a great competitor. He doesn't need me to tell him that. I mean, he plays aggressively all the time. What you're seeing on the floor is obviously a player who would like to do better, who wants to do better. He's frustrated for a variety of reasons. 
 But he's not going to use any excuses. He is just going to come and play as best as he can, and I'm looking forward to him having a real good game today. 

 Q. How was the flight on the Knicks' plane? Did they serve only New York wine? 
 COACH POPOVICH: The plane was great. It was great. It was on time, it was comfortable. It was great to get home. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT