NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 23, 2008
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's the demeanor of your team today?   
 COACH POPOVICH: Just fine.   
  
  Q. Not any different than you expect it to be, I take it?  
 COACH POPOVICH: What do I expect?   
  
  Q. It is not any different than what you would expect?   
 COACH POPOVICH: Right. It is another game and they're ready to go.  
  
  Q. Coach, what was the difference in your mind between the effectiveness of Tony Parker in the first half and the effectiveness in the second half? Do you think he needs to make any adjustments in the game tonight?  
 COACH POPOVICH: I think that their aggressiveness, once they started their run, was very effective. They did a great job on both Manu and Tony in that time frame.   
 So hopefully we'll do a better job when they up the pressure.   
  
  Q. A lot of people were talking about the effect of losing that 20-point lead. As mentally tough as the coaching staff on this team is, does that bother you somewhat that people are doubting that you can come back and wondering if that will have a lingering effect?   
 COACH POPOVICH: No.   
  
  Q. Doesn't bother you? You don't have to give a pep talk?   
 COACH POPOVICH: There is nothing I can do about what people say or don't say. That's something I can't control.   
 So it is not of much importance to me or my team. There's not much we can do about that.   
  
  Q. Last game at the pregame press conference, you mentioned that you wanted to see how the game went to see what kind of adjustments you wanted to make. What kind of adjustments are you going to make after last game?   
 COACH POPOVICH: Well, whatever I might do is not going to be a revelation to the world. But at the same time, I probably am not going to tell you, with all due respect (smiling).   
  
  Q. You look at Udoka in terms of his defense. Does he do a lot of the same things that Bruce does but hasn't does it as long? Would you put him in that category yet or not?   
 COACH POPOVICH: I think we all know about Kobe. He is the best and that's just that. Nobody is going to stop him.  
 Bruce does a good job of making it work, but in that game, I didn't think that Ime or Manu did a very good job when they took Kobe. I was disappointed. I thought that he would do a better job than they did.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT