NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 21, 2008
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH POPOVICH: Obviously a difficult loss and we had a great opportunity. We didn't take advantage of it. Hurts like hell. 
 Any questions? 

 Q. Coach, the 13 points in the final quarter, was that a byproduct of their defense or fatigue with everything you have been through the past two days? 
 COACH POPOVICH: It could be a little bit -- it has nothing to do with the fatigue of the last two days as much as their aggressiveness, their physicality and pick-and-rolls with Manu and Tony. We thought they did a great job in that regard. 
 That probably wore us down to some degree, I'm sure. They did a great job with it and nothing to do what went on the last two days. And then with that, we made very poor decisions. The ball stopped moving. Shots at the end of clock, no penetration to the rim, all jump shots and they deserve credit for that and they came back and had a hell of a win.

 Q. That was a pretty unusual game for an opener. Do you worry about any extra impact? Any emotional impact on your team? 
 COACH POPOVICH: Well, sure. Coaches worry about everything. You know, we worry about energy coming back. This is a game that coming off the last series that you can muster it up and get it and we got to make sure that we don't let that dissipate for the game on Friday. We got to dig down deep, forget about this and figure out a way to come back just as aggressively as we did the first three quarters. 

 Q. Were you doing anything special to Kobe in the first half or did you expect him to get more aggressive? 
 COACH POPOVICH: No. Kobe, he was doing a trust-his-teammates thing in the first half. That's why he had five assists and he was checking it all out and see where his territory was going to be. In the second half, he went to work. 

 Q. Coach, you mentioned getting ready for the game on Friday. You have to forget about this. Would it be especially difficult to forget when you were up by so many points and had a chance to get Game 1 here? 
 COACH POPOVICH: Absolutely. You know, that's what hurts so much, to be able to go up like that and let that dissipate. 
 That will hang in there a while, so it will take some good mental toughness to let that go, I think, and do what we have to do to come back and focus on the task at hand. So we'll -- we'll make sure we get that done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT