NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 7, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You came out of that time-out early in the second quarter after you had lost the lead, and Parker kind of ignited you guys with a couple shots and a couple feeds.  What did you say during the time-out, and talk about what Parker did to kind of turn the game around.   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, I think Tony, he plays his best basketball when he's aggressive, and I think at that point he started to do that more than he did the rest of the contest or the previous part of the contest.   
 Our aggressiveness often times begins with him, no matter how anybody plays him in the pick-and-roll, his ability to penetrate or get the ball to the other side of the court gets us going, so that's basically what he did.   
  
  Q.  What did you say during the time-out if you can share that?   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  No, I can't.   
  
  Q.  Defensively against LeBron, can you just talk about how you felt that you guys executed and the game plan going in against him?   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  I was pleased with our defense.  I thought after the long layoff that we maintained a pretty good intensity defensively.  We were a little bit discombobulated, I guess, to start the game offensively, but I thought defensively we kept our focus pretty good for 48 minutes, and that's what got us through tonight.   
  
  Q.  Kind of talk about Bruce Bowen's individual defense against LeBron and also your team concept against him.   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, you know, Bruce always guards the best player on the other team, or at least nine times out of ten, depending on who we're playing.  But he takes great pride in guarding the other team's best player.  He doesn't always stop him.  Our team defense is what we count on, but team defense begins with individuals taking responsibility, and I think Bruce does that very well.  The team followed through and helped out pretty good, and LeBron didn't have a great night.  Sometimes shots don't fall for people.   
 You know, next night he may shoot 60 percent.  Same things happen to our players.  But tonight he just didn't have a great night shooting.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how much of you guys' experience might have helped because it seemed like after you called that time-out you guys became a lot more patient and maybe a little bit more deliberate in your offense.   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  I don't know.  I don't know how to quantify that.  I know the experience is probably important in understanding that games are 48 minutes long and there are going to be ebbs and flows in every game, but beyond that, I can't quantify it.   
  
  Q.  At halftime did you make any major adjustments?  You came out and outscored them by 10 and put the game out of reach.  Due to major adjustments or good execution on your part?   
 COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  We made no major adjustments.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT