NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 30, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GREGG POPOVICH:  Of course we're thrilled to have the opportunity to go to the Finals.  But, first, it is important to congratulate the Jazz for a fantastic season and for being back, and they are going to be back more and more every year with a fine group and, obviously, great coaching staff. 
 So we feel good about having beaten them now and it is going to just get more difficult for everybody as they spend more time together. 
 Of course tonight we caught a break and we realize that.  We're thrilled to be going where we're going. 

 Q.  Coach, you mentioned as they get more time together, they are going to be really tough to beat.  In every single one of your wins you had one big quarter.  Can you chalk that up to maybe them being a little bit young and your experience able to capitalize on a little shift of momentum? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, maybe.  You know, when we run, we're a very good basketball team.  We want to be a half-court team.  We get a little bit stagnant when we do that. 
 We were fortunate that we seemed to have a quarter every game where we were able to jump on them, except for Game 3, obviously.  I think it was Game 3. 
 And maybe that makes it tougher for a young team, I don't know.  But the other three quarters, they played their fannies off and we had to hang on.  So they are a fine group. 

 Q.  You said you caught a break.  Could you elaborate? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, I mean, obviously, Deron wasn't Deron.  He's somebody who's been difficult the entire series.  And, you know, we had a great first quarter, but obviously he wasn't full speed as the game went on. 
 Coach had to take him out.  I don't know exactly what the ailment is, but obviously, there is something that's bothering him.  And Derek didn't get there until late so those things happen. 
 We're going to relish the victory and the series.  We played well.  And I just thought that needed to be acknowledged. 

 Q.  Pop, your thoughts on Tony and how he set the tone in that first quarter and kind of his game management all throughout tonight's game. 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Tony was very focused to start the game and was very aggressive offensively, both for himself and finding other people.  He pushed the pace after makes as much as after misses, and everybody followed suit. 
 We really tried to do that at the beginning of the game, and he was the head of that. 

 Q.  Coach, if you had a choice, Cleveland or Detroit? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Is this the first time you've ever talked to a coach?  (Smiling). 
 We are going to play Cleveland or Detroit.  

 Q.  Pop, how long will you enjoy this victory and are you kind of glad that you know you have until next Thursday to take a couple days and relish this? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  "Enjoy" is always like a happy word.  People say how happy are you or how much do you enjoy?  Winning at this level is a relief, and I've always said that, and losses are devastating. 
 We are not going to do anything tonight, I guarantee that.  But we will get on it tomorrow and start watching both teams a little bit more closely. 

 Q.  You seem to be clicking on all cylinders.  What are you going to try to work on between now and the start of the finals that you feel is missing? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, you know, the first thing is going to be to stay in shape, try to keep a rhythm. 
 But basketball is a game of mistakes.  Whether you are the best team in the league or the third best or the tenth best, there's always more steps you can take as far as execution goes at both ends.  I think we just want to do everything we can practice-wise to stay sharp so that our execution is at the level that it is at now.  We don't want to go into Cleveland or Detroit and be 70% of what we are now. 
 So practices will have to be intense.  We will have to hope we don't get an injury.  But to not practice, to not get an injury would be counterproductive, I think. 

 Q.  Coach, this is your fourth trip to the Finals in less than ten years.  Can you talk about sustaining that level of excellence. 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Sure.  That's an easy equation.  It is David Robinson followed by Tim Duncan. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT