NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How much do you expect to be able to rely on Michael Finley in terms of getting him back to his normal minutes tonight? 
 GREGG POPVICH:  Unless he exhibits some sort of an inability to play, we are just going to go with him like he's 100%. 

 Q.  Pop, can you talk about Bruce's story from Fullerton to overseas to where he is now. 
 GREGG POPVICH:  Well, Bruce is one of those guys that one has to be really happy for because they've gone such a long route to get to where they are.  And there are some other people in the league like that. 
 Those are always the best stories because some of those kinds of guys don't have the talent that some of the other players but they have perseverance, they understand what their weaknesses and strengths are and they work at it month in, month out, year in, year out, and do whatever it takes to find a team that can appreciate what they do. 
 So somebody like Bruce is especially fun to watch and rewarding. 

 Q.  When you coached Boozer with the Olympic team, did you see this kind of potential in him and how so? 
 GREGG POPVICH:  Oh, sure.  He is a very talented young man.  He is physical.  He is a hard worker.  He has got a lot of talents.  He has got a good post-up game, but he also has a great touch. 
 So that's a great combination for somebody who is as big as he is.  On top of all that, he can run the floor.  He is not limited in that sense.  He has got great agility.  He has a knack for the game.  He understands spacial relationships and what everybody else is doing on the court. 
 And he is a team player, so he has all the prerequisites to be a heck of a player.  And that's why you see him doing what he has done this season. 

 Q.  At what point do you think you will be able to say tonight that your team is out of the mental funk it might have gotten itself into in Game 3? 
 GREGG POPVICH:  I never described to my team a mental funk.  I think that's a little bit of an overstatement.  I think they mentally gave in a little bit and didn't maintain the tenacity that Utah maintained in the second half. 
 But I wouldn't call it a funk. 

 Q.  Pop, when you have stuff like teams starting to prepare for the draft, how much involvement, if at all, do you even have with what you've got going on as far as the team, too? 
 GREGG POPVICH:  I have absolutely no involvement in what's going on in Orlando.  I just don't have time to do that.  That's not what I do, though, so that's lucky.  I mean, R.C. and his guys, that's why they're there.  That's what they spend the year doing.  They don't really need me anyway. 

 Q.  You don't go to the workouts? 
 GREGG POPVICH:  If there are workouts, yeah, in San Antonio, I will go to those.  As far as doing anything in preparation for Orlando this week, I haven't done anything. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT