NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You were talking yesterday before the game about how you guys don't celebrate too much after wins and you don't despair too much after losses.   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I lied.   
  
  Q.  Was that despair?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  No.  We just, you know, tell the truth.  They outplayed us and mentally and physically in the second half they maintained and we did not.  They deserve credit for that.  And the outcome was obvious.   
 We just talked about what we did well and what we did poorly and the emphasis was on the poorly, as one might imagine.   
 And then you move on and get ready for tomorrow night.   
  
  Q.  Did you not show them any tape?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  It would have been way too painful and I think cruel and unusual punishment to have them watch the tape.  Just the coaches did that to themselves last night.  And that was a lot of fun.   
  
  Q.  Did they change their coverage on Tony's screen and roll?  It looked like they weren't showing quite as hard as they did the first two.   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  They dropped on him and went underneath and didn't really hedge it very hard.  They played it differently.   
  
  Q.  So the counter to that, is it just being quicker to make decisions, whatever you do with it?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, we need to spread the court and move the ball better.  We had 17 assists for the game and we have been doing a good job in that regard.  Last night we were a little bit too stubborn.   
  
  Q.  Any concern about Michael?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  He says he feels better today, so hopefully that's true.  We need him to be able to play.   
  
  Q.  What do you think you have discovered about Deron Williams and how to deal with him?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, it looks like he is replacing Amare Stoudemire for us.  In the last couple series against Phoenix, we held Amare to about 38 a game (laughter).  And it looks like it is going to be holding him down to 31 to 32 a game, whatever it is.   
 So it starts individually.  We have to have individual guys take the challenge, first of all, or the team defense doesn't have a shot.  Team defense doesn't take everything if the initial defense is poor, and it has been poor.   
  
  Q.  This is obviously a team game, but it seems like the winner of that match-up is having a great deal of say in who wins these games?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I can't argue with that.  Tony started out really hot, but I think Deron has played that way throughout.  I just think he has got some teammates that have stepped up with him come Game 3.   
  
  Q.  Really the biggest key would be to Tim Duncan staying on the floor.  That's not much you can do about that from the bench, correct?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Tim didn't have a great night for a variety of reasons.  And everything we do begins with him, so that does make it a little bit more difficult.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT