NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 22, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GREGG POPOVICH:  Another physical game as one might expect.  I thought that, you know, we were just fortunate to make our threes tonight.  That really made the difference in the game for us offensively, knocking down threes.  They had more free throws than we did and did a little bit better job on the boards but overall we made shots.  That helped us get it done. 

 Q.  Pop, do you think that was a wise investment, that $50,000 to get the energy back? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, yes, I do.  No way to quantify it, but yes, I do. 
 The best part is that it wasn't my money (smiling). 

 Q.  Pop, can you talk about Tony's play in the first half there and finding the shooters. 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Tony did a great job.  Their aggression defensively is fantastic.  They really had, you know -- did a great job on our pick-and-rolls as far as keeping Tony out of the deal, but he was smart enough to move the basketball and get other people involved and that ball movement helped us out. 
 I don't think our movement was as good in the second half.  I thought we tended to stay on the dribble a little bit too much and it made their defense more stifling, in a sense. 

 Q.  Pop, you've stuck with Brent and given him an opportunity.  How important was it for him to get going with the three ball tonight? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  It adds another player that can go out on the court and contribute.  Somebody else doesn't have to be played extensive minutes that way.  I thought he did a good job.  He obviously made some shots but he worked hard on defense, trying to rebound a little bit, and that just gives us a longer bench and that's always a good thing in the playoffs. 

 Q.  Pop, Utah was down 2-0 to Houston.  What do you expect going to Utah now? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I expect more of the same and even better.  It is a proud group.  It is a young, athletic group as we've all stated many times.  They execute really well. 
 They don't care if they're up by 10, down by 10 or any score you can pick.  They are going to play it to the end and they are going to do it with class. 
 So we will have two real tough games in Utah, I know. 

 Q.  How important was it -- as good as they are on the boards, how good is it to establish it early and stay consistent with it throughout the game? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  It is key for us because they are great at it.  They are the best in the league in pursuing the basketball, and we did a pretty good job of that tonight, better than we usually do against them.  And it is a key for us. 

 Q.  Did the turnovers give you something to psychologically keep prodding your team? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Our turnovers? 

 Q.  Yeah.  You are playing so well.  Does that give you something to motivate them for the next game? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I will use that.  Thank you for that. 

 Q.  Do you welcome the three days off now or do you wish you had a game to play Thursday? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I have always felt that when there is a lay-off, neither team likes it.  If you win the game, somehow you feel if you have got a little momentum you want to go play.  If you lose the game, you feel miserable for longer and you like to go play. 
 So whatever scenario you want to pick, I believe that team would rather go ahead and play than wait. 

 Q.  Is there anything specific that you were doing to get that advantage back on the rebounding? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  No, nothing. 

 Q.  You didn't challenge your guys? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  No, they're not very intimidated by me.  I think I might have said "rebound more," something really magical like that probably.  I don't know. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT