NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 20, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Coach, what one thing do you anticipate having to remind your team again and again in the huddles during the timeouts?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Boards, boards, boards.  These guys are the best in that area and they hurt us badly during the regular season.  That's probably the first thing that we talked about priority-wise for Utah.   
  
  Q.  Does it feel like a particularly quick turn-around and what are the factors that complicate that?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Yes, it does and that's because it is, but that's the way it is and nobody cares.  So you just go play.   
  
  Q.  Along those lines, I mean, you had 30 hours to get past Phoenix and prepare.  How did you kind of put that series aside and get ready for the next one, what assistants did you have in Utah?  How did you handle yesterday?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  You just forget it.  That's something to be enjoyed or anything like that because you know there is a lot of work left so you just need to look at the task at hand and that's Game 1 Utah.  So we immediately started working on game plan and film and what we wanted to present to the team and had they come in yesterday about 2:00 and obviously didn't practice but just gave them the game plan and that sort of thing.  And then come in today and play.  So we will just see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about Mehmet Okur and maybe some match-up difficulties or things he forces you to do and you have to consider?   
 GREGG POPOVICH:  It is a great combination they have when you have got something like Boozer underneath that is so dynamic and scores so well and then you have got an equally difficult player on the perimeter who can shoot threes who also has that size.  It really compounds coverage.  And probably what it means is that you can't stay in the same coverage for very long.  We are planning on trying to change it up here and there and do the best job we can to find Okur so we don't leave him out there all by himself.   
 What's doubly tough about him is that he is also great on the board.  In both our losses, they came because of his offensive rebounding.  So he doesn't just stand on the three-point line.  He does a little bit of both while Boozer is doing his thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT