NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 20, 2007
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, we had a good first half offensively and defensively and luckily had enough of a lead to hang in there because they played better than we did in the second half, played better D, executed better.  Deron Williams was fantastic and they made a  great run.  We were just able to hang on.  So we are happy we were able to do that. 

 Q.  Were you at all concerned about legs in the second half, fourth quarter, coming off -- 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Sure, we were very concerned about that, but it doesn't matter, right?  You play the games.  I think some guys did run out of gas. 

 Q.  How did Robert feel like coming back into the game?  Did it look like he was ready to get into the action after a couple of days off? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  I am not sure.  I didn't focus on him as much as I probably should have, but I'm sure that he felt a little bit different.  Probably he wasn't in a rhythm I would guess. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the effort you got out of Fabricio tonight? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Fab is a good fundamental player who understands what he can do and what he can't do and he is one of those blue-collar kind of guys that any coach would like to have on their team. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about the job you were doing defensively in the first half on Boozer? 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, we did a good job in the first half and, you know, I think Carlos missed a couple of opportunities that might have gotten him going but in the second half, it changed.  They were the better team in the second half. 
 Defensively, on the boards, execution on offense.  We were too satisfied with the first half, I guess.  But they outplayed us down the stretch. 

 Q.  Is Manu getting into the rhythm where you want to see him?  He had 10 assists, 24 points, is he looking each better 
 GREGG POPOVICH:  He is doing a fine job for us and playing aggressively.  Whenever he is aggressive, pretty good things happen for our team. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT