NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 16, 2005
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What did you say to players your players after the first half?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  You know, we just talked about what we needed to do better.  You really don't think I'm going to share everything I say, do you? 
 
Q.  Well, it's already been out there that you -- I don't know if this is something you said to them specifically but at one point you said it was the worst half of basketball you've ever seen by an NBA playoff team.  How would you characterize --
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Who told you that?  
 
Q.  That was reported during the broadcast.  Was that inaccurate, because if you can --
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  It's right on the money.  (Laughter). So you already know.  So you didn't have to ask me that.  
 
Q.  Coach Popovich, what would be your biggest disappointment from the last two games?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, tonight was a carbon copy of last game.  They got even more points off turnovers.  Last game I think it was 23; this game I think it was 25, and they got one less offensive rebound.  They got 19 second-chance points tonight; 20, last game.  So that's probably the most disappointing thing because you can imagine since that game that's all we've emphasized is the boards and taking care of the basketball, and we came out and did the exact same thing.  And one needs to credit their defense, they were great.  They were physical again, and they got us on our heels again, we reacted very poorly to it, and you see the result.  So they did a great job.  
 
Q.  Manu struggled again in the game tonight, is that something they are doing or is he still struggling with the injury from Game 3?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Manu is not injured.  He's fine.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you're back to square one after the great success of a couple of strong wins at home, and then two games here, the way they have come out? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, I don't think of it as "square one," but it's disappointing, you know, to play two games the same way not learn from Game 3 and not be able to take care of some of that.  That's probably the most disappointing part, but I don't think of it as "square one."  I just think of it as two bad performances, and if it doesn't get better, we'll be in big trouble. 
 
Q.  Is the frustration level high or could it get even higher than what you're feeling right now?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  I don't feel frustrated at all.  There would be some other words that would be a lot more accurate, but there's no time for frustration.  Frustration has got nothing to do with it.  You play well or you play poorly.  You do things the way you practice and the way you've done them over the year or you don't.  And it's disappointing that their physical play and their defense has taken us away from everything that we normally do in these last two games.  I think they are the same guys who played in San Antonio, last time I checked.  To see the flip-flop like that is disappointing, because it's obvious why it did that.  They did fantastic with their pressure.  Really, really good.  
 
Q.  Pop, it does seem that they have taken Manu away from you.  He's such an electric presence in San Antonio and now it doesn't look like he's even getting looks and lanes and anything. 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  They have done a great job on him.  I don't know what else I can tell you.  You're right.  They have packed it in on him, made it difficult for him to get into the lane, and he's just going to have to let the game come to him and not worry too much about making something happen every time he touches the ball.  The second half, in the third quarter we saw some bright spots in that regard, where the ball started to move, we started to get better spacing and attack and kick and that sort of thing.  Hopefully we can build on that.  
 
Q.  Before the game, you told us that you didn't have to say anything to Tim after the last game. 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Right.  
 
Q.  Up there on the big screen and on ABC when you took him out the last time, you could be seen having some words with Tim. 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Oh, right.  Right.  
 
Q.  What did you say, try to say to him, or what did you say to him at that point?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  You know, that's between Tim and I. You know I'm not going to share that with you.  Is it a rule that I have to?  Am I going to get fined by the league?  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  After what you told us before the game, it was interesting that --
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  We spoke more during the game than we did in the last two days, if that's what you're asking me.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT