NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 12, 2005
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you talk about Brent Barry, just how he sacrificed a little bit to come to the team this year and obviously didn't have a great game the other night but imagine you expect a little bit more out of him? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, he's been very important to us because, you know, he adds a space and quality to the team, he's really a good passer, he's a good runner, he's good on the break and he's a good basketball player, so when he plays well, it's really a bonus for us.  It really helps out a great deal.  This year, I think he's probably spent too much time worrying about making shots.  You know, I think that's hurt him in some games where he has not been as consistent as he would like to be.  He's really tried to fit in defensively on the floor and rebounding-wise, he's done a real good job for us in the guard position.  He's important because he adds depth for us. 
 
Q.  How did he fit in defensively?  Because that was an area of his game he wasn't really known for. 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Yeah, he did fine.  He understands that many times that's what is going to win games for us, the way we're put together and the way we're built.  And if he wants to be on the court, that's something he's going to have to do, and he's accepted that readily.  
 
Q.  Following up on Brent, what is your thinking about why he's worrying about shots so much? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  That's just who he is.  I mean, everybody's different.  He knows that one of the reasons we brought him here is to make shots.  I think he just obsesses sometimes too much when he misses it, like the world is going to end or he's disappointing people and teammates.  We just try to get him to relax and realize that's not the case.  Everybody wants him to do well, and if he misses them, he misses them.  But what's important is to go down and continue to play the D, rebound, run the floor, play basketball.  We're not going to predicate his minutes on whether his shots went in or not.  We'll predicate it on how he does the other things.  
 
Q.  And on Glenn, you ended up playing him, when it sounded pregame like he might not be played at all.  Based on what he did in Game 1, how does that affect your thinking about him tonight? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Not much.  I think that, you know, if everybody is playing well and we're not in foul trouble, and the game is moving along and nobody is up or down by 10 points or something like that, it's a competitive game, he probably won't get very much time.  
 
Q.  When Dwyane Wade torched Tayshaun Prince, they switched Rip Hamilton on him.  Do you anticipate them putting Rip on Manu tonight and will that affect the way you attack? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  No.  We're going to run the same offense that we've always run.  I don't know what they will do in regard to Manu, but it won't change anything that we do.  
 
Q.  Yesterday Robert Horry said something along the lines that Tony Parker in particular had to learn how to tolerate you the first year or so in the league.  Is there a germination period or something that players have to go through when it comes to being with you?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  That's a hell of a question.  (Laughter). I don't know.  I think there's a period where a young player, no matter where he's at, no matter who his coach is, has a period where he's clueless and probably thinks he's not clueless, and has to figure out that he's part of a whole, and that there are certain things he has to learn.  So, if that's the tolerate part, then I'm guilty. 
 
Q.  Would you like to ask us questions after three days of interrogation?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  I've made a list, but I thought I would wait until it was more appropriate.  
 
Q.  Early on, both Tony and Manu, when you got behind 17-4 were kind enough to talk to the team about what they needed to do, "we're having trouble getting to the basket and Detroit was closing in," and you went to Tim so much.  Do you think Detroit would want to react to that, obviously Tim is so important to you, but that you rely on him when things go bad and they are going to overplay him this time?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  You know, they might decide to, you know, front him or limit his catches, that kind of thing, but that's happened a lot before.  A lot of teams try to do that, and I think we know how to respond to it.  I was more concerned at the beginning of the game that the ball didn't move in general, and that each guy was trying to do something great, if Timmy got it, if Manu got it, if Tony got it, it wasn't going any further and that person is trying to do something, without regard for what was going on out on the court defensively, instead of just letting the game come to them, moving sides, playing the ball, going to the open man and play that way.  I thought it caused turnovers and Detroit reacted really well to that and got a lead because of it and then it was, we're going to go to Timmy and that doesn't work in that regard.  I think if we can come out, not turn it over, move the ball, we'll be okay.  
 
Q.  We asked Duncan yesterday about Bowen's defense and he said we should ask Ginobli --
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Whose defense?  
 
Q.  We asked Duncan about Bowen's defense and he said we should ask Ginobli about that because his first year, Bowen, according to Duncan, it was not pleasant what Bowen did to Ginobli.  What do you remember about those days? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  A lot of frustration on Manu's part.  I think Bruce, he's a pro, he's been here awhile and here is this guy, he's an interloper sort of guy and Bruce doesn't know how it's all going to end up and for all he knows, he's taking his spot.  From day one in training camp, Bruce welcomed him to the NBA and defense, and Manu thought he was like in a mix-master, you know, his whole first six months of the season, he didn't know which way to turn.  Couldn't get anything done, you know, he had the ankle deal and all that sort of thing.  Bruce was probably the best thing that ever happened to him.  He realized real quickly it wasn't going to be easy and he had some things he had to figure out.  He had to work on his shot, which he did, obviously, he couldn't just drive by everybody and, you know, do what he does.  So it was a great education for him.  
 
Q.  Did they get concentration at all? 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, there were practices where we would have to remember they were all falcons and that kind of stuff.  (Laughter) He more than anything, you know, they handled him pretty good.  
 
Q.  One of your favorite phrases about your team is that "it's gotten over itself," I was wondering how that applies to you as well.  You've been a big part of this whole success. 
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Every day I wonder what the hell I'm doing here.  I think there are a lot of other people that could be sitting here doing the same thing.  People tell me that we've done this, we've done that, we've done the other, and we have done that.  But we've had the pieces to do that, and if I'm going to take any credit at all, I'm going to say I didn't screw it up.  But beyond that, it's got nothing to do with me. 
 
Q.  It has nothing to do with you at all?
 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:  Well, I'm there.  (Laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT