NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 30, 2005
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  When a team is up 3-0 as you are now, does it ever enter your mind about oh-oh, what if we collapse here, what if we have one of the all time -- what does a coach think of and what do you do to try to keep your players from thinking those things?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  And of course you want truthful answers.  
 
Q.  No, not really.  We're killing him (laughter). 
 
COACH POPOVICH:  You better start taking this more seriously. 
 
Q.  As soon as you do. 
 
COACH POPOVICH:  (Laughs.)  Sure.  Everything goes through your head.  Everything in the world goes through their -- you just -- one hopes that the group understands that emotions and confidence levels change during the series.  That every game is important in some way, shape or form.  We all know that closeout games are the toughest, and I depend on maturity of the group to understand that. I don't think that speeches on my part to let them know what the pitfalls are are very helpful to this particular group.  They will either play well or they will play poorly, but it won't be because they took it lightly.  If they lose a game, it will because Phoenix played better.  Not because they came in tiptoeing and thinking it was over and they are thinking about Detroit or Miami. 
 
Q.  One-third or one-fourth of the way through every season you will go -- you will go off on your team and talking about how they are not working hard enough.  Are you doing that for effect?  Do you need to get their attention every once in a while?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I think no matter what kind of a group you have as far as personality is concerned or character or lack thereof, there are times when their attention needs to refocus when they might be skipping steps or forgetting what they do well; maybe not playing as much team ball as they need to be playing.  But with that many games in a season there are periods where I believe I have to step up and say that.  Probably once or twice a year. 
 
Q.  Can you tell us how far Tony Parker has come since the day you guys drafted him?  How much of a luxury is it to have Tim Duncan?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I am trying to fight the urge to say that he came all the way from Paris, but I won't do that because that's a long way (laughter).  He's (Parker) only 22 as we speak, so he has got a long time left in the league, but his understanding of the game has improved dramatically.  As far as the NBA game, there are so many situations, so many possessions, ends of quarters, two for one situations, they made a run, we made a run, miss matches, people can't learn those things immediately and he's steadily gotten better in those areas.  And secondly, he's trying to figure out how to be a pointguard.  And that's a work-in-progress, but he's better every year.  How much better, I don't know, 5%, 10%, 15% better every year.  But he's a scoring guard who is trying to become a pointguard but not forget about the scoring part.  That's not always easy, but he's doing a good job of it. 
 
Q.  There was a lot of talk before this post-season about whether the Suns' style could work in the playoffs.  Your thoughts on a team that plays that style, whether it can win a championship?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I don't see any reason why they can't.  I have said that from the beginning of the season.  I am one of the people that thought that they could play the way they are playing and win championships.  Lest we forget they are in the Western Conference Finals right now, so they have vanquished many foes during the year.  They had the best record in the league and they didn't stumble in the playoffs thus far.  So, they are playing the same basketball, to answer that question.  And it's not like we have gone out and beaten them by 15 or 20 points every game.  We have had some pretty good fourth quarters and beaten them by a couple of points every game.  I don't think that's any indictment of the way they are playing or any endorsement of how we're playing. 
 
Q.  Can you talk again a little bit -- go through again why you felt it was important to acquire Nazr (Mohammed) and how he's performed for you in the playoffs?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I thought that come Playoff time we would need more size.  I thought that, you know, with a lot of teams that play against us, they can throw a lot of bigs out and they say well we have got 12, 18 fouls, 24 fouls we can use against Tim (Duncan).  We can't do that with business.  We don't want Timmy to get in foul trouble.  It's different for us to have another big out there that can go guard somebody that's got size, and rebound and learn how to play with Tim was important to us, Nazr had that size.  By all reports he was an intelligent young man, hard worker, and both of those traits have panned out and his size has helped, playing next to Tim.  But it was a size factor more than anything. 
 
Q.  As a coach what do you appreciate most about Tim (Duncan)?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  That's very difficult to answer.  He has so many qualities that a coach or any human being would appreciate.  I think it's his genuineness.  He's an absolutely genuine individual. 
 
Q.  How do you plan on working Glenn (Robinson) back into the mix?  Will you just play him -- you play him you guys get in foul trouble that sort of situation?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  It's not a top priority.  It's not -- if he plays he plays but at this point in this series it would be very difficult and I think probably unfair to put him in this situation because he doesn't know what has transpired and what adjustments we have made, what we'd like to do as you mentioned it would just be under a circumstance where we're playing very badly, people in foul trouble, people are hurt, something like that, as far as this is concerned. 
 
Q.  When you went out and signed Robert Horry how much of that was because he played perimeter defense because some of the big guys in the league can go outside and shoot threes?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  That was a significant part of it.  There were many reasons, but that was one part of it, for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT