NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 28, 2005
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH POPOVICH:  We had a good team performance tonight.  I thought as a team defensively we did a better job than we have in the first couple of games.  That allowed us to be in a position to win the basketball game.  I was very pleased that we did a better job in that area.

Q.  Can you talk about the second quarter, specifically the defense in the second quarter, how happy you were with what you saw, probably what you were looking for this whole series?

COACH POPOVICH:  Well, when somebody scores -- a team scores as little as they did in the second quarter, it's not always your defense -- that's part of it.  I thought we played very good D in the second quarter, but they also missed some shots, they participated in that, but the defense was a real priority for us.  I think the guys responded to it very well in the second quarter, made them realize again who they are and they carried on with that fairly well in the second half.

Q.  Did you do anything differently on the pick and roll?

COACH POPOVICH:  We changed it up, did a couple of different things.

Q.  You had a big man like Tim Duncan following Steve Nash around a lot. 

COACH POPOVICH:  Sometimes we did a few different things. 

Q.  Talk about Tony Parker's performance.  He talked earlier how you were hard on him early in his career, but it's helped him?

COACH POPOVICH:  I hope so.  He's a really tough-minded individual.  He's a good competitor, he can handle critiques.  You know, you tell him you got to do this or that, he doesn't take anything personally.  He just wants to get better.  When you have an athlete who is talented like him but really wants to get better, it's a wonderful experience for a coach.  So he's been like that since he arrived when he was 19 years old.

Q.  How instrumental was he (Parker) to getting off to that good start?

COACH POPOVICH:  He always is a big part of what we do because he pushes it offensively and on defense he sticks right to people.  He's willing to play it the entire game and that really sets a tone for us in that regard.

Q.  Were you worried when you scored that many points in the first quarter, do you ever look at the score and go, wow, that's too many even though we're ahead?

COACH POPOVICH:  When we score a lot in a quarter I assume it's an aberration.  I really look at the opponent's score.  I never expect us to, you know, amaze the world with our scores offensively, but looking at what the other team scored is what we all look at.

Q.  You talked at times about the challenge of holding a lead throughout the duration of a game in the NBA.  A couple of times you have done it against a team like Phoenix.  How proud are you doing that from start to finish?

COACH POPOVICH:  Holding leads in the league is tough.  With the 24-second clock and the teams how talented they are, it's a coach's nightmare to go up quickly in a game.  Because you know just average-wise, something is going to happen.  So to keep the lead is always a great thing, but I think they got it within 6 or something.  So it's not like we kept it at 15 the whole game.  We got nervous too.

Q.  You guys held off a pretty good charge by them in the fourth, first two games you also had comebacks.  Are you just seeing that the experience of your team maybe is winning out here in the clutch situations against a Suns team obviously that has not been this deep before?

COACH POPOVICH:  Perhaps.  I think in the fourth quarters, you know, to be able to have Tim (Duncan) down there doing what he does offensively but making decisions and keeping things spaced, really helps us a lot in the fourth.  But Manu (Ginobili) and Tony (Parker) are important in what they do, the role players like Bruce (Bowen) and Brent (Barry) to keep the thing spaced.  Rob (Horry) always does his job at both ends of the court.  It's really a team thing, but we do have pretty good experience, I guess.

Q.  You even won championships when Tim (Duncan) was having trouble making free throws.  He seems to be over the hump.  How did that happen? 

COACH POPOVICH:  Totally due to Timmy's work with himself.  That sounds sort of odd, I guess, but he's gone through this problem before in the past and he's worked himself out of it literally.  He's not a guy that wants to hear a lot from a lot of people and five coaches and 3 gurus and all that.  He's very good at assessing himself, looking at film, coming out and putting the time in, getting a rhythm down.  When he finally figures out what process and rhythm he wants, he gets pretty good. 

Q.  Can you talk a little more specifically about how you executed differently against Nash and Stoudemire to shut them down in this game?

COACH POPOVICH:  No.  I thought I saw Stoudemire score about 12 points in a row in the fourth quarter. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT