NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 22, 2005
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH POPOVICH:  Obviously, any win in the playoffs is a great feeling and we feel good about the win against a very good basketball team.  I think that Tony, Manu and Timmy were all very good tonight and that allowed us to stay in the ballgame when things got a little dicey and they scored a gazillion points in the third quarter.  But those guys kept everybody together and played very good basketball games.  I thought all the role guys fit in pretty well so we're just thrilled with the victory 
 
Q.  Talk a little bit about Brent Barry's performance. 
 
COACH POPOVICH:  Brent making shots for us is huge because that's what has got to happen to make Timmy a better player.  If they can go after Timmy the way they did and we're not going to make any shots we're going to have a problem and Brent Barry obviously has been a great shooter his whole career.  He has been up and down for us this year but in the playoffs, he's been much better and played very confidently tonight.  We gave him a little bit more time out on the court, usually players respond to that.  He responded quite well.  
 
Q.  75 points scored in the fourth quarter of a Conference Finals game.  Do you remember the last time you participated in something like that?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I know it's likely that I wasn't there.  (Laughs.)  That's just a guess.  I don't know that many plays. You got to score points to beat these guys because you are not going to keep -- you are not going to hold them to 82.  Maybe somebody else is able to do that but we're not going to hold them to 85, 86 and 82, that sort of thing.  It's not going to happen.  You have to score some points.  That's why we needed Tony and we needed Manu and Tim.  If those guys come up empty or two of them come up empty, we'll have a big problem scoring on Tuesday.  
 
Q.  Following up, you talked a little bit before the game about small ball.  You had the best defensive points against, at least during regular season.  Do you feel like you could sustain that or want to sustain that throughout an entire series to beat this team at their game kind of thing?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  Well, if that's what it takes, that's what we're going to have to do.  We're a pretty flexible team going between big and small because we have done it against so many teams all year.  [We Will|We'll] just -- we're willing to be the chameleon.  We usually change according to what other people do.  We don't try to impose our will too much.  We try to see what is out there and do what we think we need to do against what we're seeing.  That's usually how we play it.  
 
Q.  You did not give Tim Duncan his usual break at like 6 minutes.  Was that because of the ankle, wanting to give him a longer run?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  Right.  I was afraid it was going to stiffen up.  Timmy obviously showed a lot of heart playing.  He doesn't have his lift and you know, his ability to plant and pivot, those sorts of things, but there was no way that he was going to allow me to keep him out of the game.  So we actually had to play him the minutes we played him because we thought it would be worse going the other way, so I will be very interested to see what it looks like tomorrow morning. 
 
Q.  How were you guys able to keep Shawn Marion from being an offensive factor? 
 
COACH POPOVICH:  I am not sure exactly.  There's only one ball out there and you know, somebody -- I mean, what did Stoudemire have, he must have had 40.  Steve Nash scored, we stayed fairly locked up on perimeter players for most of the game.  We kind of tried to not allow them to have as many these as they are used to.  That's about all I can say.  We're going to try to limit 3s.  I think if you don't do that, it's a big problem with these guys.  As is evidenced by the third quarter when Jackson, in transition I think he made, I don't remember, three, four where nobody was even near him.  If they are allowed to do that you can't play with them. 
 
Q.  Even though Steve Nash did have 30 points or something, I mean, was there some point where you were trying to trap him on the floor or trap him late?
 
COACH POPOVICH:  In the second half we did it a little bit more.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT