NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: SPURS v CLIPPERS
April 28, 2015
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Can you talk about the fourth quarter stretch and was that just the experience that you guys have been down that situation before and got you guys through?
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't know.   I don't know how to prove that or figure that out.   One would assume that experience probably helped you but probably not as much as players making plays. 

Q.   Do you feel like you got optimum use of the intentional fouling tonight, good efficiency on that? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I think so.   We did it.   So they must have thought it was a good idea. 

Q.   You were saying that it was players making plays.   Of those plays down the stretch, what stood out to you as the biggest play?
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I haven't really thought about it.   It's anybody's game.   It's just two really competitive groups that‑‑ it's a missed shot here, a missed shot there, really.   You know, Danny Green had the three in the corner down the stretch, would have ended the game right there, but he didn't get it. 
    They missed a couple of free throws at the other end, and we get that rebound, and you think you're in pretty good shape.   But they worked hard, they got the board, so they made a great play. 
    It just goes back and forth like that.   That's why it's called a game.   You don't know what's going to happen.

Q.   I think the Clippers go 1 of 14 from three tonight.   To take such a crucial component of their game away‑‑
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   We didn't do that.   We didn't do that.   I'm sure that at least half of them were totally uncontested and they just didn't go down.   We all have nights like that.   In the last game we had a night like that, and some of it was because of good defense and some of it was because you miss the doggone shot.

Q.   How would you describe tonight's win?   I think you had about five or six players in double figures. 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   How do I describe it?   It's a good win.   I don't know how you describe a win.   It's better than a loss.   I'm not trying to be flip or anything, it's just I don't know how you describe wins.   In the Playoffs you don't care how it gets done.   A win is a win, and I never really label them.   Never thought about that. 

Q.   What kind of a luxury is it for you to have guys like Patty and Boris and Manu that you can turn to off your bench to give you that extra spark?
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, they're no different than anybody else.   You know, Crawford comes off the bench and does the same thing.   Everybody depends on their bench to help them in the Playoffs.   Without it, you don't go anywhere. 
    If you took Crawford and Mills and locked them up someplace, both teams would be much less effective, that's for sure. 

Q.   Tim has that huge block on Blake in the final minute.   I think it might have even been part of the strip after that.   For a guy his age against someone who's that athletic, is that smart?   Is that veteran wits?
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, he has a great‑‑ he did it earlier in the series where it was down the stretch in the regular season, saved us a game, but his timing is just impeccable.   He has a hard time jumping over the proverbial piece of paper, and he gets in position. 
    He knows where to be.   He's played long enough.   He's got a great basketball IQ, and he has excellent timing, so he reads things well.   We put him on‑‑ this is really the first time he's guarded Blake was tonight, so for a pretty good portion of the game he guarded him, and he did a great job. 
    And to go back to your question, that might have been the play of the game when he blocked that shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT