NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 15, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When your team is executing the way it did in the last two games, does a coach ever get caught up just kind of watching and losing your concentration?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   No.  
   
 Q.   Because of what the other team might do or you just think it won't last?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, there are always things you can find in the film that you think you can do better, so you pretty much concentrate on what you can improve.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it is about Tim that's allowed him to hold up physically at an age when a lot of his contemporaries are kind of breaking down?   What has allowed him to maintain this level of play?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I think he's done a great job of taking care of his body in the off‑season more than anything.   He watches what he puts in his body.   He works out all summer.   I mean, he takes a break, but he swims and he boxes and he does a lot of things just to keep a general level of conditioning.   
He's serious about what he does.   We try to limit his minutes during the season, so I think all of those things together along with his personal qualities.   He has a great passion and really enjoys playing basketball and wants to continue to play.   
So for all of those reasons, he's been able to maintain a pretty good level of play.  
   
 Q.   Boris Diaw has been playing really well these past couple of series, going back to the OKC series and playing really well in the Finals.   With him, has it been more a confidence type of deal, or is it just he's getting more playing time?   
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, it's probably both of those.   You know, we've given him more playing time.   We've given him a more prominent role, and he's responded well at both ends of the floor.   
I think that we have a group that it doesn't really matter who starts or who plays what minutes.   They know what their role is in relation to the other people who are on the floor at the same time, and he's done a good job with that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT