NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 12, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Pop, you called your defense mediocre after Game 3, and you spent all your time working on it.   Were you more satisfied with the defensive effort tonight? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I thought we did a better job tonight than we did in Game 3 at the defensive end.

Q.   Coach, how much of this win is attributed to your team just being a better shooting team than the Miami Heat? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, winning and losing is never one thing.   A lot of factors.   It's not just shooting well or shooting poorly.   There are turnovers and there are free throws, and there's rebounding and there are all kinds of things.   I can't tell you how much of it is shooting, but if you shoot well, you're glad that you did.   Obviously, it's a factor.

Q.   Would you say it's the biggest factor of all of those that you mentioned? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I have no idea.   I'm not that smart.

Q.   Tonight the shooting wasn't as extreme as in Game 3.   Why was it sufficient to win this game? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, Game 3 was an anomaly.   That's never going to happen again.   I don't even know what we shot tonight, to be honest with you.   I don't look at the stats much.

Q.   54%, something like that. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   So the question is what? 

Q.   Why was a normal range shooting sufficient for you guys to win tonight? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You said we were about 54? 

Q.   I know it's above average‑‑
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, if you shoot 54%, you're in pretty good shape, as long as everything else is copacetic.   If you turn it over 27 times, it doesn't matter how well you shoot.   So if everything else is equal and you shoot 54%, you're probably going to be in good shape most nights.

Q.   All of your players did a great job in the past four games.   So if you get a championship, who will be your Finals MVP candidate, strongest one? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Next question.

Q.   Pop, you always tell us that coaches are never happy, but is there any level of satisfaction watching your team execute this well on this stage? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I'm pleased that they performed as well as they did while we've been in Miami, and that's about as far as it goes.   Now we've got to go back home and play as well or better.

Q.   Could you talk about the play of Boris tonight. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, Boris pretty much does the same thing every night as far as helping us be a smarter team, at both ends of the floor.   He knows what's going on most all the time.   At the offensive end he's a passer.   He understands mismatches.   He knows time and score.   At the defensive end, he knows when to help.   He's active.   So he just helps the whole team have a better IQ, I think.

Q.   Tonight Timmy got a couple pretty significant playoff career records:   Most minutes and he also picked up the record for career double‑doubles in playoffs.   I wonder if you could talk about those two achievements he got. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I can assure you he doesn't care.

Q.   You said at this time of year it's about executing and getting better.   Do you think your team got better tonight? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, usually to judge getting better, one game is not much of a sample.   You usually decide if you're getting better after two, three weeks or after a month into the season, that sort of thing.   So I don't really look at it that way, after one game and say are we better than we were when the game started.   That's tough to do.

Q.   A lot of people say or a lot of coaches may say that clinching game, that final game is probably the hardest to come by.   Your experience, what is it like for you? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, they're exactly right.   I mean, every closeout game is very difficult, for all of the obvious reasons. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT