NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your team last year set a Finals record for a seven‑game series, the fewest fouls committed.   They ended up setting a record for fewest free‑throws shot in a seven‑game series.   How difficult is it to defend them without fouling and how essential is it? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Not fouling is what we try to do every season.   We're usually first or second, I believe, in that category of fewest fouls.   It's just our philosophy.   Might be wrong, might be right, other people have a different philosophy, but for us it works. 
    Obviously part of it is trying to keep people off the free‑throw line, but it's just the way that we do things.   Just percentage‑wise and strategy‑wise for what we do and the way we play defense, it works for us. 

Q.   Coach, what would be the biggest mistake for the Spurs that you guys could make tonight? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   What is it, the end of quarter?   (Laughter.)   You want a one‑word answer?   Usually I enjoy that‑‑

Q.   I know you can do it. 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, there are mistakes made throughout the game.   Miami is going to make mistakes, we're going to make mistakes.   If there were no mistakes, it's impossible to tell what is the biggest mistake you don't want to make.   I don't know.   That's a tough one. 

Q.   It looks like Dwyane Wade is in better condition coming into the series.   Have you spent more time with your game planning on him as opposed to last year? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   We game planned for Dwyane Wade last year, also.   He's Dwyane Wade whether he's totally healthy or not.   He finds a way to suck it up and get it done if he's not in great health.   We saw that in Game 6 and 7 last year. 

Q.   Have you decided on your starting lineup tonight?   And if so, who are they? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I probably wouldn't tell you that. 

Q.   You had a chance to say hi to Bernie Bickerstaff when you came in.   Has your path crossed with his?   Contact with Bernie through the years? 
    COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Coach Bickerstaff and I are both well heeled in the sense of age, so we've run into each other many times over the years, and built up a respect and a friendship. 
    For him to receive the Chuck Daly Lifetime Achievement Award is a fitting, deserved honor.   So I just wanted to congratulate him ahead of time, so that's what I was doing before.   He's sitting right over here and deserves a big round of applause for that, I think.   (Applause). 
    He's one of those guys you call a "lifer", like a lifer in the military or in the NBA.   He's helped many people be better coaches and better people, and that's one of the reasons he's here tonight for that award. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT