NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   From what you saw of Tony out there, how is he able to cut and do the things that he couldn't do Saturday? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I really don't know.   We   didn't do anything competitively.   He just shot and went up and down the court but I expect him to play. 

Q.   Are you more worried about him for the longevity of the series with that kind of injury?   Any concern about that? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't think so.   I think he's going to be fine. 

Q.   Pop, Patty Mills' play improved play this year.   How much of a difference do you think that will make in the Finals this year, having that type of point guard? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I have no idea what kind of difference it will make.   I know he's had a good year, but the games have to be played to see what kind of influence he has. 
We wouldn't be here without him, I know that.   He was great off the bench for us this year and always gave us a good jolt of energy in several different ways.   So he's been a significant part, you know, of our success thus far. 

Q.   Tim Duncan is in his sixth Finals, last 15 years.   What has he had to do to maybe alter his game or alter anything about his body just to keep this franchise and himself relevant for all these years? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   What has he done?   Well, first of all, you know, he's a great professional, and in any endeavor if someone is professional, one does what's necessary to maintain.   Doesn't matter what field of interest it might be, that's number one. 
He feels a responsibility to his teammates.   He enjoys them.   He wants to hang around as long as he can while he's being‑‑ while he's useful and while he's having an impact on the game.   He takes care of his body; he works out all summer long with a variety of different things, boxing, swimming.   He's very careful about what he puts in his body, so he does everything he can to, you know, maintain a level of play. 
At some point that will stop.   It will probably be the third quarter of some game on the road some year, and he'll feel like he's not as significant and he'll walk into the locker room. 

Q.   Gregg, what is it about Tim Duncan that brings out the best in his teammates? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I think more than anything, he creates a welcoming environment.   He doesn't really judge people much.   He allows them to become successful because he's always somebody who is going to be supportive rather than critical.   Now, he's a fierce competitor, and he wants to have guys around him that are like‑minded, but he really gives them room to flourish.   You know, Danny Green is a good example.   We cut him twice and he was in Cleveland and wherever else, D League, on and on and Timmy was ready to welcome him again and hope that he could be successful. 
The other part is he's such an unselfish player, he makes players better.   He allows them to be better players because of his understanding of spatial relationships on the floor and time and score in a game, and he brings it every day. 
Practice, he's there early and late, even at this age, so it sets quite an example, certainly makes my job easier. 

Q.   Do you see any parallels there between Tim Duncan and LeBron James? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, sure.   I mean, you know, all the things I just mentioned about Tim, LeBron feels the same way.   He works year‑round.   He's the ultimate pro.   He compares about his teammates.   He's obviously unselfish.   The great ones all have similar attributes in that regard. 

Q.   Pop, what was the adjustment process like for you when you lost Mike and Brett coming into this season?   I know it seems like a million years ago?
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   When we lost‑‑

Q.   How tough was the adjustment for you when you lost two assistants after last season? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Did I lose‑‑ who were those guys? 

Q.   Couple guys got jobs in Atlanta and Philly. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   They're gone, the heck with them.   They're gone. 
It was a tough adjustment, in all honesty.   When you're with two people that long, they basically knew the system better than I did, and with when you have a very new group, I had to spend as much time coaching them as the team, really, in the very beginning.   But fortunately, Ime Udoka, who is a quick study, played for me here and then had one year under his belt coaching, so he was able to help Sean Marks and Jim Boylen get a pretty quick understanding of what we're trying to do and what the system is. 
You know, when you've got guys like Manu and Tony and Tim that have been here for so long, that helps coaches, also.   So they helped coach the new coaches and as time went on it was bumpy in the beginning but it's smoothing out and everybody knows their rolls and those guys are telling me what to do just like Brett and Bud did. 

Q.   You and Pat Riley have known each other a long time can you share an observation in his building the franchise to where they are now. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Could you repeat it? 

Q.   You and Pat Riley have known each other for quite some time, can you share an observation on the job he's done in building the Heat to the franchise they are now. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Obviously he's been super and brought great success to the franchise.   He's always, you know, been a competitor, as we all know.   It doesn't matter what role he plays, he's going to set a vision, he's going to set a tone.   Everyone around him is going to understand what's expected.   They will be allowed to do their jobs, and what you see now is what he's established.   He's at the top of the heap. 

Q.   I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about what makes, for you, Peter Holt a good owner.   What are some of those things? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Peter Holt is smart enough to know that he's not a basketball coach or a manager.   He's great at what he does, and he's been very successful and he's secure enough in his own skin to allow our R.C. and I to do our work.   That's number one. 
He's a great supporter, he's a good friend, he's enjoyable to be around.   Players enjoy him.   He doesn't come around all that much.   When we see him, it's always enjoyable. 
So he really understands how the whole thing works. 

Q.   How critical has he been for your success? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Peter Holt had faith in me way back in the beginning, kinda like Pat with Erik in a way, believed in us and believed in me and allowed me to step out and do it the way I thought it should be done.   So I owe him a great deal.   I wouldn't be‑‑ very frankly I wouldn't be here if he operated like some others have operated in the past in our league, in a short‑sighted sort of way. 
I'm not trying to indict any individual, you guys have all seen it, guys get fired every year who are good coaches and it's got nothing to do with what they know or don't know.   He's a wise, patient man, and he is willing to look at the big picture. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Coach.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT