NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 22, 2017
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coach, any status on Kawhi for tonight?
COACH POPOVICH: Same, same.
Q. Is that that he's out for tonight?
COACH POPOVICH: Right.
Q. So did you guys not practice today?
COACH POPOVICH: We did not have a shootaround today.  We do that often.
Q. How much of this game or the rest of this series is about evaluation for the next season?
COACH POPOVICH: I mean, anybody that we've evaluated -- we've already played a zillion games, we already know who can do what or whatever.  I don't think any number of more games is going to tell us much.  We already know who we're impressed with and who we're not impressed with.
Overall I'm very impressed with the group as a whole.  I'm more keyed in on trying to win a basketball game than evaluating for the future.  That just speaks for itself.  You watch guys play, and you know what you like and don't like about them.  So that's not really part of the equation at this point.
Q. Talk about the way Manu is playing at this point in his career.  Do you believe he's still playing at a pretty high level consistently?
COACH POPOVICH: Well, he's a special player, special human being.  I probably said it many, many times before.  But he's one of those guys that becomes the heart and soul of your team just because of his exemplary competitiveness.  He is really an anomaly in that regard.  He has that same attitude that Kobe and Michael had, those kinds of guys, Magic and Larry.  He's got the same attitude and plays with that same fire.  He always has.  He's been a huge part of any success that we've had.
And to see him at this age giving us games here and there that take you back is just a thrill.
Q. Have you been able to talk to Steve Kerr personally the last couple days?  Is it a relief for you at all personally to see him work his way back?
COACH POPOVICH: I've spoken with Steve and Mike [Brown].  We're friends.  We've known each other a long time.  But as far as Steve's concerned, it's just a crap situation.  You know, he's done a phenomenal job.  And when you're going through that pain every day and that frustration of not being able to do what you want to do, it's hard to enjoy it at the fullest level.
So I feel badly for him all the time but hopeful that stuff will get figured out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT