NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 30, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just talk about everybody makes a big deal out of coach's adjustments, but it comes down to effort, effort and determination, what you kept telling us leading up to it, and last night the guys just played with energy, and everybody said, gosh, what a difference that was.   Can you just kind of‑‑
GREGG POPOVICH:   It was Ibaka, it was Bonner, it was this guy, it was that guy.

Q.   Even when it comes down at this level, it just down to just moving your feet, energy, playing with passion and determination?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Sure.   You know, it's about players.   The players step up at this time and also it's about the physicality, the energy, the determination.   The odd part of it, as was discussed last night, it seems like the home team each time looks to have the greater passion or physicality.   That's hard to measure because both teams want to win just as bad as the other.   It's sport.   You know, that's what happens. 
But it's more about on that particular night who plays well and who is the aggressor rather than some kind of an O or X.

Q.   Along those lines, after all these years (inaudible) the fact that you just never know how you're going to come out?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Yeah, they're professionals.   If you need to come up with a gimmick or Knute Rockne them, then you're in trouble.   They need to do that on their own. 

Q.   Is this where every game of the season counts, having home‑court advantage?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, you can't count on that at all.   In the end a championship team wins on the road.   That's the bottom line.   So far that hasn't happened in this series.   But I guess now it's got to happen, right, one way or the other? 

Q.   One way or the other.   Is this one of the more driven teams you've had?   To come from where you were last year and what you did in the regular season, forget about the regular numbers, but the way they stayed on task, and seems like they have always bounced back. 
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, you know, I wouldn't say that any one of our teams has been more driven than any other one, but this particular team showed great resolve in not having a pity party after losing in The Finals so dramatically, and then coming back this year and playing the way they have.   They deserve credit for that.   But that's not what they want.   They don't want credit, they want to go win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT