NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Third quarter, their one stretch of playing well third quarter, what happened? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   Our transition defense was really poor during that period.   I thought offensively we didn't move the ball.   We stuck in mud a little bit.   But it was a bad combination offensively and defensively and they took advantage of it.   They did a good job.

Q.   What did you see Kawhi do last night that you thought was his best defense he was putting out there?
GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't know if there was one thing.   Kawhi is somebody who takes great pride in guarding, but he does a lot for us.   He rebounds, and he's getting more confident offensively, just kind of letting him go a little bit.   Frankly try not to coach him too much and let him just play. 
I think through the Playoffs he's gained some confidence, so he's an important part of what we do. 

Q.   When you're going against unstoppable players, what's your strategy on absorbing and containing what they can do? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, just try to take away some things, like maybe take away the paint or take away the three‑point shot or pick something that you think you might be able to do to limit them a bit, and then whatever you might be doing, make them work hard at it.   As you say, they're not going to be stopped, but if those kinds of players can be made to work hard and just take something away, it can work to your advantage.

Q.   Why is Tim at 38 able to be so effective still? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   You're asking me questions now that are hard to answer.   I just have to give him credit.   It's kind of like Vince Carter in Dallas.   What the hell is Vince doing?   I didn't think Vince would be doing that at his age, so I'm assuming that he does what Timmy does.   They take care of themselves in the sense of what they put in their bodies.   I know Timmy works out all summer doing a variety of things, swimming, boxing, not necessarily getting on the court and pounding or anything like that, but he stays in good shape as far as the physicality of it and the nutrition part.   And I think that just mentally, he's a mentally tough individual who really feels a responsibility to help carry the program.   He really loves being at practice, in the locker room, with the guys, and I think he wants to extend that as long as he can, so it's like a mental toughness that he's driven to do that.   So I think all those things together allow him to play at this age on one leg. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT