NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 21, 2017
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is Manu doing physically right now?  
GREGG POPOVICH: He's fine.   
 Q.  Yesterday Kevin Durant said he was like 20-year-old Manu out there.  I feel like every year we keep waiting for him to retire.  Does he look anywhere close to that?  
GREGG POPOVICH: I'm not sure what he had on that little plate before the game, but I think it was like a bunch of blueberries and turmeric and garlic and all kinds of things on there, pomegranates, whatever you get to make you rejuvenate.  But he was spectacular.  It was a great example of somebody, however old he is, 39 or 40, to go out there and have that will and that competitiveness.  And to summon it up like that, he's a remarkable human being.   
 Q.  Do you know the exact nature of David Lee's injury?  
GREGG POPOVICH: He's probably not going to play, but I don't think it's serious.  He did an MRI and we haven't gotten the results yet, but hopefully he's just got like a bruise or something like that.  It didn't really swell up; it just got stiff.  So he'll probably will be out.   
 Q.  How do you feel Kyle Anderson fit into that starting lineup yesterday?  
GREGG POPOVICH: He did fine.  He did everything we asked him to do.   
 Q.  In general do you feel like those young guys are getting a pretty good trial by fire?  
GREGG POPOVICH: I would say that's pretty obvious.   
 Q.  Is Kawhi likely still going to be out tomorrow?  
GREGG POPOVICH: Likely.   
 Q.  What's the thinking on whether you play him or not play him at this stage in the series?  
GREGG POPOVICH: It wouldn't make much sense.  If he was unable to play yesterday, I don't think there's going to be a miraculous healing by tomorrow.   
 Q.  There's a sense that other organizations may have let him talk you into playing, but the Spurs have always sort of --  
GREGG POPOVICH: I don't know.   
 Q.  -- prioritized --  
GREGG POPOVICH: I don't know.  I can't speak for other organizations.  We did what we did.  Right or wrong, we did what we did.   
 Q.  Was it obvious that he couldn't go, or was it a bit subjective?  
GREGG POPOVICH: We answered all those questions yesterday.  I'm not going to go back in time.   
 Q.  What did David mean to the team this year?  
GREGG POPOVICH: He gave us great depth.  He had a great season.   
 Q.  What's sort of the mentality after going down 3-0 and one more game at home here?  What do you tell the team and how do you approach it?  
GREGG POPOVICH: It's what we do.  They know that they're down 3-0.  I want them to play with the same ferocity and the same aggressiveness they played with last night.  It's a tough challenge when you walk out there and you're looking at four All-Stars most of the time.  So you'd better be pretty perfect, and we have to be more perfect if we want to stay in games for the whole 48 minutes.  That's the task at hand.   
We went through the film as usual, what we did well, what we did poorly, what we expect.  And we go out to win a basketball game.  It's got nothing to do with anything else.  It's just as simple as that.   
 Q.  You've had so many things go against you in this series.  It seems like no matter what you could have done, things wouldn't be much different than they are now --  
GREGG POPOVICH: You're confusing me.  You're getting a little too heavy for me there.   
 Q.  Do you second-guess yourself less?  
GREGG POPOVICH: No, no.  I think any coach worth his or her salt second-guesses themselves all the time.  That's why you have a staff.  That's why you discuss things.  That's why you agree and disagree.  Coulda, shoulda, woulda -- you always do that because you might come up with a better answer for the future.  I just think circumstances are such that we could be in a totally different position now.  That didn't happen.  It's called life.  Slap yourself, quit your crying and move on.  Game 4.   
 Q.  Danny [Green] said you've got them right where you want them.  
GREGG POPOVICH: He's exactly right.  Those guys were out until 4:00 last night, eating sundaes and eating burgers and all that.  They'll probably get up today about 2:00 in the afternoon.  They're going to play poker all afternoon, stay out again tonight and we'll have our way with them.   
 Q.  Any special message for the fans before tomorrow's game?  
GREGG POPOVICH: No.  We love the fans, but at the end of the game, we're going to have a certain number of turnovers and they're going to have zero.  So it's on us, not on them.   
 Q.  What do you do on a Sunday at 4:00 a.m.?  
GREGG POPOVICH: That's a great question.  Somebody asked me about restaurants for tonight.  I said, they're all closed on Sunday.  So I didn't know what to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT