NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 13, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Pop, can you address the turnover issue tonight and also the offensive rebounding.   I mean, the shot differential was 85 to 70. 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, the turnovers obviously hurt us.   We can't give them over 20 points off turnovers.   They're too good. 

Q.   Coach, Tony Parker played two different halves.   The first half he was so effective.   What happened to him in the second half?   It has something to do with the hamstring? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   No.   Miami did a great job on him.   They doubled.   They got it out of his hands, and other people had to play.   But they did a good job defensively on him. 

Q.   So you think he's going to be effective in the next game with so much rest between the games? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   He's fine. 

Q.   Why has Manu been ineffective in this series? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't know.   If I knew that I would have already fixed it. 

Q.   Do you think he can get back on track? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I hope so. 

Q.   Coach, is there always a sense with the Heat that there's another gear?   Frank Vogel said it in the previous series that even when Miami is off, you can't sleep on them because they have that gear to kick it into.   Is that sort of the concern that even after a game like last time you knew there was a lot more there? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, when Bosh, Wade and James score the way they did tonight and shoot it the way they did tonight, teams are going to have a difficult time if you help them and shoot poorly from the free‑throw line, as we did, and give over 20 points on turnovers it's not going to happen.   When those guys play like that, you better be playing a more perfect game.   You can't turn it over that many times.   It's a bad combo. 

Q.   Pop, why do you think you were unable to force them out of their smaller lineups, which they seemed more comfortable in? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   They've been playing small all year.   That's when they're at their best.   They're not going to just change. 

Q.   Coach, it seemed like on some of the high pick‑and‑rolls, Kawhi was spaced like midway through the baseline instead of in the corner like no‑man's land.   Is that intention or should he be in the corner or did I just see it wrong? 
COACH GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't really know what you saw.   It's hard to comment.   I'll just leave it at that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT