NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 20, 2017
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pop, what have you thought of Jonathon Simmons' development throughout the season and how he's been playing so far throughout the Playoffs?  
COACH POPOVICH: He's progressed steadily and done a good job all year long.   
 Q.  Your organization has been seen as kind of a trendsetter in terms of player health and rest and recovery over the course of a season.  How much do you think your decision back in [2000] in the Playoffs kind of helped establish that culture in terms of you guys making sure you're always looking out for the long-term interest of your players?  
COACH POPOVICH: I really don't know how to answer your question.  We just -- I think we do what everything tries to do.  You take care of your players, you do what's best.  Hopefully in the short run and the long run can matchup.  But sometimes you've got to make a tough decision, so I think our philosophy has helped some players extend their careers.  But it doesn't mean the way we do it is the only way.   
 Q.  I guess a follow-up on that, because of the way you guys have always done things, does it help in a situation when you talk to Kawhi, not that he's ever going to be happy to have to sit, but is there kind of a trust factor that you guys know what you're doing?  
COACH POPOVICH: Well, there has to be a trust factor or it doesn't work.   
 Q.  Coach, most teams, I guess, will allow the player to dictate whether you'll be able to go or not.  What did you see in Kawhi to make the determination that you think it's not best?  
COACH POPOVICH: I don't know what most teams do in making those sorts of decisions.  I'm surprised that you have that inside information that you know how that goes.  But in our case we'd speak to everyone involved, doctors, R.C. [Buford] and I talked, and of course I talk with Kawhi and do what is best for the player and the team.  You just make a decision, and you move on.   
 Q.  Did that decision to shut down [Tim] Duncan, did that form your thought process this time around?  
COACH POPOVICH: No, that was a long time ago.   
 Q.  You were physically angry about [Game 1] and how it came down and everything?  
COACH POPOVICH: True.   
 Q.  Is that something you've put behind you and forget about it, or is that still -- is there still steam coming out of your ears?  
COACH POPOVICH: I mean, it's still there.  You don't forget things.  I still feel the Miami loss in 2013.  You remember things like that, but if you have half a brain and want to live a decent life, you let it go.  You've got to move on.  Like we tell the players, you've got to go to the next play all the time.  You turn it over, you do this, you do that.  You've got to move on.   
So, sure, I remember what happened in Game 1, but it can't be your focus going into any other game or it will diminish your ability to compete.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT