NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Manu basically said today that he was unfamiliar with the kind of speed Miami plays with because it's been so long since he played against the team.   Is there any concern you haven't played your best against their best, and there will be a feeling out because you're not familiar? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   No, it's basketball, and both teams have played a lot of games this year.   I'm more concerned about seeing what kind of a rhythm or executing style that we have tonight. 
We haven't played in a long time, so that's my biggest concern.   I don't really know what to expect. 

Q.   Erik Spoelstra was here a moment ago and he said facing you guys is sort of like facing his own team, the way you like to spread the floor and how his defense is going to have to cover a lot of ground, the way you guys like to play fast.   Do you see your team the way you see their team? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   Sure.   In the basic fundamentals we believe in very similar things as far as defense is concerned and how it should be played.   But also offensively, to have the court spread and have that three‑point shot availability along with penetration and attack. 
So in those senses, we're pretty similar. 

Q.   Coach, can you describe the difference in coaching this fifth championship with your other challenges in winning it the last four times? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   No, every year is different.   Every game is different.   Once the ball gets thrown up, it's a different situation.   So I don't spend any time thinking about the past.   None whatsoever. 

Q.   Coach, please give your reaction to the firing of George Karl.   Is the coaching carousel and the life of a coach even more treacherous now than it was 10 or 15 years ago? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   It seems so (laughing).   I don't know exactly what the situation was in Denver and what all transpired.   I haven't talked to George.   But it's obviously a pretty volatile situation to be a head coach in the NBA.   No doubt about it. 

Q.   Coach, one of the things your team is known for is having built a culture which obviously takes a long time.   If coaches are getting fired so often, how long do you need to build a culture? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   More than a year or two. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
GREGG POPOVICH:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT