NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 27, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is there an art in the NBA for coaches in holding players accountable? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   In part. 

Q.   It just seems like you've got players making so much money more than coaches, they've got power, it may be difficult for some coaches to hold players accountable, but you seem pretty great at it. 
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I think there's probably a direct correlation between the ability of a coach to hold a player accountable and the character of the player, so I think you start there. 

Q.   Has that ever been difficult for you? 
GREGG POPOVICH:   No. 

Q.   Is it just as important to make Memphis work and try and fatigue them as it is important to stop them?   Is there a difference between the two?
GREGG POPOVICH:   No, it's all part of the same thing.   If one was guarding Michael Jordan, you know he's going to score, but you try to make him work for it.   It's the same thing with the bigs here in Memphis.   They're great players, very skilled, very hard‑working, and if everything happened easily for them, that would be pretty poor on our part.   Making them work hard is one of our top priorities, obviously. 

Q.   What kind of job do you think Lionel has done since he got here back in 2008?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I've said many times, the job he's done here is beyond excellent.   He's put in a system that fits the players perfectly.   They respond to him.   They play hard.   He's had some tough situations to overcome as the year has progressed and done it in style.   It's just a heck of a basketball team, and it begins with what he's instituted. 

Q.   All the close‑out games you've had over the course of your career, what pattern do you see in getting to this point and successfully closing out teams, in terms of mindset?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I think each team in any round is different, and there's a different emphasis usually with each opponent.   Understanding what that is, not getting away from it, not skipping steps and playing the game the way it needs to be played against that opponent on a consistent basis is what gets you through, and if it doesn't, then the other team is better. 

Q.   The quote in your locker room about the rock and the hammer, in games like this is it helpful to have that approach where nothing changes for you guys and you go out and do the same thing?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I don't know about this game, but it's been the only thing in our locker room for 17 years, so we're pretty used to it. 

Q.   Lionel was saying it took a couple games for them to get into the series, get past the previous series.   You guys seemed to adapt quickly to this series.   What enabled you guys to adapt so quickly?
GREGG POPOVICH:   I don't know if there's an answer to that.   I really can't answer it.   I don't know if we adapted quickly or we didn't or they did or they didn't.   I just play the games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT