NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 26, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Has Tim done anything over the last few years that you've noticed to prepare him for playing in overtime periods and physical playoff games?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   You don't prepare yourself for overtime periods, you just go play.   But Timmy has been a consummate professional from the day he got into the league.   This isn't anything new for him, playing with the passion he's playing with.   He loves basketball, he loves his teammates, and he decided again he needed to be more aggressive when the overtime period came.  
   
 Q.   While you didn't like the start, do you think those added days off helped down the stretch last night?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   I have no idea.   I don't know how to quantify something like that.  
   
 Q.   Does this process ever get old for you, and what do you enjoy most at this point in your career, the preparation, the game day?   
GREGG POPOVICH:   I think dinner after the game.   
   
 Q.   Do you get into dinner?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   Those things are hard.   It's not fun, I know that.   But I think for all of us it's the competitiveness and the challenge that excites you and that you get satisfaction from.   
   
 Q.   Do you worry more these days, are you calmer these days?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   No, you learn how not to worry as you get older.   Things will be what they will be.   You try to do certain things and you let it go.   
   
 Q.   Tim was saying last night there's a comfort that comes from they know the plays, the familiarity with the guys.   What comfort do you have from these three guys that you've been with for over a decade?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I have a great deal of confidence in them.   They've earned that.   As you said, they've been together.   They're all very competitive.   They may or may not do something perfectly but they're going to do it to the best of their ability, and that allows one to go to bed at night and deal with whatever the consequences are.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT