NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about Tim's first all‑NBA team?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, it's quite an honor for those guys.   I'm thrilled for him, really excited that people put him in that position.   That's all I can say.   I'm thrilled for him.   What an honor to be on the NBA first or second team.   All‑NBA anything is pretty special if you think about it.   It's something we really respect and feel great about, and then we'll forget about it.   (Laughter.) 

Q.   With Tim especially I imagine it's probably been a while since a 37 year old was first‑team all‑NBA. 
GREGG POPOVICH:   I have no idea, but I know that he was touched when he found out this morning. 

Q.   Tony mentioned yesterday he was going to have a check‑up on that calf today.   Did everything go as expected?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Everything is fine.   He's fine.

Q.   He also mentioned he might talk with you about ways to conserve energy throughout a game‑‑
GREGG POPOVICH:   He's 29‑‑ no, he's 30 now, 31.   I'm not talking to him about it.   I'm not going to talk to him.   He's going to have to figure it out.   It's the Playoffs. 

Q.   What do you guys try to do in this break, this three‑day break?   Are you just resting the guys or‑‑
GREGG POPOVICH:   It's several things.   I'm sure if you get a break you want to take advantage of it and maybe take a little bit of a mental as well as a physical break, but at the same time do something to make sure you maintain at least your base conditioning, do some film and keep everybody focused on what we're trying to do but not beat anybody over the head and then just pick it up toward game time. 

Q.   Do you mind talking about the job that Coach Hollins has done with Memphis?
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, I think I've mentioned quite a few times, not just in the Playoffs but throughout the year, he's put in a system that is really consistent, that the team has bought into.   They've taught it well, and I thought he did one of the best coaching jobs of the season.   There's not much else to say other than that.   He's been steady.   He's been classy, and that's why they're in the Conference Finals.   They've come together really well, and that's a tribute to him, his staff and the hard work of the players.   They come every night with that consistent physical effort, and that's not easy to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT