NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 19, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about what you've seen from Zach Randolph over the years and come into the series.  
GREGG POPOVICH:   I thought Zach was a hell of a player when he came in.   It's not like he's gone from zero to 10.   He was a heck of a player when he came into the league.   He's just matured.   He's mentally tougher.   He's way more confident.   He makes much better decisions.   He's a consummate pro now.   Then he was just a talented kid, but now he's a professional athlete who knows when to and when not to on the court.   
   
 Q.   Along those lines, how has the dynamic of Conley changed since the last time you played them?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   You know, I think he's played this well before.   I think he's just been underrated for a very long time.   He's like a surgeon out there.   His timing is impeccable, run pick‑and‑rolls to get weak‑side duck‑ins for Zach and that type of thing, running high‑low situations and getting them set up, has improved his shot.   But he's been darned good for a while, just nobody noticed.   
   
 Q.   As well as you know‑‑ these two teams know each other, you haven't played each other at full strength, either side, and with the rosters that you currently have.   Does that make it a little different?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   I think we're real familiar with each other, but you're right, none of the games told very much because either their guys were out or our guys were out, they just did a trade, whatever it was.   But they do what they do and we do what we do.   That's the way it is in the Playoffs.   Players will step up and play well or they won't.   
   
 Q.   Have you talked to your team about how good they've been from coming from behind that you can't get complacent with them because they've dug themselves out of holes so many times in the Playoffs?  
GREGG POPOVICH:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT