NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 19, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio - 104
  Memphis - 83 
   
 Q.   Could you discuss the defensive play on the interior by your guys on Zach and Marc?   
GREGG POPOVICH:   I thought we worked hard.   Zach and Marc are a heck of a combination, probably the best high‑low combination in the league, and guarding them on the block without the high‑low is tough enough, but everything they do is really difficult to stick with, and you've got to have a mindset to do it on every down.   And I thought that we did the best job we could.   You can't be perfect at it.   They're just too good.   But I thought the effort was there for 48 minutes.   
   
 Q.   Talking about that, after second‑chance opportunities that Memphis had, limiting them, they got 10 offensive rebounds.   You guys did a pretty good job on those second opportunities.   
GREGG POPOVICH:   Am I supposed to agree or disagree?   
   
 Q.   What did you see your team was able to do on those second‑chance opportunities?   
GREGG POPOVICH:   We tried to limit their offensive rebounds, but that's what every team does, and tonight we were able to do it to some degree.   It's important because that is a part of their offense and they're great at it, so we'll continue to emphasize that.   
   
 Q.   When Matt Bonner is stretching the floor the way he did tonight, how much more effective is your offense at that point?   
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, if somebody is going to spread the floor, they're going to make those shots, of course it helps you because it opens up the court, allows other things to possibly happen.   So Matt did a fine job making shots and spacing tonight.   
   
 Q.   How confident going into games are you that you can get by if one of your stars has a off night like Duncan did?   How confident are you in the depth of your team and your ability to overcome those things?   
GREGG POPOVICH:   Well, we've played our bench all year long, and I think they've probably gained a little bit of confidence through that.   They've gotten some good minutes.   But I think at this point the teams that are left all have benches that have played and that coaches are confident in them.   And tonight our bench really helped us out.   
It's a basketball game.   It's not linear all the time.   Next game maybe the bench plays terrible; who knows.   But tonight our bench was very good, and they've been pretty darned good throughout the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT