NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: SPURS v WARRIORS
May 16, 2013
Gregg Popovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH POPOVICH:   First, I want to congratulate the Warriors on a great season.   Obviously a class organization.   Mark and his group have put together a really competitive squad, not just young and talented, but people who have really bought into his system, play tough defense, they move the basketball unselfish, play together. 
It was a tough series.   Really tested our defense.   I'm really proud of our guys, that they were pretty darn consistent after the first two games as far as the defense goes. 
I think we beat a heck of a team, and I wish them all the best.   They were great. 

Q.   Pop, Tony Parker tonight, how did you win this ballgame?
COACH POPOVICH:   Defense.   Yeah, if we can hold them in the 80s, we should have a decent chance to be there at the end of the game.   As we've said a lot in playoffs, sometimes in the end it comes down to making shots. 
Down the stretch we made a couple of threes.   Tony, Kawhi, Danny.   Even though Tony was 3‑for‑16, we stuck with him. 
We made some shots down the stretch, and they didn't.

Q.   Did Tony get another hit in the leg or something in the game?
COACH POPOVICH:   Not that I know of.   If he did, I don't know about it. 

Q.   Was Tim okay at the end of the game?   You took him out late. 
COACH POPOVICH:   I just made that choice. 

Q.   Pop, did you reasonably expect that much production out of Splitter tonight, where he's had to come from after the sprained ankle?
COACH POPOVICH:   He's gotten healthier and healthier.   As the series has gone on, he's gotten his rhythm back slowly but surely each game. 
What he did today is what he's been doing for us all year, so it's great to have that back. 

Q.   What does it mean for you to be back in the Western Conference Finals for a second year running?
COACH POPOVICH:   The means that we're in the Conference Finals. 

Q.   To do that with this group after all the injuries over the course of the year... 
COACH POPOVICH:   They've got great character.   They're competitive.   They know there's not a million chances to do this sort of thing.   They wanted it. 

Q.   Coach, talk about the general thoughts on the Grizzlies, the challenge they present. 
COACH POPOVICH:   You know, I haven't thought about that.   Obviously we had problems of our own to try to take care of. 
I do know they've had a heck of a year, along with Indiana and Miami, you can argue who is the best defensive team.   They're gritty, talented.   Be a heck of a challenge, I know that. 

Q.   You seemed to call timeouts after Curry made shots.   Was that about preventing Golden State runs in general or Curry specific?
COACH POPOVICH:   It could have been Thompson, it could have been Curry.   We just don't want them to get on any kind of roll or momentum. 
I think I made that mistake in some of the earlier games, Game1, Game2, let them go off without trying to break the rhythm.   We wanted to try to make sure we didn't do that again. 

Q.   Thompson obviously had a tremendous game against you in Game2.   What did you do defensively to put the clamps on him the last four games?
COACH POPOVICH:   We didn't do any sort of a new thing.   It's basketball.   Everybody knows what to do.   I thought the effort level, focus, pickup points were higher, the bigs got involved.   It was sort of half of a double‑team really just to have two guys on him most of the time, try to get them to kick it or shoot very contested shots. 
I thought we got much more aggressive after Game2. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT