ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 7, 2016
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is the verdict on how the second Paul Lawrie match play has run?
PAUL LAWRIE: It's been excellent to be fair.  The feedback again from the players, like it was last year, they love the format.  They love the idea of a straight knockout.
The venue couldn't be any better for us.  Delighted with how it's kind of came across and how it's played.  The driving range, pitching green, chipping green, putting green, everything's handy, everything's nearby, all the offices are there, spectator village is a little better I think than it was last year.
This is only our second year, so we are learning, as well as everyone else is.  But I think it's been absolutely brilliant.
Q. Which bodes well for the future?
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, we've got one more year on our contract with The European Tour, but yeah, we see this not kind of stopping or being a short-term thing.  Obviously we have to sit down and debrief with everyone on how things have gone so we can learn on things again to hopefully progress further.
Q. After the first one finished at Murcar, you said you would go away and assess how things were and build on that for the second year.  Did you see the development this time?
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, I think the format has obviously stayed the same.  I think the biggest thing that came out was that from the players' point of view, they loved the format.  Obviously from everyone else's point of view, there's not a lot of golf at the weekend when you play straight knock out, you're down to sort of four golfers at the weekend.
We tried to introduce some juniors to it this year but that couldn't be done today because of the weather, in case the wind was too high or too windy.
But I think the format is ideal, the way it plays out.  I think the whole tournament has gone up a notch or two since last year.  We thought last year was good, too.
Q. There has been an awful lot of golf in this part of world in quick succession when you consider Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open, then moving on to The Open, you've got the Seniors, you've got the Ladies.  Has that had an effect as well?
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I think both years that we've had it, obviously spectator numbers, again, we would like a few more, there's no question about that, but we understand why they don't come in their massive numbers.  The Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open is a really big tournament, and The Open was in Scotland this year, and then a few weeks and it's our event.
But we're still supported very well.  We understand it's difficult but the ones that do come, we're pleased to see them.  I think for 15 pounds a day, they come in and get a great experience to see all the players.  All in all, I think it's a great event.
Q. It's more a selling point for the future, but elaborate on what else has been here, because it does seem that you've gone to town on things other than the golf just itself.
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, well I think the spectator village has been a lot better.  There's been a huge amount of work and huge amount of effort gone into that.  Obviously we had Geoff Swain's trick shot show last night, which I was there, and I thought it was absolutely brilliant.
Again, you're trying to just put different things on that people can come and not only just watch the golf, and there's Wilson, Nike and Lynx on the driving range this year for the spectators to try all the new equipment, which has gone down very well.  It's been very busy over there.  Again, it's just getting stuff that hasn't happened at a normal tournament that you can do next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT