THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2011
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Paul, 64 sounds good.   
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, played the same as yesterday pretty much tee-to-green. Hit the ball extremely well but holed more putts today. Kind of holed more than my fair share today. Normally I'm grumbling about not holing putts but today was the opposite. Putted absolutely magnificent out there. Rolled the ball well and holed a good sort of two or three from length, so you can't grumble about that.  
  
  Q. Finishing off yesterday, you looked a pretty frustrated figure, because you had obviously played pretty well I think.   
 PAUL LAWRIE: I think I hit 16 greens yesterday had a good eight or nine birdie chances and had three single putts the whole day.   
 So it was very frustrating when you're playing in your home Open and you want to perform well and you're putting like that. I had a bit of putting last night and worked it out and putted much better today. So hopefully I can do that over the weekends.  
  
  Q. Clearly you like Castle Stuart.   
 PAUL LAWRIE: It's great. Who couldn't? The trouble is, it's links golf. When it's calm, people are going to shoot those kind of scores. But that's the beauty of it, that's why we like it. Tomorrow it could be howling a gale and pouring rain and level par is a good score. But I imagine if it stays calm, scoring will be pretty low but we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you've put yourself in contention?   
 PAUL LAWRIE: Reasonably. So I think the afternoon boys will probably get away a bit from 9-under. But two days to go, if you have another couple of those, you'll be not far away.   
  
  Q. Nice to see another few Saltire flags on that leaderboard, as well?   
 PAUL LAWRIE: It's been good, especially jot Jamieson has been playing Scott Jamieson has been playing great, first year on Tour. He was on the Euro Pro two years ago, so he's doing extremely well, nice lad, works hard, so nice to see the Scottish boys coming through.  
  
  Q. You took a little bit of time off, is it good to get away from the house work?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I didn't do an awful lot the last few days. I've been struggling a wee bit but I'm getting old. When you get to 42, you wake up as someone else the next morning, so just keep going.  
  
  Q. Is there another European Tour win in you this season?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: I hope so. I had a couple of wins in '99. It's unusual to win more than once, but who knows, why not.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT