BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2011
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, we had 16 holes in pouring rain. It wasn't easy but at least there was no wind, so the wind was coming straight down. It wasn't that really difficult to be honest. But played nicely. Putted very well. And pity about 17 but overall good score. 

 Q. You looked to be playing very nicely the shot I saw in at 15, almost landed straight in the hole. 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I hit wedge about six, eight inches maybe and plugged straight in the green. 
 Hit a lot of good shots. Was in control of the ball very nicely, and holed a few putts. 

 Q. When you say the weather wasn't as bad, do you not get the feeling sometimes when you look at the weather like that and how it was this morning, that the golfing gods were not necessarily on your side, or your side of the draw maybe?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Well, obviously this morning, it was obviously a lot easier than we had it, there's no question. But that's what happens sometimes. 
 Over the year they say it works itself out, so just have to get on with it. It was raining for us but good scores were still had out there as you can see by Stenson, 8-under in the pouring rain, a great effort.

 Q. Do you feel like another win maybe could be coming up again soon?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Well, you don't know. I played nicely today. I played good last week in my own event, finished third. I had a couple of poor weeks at the PGA and Wales, but I struggled ball-striking-wise. I hit it pretty poorly. So to come out in that weather today and shoot 6-under today is a good sign.

 Q. Four fantastic weeks coming up now starting here?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, four big weeks, here, France, Scottish Open and the open. So it will be nice if the putter keeps behaving like it did today, it will be nice to keep it going like that. Putted lovely today, even the ones that didn't go in were just shaving the hole. But I played nicely, too. It's not just about putting. But I putted beautifully. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT