PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2008
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAUL LAWRIE: I've been playing good for a while, but holed a few putts today which helped. Wind is up a bit and the course is much tougher than yesterday. I played solid, so it wasn't too difficult today.  
  
  Q. Have you been working on any particular part of your game?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: No, I have the same swing thoughts all year, been working away, changing a few bits and pieces and working hard on the short game and last week was probably the best I ever played tee-to-green in my career.   
 So this week I putted better and kept the striking going.  
  
  Q. What do you make of your season so far?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: It's been disappointing obviously to be 95th on the Order of Merit for me, I'm a better player than that but that's what I am. I've been putting poorly but that's what I've been struggling with. You never realize how hard the game is until you struggle with the putter.   
  
  Q. You seem confident this week?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I can turn up and try and win every week, no matter how poorly I play, I always feel I can win. My short game is normally pretty good, and with a good short game you can win any week.  
  
  Q. And your two sons walking around with you, does that help?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: It's always nice when they come. It's always easier to kill a couple of hours with them there than being on your own.   
 I've been playing well for, it feels like months, and just knocked a few in today which I haven't been doing, and still kind of strangely enough left sort of quite a few out there I felt but ball-striking is just night and day these last few months. When you're hitting it as good as that, you're going to start shooting those kind of scores if you hole a few putts.   
  
  Q. Why is that?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: I've been hitting an awful lot of fairways for me and an awful lot of iron shots right down the pin. Been working on a few bits and pieces now with me and Mark, a few years, and maybe it's taken that long for it to start coming in. I feel that I do it naturally without thinking about it which really helps.  
 Last week I led the greens in regulation for the week, which I'm not so sure I've ever done that before. I just need to hole a few putts. Still Odyssey 2-Ball, so kept the same one.   
  
  Q. What's your feeling about winning?   
 PAUL LAWRIE: Hitting good and only one or two shots a back. If you're only hitting that few poor ones, you have a fair chance of kicking on and if the stroke is the aim over the weekend as it was today I'll be there or thereabouts, no question, the way I'm hitting it.  
  
  Q. Good inspiration having your boys out here?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I always love it, and the boys are getting old enough to know a fair bit about golf and they are golfing themselves now. We have good fun.  
 And The Open last year at Carnoustie for me was huge. They walked around, and they really weren't old enough, so it nice when you've got boys and you can chat, because they want to be golfers obviously.  
  
  Q. Is this the stage where they question your judgment?   
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, it's good fun, it's all love.   
  
  Q. When did you turn the corner?   
 PAUL LAWRIE: Scottish Open this year was the first week in a long time where I actually felt I really could have won that week easily. I finished ninth but missed everything on the weekend and played beautiful and really even the missed cuts and the poor performances since then has not been because of the striking. So Scottish Open I really started hitting solid.   
 I don't think we are far away.   
  
  Q. What have you focused in on to get the form right, or is it something somebody said mentally or technically?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: I have three or four things that I'm working on in my swings which have been the same things for about six months so I think that when you get that continuity, and even poor days, you still think the same things. I think that's the secret is when you jump about and I'll try this and try that and I haven't been doing that for a while and the striking has definitely gotten better. I've been working with Neal for a wee while and the two of us kind of put our heads together.  
  
  Q. Did you use a mind coach?  
 PAUL LAWRIE: I've been seeing Jamil (Qureshi) for about six weeks now, so he's been helping, too. I'm much more relaxed than I was on the course, no question.   
 I think all in all, everything is just that little bit better than it was, and certainly I think I had -- I don't know how many putts I had last week but last week finished 29th, so hopefully this week can keep going a bit better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT