QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 26, 2008
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Overall, are you happy with that round?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I probably should have been a few less, but that's what golfers always think. But overall, 4-under around here for two days is okay. 

 Q. This is your 21st tournament of the year. Overall, have you been happy with how things have been going in 2008? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: No, I'm 96th on the Order of Merit, so it's not good, and I think I'm a better player than that. That's where we are so there's not much you can do. Hopefully hole a few putts over the weekend and play lovely.

 Q. Good boost for you? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, decent. Struggled a wee bit today when I got it to 6-under and quickly fell back to 4 and bogeyed the last. Overall I'm reasonably happy. 
 Obviously with the fog this morning, it was a long day, but part and parcel of Tour life. These things happen and you just have to get on with it.

 Q. Did it bother you? Even though it was nice this morning, it was pretty horrible this morning. 
 PAUL LAWRIE: You just sit and have a chat. Like I said, it's part and parcel of what you do. It happens enough that you get used to it.

 Q. Focus on turning the season around? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: I've putted better this week. The greens are very good and normally when the greens are nice, I put decent. 
 Germany, for instance, two weeks ago, I putted nicely and I putted nicely there when the greens were pure, and Carnoustie at Dunhill last year, and this week has been better with the putter and that's been the difference.

 Q. Do you study the stats? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: The Order of Merit is the only one I look at and I think I'm 96th at the minute, so we need to improve that to at least get in the Volvo Masters, which is not really an aim of mine, but if that's where you are now, it would be good.

 Q. You spend a lot of time last week playing with the boys and like all of us watching The Ryder Cup?
 PAUL LAWRIE: The boys were on holiday so we played both days. They are both mad, keen golfers, so it's nice to get them out playing. 
 The only hard thing is when you go four or five events in a row, and they want to play on the Monday after school when you want to rest, but you just go and play with them. Not much you can do. They don't take no. 

 Q. What are their handicaps?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Craig is 13 and he plays off 19, and Michael is 9 and he's about 23.

 Q. Happy with your position?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, obviously Lee finished at 6, but two behind, it's okay. Good weekend and you never know. 
 I holed out pretty well. I missed a tiny one at 9, about a 3-footer which was disappointing, but apart from that, I've rolled the ball really well.

 Q. Have you changed putters? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: No, it's the same one. Got a new green iron at my home, and the greens are now puttable all the time, so big difference. 

 Q. Is this your outside green?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, we call it a green iron, the thing you sit on and it goes sideways, bought one of them. Made a big difference. 

 Q. How long have you had that in the house for?
 PAUL LAWRIE: Two weeks and it's made a huge difference.

 Q. How big is it? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Like I said, you just sit on it. It's a heavy roller and you sit on it. 

 Q. How big is your practice green? 
 PAUL LAWRIE: It's a full-size USGA spec green. I have three bunkers and 18 yards of fairway by the house and we have an artificial green, too, which is quite big, so we are well covered. The boys love it. They are on it every day. It's quick enough to tour standard now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT