WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 14, 2002
Paul Casey
Alastair Forsyth
Padraig Harrington
Paul Lawrie
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 IRELAND 
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's the same story. It's a tough format. Ten under is very respectable but you need to do better. We went close a few times and could have been a few better. You need something to happen out there. It's not easy. You have to make birdies everywhere and that is not easy to do. You have to take all your chances. We have to shoot a fourball score in foursomes now so hopefully we can produce the goods

SCOTLAND

ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Out of the three days it is probably the poorest I have played so ten under is a good result on that. We missed a few chances but are in touch. There were birdies going in all over the place. But we are in touch. It is enjoyable to play in. Foursomes is a lot tougher but the scoring has been great in that as well. Have to go out and be aggressive and fire as many birdies as we can. If we can get off to the start we did yesterday, our front nine was unbelievable, get a start like that and finish the job off which we didn't do yesterday. Any start like that and we will be right in contention.

PAUL LAWRIE:  We played well again. Ten under you can't complain about that. We would like that front nine of yesterday again and a bit better back nine. We will try our best and see what happens. We have both played well. We've hit the hole a lot and holed a few putts as well. We chipped in twice today as well on the 11th and 12th. It's great fun playing this. This is my third or fourth time and it is great having a partner there as well. Bit of laughter on the fairways.

ENGLAND

JUSTIN ROSE:  A reasonable day. I had a spell around the turn where I didn't play too good and played quite nicely towards the end but the last five holes I couldn't make a putt, that's the frustrating thing. We are four back on Japan and that will be tough. They are well suited to each other and will be tough to beat. We have yesterday to draw on. We will need something similar. All to play for. I liked playing with Japan. I have got to know both pretty well and they are fun to play with.

PAUL CASEY: I was really frustrated with the way I played for the majority of the back nine. I squeezed one on ten and another one the 13th but apart from that nothing. After a front nine that was really promising and the back back nine fooled us in a format we should capitalise on the back nine. We haven't shot ourselves in the foot and if we shoot a round like yesterday it could be interesting but we shouldn't be as far back as we are right now.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT