WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2000
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you go through the match from the 17th, really quickly?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: From the 17th, I hit 5-iron in there about 10, 11 feet. And I had a nice
putt, but it missed on the high side. We both hit nice drives, just behind the pin in the
fringe, he was -- I was in the back bunker. I got out about 5 feet, 6 feet. Mark putted
down about 7 feet, and we both missed. Playoff hole I had a poor second shot right in the
back green. I hit it up to about maybe 10 feet. Mark left it short. I holed mine. Both hit
good drives, both had good seconds. I splashed out from the bunker, about four or five
feet, maybe six feet. Mark was a little outside of me, he missed and I missed. I hit
5-iron at the par-3 about 20, 22 feet, and hold it. 
 
Q. What are the disadvantages of not having a professional caddy?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: None, it looks like to me. Adam's never caddied before. Obviously it's a
tough thing for him to do. He's panicking a bit about getting did right. We're looking for
a new caddy right now. Caddies are a very important part of what we do. But Adam came in a
for me, he's played a long time, and it's not like he does know golf. 
 
Q. Your thoughts on playing Tiger tomorrow?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Obviously he's the best in the world. I'm looking forward to it. You don't
look forward to playing with him, something is wrong with you. You want to take on the
best and try to bet beat the best. I'm going to have to play well. You have to play well
to beat anybody, but especially Tiger. I'm looking forward to it. 
 
Q. Will Adam caddy for you the rest of the event?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: As long as I'm still in the event, yes. 
 
Q. You played Tiger once before recently, Paul?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: I played Tiger in the Grand Slam. I played with him at Valderrama at the
World Golf Championships there. 
 
Q. Do you expect to have a new caddy soon?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: I hope so. 
 
Q. Do you think it was lost for you in regulation?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: No, I had a putt to go 1-up on 17 and I had a putt to win the match on 18.
Both putts I hit, I hit good putts. I still felt confident going down the playoff holes.
If you think the match is lost, you're not thinking very well. No, you just play one shot
at a time, and you take whatever comes. 
 
Q. Paul, why did you make the caddy change?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: These things happen. The reason will remain between Patrick and I. That's
not for anyone else to hear, apart from him and I.  
 
Q. How do you feel about your game through this week, is it improving day-by-day, are
you happy where it is?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: My game is -- my tee-to-green game is reasonable. I haven't putted all
that well. But I haven't putted poorly, either, it's been a strange week. I haven't played
that great or putted that great, but I've been winning matches, which is all you're
supposed to do. Hopefully tomorrow I can play and putt well. 
 
Q. Were you sure Adam was able to caddy for you?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: We asked before I teed off. You can't do it in Europe, but you can in
America. 
 
Q. Is he on a percentage?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: He's on a coach's percentage, yeah.  
 
Q. Not a caddy percentage?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: No. 
 
Q. I know you don't want to talk about it, but something -- something big happened for
you to change in the middle of a tournament?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: If you and your caddy split ten minutes before tee off, you have to think
it's something big.  
 
Q. What did you learn from playing Tiger in Hawaii?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: I learned that he hits it a long way, his iron shots are good, he chips it
good, he putts it good, he's got a good attitude. He's a great player. 
 
Q. When you made the decision to play more in America this year, is this the sort of
game --?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: You want to -- what you want to do is play against the best. And you've
got to try to raise your game when you do play against the best. And I worked very hard
with Adam and Dr. Cox. I don't know why I should put all that time and effort in and work
so hard if I'm not going to take on Tiger. It's going to be a hard match for me, no one
needs to tell me that. I feel as though if I play well I've got a chance. 
 
Q. Adam help you out there today?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, he's good. Obviously he hasn't caddied before, he leaves the bag up
now and then, but he's not done it before, so you tell him off and on you go. 
 
Q. Was he doing yardages?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah.  
 
Q. Paul, having said what you just said about Tiger, how do you convince yourself you
can beat him?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: Because I hit it pretty good. I hit my iron shots pretty close and I chip
pretty good. There's a big difference between him and I. He's obviously a better player
than I. But underdogs have a strange habit of coming through now and then.  
 
Q. Is there anything about playing golf over here that's surprised you?
 
 PAUL LAWRIE: No, not really. Everything is -- everyone is being really nice to me. The
three guys I've played this week have all been Americans, and the crowd has come onto
them, but if I'm struggling, that's going to happen at home. I've enjoyed my time here,
and looking forward to the next tournament. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT