ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL LAWRIE: I played lovely and just couldn't score today.  A bit weird.  But I've been putting really nicely.  But today, didn't quite get when I deserved but it's been opposite to be fair of late.  I've been kind of not hitting it great and putting lovely and scoring well.  So today was the opposite.   
But lovely day, a little bit of breeze, just a bit frustrating to be only 2-under.  But long way to go.   
 Q.  Great to be back here after The Open, some nice memories?  
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, it's a pity the weather wasn't like this in July.  How much nicer would that have been.  Yeah, it's one of these places, it's always cool to play golf here.  It's a special place.  Everyone knows that and the weather is just perfect the golf course is in great conditions.  The greens are rolling pure.  You need more than 2-under every day this week I assume to win.  But always nice to play here.   
 Q.  The whole Open, you've been there, done that, got the tee shirt, but the way you've got yourself into contention, did it take you a wee while to get over open week?  
PAUL LAWRIE: I'm kind of pretty used to disappointment to be fair, like I told a few people, I've played 577 events, you get used to it.  I was up there for two days and loved it but weekend was poor at The Open.  Didn't play very well.  Didn't score very well.   
But at the end of the day, you're up there for two days, so you've got to try and build on that, which I did, and Denmark and Holland were two really good weeks for me.  Could have won either week to be fair.   
Had two weeks off, one to injury which is frustrating.  Feel good this week, feel fully fit this week.  So just need to get the putting grooves on the next few days.   
I holed a 5-footer for par at the second, and I birdied 14.  I holed about a 12-footer there.  The third I holed from about four feet, five feet, so that was it today.  The one at the last was the longest putt I holed all day, about a good 30, 35 feet.   
 Q.  Do you feel you're playing better than your open week?  
PAUL LAWRIE: First two days pretty much the same to be fair.  Struck it lovely today.  Drove the ball extremely good.  Really happy with the way I hit it because I struggled yesterday with the driver so spent about an hour on the range working with the driver, getting more on top of it and drove it quite long today for me.  So happy with the driver.  Just need to get more putts to drop.   
 Q.  Martin Kaymer and Graeme McDowell both touched on the idea that on a non-Ryder Cup year, takes some extra motivating themselves a wee bit.  With Hazeltine, does it get the juices flowing a bit more?  
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, first of all, I don't feel that.  I give every week as much as I've got to be fair.  And I think when you get to maybe slightly towards the end of your career, it's even more, you give it more, because your time is kind of maybe stopping a little bit.  But no, I don't feel as though The Ryder Cup year makes any thingy for me or more motivation or desire.  I'm out there giving every shot I've got a hundred ten percent every week, no matter Ryder Cup or not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT