THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was today, Paul?PAUL LAWRIE: Today was the same as yesterday.  I actually played quite nicely today but just holed no putts at all.  I had 36 putts yesterday and 35 today.  71 putts, it doesn't matter how good you play, you can't compete at that level.  Got to find a way of getting the ball in the hole more regularly.  It's becoming a mega issue.Q. So did you feel like you (inaudible) the first couple rounds?PAUL LAWRIE: Well, the stats say I had 25 putts the first day but I had about seven or eight putts from the fringe, so I've holed no putts really, and I've had 25.  It's just how it is.  I'm hitting it nicely, playing good, but just not even hitting poor putts, they're just not going in.Q. Are you able to take any positives from the week?PAUL LAWRIE: Not really, to be honest, because when you're in there, I'm normally pretty good at staying in there, and the last two days has been the opposite.  I took myself right out of it yesterday.  I missed from two feet at 12 for birdie and three-putted 13, and then mentally was really poor coming in, which is unlike me when I've got a chance in the tournament.  So I'm not seeing much positives at the moment, but maybe when I sit down tomorrow, maybe there will be.Q. Do you feel the delay in play affected you at all?PAUL LAWRIE: Nope, not a bit.Q. You must think very highly of the crowds.PAUL LAWRIE: The crowds are unbelievable out there.  All week long, no matter where I've hit it.  They've kind of shouted your name and cheered your name.  The Scottish are always great when I play golf here, it's fantastic.  Marc and I yesterday didn't feed off each other, didn't hole any putts, but the crowd were shouting our name every hole, and it kind of keeps you going, to be fair.  But you just can't putt like that and keep in contention.Q. For golf in this country it's a great thing that guys (inaudible)?PAUL LAWRIE: Definitely, yeah, it's a good idea.  A lot of people probably came today that might not have came for the week.  It's only  £10 get in.  It's like our event in two weeks' time, it's only  £15 a day to get in, so we're hoping that value for money will make a lot people come and watch some top players.Q. The amateurs seem to have done well so far this week, as well.  What do you make of that?PAUL LAWRIE: It's brilliant to see.  I sent out a Tweet last night to Paul just saying it's a marvelous performance.  There's a few of them this week that are up there, I think two in the top 5 after three rounds.  You don't see that very often in a field of this quality, so it's great to see, and I hope they kind of keep going.Q. Speaking to Graeme McDowell earlier we were talking about the amateur-to-pro transition, and he's very sure that the collegiate system is the way to go.  Do you see it as more of a shade of grey?PAUL LAWRIE: Well, I don't know more about it.  Maybe Graeme knows more about it than me.  We've never had any of our boys go to college in America, so I don't know what the system is and how good it is.  But there's always going to be one or two that are world-class straight away.  Rory was world-class as soon as he turned pro, and I think some of these boys this week might be that.  But I don't know what the best way is for them to go.  There's always one or two that come through, but there's not that many, to be fair.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT