BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good start after a little absence.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I've had three weeks off.   I've worked pretty hard to be fair on my game when I was home.   But first week back, you're never sure what you're going to get, a little bit of rust in there but came out and played lovely right from the off.   Hit the ball really nicely and holed a few putts which is always nice.  
   
 Q.   There's always a need for hard work, but there's particularly focused hard work, as well.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   I've got quite a lot going on at the moment off the course.   So I managed to have a couple of weeks before I got back to sort of doing what I should be doing and getting up in the morning and hitting 400 or 500 balls before lunch, and did a bit of chipping at the house and get back to what you should be doing.   
I'm enjoying doing what I'm doing, but I'm still a golfer and I want to keep playing at the top level.   So if I want to do that, I've got to put some time aside, which I've done in the last two weeks, so it showed up.  
   
 Q.   We've missed you.   Haven't seen you at this end of the tournament for quite some time.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   You've not missed me, come on (laughing).   No, obviously still I want to play and I still want to be out there, but you've got to be competitive to be out there.   
So I kind of made a decision a couple of weeks ago that I would get back into it and put a bit more time in.  
   
 Q.   What worked today that had not been working in previous events?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I've not been playing that poorly.   I've just not been scoring, and I scored today.   Even though I hit a couple of, not poor shots, but ropey shots, and made pars off them.   Had a really good up‑and‑down on 7; that would have been a bogey a few weeks ago.   Little things like that, it all adds up.   4‑under was about right.  
   
 Q.   Presumably amongst the "lots going on" is the Match Play.   How is it shaping up?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, really good.   The Saltire Energy Paul Lawrie Match Play, get a wee plug in there.   It's been a lot of work obviously as you can imagine.   But 4sports & Entertainment, who are promoting it for me, they are doing a fantastic job.   I'm more of an overseer than actually spending a lot of time on it.   But it's still in the back of your mind.   You want it to go smoothly and you want it to go well.   But we're all excited about it.   Looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Does it mean plenty of visits to the course to make sure everything is shaping up?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I've been two or three times already.   I went with Mike Stewart, who is our tournament director, just a few weeks ago.   We played about 12 holes on the course.   He wanted to see how things‑‑ how I wanted to see it.   Obviously my track record there is pretty good.   We are going to change a few things about the course.   But in fairness, the course is magnificent and doesn't need much work done to it and condition is really good.   So it's gearing up for a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT