COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 21, 2015
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on that round today?
PAUL LAWRIE:   I played lovely today actually.   I've been getting better for a long time.   Ball‑striking, certainly driving the ball has improved a lot since Dunhill Links last year.   I sort of worked it out a little bit, so 5‑under in the afternoon when the wind picks up a wee bit is a good effort.

Q.   You've won this two times; becoming the first person to win the Qatar Masters three times, does that come into your head at all?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Not really.   It's obviously nice to come back to places that you've won at.   You'll know that as well as I do.   You get a good feeling when you drive in, and the fact that you've won the tournament twice obviously helps you a bit more.   I'll just take it one day at a time and try and hole some putts tomorrow and Saturday and Sunday and see where we are.

Q.   Speaking about that, they talk about horses for courses.   There's obviously something out there, as well as a good feeling, good shots that you can remember out there.   Is there anything in particular that you set your mind on?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, you don't want to‑‑ obviously all the things I'm decent at is what you need here.   I'm in control of my ball when it's windy quite well.   I knock the ball down, no problem; take a lot of distance off of shots quite well.   I'm just kind of setting myself up for a bit of a fall here. 
I enjoy it.   I love the course, I like the wind and I normally kind of putt okay around here.   It sets up well for me so hopefully the rest of the week's the same. 

Q.   Your thoughts on a round like that to start?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Hit it nicely again.   Obviously last week was the first real kind of nice week I've had for a wee while.   Finished 20 which is not a great week, but you're getting there slowly, and it's all about building the confidence for me at the minute.   I've had a couple years where I've not played very well and been injured and hardly played a lot. 
So it's been round by round just trying to get myself back into position where you have a feeling as though you can contend in a few tournaments.   Today was what it was all about.   I kept the ball in play, putted nicely when I had my chance and in the afternoon, I think 5‑under is a good score out here.

Q.   Presumably that's down to technicalities, as well as what's going on upstairs, because you gain confidence just by playing well?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, a bit of both.   I've been working away with Andrew Locke, my coach, for quite a while now, and John Mathers is working my way upstairs.   I'm quite hard going upstairs to be fair.   I'm my own worst enemy at times.   I'm getting better and the fact that I'm driving the ball in play and hitting it reasonably long for me is obviously helping.   It's just about holing some putts.

Q.   Presumably there's something about it that just gives you the lift on arrival. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   I enjoy it.   Like I said to Andrew, all the things you need here are things that I tend to being okay at.   I don't mind the wind.   I take a lot of distance off of shots which you've got to do around here.   The greens are quite firm. 
I enjoy it.   I enjoy playing here.   Whenever you drive up, you get a nice feeling, having won the tournament twice, you see your name on the board, all these little things add up to feeling comfortable. 

Q.   Beautiful course, isn't it, and one that's developed down the years. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, one of best we play I would say.   It's demanding; when the wind picks up, you have to be in control of your ball, the distance the ball goes and you have to flight the ball properly. 
There's a couple of really good pins out there this week that needs a proper struck shot in there.   I think the golf course is way up there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT