COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2014
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I presume that you are a satisfied map after a day like that in slightly windier conditions?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Reasonably.   I played really good today tee‑to‑green.   Hit a lot of good shots and missed a lot of shot out there on the greens but tough to get the ball close to the hole today obviously because it's windier and the greens are a bit firmer.   But overall, probably deserved a bit less.   
   
 Q.   We certainly expect the winds in Qatar, are they markedly different to previous days?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, much windier today and the pins are kind of tucked a little bit more than they have been.   So a combination of the greens drying out and it's kind of a wee bit kind of tougher.   
   
 Q.   Conscious of your position on the leaderboard?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I'm a leaderboard watcher.   I knew what was going on.   I was surprised when I looked up and saw Rafa where he was.   Thought he would be a wee bit less out there but it's tough to make birdies and get the ball close.   Tomorrow we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   We've seen a round of 64, the anomaly; nobody can reach that otherwise.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   That's a great score, it so much tits than it's been, so 64 any golf course is a good effort.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling much more at one with your game?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, tee‑to‑green today was very, very good, as good as I can play.   I've only missed one fairway, I hit 16 greens yesterday, 17 today, so if I can play the same way tomorrow and hole a few putts, I can have a good day.   
   
 Q.   What's the news from Turkey?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, Craig, his first event, he shot 79, 81, two big scores.   It's not easy.   I spoke to him and he's fine about it and he's hitting balls again today.   It's going to take a bit of time, we knew that, it's a big step up from what he was doing and we knew that, and he's a kid that works hard on his game and he'll get better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT