JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Defending champion, maybe yesterday your performance showed the value of digging in there when it wasn't quite going your way?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Now and again you've got to do when you're not your best.   70 yesterday was a good score the way I played and the way I hit it.   Struggled with ball‑striking but today was the complete opposite, played lovely, a lot of good shots, so 7‑under, there or thereabouts.  
   
 Q.   Did you make a change or do the same thing and it was just different?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, it's always the same thing with me.   The changeover just gets a little fast, a little off the top, a little steep.   Went to the range for an hour and slowed the changeover and teed the ball up instead of hitting it fat and everything is much better today.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about this place?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, seems to suit me.   I've been driving the ball really well and so around here, you've got to get the ball in play around here and if you hit a decent line, it helps.   
   
 Q.   Dare I say, excited with two to go?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, in there again, so it's nice to kind of get going.   Need probably a pretty low weekend with the way scoring is going, but as long as you're there, you've always got a chance.   
   
 Q.   How do you find the course setup this year?   Do you like it?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, which are way the course is set up, you've got to play it.   I never really get kind of too up or down with what the course setups are.   But the course is nice, course is playing good, and greens are a lot firmer than they have been so obviously the SubAir system is helping.   Scoring is low.   Yeah, it's all right.   
Today I was 5‑under today and I did not feel as I did anything‑‑ or holed any long putts.   I took advantage‑‑ yesterday was a struggle.   Felt reasonably easy, so if I can play that way at the weekend and hole a few putts, then you know you're going to have chance.  
   
 Q.   A nice way to guarantee yourself another suite when you come back next year, as well?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   It would be.   
   
 Q.   Or it won't be next year; the year after.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Two years from now, at least it would guarantee.   
   
 Q.   How much easier does it make, pleasant surroundings like that to go back to at your doorstep?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Doesn't make any difference to me to be honest.   As long as I've got a nice, firm bed, I'm a happy camper.   I'm not all that bothered about fancy rooms, but it's nice of them to look after defending champions or past winners.   They do that well here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT