THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL LAWRIE:  I played horrific on Thursday.  It is what
it is, you've just got to battle away.  You've just got to battle
away.  It's a hell of a week, with a 10-over par round on the
first day.  Kind of proud I battled away and kept going,
especially Friday.  I never think it's over.  I kind of battle
away, and I kept going, which was nice.
Q.  Can you take a lot of positive things out of this week?
PAUL LAWRIE:  It's a decent week, but it's not a great
week.  But it's a great week after the start.  So you take a lot
out of the fact that you're going to finish near or the top 25.
After a 10-over par round, yeah, you take quite a bit out of that.
Q.  Did you think a score like that was out there for Poulter
(inaudible).
PAUL LAWRIE:  Not anymore today than other day.  What
score is he, 5-under today?  It's a hell of an effort.  I was
1-over, made a couple of mistakes.  But 5-under par, he's
obviously played some beautiful golf out there today.  It's the
same conditions out there.  It's pretty blowy.  The course is
pretty tough.  He's obviously played very well.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  The first I hit a little 9-iron to about
four feet.  I had a good chance at the second but missed it, and
then holed it from about 12 feet on the third.
And made 6 in the middle of the fairway at the 5th, which
was disappointing.  I had a terrible lie in the left rough.
The bogeyed 6.  Again, from the middle of the fairway.
Had a beautiful 3-wood, 7-iron pulled it in the bunker.
And then doubled 8.  Just had a terrible time.  Bogey,
bogey, par, double.
So apart from that today could have easily shot 2- or
3-under, but you make mistakes on a course like this, it's going
to punish you.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  There's more to do, I think, for the
Scottish boys.  Well, no more to do than probably Tiger at this
point.  It's a great two weeks.  I love it.  I'd want to play in
Scotland all the time.  It's not any harder than playing anywhere
else for me.  It's more fun because you're playing in front of
your own folks.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Yeah, we traveled out at the start.  After
a 10-over par round on Thursday, to be in the position we're in,
we're looking at a top-25 for the week.
Q.  Did you go to Aberdeen on Friday (inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  It's only two hours in the car from here.
It's not a disaster.  You would drive two hours in the car
normally.  It didn't put me off any on Saturday.  I've been doing
this a long time, so it's not going to affect what you do.


 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT