THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  PAUL LAWRIE:  Yeah, well, I went home, obviously.  I
didn't think that 7-over had any chance, never mind 8.  So we
packed up and went home, got to walk the dog and have a bite to
eat and come back last night about a quarter past eleven, then
shot 70 morning.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  I was regripping a set of new Wilson irons
that I'm going to be testing, a new set of black FG Tour Wilson
Staff irons (laughter).
Q.  Can you say what the dog was?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Never mind the Wilson Staff irons
(laughter).
Our dog is a west highland terrier called Bobo.  But I
was regripping a set of irons, getting back to your question.    I
know we just kind of packed a little bag and got down about 20
past 11.
Q.  When did you leave?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Took us about two and a half to get down.
Roads were quiet, so it was perfect.
Q.  It's the first time you've ever done that, thinking you
missed it?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Yeah, I don't think I've ever had to do
that before.  And thankfully it's just up the road.  Can you
imagine if -- I can't believe nobody went overseas home on 8-over.
I mean, that's incredible, really.  You just couldn't see -- when
I came off the course, 6-over was 79th or 80th when I came off.
How is 8-over gonna get in?  It shows you how tough the course is.
Q.  What time did you leave here?
PAUL LAWRIE:  We were home about five o'clock.  We got
home about ten past five last night.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Must have been just before then, half two,
then.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, we were watching it on the telly, and
we had the iPad on the sofa, and then we took the dog for a walk.
And then while we were walking the dog, the texts just started
coming through, so you could tell you've obviously made it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, first day I just played terrible,
just played horrible.  Hit so many poor shots.  Around a the golf
course set up as tough as that and good as that, you're not going
to do anything else.  It's impossible to shoot anything else, but
the score I shot, that's the worst I've played in a long time.
Friday played beautiful, played magnificent.  And went back to
think a rhythm.  Didn't get too technical.  And today was the same
thing, just played beautiful out there.  Struggled a bit with the
putter.  Should have been quite a few less today.
Q.  Are the conditions fractionally easier?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, I mean, it's a little softer, but
they're watering the greens at night anyway, I think you would do
that normally.  You wouldn't do that because of the conditions.
Obviously it's been mega hot.  Even, I thought for us on Thursday
afternoon it looked playable to me.  15th green looked a little
scary at times.  Some of the boys were struggling there.  Apart
from that, the course is magnificent.  It is what it is.  It's
links golf.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Not that I could see, no.  Not that we had
trouble with anyway.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, I think everyone that's up there
would have played links golf before or played The Open before.  I
can't imagine there's anyone up there it's their first trip and
never seen a links course before.
But, sure, like this morning, we had 190 out the pin on
14 and hit 9-iron about 8 feet.  And so that's a 5-iron for me,
normally.  But you've just got to adjust.  That's the game.  Links
golf, it's going to run and bounce.  You've got to go with it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  A big score?
Q.  At 5- or 6-under.
PAUL LAWRIE:  I have no idea.  It depends how these play.
If you play good out there and the wind doesn't get up, anything
is possible.  But the course is tough.  The course is very tough.
Q.  Have you managed to get back in the same accommodation
you were in?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Yeah, well, the good thing is you pay for
your room for seven nights, whether you use it or not.  Just phone
back up and your room is all serviced and ready to go.  We came
back and had a lovely day.
Q.  Caddie okay?
PAUL LAWRIE:  He's okay.  He was home, too.
Q.  Where is home for him?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Outside of Glasgow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:  No, he asked if I had went home and I said,
yeah, but he never mentioned that he'd done it before.
Q.  Is that Greywalls you're staying in?
PAUL LAWRIE:  Yes.

 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT