ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under for the championship, another struggle for you. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Oh, was just chopping again today on the greens.   Played lovely, all day.   God, must have missed, I don't know, nine or ten putts inside sort of ten feet, 11 feet.   Played lovely but can't get the ball in the hole.   But you go through spells like that in your career, and just now, it's the worst I can remember.

Q.   You're on 4‑under; is that any consolation or relief?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, it's 64th at the minute so I would imagine it would just sneak out, I would imagine, but hopefully it will hold up.

Q.   You put it down to the putter?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I played lovely today.   Only hit one poor shot off the 12th tee, hit in the hazard, and apart from that, on every hole I was there or thereabouts.

Q.   What will be your ambition for the next two days?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Just to try to hole some putts, just to get some feeling with the putter.   Because it's not just the line of it and the length of it and the pace; it's just horrendous.   I can't even get the ball stiff from sort of 20, 25 feet. 
I'm always having to hole a putt, so if your speed is that out, there's a fair chance you're going to struggle with it.

Q.   Did you have any knowledge of the importance of the birdie putt now at the last?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, all the leaderboard tell you the cut mark now, so it said 4‑under.   I kind of had a sneaky feeling that it might be 5 the whole back nine, but it's holding on at the moment.

Q.   Can you iron out the rough spots in your game in competitive play, or is it something that you need to go away and work on on your own?
PAUL LAWRIE:   There's no rust on my game.   Just putting shocking.   Anybody who is walking around with me this year, every week has been the same story. 
I played better than last year to be fair tee‑to‑green but when you putt as poorly as that, it's just a struggle to even compete. 

Q.   This is an important tournament for you and the galleries were out there; did you feel them rooting for you? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, well, they want the Scottish boys to do well, don't they and you can feel it the whole back nine.   They know I'm on 3‑under and they can see the cut is going to be 4 because it's on all the leaderboards, and holed the putt at the last, which was nice. 

Q.   Do you stick with the same putter?   Is it something you just persevere with? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, I chop and change a little bit, I always tend to go back to the same one.   I've had that 2ball blade for years now, and you change the grip on it, and you change the weight of it now and again. 
But it's just‑‑ I don't know, it's just been a long, long time now.   Last year was a lot better but even last year, there were spells‑‑ I could have won five tournaments last year putting half‑decent but this year has been really bad. 
So just get on with it.   I'll go to the putting green now for an hour and I'll hit nonstop nice putts for an hour.   It's frustrating; it's hard to take when you're playing nicely and can't get the ball in the whole but not the only one.   There's loads of guys out there playing nicely and struggling with the putter.   Just how it is. 

Q.   It's not equipment? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   I've got a little loop that's appeared in my stroke.   I kind of loop it on the way down so it's hard to get the ball started on line.   I've always taken the putter straight back and straight through, and I'm working really hard to get back to that but it's just taking a little bit of time.

Q.   You can feel the galleries putting for all the Scottish boys; when you see Chris at the top of the leaderboard; is that good from your point of view, as well? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, great performance from Chris Doak.   Chris has been on and off the Tour for a couple years now, and 12‑under, leading The Scottish Open, he'll be a happy boy tonight.   And let's hope that one of the Scottish boys can kick on over the weekend and win the tournament.   It would be great, wouldn't it. 

Q.   How gutted will you be if 4‑under doesn't prove to make the cut? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Pretty gutted.   You don't want to go home.   You want to play.   You want to play two more rounds and get some feeling with the putter over the weekend before you go to The Open.   I don't want to be going home tonight or tomorrow morning.   If you make the cut on 4‑under, you're eight behind, a couple of 63s, you can win. 

Q.   Were you aggressive at the end‑‑
PAUL LAWRIE:   I'm not even sure that's going to make it to be honest.   I think 5 will be the mark but I kind of thought any chance I had was to knock that in, and I hit a nice stroke and a nice putt and it's gone in.   But I mean, I've missed eight at that distance today, maybe nine.   It's just hard to take but that's how it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT