MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   2‑under after 3, nice start.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, played lovely today again.   Missed nine putts inside 10 feet, six putts inside four feet.   Can't play any better and putt any worse unfortunately, but we're getting used to that.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the double at 4.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Double at 4 was a four‑putt.  
   
 Q.   Was it?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Uh‑huh.   I hit a lovely shot about 20 feet behind the pin, hit it down to about three feet and three‑putted from there.   
   
 Q.   You know you're hitting it well, you know you're playing well‑‑  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, it doesn't matter how you're hitting it.   I don't know how many putts I hit today for 1‑under, but it must have been about 34, 35.   Just can't keep going like that.   The days you struggle you shoot 4‑ or 5‑over because you can't get the ball in the hole, but if you play well, it's a struggle to get under par.   It's just demoralizing.   
But it is what it is.   Playing good, putting poorly.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're learning more about this course each year?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Not really, no.   The course hasn't changed for quite a while now.   The greens were incredibly slow today for some reason.   I don't know why that is.   A couple of times left it short on putts that you think you couldn't get it to stop short of the pin, and it would be like four or five feet short.   I don't know why that was, but they were slow today.  
   
 Q.   Do you plan on going home to find something different now?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   I don't know, I've had four weeks off, and I must have hit hundreds of putts every day for four weeks and felt great, came out, putted okay the first day, and then Friday, Saturday, Sunday just been horrendous on the greens.   I mean, just‑‑ today was the worst for a long, long time.   I can't play any better than that.  
   
 Q.   Are these the toughest greens in the world?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, not really.   They were pretty slow today, so there was no problem with the pace of them today.   I'm talking about missing putts from three, four feet, I'm not talking about 10‑footers, I'm talking about putts that you should just walk up and brush in.   Not even hitting the hole.  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule after this?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Week off and then Korea, China.   I don't know if I'll get into Match Play or not.   Probably not.   Needed a good week this week, I think.   
   
 Q.   Overall a more frustrating week‑‑  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Most frustrating week of my career.   Thursday I didn't deserve any better.   Thursday 4‑over was about right.   But Friday, Saturday, Sunday, man, I played some golf this week and putted just like an idiot.   Disappointing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT