MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   I didn't drive it ‑‑ I drove it a little bit better today, but it still was pretty poor with the driver.   It just kind of, every chance I had I pretty much knocked in.   I played lovely in spells. 
And then disappointed the 18th, but I was way right again off 18.   I've hit so many shots high and right with the driver.   I thought I got it back on the range yesterday, but I struggled with it a wee bit today.

Q.   How long did you spend on the range yesterday?
PAUL LAWRIE:   It was quite warm, so I hit balls for maybe 40 minutes or so.   For me I don't normally hit balls after my round, I normally just go back.   But I thought I should hit a few.   But it was very hot.

Q.   Did you hit it how you thought you would?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, you get on the range and it's different when you play.   The range is really wide and even the poor shots are still in play.   But you get out here and you need to hit a good shot to be in the fairway. 
But today overall was a much better performance.   I played gutsy with the way I kind of stuck in there yesterday and 4‑over was a good score, to be fair.   That could have easily been much more than that yesterday. 

Q.   How much does the chip‑in at the first hole help that score?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, well I hit it in the right bunker and I was up against the lip and I managed to chunk it out and then I chipped in.   But it was all the way in the middle, of course, it wasn't in the back or anything.

Q.   How far was that chip?
PAUL LAWRIE:   A couple yards off the green.   I don't know.   Maybe 20 yards or so. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   I've not holed any long putts this week.   I putted nicely, I putted much better.   Because I've been struggling with my neck for weeks, but I've done a lot of putting to try to get it more on the chalk line at home.   So hopefully that will pay off over the weekend. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, the neck is not a problem.   I feel a couple of the shots that I hit high and right I kind of feel as though I'm protecting it a wee bit. 
I don't have to, but it's just that I kind of, it's like a psychological thing, that you back out of it a wee bit instead of giving it kind of your normal punch. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   I've got this pair, I got a red, I got an Aberdeen pair and then I got a dark gray, light gray pair.

Q.   How did they get them to you?
PAUL LAWRIE:   He sent them over to me. 

Q.   It would have been a shame if you couldn't sport those over the weekend. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   It would have been.   I'll have the gray ones on maybe Sunday.   But it's all right.   They're great colors.   Unusual. 

Q.   Playing Augusta all the time as it's been compared to the other venues which change every year, is it harder to make the cut here compared to other venues or is it the same?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Part of it is there is less people to get through.   But I don't think it's harder because it's here every year.   I actually think that it's really, really cool that it's in the same place every year.   I like it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT