KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2019
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-over after two rounds, Oak Hill, got to be happy with that.
PAUL LAWRIE: Yes and no.  I kind of threw away a few shots from about the (indiscernible) made three bogeys.  But coming in I made two or three good up-and-downs there coming in.  So I suppose overall it is what it is.  So 1-over and you're still in it.
Q. And in position going into the weekend in a major championship on this golf course, a lot of confidence to take from that?
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, well, I mean, I haven't played a lot of golf, you know, as you know, in the last 14 months.  I've only played four events in 14 months.  So to have an outside chance after two days and still two days to go, yeah, I mean, I'm happy enough.
But, you know, I'm a golfer, and I'm never happy.  You know how it works.  I mean, you can never -- you can't show that you're happy.  It's just not -- it's part of the deal.  But, no, no, 1-over is 1-over.  You know, I'll take that before we start.
Q. Do you feel as that you're getting back into the groove again?
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, yeah.  It's a lot -- I mean, obviously the last few holes there just grinding out, that's what I've been missing, you know, after 14 months away from it.  And you need to play a competition to be able to do that.  So I could have easily have been 3- or 4-over there, you know, finished.  So to get that and only be 1-over, I'm pretty (indiscernible).
Q. And conditions-wise over the last two days, you have the fair side of the draw I think it's fair to say, but that's just how it goes in golf.
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, well, you know, next week you'll be opposite.  You know, so it's just how it is.  But we certainly had the better after the draw.  I think guys on the other hand had quite a bit of wind to deal with.  We didn't have a huge amount of wind.
But the course is tricky whether it is windy or not, but obviously you throw wind in there, it's harder for the other guys of the draw.  So we got lucky this time.
Q. And then an early start tomorrow because of the forecast in the afternoon.  So most of the guys at the top, they'll have to struggle come tomorrow afternoon?
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, absolutely.  I mean, I don't know, what, is 3-under leading at the moment?  So, I mean, they'll take level par the next two days, I guarantee it.  So 2- or 3-under will be in the mix.  So it's just up to us to make a few birdies and get in it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT