KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under to start Oak Hill.  Must be really pleased about, given the toughness of the golf course.
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I played nice actually.  We had the -- 2-under I think was the best that had it, so around there.  When we came in from the delay, I got a bit stiff, as you do when you get a bit older, and struggled a bit when we went back in.  Hit a couple of poor bogeys and then had a nice birdie at 17.  So overall around here, I think you can be happy with that.
Q. And what's it like being in and amongst a championship like this, because this is what you've wanted since you turned 50?
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, well, it's only my third start.  And this is a proper major.  It feels like almost like a real major, let alone a senior major.  So KitchenAid did a great job, and all the volunteer -- I mean, there's nearly 2,000 volunteers.  It's got a real big feel about it, to be fair, for a seniors event.  So I'm enjoying it.
Q. And in terms of the courses that you've played this year on the European Tour, how does Oak Hill match up to those in terms of its difficulty?
PAUL LAWRIE: Well, I've only played -- I only played (indiscernible), and obviously those courses are brilliant.  But this is quite a tough test, really.  It's quite a severe test.  If you hit it off line and you can't get sort of anything like under the 60, 70 yards.  So if you miss the fairway, you don't get on the green.  So it's a big test, but you got to play well.
But, no, it's good.  I enjoy it.  It's a lovely course out here.  I've played here before though.  I've played here twice before.  So I knew the course before I came.
Q. And with the weather today, this afternoon, you must be really glad to be in and done with your first round.
PAUL LAWRIE: Yeah, I think the wind is supposed to pick up a little bit this afternoon, as you can feel it now.  And I think I'm just going to do a little bit of putting and then head back to my bed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT