JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Paul, many thanks for joining us, well done today, another good effort, you were saying how pleased you were with the effort.   Give us your thoughts on the day as a whole.  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Played very good again.   Hit the ball very solid.   Gave myself a lot of chances.   Only poor shot I hit was second shot on 9 off the fairway, 3‑wood, trying to hit it left of the green there and chip‑and‑putt and hit on the bank of the hazard and got lucky it didn't go in the water.   And then pulled a 6‑iron on 10, but apart from that, hit the ball really solid, and putted well, 5‑under, so a good day.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:   You spoke out there about the support you're getting from the crowds.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   The support has been good all week to be fair; unusual, for me, maybe, but it's nice to see them all.   And with Monty and Stephen Gallacher had a good score today, so they have seen some good golf by the Scottish boys.   
   
 Q.   Have you noticed‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ getting a bit Ryder Cup obsessed?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Never noticed that.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you to have two wins in one season and The Ryder Cup?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, like I said to you at the start of the week, this week has been a lot easier for me.   Obviously it's been on my mind quite a bit, The Ryder Cup, it's impossible not to.   
But the big thing this week is I've just been working on my rhythm again, which is what I was doing at the start of year and when what's been going on, it's been a lot of a wee bit in what I've been doing.   But if I can hang on tomorrow and that would be huge to have two wins in a Ryder Cup win, and go in full of confidence and hopefully win some points.   
   
 Q.   You seem the most relaxed you've been in a long, long time; do you feel very relaxed?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I'm not someone who gets stressed out an awful lot.   I kind of‑‑ there's no one more calm than me but it's still on my mind quite a bit, and because it's been so long since I played the last time, I was desperate to get in this week.   
So the fact that we kind of got over the line playing this week was a huge week, there's no question.   I would have played in Scotland anyway.   
But it's nice to get it out of the way and you can get back to working on what you should be working on, which is winning tournaments, and this week is the start of that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I just putted that week to be fair.   I'm striking it better now than I was then, but I putted nicely that week.   So if you're struggling with your game, and you've got a chance‑‑ if you play really good and don't hole much, you've still got a chance because you've putted well.   
But I'm hitting it better this week than I was back then.   It's pretty much back to how it was in Qatar.   I played really nicely tee‑to‑green, just striped it there.   Hardly hit it off‑line that week.   
   
 Q.   On the range what has Bob Rotella said to you?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   I spoke to him three times at the PGA, and he is big on sort of, you can't do much about what's going to happen.   What's going to happen, what's going to happen.   Just let it be.   You're swinging it great.   
He walked a few holes with us in practise and said that I was swinging it really nicely and we worked for about 20 minutes on the putting green and that day I holed every putt I looked at.   He said:   Look, I don't see much wrong with what you're doing, just get out there and go play and don't let things bother you, which made me feel a bit better; not that it's that easy, and there you go.   
I'm going to see him a little bit when I go to America and talk to him on the phone a little bit.   I think he's the best at what he does.   I only stopped working with him because he was hard to get; he has so many players, and I'm in Europe and he's in America.   But I'll see him more because I'm going to play a little bit next year with the World Golf events and the majors.   
   
 Q.   Colsaerts just said that he found the whole Ryder Cup process exhausting.   Did you find it exhausting this year, that added bit of mental worry, if you like?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   I think maybe not exhausting, that's maybe a bit‑‑ I don't see it that way, but it's hard going, there's no question.   You just‑‑ you want to represent your Tour.   You want to play and you want to be one of the boys on the team.   Especially maybe myself, because it's been such a long time since I played, and you're kind of looking at maybe this time or one more as your last one; as a player‑‑ I can see where Nicolas is coming from; it's constant.   There's no getting away from it.   It's a huge tournament.   We understand that.   So it was nice to get it out of the way.   
   
 Q.   Is there more pressure qualifying for The Ryder Cup Team than when you're standing over a ball and have to hit a shot?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   No.   I would have said the first tee shot that I hit in Brookline was the most nervous I've ever been on a golf course, there's no question.   I don't think anything even comes close to that.   
I felt in control at the playoff at The Open, and I certainly wasn't in control of anything I was doing on that first tee.   It was a weird experience.   But once you hit it and hit a decent shot, you feel all right.   But that's the most nervous I've ever been.   But maybe I would like to hit it again, it would be cool.   
   
 Q.   Standing there‑‑ (Inaudible.)  
PAUL LAWRIE:   I would have to admit that‑‑ yeah, miss it, and I'll take it.   You have no idea the feeling.   You kind of‑‑ all the of the team is on the tee.   All of the captains are on the tee.   All of the wives are on the tee.   There's unbelievable amounts of press there, and, man, you just know that‑‑ and I don't get like that.   I mean, I kind of‑‑ I see people in the crowd; I'm pretty focussed.   I don't get too excited when I do well, and I don't get too down when I'm not and I focus on that on the golf course.   But that tee, that was pretty different.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Strangely enough, no‑‑ (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   We spoke about it, first time I found out was one of the practise rounds, I was hitting some putts on one of the greens and Paddy came over, he was caddying for me at the time and Roger said, why don't you go on the green at the other end, chatting, and I had obviously been looking and he came over and said, you're hitting the opening tee shot.   
And the next tee, Monty said, we had just had a discussion, it's best if you hit it.   I said no, problem, I'll manage that, easily, whatever‑‑ no way.   But it was cool.   I must say, it was kind of‑‑ not good when you're doing it, when you kind of feel, man, I should have just let him hit it, he's more experienced than me.   You get on with it.   Not much you can do.   
   
 Q.   Were the boys present at any of your previous wins?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   They were here when I won the Scottish PGA in 2004.   Apart from that, no.   
   
 Q.   Are they coming out tomorrow?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, I think they are playing the Medal tomorrow.   They have much more important things tomorrow than watch me play, which is right.   I would play the Medal, too, if I was them.   
   
 Q.   With Rory winning the PGA and Sergio winning Wyndham, do you see the tides turning to Europe's favour, European players coming back to form after midseason?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, it wasn't long ago that the American Team, not kind of dominating but they were playing better than our team, no question.   But I think slowly but surely the last two, three, four weeks, the European boys have kicked on a little bit and had a couple of good wins, and Rory at the PGA, I would hope that would be huge for our team, winning the last major, that would be hopefully a big advantage to us.   
But the American Team have good players, experienced players, like we have.   So I don't think it matters who is playing well or who is not before The Ryder Cup; it's going to be one or two points I would imagine it will come down to at the end in Sunday night I would imagine at Medinah.   I don't so who is playing well and who is not‑‑ that week is different, the adrenaline alone just keeps you going.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Going in playing well is better than going in playing poorly, but as I said, I don't think there's much difference.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Paul, thanks, as always, good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT