JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL LAWRIE:   Played well again.   We were in‑between clubs at the first and Davey wanted me to hit a wedge short of the pin and I saw a 9‑iron and went with nine and hit it long into a little gully and didn't get up‑and‑down.   That was my mistake.   Wedge should have been the play but didn't.   
Bogeyed the next, and hit it in the bunker off the tee, fatted a wedge short of the green and chipped up and missed it.   Apart from those two holes it's been 34 good holes, so can't complain really.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Nice driver off the tee I was just in the left semi and we had 270‑something to the pin and hit 3‑wood about 20 feet behind the pin.   So hit a lovely shot from the left hand rough and rolled it in with a fist pump, which is unlike me.  
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Practise for Ryder Cup maybe, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Putter was working well; was that a combination of the work you've put in and also the condition of the greens?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   I've been working with the putting arc again, haven't used it for a wee while.   Dug it out of the golf room and have taken it with me‑‑ much more acceleration, a bit of decel, but this week is a lot better.   The greens are better, there's no question and they have had so much rain.   A combination of them both probably.   
   
 Q.   You alluded to it last night that the weight is off your shoulders that the Ryder Cup is done.   Is there now a sense that you can go out and play fun golf?   I know it's serious but you're much more laid back now.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   I feel these last two days has been how it felt end of last year and start of this year where I was swinging it nicely, hitting a lot of good putts.   And the last couple of months has not felt like that.   
It's hard to explain but I'm not kind of someone who worries about things.   But when you are kind of not playing The Ryder Cup for that long, it's got to be on your mind.   I was second on list for a long time, and then a couple of people pass you, and then frankly got a bit closer.   
So it's still in the back of my mind for a while but these past couple of days has been great because I've just been standing up and picking my target and hitting it pretty hard again.   The last couple of months, it's been a bit sort of get it in play, as opposed to stand up and hit a shot.   
   
 Q.   I know you said in the blog you have a suite in the hotel this week; is that nice recognition of where you are at world golf?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, they look after me for every year for a room.   They always put me up in the hotel.   But this year I'm in the Whiskey Suite which is very nice indeed.   I don't know why that is, but it's nice of them.   But they always look after me to be fair.   I've never kind of had any trouble here, so it's good.   
   
 Q.   Over the years you've said how much you wantedto win at home, ‑ the Scottish Open; is this the next best thing?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   This week and the Dunhill Links, any tournament is Scotland it's good to put up a good show.   There have been a lot of people walking around the last couple of days which is very good of them, very supportive.   
So if you can play well over the weekend and hold on and win this week or Dunhill Links, that would be the main goal.   But hitting the ball well and hopefully we can hole a few putts and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, Andrew Locke is now a teaching professional at the Paul Lawrie Golf Centre.   He walked around today, which is the kind of first time he's been at a tournament and watched me play.   
I use Andrew very seldom.   I've seen him maybe half a dozen times this year, maximum.   When we first took up, Andrew and I, I kind of did what Adam and I worked on for a long time, so he's more of a bit of eyes for me to make sure we are doing what I used to work on years ago with Adam.   
I have gone back to only working on rhythm in tournaments.   I've gotten very untechnical, which is great; stand up and hit it, and if it goes online, you just get it and go and hit another one.   It's quite good and I'm enjoying it; simple.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT