JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice way to finish a lovely round?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, nice birdie on the last.   I hit a nice drive, hit rescue to the back pin, just trying to draw it in as you do in a left‑to‑right wind and nice chip and putt.   Yeah, it was a good end the to day.  
   
 Q.   Saw you breathing quite heavily at 17.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   17?   
   
 Q.   You just looked a wee bit out of sorts; on the TV I was watching.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   That's just how I look.   I don't know.   (Laughter) I made a nice 3 there, so I don't know.   
   
 Q.   You gave a sigh.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   That's normal.   Not unusual.   
   
 Q.   Happy with the way you played, four‑under?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I played lovely, hit the ball well tee to green.   Had a couple of 3‑putts which is kind of disappointing, but apart from that, I think four under is a good effort around there.   
   
 Q.   Happy to be settled with the Ryder Cup?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I've been grinning like a Cheshire cat; so it's hard not to be happy I suppose.   
That was more like the ball‑striking from the start of the year.   I've been, not struggling, a wee bit the last few weeks, I've been managing to get it around and been grinding it out well but today was much better again tee to green.   
So when you do that on a course that's playing that long, you're going to have chances, seven birdies, hit the ball really well, and missed a couple short puts as well to be fair.   But the fairways are quite wet and quite soft so you have to expect that.   
It's playing long.   There's a lot of long irons in there, so the course was tough.  
   
 Q.   You were saying earlier that‑‑ recently your attitude is not as good as it was earlier in the year.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, tends to go hand in hand, when I kind of strike it well, you're in a better mood.   So I've been struggling a bit with striking it so been grumpy for a couple of months.   I don't think you can underestimate how much the Ryder Cup kind of plays on players' minds.   I mean, it's hard to not think about it.  
You're looking at the list all the time and wondering from someone is going to pass you, whereas the start of the year you're just playing, getting up there and playing your golf and walking about with a smile on your face.   It's so huge the Ryder Cup, I wanted it to badly‑‑ it starts to, not get to you, but this week, you know you're in so back to good ball‑striking again.   So the two must go hand in hand, I assume.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT