THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, played lovely today.   Played magnificent tee‑to‑green, hit the ball really well.   I think I had 40 putts out there.   So it's kind of just‑‑ and four‑putted the last, which is nice.   I don't know why, I saw the line, just couldn't get the pace.   Just putted awful out there.   I think that's the worst I've ever putted in a tournament.   I played really good, hit the ball lovely.   Until I pushed it off 17, I made bogey, and then obviously the last was a four‑putt.   But apart from that the only shot I hit off line was the tee shot off 10.   I hit it in the rough and still found the green.   There you go.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, I had a lovely putt at the first, 25 feet, maybe.   Hit a good putt at the second, perfect pace.   And then I had a really poor one at 6.   And I had a lovely second shot in there and left it about 40 feet short.   And then hit it about six feet by.
Right from there just really struggled.   Just couldn't‑‑ the greens were quicker today, but even then, it's just unbelievable how many I kept hitting five, six feet by from 25 feet.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, no, I've never, ever, ever in my career have I misjudged so many putts.   It was just frightening out there how many.   I don't even know what I shot.   What did I shoot?   Really, it's just incredible.   But that's golf.   There's not much you can do.   Go and work on it now for an hour or so. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I mean you just don't expect to misjudge.   You can miss putts but I'm talking about hitting it five and six feet by from 30 feet.   It's not even close to‑‑ it's like gone out of my hands almost out there, which I've never, ever experienced that before.   I hope I don't experience it again.   Because I hit it really good out there.   I hit the ball lovely.   That's the best I've played this week, and to shoot 6 over... but that's the way it is, unfortunately. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PAUL LAWRIE:   It's just kind of go and do a bit of putting now.   Try and get the feel of it, try and get the pace a bit better.   I did a bit of putting this morning and rolled it really good on the putting green, hit a lot of good putts on pace because they said on the TV obviously the pace was a bit quicker than they were yesterday.   So I made sure I spent time this morning working on that on the putting green, and it felt good going out.   But just horrible out there with the putter.   Pity.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT