ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
May 31, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL LAWRIE:   I struggled a wee bit today.   Didn't play very well.   Putted extremely poorly.   It's tough, too.   It's not easy.   So I mean, 3‑over‑‑ I was 5‑over with three to play, so managed to sneak in a couple birdies in the end.   Overall it's not a good day but could have been a lot worse.

Q.   A lot of players are really struggling; is that because it's not just windy, but gusting. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, the course is really firm and playing pretty fast, and it's windy.   So it's not easy at all to get the ball pin‑high.   The first bounce on the greens‑‑ it's hard to get the ball the right distance.   So I would imagine it's just going to get firmer and tougher out there.   So 3‑over is not very good but it's tough. 
I played really nice at the start and hit a lot of good shots and missed a couple of birdie chances.   I 3‑putted the 14th from six feet into a bunker, hit a lovely bunker shot to six feet and missed from about 18 inches there.   All of a sudden, 5‑over with three to play‑‑ that's golf, isn't it.   It's got a good way of taking you back down.   Could be worse.   Not a disaster. 
It's unbelievably firm.   To get the ball pin‑high is impossible.   So you're having to hole it from 15, 20 feet for birdies.   Course is pretty severe. 

Q.   Kept an 11 off the card. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   That was two years ago.   I did think about it going down that hole.   Made a five, so missed six shots.   A bit of improvement. 

Q.   Do you feel that they have the greens too firm?
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, the course is really good.   I like it but it's tough.   It's tough to get it‑‑ it's a tough test.   But if you hit the ball properly, you can get it close enough to make birdies.   But you've got to make a good strike and be on the right side of the fairways.   If you're in the rough at all, you're accepting the fault. 

Q.   Did you look up and see 5‑under‑‑
PAUL LAWRIE:   I couldn't believe he was 5‑under to be fair.   He was 5‑under after 13 holes I think, which is a fair effort.   I would have thought that‑‑ Gonzo was 2‑under and he played really well.   So 5‑under is really good. 
It's tough.   It's a great test this week.   So you have to get some work on the rest of the week.   I'll have a bite of lunch and head down for maybe an hour or so, not long.   I wouldn't have said I played awful.   Just sort of a couple of bounces here and a 3‑putt there.   I mean, it's easy to rack up 5‑over when it's that tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT