BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After your round, making those fine three birdies?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   I wouldn't like to tell the nation what was in my mind after the 7 at 12.   It's just one of these things.   I hit a beautiful 3‑wood off the tee, I've got a 5‑iron to the green.   I've pulled it about a yard left of the green on that slope and it's kicked and going out‑of‑bounds, way out‑of‑bounds, 20 yards out‑of‑bounds, not just out‑of‑bounds.   It's one of those greens that's rock hard, and you hit it a little bit off‑line, it's going to end up in a place you don't want to be.   
So it was disappointing but obviously hugely important to finish with three birdies there to get under par again to move up the leaderboard a wee bit.   
   
 Q.   A quick surprise on us all that it just bounced so far away.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   The course is getting very dry and very hard and very bouncy, so you can't hit it left of that green or you know you've got a risk at going out‑of‑bounds, it's just there by the green.   I was trying to hit it on the pin or a little right of it to give yourself a putt up the hill.   So, my mistake.   But it's very penal when you're missing a shot with a 5‑iron and a howling gale like that and you're making double‑bogey.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it out there?   We spoke about conditions yesterday.   Today is probably worse.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, today is tougher because the course is dry.   This, certainly with Ernie's design, the way it's been designed, it needs to be a little bit softer than it is.   This course is not impossible when it's like this but it gets pretty tough to keep the ball if play because it gets so bouncy, and the bunkers are penal.   And the fairways‑‑ I think the design is good.   It just needs to be a little softer.  
   
 Q.   Many people will be watching this, thinking the course looks fantastic and what a pleasure it would be to play and yet here we are, as you say one yard the difference at the 12 makes all the difference.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, the course is beautiful and the course is a pleasure to play, but I just think that they could have watered it a little bit.   I think with this weather we've had and the heat and strong wind, I think it needs to be a little softer but that's just my opinion.  
   
 Q.   A 71 today, those last three holes birdied, 5‑under for the championship, and given what's happened to poor David Drysdale and James Morrison today, that puts you right in the mix.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   You're right in the mix but there's still a few good players way up there.   Luke Donald is obviously still going well.   But he's world No.2 and defending champion so he knows what to do in any weather, and is a proven winner.   But a good day today and a good day tomorrow, who knows what can happen.  
   
 Q.   Wind not forecasted to be as strong as it is today will help you.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Obviously when you're a bit back, you maybe want it a bit tougher so guys can fall by the wayside.   But if it's nice weather, you have to go sort of 5‑ or 6‑under to try and calf them, so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   I here Aberdeen has made another bid for James McFadden.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   That's a pity, he would be a good player.   They were on about signing a marquis player, so he's     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT