WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've just walked off having won a second consecutive match out on the 18th.   Tell us about that one, Paul.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Similar match to yesterday really.   Played solid tee to green, struggled a bit with the putter.   Probably the game should have been over a wee bit earlier than it was.   When you struggle to get the ball in the hole, you know there is a fair chance that your matches are going to go a long way.   
The positives were I was hitting the ball really good, but struggling a bit with the blade.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about the golf course today.   How is it set up as compared to yesterday?   Pin positions to watch out for?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   They said it was a little dryer today, little firmer.   The greens were a little quicker.   You could tell that on the putting green this morning when I got here early.   A lot more pace on the greens.   A few of the pins were tucked away a bit more.   But that's what this golf course is.   It's a great match for the course.   It's birdies and bogeys out there.   It's great fun.   
   
 Q.   You and Martin Laird.   Tell us about that one.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   I'm looking forward to it.   Obviously Martin has been playing good, and he's ahead of me in the World Ranking, so he's the favorite.   I'm looking forward to it.   It should be good.  
   
 Q.   I was having a brief chat with him earlier and he remembers you coaching him when you won the Open and he was 17.   He was part of the Scottish Boys.   You probably can't remember that, can you?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, he mentioned that to me when we played nine holes a couple of years ago.   It was when Adam Hunter was the national coach.   Adam asked me to come along and chat with the boys.   I don't remember Martin.   There was obviously about 30 boys there, but he did tell me the story.   I'm a bit older than him, obviously.   
   
 Q.   Kind of a similar match to the first round.   I thought your ball striking was very crisp.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Identical to yesterday.   I played really good tee to green.   I struggled a bit with the putter, but gave myself plenty of chances.   The good thing is that I'm hitting it good.   Just need to hole a few more putts.   
   
 Q.   From what I've observed out here, it looked like the greens firmed up.   I saw a lot of first bounces, really big trampoline type bounces.   Is that accurate?   
PAUL LAWRIE:   The greens were a lot firmer today and quicker.   I don't know how much quicker, but a good foot and a half I would say.   I was out here early this morning and I did some work on the putting green and straightaway you could tell the greens had a lot more roll on them.   It's good, though.   A golf course like this needs the greens to be quick.  
   
 Q.   How long did it take you to adjust to that and find that out?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   No time at all.   I hit quite a few putts this morning at the putting green, so we knew reasonably good at that time.   
   
 Q.   Looking at the bracket, I think we have a Scotsman semifinal in your bracket, Martin Laird?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, Martin and I will play tomorrow morning.   We're looking forward to that.   I have nod playing with Martin in a tournament, only in practice rounds.   He's a good lad.   He's been doing really well, so it should be good fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT