WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'm down here at the clubhouse with Paul who has just seen off Justin Rose.   What gave you the edge today? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   I played solid.   I played nicely.   The only mistake I made, I hit a poor shot at the 3rd and made a bogey, and then I hit the wrong club at the 10th.   Apart from that, I was pretty much putting for birdie every hole.   It was a good game.   It was a close game.   I think 2 up was the most it was, so it was good fun.

Q.   First time at this championship since 2003.   Are you pleased to be back amongst it? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   It's great.   You want to play in these events, obviously.   And I said earlier in the week there is no point in playing in these events if you are just going to come here and get beat.   You have got to come here and play well and try to have a good week to climb up the link as far as you can. 

Q.   First time at this golf course.   What do you think of it particularly for this type of format? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   It's good.   It's very good.   There's a lot of slopes and a lot of movement on the greens, which is ideal for match play.   I can tuck the pins away here and make it extremely difficult.   So you are going to have birdies and bogeys around here, so it's the ideal course for match play.

Q.   Is it true you've got your name on a bus?
PAUL LAWRIE:   I have.   One of my sponsors, The First Group, in Aberdeen have put my name on a bus, which was very nice of them.   It's one of the corporate buses that they use for outings and stuff.   I've made it.   I've got my name on a bus.

Q.   Paul, what a well played match.   I thought you were very solid today. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I played lovely.   I had a lot of good shots.   Didn't give an awful lot a way and then I got ahead and was never really behind again.   I only had a poor shot at the third, hit it poor around the bunker and I hit the wrong club at 10.   Apart from that, I was there every hole. 

Q.   Did Justin give you a scare with his bunker shot on the 18th?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, lovely shot.   When I played with Monty in the Ryder Cup in 1999, he always said expect the guy to hole it no matter where he is, so we were thinking my putt was to win the match.   He didn't hole his bunker shot and that's just the way it goes.

Q.   Your career has had a bit of resurgence here lately.   What's the reason that you are on form? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   There quite a few different reasons to be fair.   I've been playing a bit more golf at home with my boys.   My boys are pretty good players and they drag me out now and again to play golf when I'm home.   I've been in the gym a we bit.   I'm a little fitter and a little leaner.   So I think the whole thing combined has made me better. 

Q.   Ishikawa next?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I noticed that Ryo won.   I played him.   He's a nice lad and a good young talent, so it should be a good game.

Q.   Many congratulations.   That must go down as a very, very pleasing morning's work?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Obviously, Justin is well ahead of me in the World Rankings, so it's a good win when you play someone above you in the rankings.   I played nicely.   Didn't give an awful lot away, had an awful lot of solid shots.   Missed a couple of putts, to be fair.   But all in all, it was a good game.   It was quite close.

Q.   It was very tight.   It was one of those that you really ‑‑ there was no sort of comfort blanket of any kind of lead, really. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I was only 1 up playing 18 and that pin ‑‑ that's a really smelly pin at 18.   That's the best shot I've had this year, the 7‑iron that I hit in there.   So it was very nice.

Q.   This must feel wonderful for you to be back amongst the big time?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I mean, it's been a while since I've played in tournaments like this, so obviously I've got to try and do the best that we can.   There is no point in playing these events if you are not going to play very well.   It's all very well playing in them, but you have got to perform in them, too.   Hopefully we can keep going.

Q.   How satisfying is it to you to have earned that position to be back here? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, nobody doesn't earn it.   I mean, if you are playing in these tournaments, you are a top 64 in the world and you deserve to be here.   I don't see any other way you can get here but by earning it.   It was a good day today and we'll see what happens tomorrow.

Q.   But in terms of the personal satisfaction, in terms of the work that you have been doing, the extra golf that you have been doing playing with your boys, all that kind of thing paying off?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, well, it's been getting better for a long time, slowly but surely.   Obviously finishing second in Dubai gave me a little bit of confidence and then the two Top 10s at the start.   And then played very, very well in Qatar to win.   So it's been a good run.

Q.   And you know, you are in the desert.   It's a different continent, but you do have a liking for these kind of courses, don't you?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, if you can play, I don't think it matters.   I'm not so sure if it's courses for courses type thing.   If you can play and you can shoot the ball both ways, there's not a course that you can't play on, so we'll see.

Q.   What are your ambitions for the rest of the year now?
PAUL LAWRIE:   My ambitions are to play well tomorrow.   I don't look ‑‑ I'm one of these lads, I don't set goals.   I don't look too far ahead.   If I can play nicely tomorrow and get through tomorrow, then you look at the next day.   It's one day at a time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT