COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 2, 2012
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Paul, that round was so good you could taste it.   
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, you can.   I've got sand in places I didn't know it was possible.   It's blowing a wee bit out there, and obviously the sand is going to cause a little bit of hassle.   You can't see very far.   But I played nicely again.   I hit the ball extremely well, and left a few out there. I would say that, as I always do.   But no, it was a good score.  
   
 Q.   When you finished up at the end of last year at the Dubai world championship, did you want the season to continue?   Did you want the break?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I mean it's always nice to have a ‑‑ I didn't have long off to be fair, which is quite a good thing, and I played a lot of golf on holiday with the boys again in Dubai, which really helps.   
But it was important to come back here at the start of the year to kind of try and pick up where we left off, which I think we've done, more or less.   
A little bit disappointed with the finish last week, 8th.   It's quite nice when you're disappointed with an 8th.   You're obviously playing well.   But no, it's been good.   
   
 Q.   How tough was it out there today?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   We played the first four holes flat calm.   No wind at all.   And then all of a sudden we were on the sort of 15th fairway and it was blowing a hooley.   So it just picked up from nowhere and it's very tough.  
   
 Q.   Have you played in windy conditions?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Oh, a little bit windy in Aberdeen.  
   
 Q.   You are the great bad‑weather player, though, aren't you?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, so people keep telling me.   So let's hope it starts raining as well.  
   
 Q.   So you wish the wind would stay up this afternoon and not get people taken off the golf course because it's too windy?  
PAUL LAWRIE:   We were just talking about that going up to the second to the last hole.   It would be disappointing if it got a little bit worse and then they would call it off because we would like them to play a little bit in the afternoon, as you can imagine.  
   
 Q.   Great job today.   Well done.  
PAUL LAWRIE:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT