DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 11, 2011
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I think anybody would tell you they are disappointed not to win.   I probably did enough to have a chance coming down 18, and that's all you can do.   Alvaro, he's got at least 250 yards uphill into the wind on 18 with a 3‑wood off a hanging lie.   Any time you make a three off that lie, he's a worthy winner.

Q.   And making a 3 with an enormously long putt and you were in a prime position to take advantage if he doesn't go close.
PAUL LAWRIE:   You're standing there, and I don't wish ill on anybody, but you're standing there thinking there's as much chance of him 3‑putting as there is of him holing it. 
I think, I've got mine for a playoff is what I'm thinking.   At least I knocked mine in, but he hit a great one and it went in and ended up winning by two. 
I've enjoyed it.   I have not played here before and it's been a great week and second is better than third.

Q.   It is a matter of seconds, just after he's holed his putt where you have to stand over it knowing that your chance is gone, so you just regroup and no know second is up for grabs?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Again, as soon as his putt has gone in, at no time am I thinking about money until he holes his putts and then I know I have to hole mine to secure second on my mind.   Doesn't matter how much money you've got, always comes down to winning first, and as soon as you can't win, you're trying to guarantee second.   So that was nice to knock it in. 

Q.   Amongst the disappointment, proud of yourself?
PAUL LAWRIE:   A wee bit, yeah.   It's a big event.   It's a big field, some great players.   You're talking about Luke Donald, the first person to win the Order of Merit on both sides of the Atlantic.   I fished a shot ahead of Luke this week.   That's massive for me. 
Friday just killed me.   I had a great start on Friday morning and hit it 3‑under after five and ended up shooting 1‑over.   Drove the ball very, very poorly on the back nine, which was disappointing, and you can't give away that many shots to these good players, and it showed at the last.   Just that shot was enough to make a difference. 

Q.   I state the obvious, but it caps a good year, first victory in nine years. 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, any time you win it's a good year and I don't know where I finished on the Order of Merit but it might be close to the Top‑15, I'm sure.   Can't be too far away.   Any time you have a year like, that you have to be pleased.

Q.   Certainly you look at when you reflect over Christmas, you can look back and think, yeah, I'm still here and I still have the ability to cope with everything that's going?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, I worked very hard last winter and hit a lot of balls and put a lot of time in.   I knew I was 42 and time is running out a wee bit.   So if you are going to have another go at it, you might as well go now.   So nice to be in there and thereabouts and have a chance to win tournaments again. 

Q.   Feel like a spring chicken again?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Absolutely.   32 is the new 20. 

Q.   You did touch on Luke.   How great of an achievement is that?
PAUL LAWRIE:   First person in history, you can't beat that, can you.   He's just a phenomenal player, week‑in and week‑out, he's up there. 
Again today, he's birdied the last three holes thinking he's got an outside chance to win, special player.   So he's had a great achievement.   All the best to him.

Q.   What's next for you? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Look forward to going to the Volvo Champions at the start of the year and doing some practise over the winter, and even though I'm 42, I still feel I've got a bit to give, so just keep going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT