ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2015
Todd Graham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD GRAHAM: Questions?
Q. You said after Saturday's game that it might have been the worst defensive second half that you've played.  When you went back over the film, just what were the breakdowns there?
TODD GRAHAM: I was probably exaggerating.  I was just -- obviously when you go back and watch the film, it's different.  You know, we were just very, very -- what I told the players, we're very, very close.  We marched the ball down the field first two series and score.  I think obviously the -- we could have gone up 21.  Obviously there's a lot of things there early, but we really defensively, while we're talking about defense, they didn't complete any of their major route concepts, throughout the whole game.  We did a really good job of covering.  I thought we got to the quarterback.  We didn't blitz as much, but we still impacted him.
We just had seven critical errors where -- and I mean simple stuff, where we basically left people uncovered on a slant.
I was just frustrated probably after the game, and I want to make sure I'm very clear about -- the season is not over.  I've said this has been a disappointing season to this point, which was left out.  And it has been.  You know, the difference between being 7-2 and being 4-5 is about that much, but no, we did not -- we've got to coach better.  We've got to play better.  We've got to -- can't have the -- but it was amazing that throughout the game as I watched the film, you know, 85 percent of the snaps were pretty -- I mean, we covered probably better than we've covered -- I thought George Simone I played his best game of the year.  They just go simple zoom motion, and we end up with two guys on the same guy and they throw a slant.  That was kind of all night, or in the second half that's what hurt us down the stretch.
And it was errors we shouldn't be making, and so that has to do with all of us, so that's why we talked about all of us being accountable, and we've got to do a better job in every area.  But the difference has been we've been ahead in every one of these games the last three games in the fourth quarter, and that's not -- we've always been a team that has finished and not lost leads and things like that.  Even just the -- our guys are playing hard for us.  It's not like they're -- we fake a punt on 4th and 12 and set up and take the lead back.  I mean, you know, just we're making in the critical times, we're making critical mistakes that are the difference in the games, and then not having much good fortune, either.
I don't know if I answered your question, but no, it wasn't the -- I think, you know, obviously I was a little bit emotional probably on that deal.
Q. I was wondering if you had any thoughts on the situation that's going on down in Missouri right now.
TODD GRAHAM: You know, Mark said something to me a little bit about that.  I don't have much knowledge of it, so I wouldn't have any comment on it.
Q. I just want to get your thoughts on how frustrating is it when you show flashes of being a really good football team and unfortunately you just can't seem it put it all together?
TODD GRAHAM: Yeah, it's just the difference is -- we do -- I know we have a really good football team.  We just have not put it together and had the rhythm that we need to have.  You know, that's the difference.  I mean, we're losing games in the fourth quarter, and that's not something we've done.  We're losing close games, and you know, again, the common denominator is turnovers.  That's been the deal all year long.  We've got to eliminate those.
But you know, that -- it's frustrating.  I am not going to lie to you.  I've been frustrated.  But you can't sit around and -- when you face something like that, that's what we talk about as a team.  It's me, myself and I.  That's what you focus on.  We've just got to do a better job.  Got to do a better job coaching, better job playing, better job preparing, because it's just a -- it's this far away.
You know, last year we won those games, and this year we haven't.  You know, it doesn't matter why.  You've got to flip that and turn that, and we've got a challenge this week, probably the best defensive football team we've faced probably since Utah, and we've got to go get this thing back on track.
Q. Regarding the critical errors, are you having more at this time of year than you've had in previous years?
TODD GRAHAM: Yeah, oh, yeah.  We've had more this year than we've had.  And what I mean by critical errors, what I mean is a critical error is when we blow an assignment and leave somebody completely uncovered, and that has happened -- and that's coaching.  That's also, you know, preparation and accountability by the players, and there's a whole side of that.  And some of that you have to -- one of the things you've got to look at, maybe the complexities of what we're doing.
You know, everything you do you look and evaluate that, and obviously an ongoing evaluation of those things, but yeah, you look at that game, they had 156 yards of offense in the first half.  You go back and look, did they give -- a team that is capable of throwing the ball vertically down the field, it wasn't vertical down the field.  We just gave up slants and then just missed -- just don't tackle the guy, and then just on simple emotions, just left people uncovered on things that nothing we practiced.  In critical situations we're making those errors, and we're not getting any -- sometimes you'll have critical errors, you leave a guy uncovered and they won't throw it to him or they won't find him.  We're not having any of that.  When we make a mistake they're right on it.
So it was not like -- it's frustrating because I thought we defended their offense very well and gave up stuff that you shouldn't give up, and it was really slant routes, and then they were running a mesh route and we got the guy, we cut him, which means we should stay on him, and we look back and take off away from our assignment, just abandon our assignments and stuff, and obviously the quarterback was scrambling around and was able to buy time, and you've got to give them credit.  They did a good job of finding the open guy and hurting us.  There was one there where there was probably a 51-yard gain that should have been -- should have, would have, could have don't count.
Yes, we're having way too many of those.
Q. Are you simplifying things as you go?
TODD GRAHAM: We simplified things in that game.  They ran basically three formations, two backs in the backfield spread, one back in the backfield doubles, and one back in the backfield trip siders.  Ran zoom motion, fly motion.  It's about as simple as you can get.  So for whatever reason, it just really is simple; our guys are playing hard.  I can't fault how hard we're playing.  They're playing until the end of the whistle, until the end of the game.  We're playing really well, and again, in a very competitive league.  It's going to be competitive.  You watch the first part of that game, I think, man, we're fixing to go up 21-0, and then they're not executing, not doing what we're supposed to do in very, very critical times, and that results in losing close games, and that's kind of what's happened.
You know, every person has just got to take accountability for that.  We've got to coach better.  We've got to play better.  We've got to prepare better.  You know, we've got to win the close games.  Every year I say that, and this is the first year we've not won those close games.  So you've got to put that behind you and let's go win a close game.
Q. I know you can't talk specifically, but today was a good day for you and the program.  Are you able in the middle of the season to kind of zoom out even in the midst of a losing streak on how things are going and progressing forward?
TODD GRAHAM: Well, I mean, we're building a program.  Obviously our program goals and what the expectations -- we didn't meet the expectations this season, and it's not over yet.  We've still got work to do as a program, but our program is we've established some values and established a reputation of how we do things, and just what we're doing as far as graduating our players and what we have to offer as a program, as a University, and so, you know, I think that, yeah, it's everything.  It's everything we're doing.  We constantly are focusing on winning in everything we're doing, whether it be on the field or off the field or recruiting or whatever it might be.  I feel good about where we are as a program.  I don't feel good about that we haven't met the expectations, but you know, the season is not over.  We have a lot of work and a lot of critical work to do that's very, very important to our program in finishing this season off in a way that it's been done here in the recent past that represents this program the way it needs to be represented.  But I feel good about where we're at as a program, and I think a lot of our works, we're starting to see the benefits of it, even though short-term-wise, this year it's been frustrating losing close games.  That's -- you've got to put your big-boy pants on, and you can't hide from the expectations, and we're always going to have those expectations.  We have from day one, and we just have not won the close games, and we've got to get those things corrected.
But big picture, we're on -- we've laid a foundation.  It's not on sand, it's on concrete, so I think we're seeing some of those benefits.
Q. Can you talk about Taylor Kelly, having him on your staff, what you see in him in terms of potential coaching career for him?
TODD GRAHAM: Yeah, Taylor is one great human being, tremendous person, tremendous leader.  You know, a guy that is probably underappreciated, undervalued as a player.  I think he was a pretty special leader in how he activated the people around him, and I think he's learning under Coach Norvell and doing a great job and been an asset to us and will be a great coach.  Obviously he's learning it's a whole 'nother deal, and the biggest deal he's probably learning is it's a little bit more time.
He doesn't sit at the front of the plane anymore, he sits at the back.  He's got to work his way back to the front.  But no, he's doing a good job.  Really proud of him.  I'm looking for teachers, and you know, the way you teach is obviously you want guys that care.  I think when I look at Taylor as a young coach, man, you can tell that guy cares about people.  He cares about his players.  He obviously loves this program.  I think he's going to be a great one.
Q. Two-part question.  What has surprised you most about this season?  And secondly, how important is it to secure that fifth win for the seniors to go to a bowl game?
TODD GRAHAM: Well, I think you have to have six, but I don't know, y'all might know something I don't know.  But no, first of all, thing that surprised me the most is that we've lost the close games.  I mean, I'm just not accustomed to it.  You know, and it's kind of how we've done it.
It's not been people just -- like you lose a game like we lost against USC, guys making plays.  They made big plays, and they were better than us that night.  You know, we've had a couple of games like that.  The majority of the games, especially these last three, have been our -- I think we've got to give them credit, but it's been a lot of our own doing and not much good fortune.  You make your own good fortune by your work ethic.  But these kids are working -- that's what's kind of surprised me is how hard we've worked, because I really don't say things I don't mean.  I really thought that we would be able to score more points than we've ever scored, and we haven't been able to do that.
It's been just the development in the areas that we needed to develop.  You know, we've not been able to gain our rhythm.  I don't know if that makes sense.  So that's what's surprised me is losing the close games.
And then it's vital.  You know, I'm very grateful to Mike Bercovici and to Vi and to D.J. Foster and Mo and especially the guys that were here when I got here, that sat in that first meeting and just how those guys bought into a philosophy and a vision, and we're seeing those benefits.  We're seeing those benefits in our community.  We're seeing those benefits in what we're doing that they bought into it because that's -- we have a clear identity as a football program.  Who we are and what we're about:  Character, discipline, the values.
This has been a year where in penalties I've been so upset.  We're still No. 1 in the fewest penalties, so I'm very proud of that group of guys, especially these seniors, and for our program and for them, we need to go finish this the right way, and that's to win out, and to go win a bowl championship.  It's very, very important that we do that for our program and for those seniors.
Q. Offensively against Washington State, did you feel that you guys got away from the running game a little too early?
TODD GRAHAM: You know, I mean, heck, we scored the first two drives and we were hitting quick passes and throwing the ball, and as we went back and evaluated, it was just in critical situations making very critical mistakes.  Driving the ball to score, moving the ball right down, throw, hit a bang eight, fumble the ball.  Moving the ball down, I think when they were 10 down going in, probably going to score and throw an interception.
It was just kind of self-destructing.  And not only that, just some illegal procedure.  We're moving the ball out the midfield, get an illegal procedure penalty, so now you've got 2nd and 15 and you're moving it backward.  No, I mean, every time I call a blitz and it doesn't work, I wish I didn't call it.  But you know, if you ask my opinion on things, I mean, we ran the ball very well, and I thought our guys did a really good job in the run game.  But you know, you always second-guess yourself when you don't come out on top.
But heck, I wish I'd have blitzed more on defense, but you never -- any time you lose a game, you're never satisfied with how you -- how it went or how it transpired.  You know, you kind of live and learn there, and every time you win a game, you don't even think about it, you go to the next game.  That's kind of the deal.
You know, it's not just one thing.  We have to do a better job coaching, better job playing, better job executing in all three phases what we're doing, and what I'm telling you is that when I look at the film, we're doing a lot of things really well.  I mean, I pointed out defensively, I mean, the vertical game plan, I don't think we've played them in three years we haven't given up a seam or a fade or -- and then to self-destruct on stuff like leaving slants uncovered and things like that that are things that are just really head scratchers that are frustrating.  It's just all of us have to do a better job.  Our guys are playing hard.  They're giving us everything they've got.  We're not playing just totally undisciplined.  I'm mad as heck we had three penalties; is that right?  I'm mad; what are all these penalties?  And there was three penalties.
But there were three really, really costly penalties.
You know, the deal is you've just got to move forward and focus on what's in front of you, and for these seniors and for this program, we need to go figure out a way to go beat a team that has really had a very similar season to us.  A very, very good football team, a team that's beat USC and has had the same type deal.  They've lost very close games and sitting at 4-5, just two really good football teams going to play on Saturday that have not had -- seasons have not gone the way they wanted it.
Q. How important is it for you to recruit guys in-state, and have you put any more emphasis on that this season?
TODD GRAHAM: You know, from the time we walked in the door, we developed a plan for what we wanted to do.  I firmly believe that you first have to sit down and say, okay, Arizona State football, what's it all about.  Well, it wouldn't exist if it wasn't for the people who buy the tickets and come and support, and especially for the people who have been doing it for 30, 40, 50 years, and families.  So okay, so that's who I represent and what we're about, and then you try to get out and try to look at how do they want to be represented and all that stuff, but it just makes sense that this is Arizona State University, so why wouldn't you have the best and the brightest from right here in the state, right here in this valley, and that's easier said than done because there's a lot of really, really quality programs and quality players, and obviously it's heavily recruited nationally.  People from all over come in here, which is a challenge.
And then you reap what you sow in recruiting.  You have to -- one of the things that we think that we've been able to do is we have a clear identity on who we are.  We have not made any exceptions on our team.  We haven't been compromised in our values in any way, and we've really -- when we talk about academics and the academic success and serving the community and whom we represent and how we do it and with class and character, I think we've done that, and so we have a clear identity.
That's the thing about local.  I talk about within a gas tank away.  That is so big because that's going to impact your fan base.  People get excited.  Do they cheer differently for D.J. Foster than they do for Cameron Smith from Texas?  I don't know.  Sounds like to me they do.  And that doesn't mean they don't care about the guys from other states.  It's just I think that's really, really important, and that's why I want to build this to a place where this state has pride in this team.  There's a whole bunch of people that do, and that's one of the things I learned from I came here with the referendum and what Arizona State is all about and the Territorial Cup and the passion that's in this place.  We're in a process of trying to build that, and the key to all of it is personnel.  The key to all of it is getting the best and the brightest and the young men with the best character that fit us from right here in this valley, right here in this state, and obviously we talk about even Southern California.
But most importantly here, and we have worked from day one to do that, so we haven't just started, but it's not -- you know, you have to -- you reap what you sow.
I can't hide from exactly who we are right here locally.  They can see how we practice.  They can see what we do.  Every time anything happens with our program, they know about it.  So I think that's why obviously we're making progress.
Q. I know Ismael Murphy-Richardson has been playing on 3rd downs, but did he earn himself more playing time?
TODD GRAHAM: Oh, man, I thought Ismael had his best game.  Really proud of him.  Really proud.  I mean, he was really -- he was after the quarterback most of the night.  Obviously he backs up Antonio, who got injured, so that had him play a lot more snaps.
But yeah, he's earned more playing time, and a guy that's really starting to learn and come on.  Got a long way to go.  Got to keep getting better fundamentally and technique wise, but he's done a good job.  I thought he did a really good job of impacting the quarterback.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT