ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2015
Todd Graham
Mike Bercovici
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD GRAHAM: Well, coming back and watching the video, really a little bit surprised at how undisciplined we played.  We had uncharacteristically a lot of really stupid penalties.  We had two roughing the punter penalties in one game.  That's coaching.  Obviously, this game was a game that you find out exactly where you're at.   
But played about as poorly as we can play on punt and kickoff return.  Left guys unblocked and just coaching assignments and things like that that we'd done pretty well on.   
I thought Gump did a really good job with the return game.  His first game, it wasn't too big for him and he responded pretty well.  But even at that, didn't play very well.  Obviously other special teams are the number one thing.  Then obviously offensively we struggled.  A lot of that had to do with them.  I think they had as good of defensive ends and good secondaries.  Their corners were really good, and our guys struggled at receiver getting off the ball.   
We talked about having things to get them off of us, but even at that, it's 24-17, 4 minutes left in the game.  Some remarkable things that our guys showed in the game.  I don't know, it was like 13 stops out of 17 drives, most of those three-and-outs by our defense.   
Both our corners graded out 98% and 96%.  23 points a piece.  I mean, if you had asked me going in the game my biggest concern, I thought, was their receivers, how would we match up there.  I think that was pretty impressive how those guys played.  I thought Jordan, I mean, Laiu, Armand played really well, other than three plays.  He's a newcomer.  He had a couple of busted assignments on coverages.  One that both of those resulted in touchdowns, one of them was a long seam pattern that just didn't execute there.   
But shows great promise, and those are things that are going to happen when you have newcomers in there.  You don't want them to, but we gave up really a couple of drives defensively.  One they had a fade on and then they moved out.  We had a stupid penalty hitting the quarterback when he was sliding.  Just things very uncharacteristic of us to do.   
But lots of positives.  They get the ball on our 5-yard line, we go three-and-out there.  We rough the punter, we go turnover on downs after that.  Got three takeaways, really, with the turnover on downs, four takeaways defensively.  Kickoff cover was impressive.  Zane Gonzalez was really impressive.   
When I went back and reevaluated, long story short, you know, we did a lot of things to beat ourselves, and everything on that film can be corrected.  Now the thing in the game that was the biggest factor was their prep-ability.  Our young tackles not able to block their defensive ends, and I think there are some things that we learned from that as well that we can correct and help ourselves out.  Fumbled the ball five times and turned it over twice.  Didn't throw an interception.   
I thought Mike played very gallantly as a quarterback.  And I'm glad it was tough and hard.  I mean, it showed a lot about our guys.  So give them credit.  Obviously they were the better team the other night.  But I can tell you it's one game.  It's a very important game, and I think that game will be one that we'll look back and say we got a lot better as a football team.   
Obviously there are lots of things that we need to go to work on, and we'll do that.  But it's not like -- like our kickoff coverage is as good as it's been.  Our field goal unit, really good.  Our punt block team, our punt return team, we had a chance to do some good things.  It's just stupid penalties on their roughing the punter.  We did it twice.  So we've got to eliminate those things.   
Then our kickoff return, we were -- leave the guy unblocked for hitting one for a touchdown.  So, you know, even at that, if you asked my opinion, that is as poorly as we've played on special teams and that's unacceptable.  A lot of that is guys just missed assignments and things like that, and there are some more -- probably what we're doing is a little bit more complex than what we've done in the past, and it's about us teaching it.   
90% of what I've seen on film is coaching.  But we feel good moving forward.  Obviously our guys are everything that we're working for is intact, and we've got to have action, not just want it or talk about it.  It's about doing it.   
Mark brought up a great point to me that is pretty standard throughout every year I've coached.  In our first year here we go to Missouri and lose a game we should have won, and our guys responded.  The second year we just get embarrassed at Stanford.  Guys responded pretty good.  Last year was just an absolute debacle at UCLA here and we responded pretty well.   
So it's not about talking about doing it, it's about action.  That's what I've talked to our players about.  I love our players' attitude.  I don't have any different feeling about this team than I did going into this last game, and I'm being honest.  I'm always honest.   
I was a bit surprised at some of the undisciplined play that we had.  Some of the things that we didn't adjust very well either to what they were doing.  Those are some things that we can learn and we can be better from.  But there are a lot of things in that game.  I mean, to play that bad in two of the three phases and to be 24-17 right down the stretch is a one-score game, and we're not about playing a game close, but it says a lot about our guys heart, determination, and there are a lot of things we have to do to do a better job getting the ball in the hands of guys that need to get the ball in their hands.   
Obviously, not having Kalen, that was something that -- but that wasn't -- obviously, he's a really good player.  I think it did affect Demario, because he had to play a lot more snaps, and then we had to use Gump in ways we didn't want to use him.  If we would have had time we probably would have used D.J., so a lot of things like that.   
But those things happen.  That's part of the game.  He is not out for the year.  He'll be back as soon as he's well with the speed the next couple of weeks, I think.   
 Q.  Just with the protection issues, Todd, was it mostly on the offensive line there or was it more of what you guys were doing?  
TODD GRAHAM: Couple of factors there.  We actually had an extensive plan to try to handle -- we knew 15, Garrett was a great rusher.  Obviously 10 was another really good rusher.  But past that, they rotated the guys a lot.  So we just went back and looked at a lot of things we could do whenever those guys weren't in there that we didn't do.   
Obviously some of the things in the run game is the key to establishing that.  We knew going in we had two young tackles.  I thought Evan and Billy, they did some really good things.  What we did really, really poorly is allow the guys to jump the count.  I mean, I don't care who is playing tackle, you can't allow people to do that.  That's something that with the crowd noise was an issue.  But it's something that we also have a plan for, and we didn't do a very good job of executing that plan.   
So I think them jumping the count and getting off on the ball.  Obviously they had some mismatches, but we were also protecting and doing some extra things for him.  But we really -- it had a lot to do with I tell you, the center and the two guards played pretty well.  The tackles didn't play very well when it came to getting beat, and a lot of times we didn't give them a chance because we were letting them jump the count.   
So that's some things we've got to work at and get going there.  Obviously getting the ball out quick.  Receivers being able to get off press coverage, there were some issues there, and then just getting in a rhythm.  The key to being in rhythm, we are a run, play-action pass football team, and I thought we didn't establish that the way we could have.  We need to play at our strengths.  So we learned some things there.   
But you have to give them credit.  They're a good defensive football team.  I mean, better than I even thought.  I knew the ends were really good.  I think chief has done a great job with their corners and their secondary.  I mean, their secondary, I thought they were much improved from what they were on film last year.  They'll be a good defense moving forward.  They've got a pretty good defense.   
But there were some things that they weren't as strong at that even after watching the film they weren't strong at that we should have been able to take advantage of.  It was going to be a close game.  We made too many -- look how many mistakes we made and that was the difference.   
I think the main difference in the game, I thought the punt return for a touchdown.  Our bullets, we've got bullets over, he's supposed to go to the left, he goes to the right.  Our left guard runs all the way to the right.  He's supposed to stay to the left.  Our right tackle runs down and breaks 20 yards from him.  Our left wing gets held up and doesn't get down the field.  There was no one over here except the punter.  Our deep snapper almost made the tackle.   
So that was just really, really poor execution on our part.  Obviously made a great run, but didn't punt the ball with the hang time that we need to do it.  We didn't punt the ball very good.  Then punted it too often.  So that's some things that the special teams errors and missed opportunities and penalties and punt return for touchdown was really the difference in the game because they dominated our offense.   
I felt like we were dominating their offense as well.  I mean, we had three sacks, but it was much more -- they couldn't run the ball.  They couldn't protect their quarterback.  So it was one of those things that you can't lose two of the three phases and win.   
But on the same hand, we made some critical errors defensively that if we don't make we still would have had a chance to win the game.   
So I think probably the punt return was a big factor.  And then the biggest factor was when we get the interception right there on I think the 30, 35-yard line and we turn it over the next play, sack fumbled and back on the 50-yard line.  I thought that was a big, big play because I think it was 17-14 or something like that, or it was close to being.  We would have tied it up or went ahead.  Might have been 14-7 at that point.   
But I thought those were some key factors in the game.  I thought our guys weren't like -- because it was extremely loud, extremely hostile environment, and our guys responded very, very well to that.  A lot of cramping problems that hurt us down the stretch.  It's towards the end, but I thought that was the keys in the game.   
But even at that to be where we were showed incredible intestinal fortitude on our guys.  So I feel good about where we're at.  Obviously not happy to lose the game, but all the things that I see are things that we can improve upon.  I do think this game will make us better moving forward down the stretch.   
 Q.  You seem to really fit the run well.  Salamo Fiso and Christian Sam played well.  Could you talk about how you felt about the integrity inside?  
TODD GRAHAM: Well, it's really easy to fit the run when you're just dominating the line of scrimmage.  Ami Latu, wow, Tashon Smallwood, Demetrius Cherry, JoJo Wicker, wow.  He had a couple of critical errors that hurt us on some stunts, but, man, that kid.  Boateng played his best game.  They totally dominated the line of scrimmage.   
As a matter of fact, they told us, Coach, quit slanting and let us play.  It was totally dominated out on the perimeter.  Two really good receivers now.  I mean, really good receivers.  Obviously they wound up hurting us in a slot on a bubble.  I mean, that's amazing.  We gave up a 66 yard touchdown on a bubble, which I don't think that's been a long time since that's happened to us.   
But I thought Salamo, like you're saying, and I thought Christian played really well.  Salamo is so smart.  He runs the defense and makes most of the calls.  It was -- I wasn't really, throughout the whole game, I was really pretty calm because after the first series the defensive line said, Hey, Coach, we can dominate the line of scrimmage.  The corners said, Hey, Coach, you can pressure when you want.  We can handle these guys.   
So I really thought we'd be able to keep them from scoring.  They did a great job with their tempo.  We do a lot schematically, and I think we got a little bit -- we couldn't get lined up a few times.  It hurt us.   
They had one fade on us, you know what I mean.  So we have the makings of a really, really good defensive football team because of the line and the guys we have up front.  We didn't play Renell or Dayries or any of those guys.  Ismael was suspended for the game, so he didn't play either.   
Offensive line-wise, we've just got to get those guys, and I don't think that those guys -- I mean, I think those guys did some good things.  I think we faced a very tough match-up.  Obviously I don't think we adjusted very well.   
 Q.  Talking more about the offensive line, specifically the run game.  What did you see there that hurt you?  Was it technique?  Did they just win one-on-one match-ups with you?  
TODD GRAHAM: No, I mean, we ran the ball inside when we ran it inside.  I think we did too much lateral running game.  You've got a guy with really good defensive ends, really good secondary.  There are just things we need to look at.  On the same hand, I don't come in and question things.   
I can tell you that I'm thoroughly involved in everything.  Even though you see me mostly doing defense.  One of the most understudied and major factors in the game of football is cadence.  You guys watch Peyton Manning and all that Omaha stuff and all that.  As soon as they snap the ball over his head in that Seattle game and then there wasn't going to be anymore hard-count and all that, game's over.  You can't let people tee off on you, and I thought we got to do a better job of coaches of varying that and doing that.   
It's not as easy as you think it is when you're on the road.  When you're on the road, it's so loud being able to communicate is very difficult.  But we did have a plan.  We just did not execute it.   
I think that we are a run, downhill run, football team.  That's what the strength of our team obviously is inside and with our tailback.  That's just what we do.  We're the inside zone power football team and obviously run the nakeds off that, and play-action pass and five guys in the pattern.  We had a lot of mental errors.  Receivers running into each other.  Lot of mental errors.  Two critical drops, critical drops.   
You're going to be in close games, but that's, I think combined with mental errors that receivers maybe the youth, the lack of being able to protect our quarterback and holding the ball too long.  He got sacked nine times.  That can't happen.  That's also something that continues to be an issue.   
If you ask me what is the thing offensively going into this season that we've got to prepare to do better, it's not taking negative plays.  We've been sacked too many times.  Holding on to the ball too long.  We're trying to get the ball out.   
Well, we had quick game passes and guys running the wrong routes.  We had not done that in camp, so we had some issues there.   
Basically, if you look in the game, your veterans always play really well and your newcomer guys are going to make some mistakes.  But in the run game, they were -- their ends were very, very good.  But when we ran the ball and inside we made yards.  We just did too much perimeter stuff.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
TODD GRAHAM: I think sometimes one of the things that I believe in is that people, when I was younger all they did was draw up plays all the time.  And the problem with those plays is who are the people running it?  Personnel should drive what you're doing, not scheme.   
So it was hard.  I want to tell you, it was very difficult.  We probably looked at too much LSU film because they didn't do what they did at LSU.  Which, he's going to adapt to his guys.  They did some things, but they played some very different techniques in certain situations.  So what you do is you look at what are our strengths?  We didn't get No. 8 the ball.  He's got to get the ball.  I mean, that's one of the lesser productive games he's had.   
So we talked about all those things, and at the end of the day all the speculation afterwards is just second-guessing everything.  Obviously there are times that you win or you don't.  We did not -- I didn't think we adjusted well.  Then it was difficult because we didn't have film to go on as far as what they were actually going to do.   
And one of the things I would tell you they're dramatically improved on defense, dramatically improved.  Obviously they've got a new coach who is doing a great job.  But even at that, there still were issues.  Their linebacker is inside.  Their inside defensive tackles.  There were some things that we could have done.   
We approach it, obviously, nothing we can do about it.  It's a game that I'm proud of how our guys played and their effort.  But lots of work to do.  Lots of improvements to make, but still got every bit of belief in what we're doing and how we're doing it.   
 Q.  How disappointing was it with the emphasis that you've put on special teams over the spring and the summer?  In the preseason, how disappointing is it to open up with this?  
TODD GRAHAM: Yeah, it was really surprising to me, and I think it was surprising to Shawn too.  We have spent twice as much time, double the time, on special teams than we've spent in the past in meetings and on the field.  And we've executed pretty well.  I mean, we have just kick punted the ball like unbelievably in camp.   
You know, I've still got all the confidence in the world.  We are more complicated.  We're running more things, and we had some critical errors.  Like you've got a guy roughing the punter and he's not supposed to be rushing the punter, and he's giving extraordinary effort.  But that's, you know, you've got young guys and that's coaching.  That's not the players' fault.  That's our fault.   
So that's something that surprised me because I'm telling you now, our kickoff cover was pretty stellar.  Zane Gonzalez, wow.  I mean, that's nice to have him kicking the ball like that.  Obviously he's a great field goal kicker.   
We did some great things on kickoff return.  Didn't have one guy that didn't block the guy, and we ran one return, one return.  So, you know, we had some mistakes there.   
On the opportunity we had a 3-5 hang time, which was not what we want, and we had three critical errors on that.  One of the things, too, we've got to have our best guys on there.  We thought we could have some other guys that could get it done there, and you've got to put your best guys on there.  You've got to have Lloyd and Kweishi, and none of those guys were on there.   
Obviously, we didn't do that because we didn't want to put them on there.  We thought the other people could handle it.  But we made some critical errors.  There were three critical errors in that one play.  And the center, the deep snapper who did an unbelievable job, that was one of the positives.  Our deep snap and obviously operation time is phenomenal.   
Protection was just all over the place.  We made a lot of errors there and had guys running in the back field unblocked but they can't because we're getting the ball off so fast, it's pretty hard to block it.  I mean, on the punt return there was a center and nobody else.  There was nobody over there, and that's not something that we should be doing.   
But ultimately, I mean, you don't get a rewind, there is not a rewind button.  But I can tell you this, I have a lot of confidence in where we're at.  I tell you one thing, he's doing a hell of a job working them and teaching them and coaching them.  I tell you.  I've learned and I've ran the special teams here pretty much since we've been here, and it hasn't always been horrible contrary to what people say.   
We had the number one punt unit in the country our first year here.  Punt coverage team, because we had a punter who kicked the ball 5-point-whatever seconds.  We just underachieved in the return game with the skill players we have.  There is no doubt in my mind we're going to get that going and get those things corrected.   
The one thing I would tell you about this game, when you play an opponent like that and you make mistakes, you get exposed.  It ain't like going and playing a different deal.  Make sense?  I really think, and I know that game was important because of how we're going to start conference play.   
I really think I'd much rather be correcting the things and get it done now than have to be worrying about that when we get to conference play.  I'd like to say, well, you know, we've just got to work.  I was surprised at that.  I was like, wow.  We have not done that.   
Ultimately, it's my responsibility.  But sky's not falling.  We will rise again, I assure you.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit more about Christian Sam?  
TODD GRAHAM: Man, he really played an incredible game.  Probably his best game since he's been here.  He's just really gotten a lot stronger.  I tell you what, there is a lot of people like that.  Kweishi Brown, Lloyd Carrington, Jordan, Salamo, Christian Sams, Antonio Longino, all those guys are bigger and stronger and faster.   
Christian is 237 pounds, I mean, he can run.  He can cover.  He was really, really composed, and very physical.  He played very physical.  Obviously the front six they couldn't really do much running the football.  When they put the number one in there, he kind of ran around and did some stuff.  But there's some hidden yardage there in the run game.  He scrambled for 50 yards or something like that.  That hurt us a little bit, but that's about it.  Christian played a hell of a game.   
 Q.  I know you touched on it earlier, but is there anything further you can tell us on Kalen in terms of the time line?  
TODD GRAHAM: Like I said, I think it will be a week or two.  I don't know.  I mean, it's definitely not something that's going to be a season-ending deal.  He was rather upset with us, but we've got to do what's best for safety of our players and stuff like that.  We'll be cautious with that.  Talk to him and he'd say he'll be back this week, which is probably not going to happen.  But I would say a couple weeks would be my guess.   
 Q.  Did you know when you left to go to Houston that you might not have him?  
TODD GRAHAM: No.   
 Q.  When did you find out about that?  
TODD GRAHAM: We found out the day before.  We found out Friday, and he flew back at 2 p.m.   
 Q.  How much did that change the game plan?  
TODD GRAHAM: I mean it was significant.  But I mean, that stuff's going to happen.  Now I mean I was like it didn't make my day, but he is a major part of what we're doing.  I tell you one thing it did hurt, it hurt our special teams.  It hurt our special teams, I think it hurt our -- because the way we practice with our grouping.   
So Demario didn't have that guy, kind of that one-two punch with him.  And then Gump who wasn't really supposed to play that much in the running back position, now he had to do all that.  If we would have probably had time, we would have had D.J. do that instead of -- so it did effect it a little bit.   
But the good thing is that we'll get him back.  We'll get him back as soon as he's cleared medically.  But obviously -- and it was something that we have a great training staff.  We have a great team of doctors.  And he did not want to get on the plane to come home.  I can tell you that.  He was rather upset with me.  But I told him I've got to do what's for the well being of our guys.   
MIKE BERCOVICI   
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, it's an honor to be a Sun Devils student-athlete right now in this position.  I can't tell you how excited this football team was to wake up this morning.  Get a little running conditioning in, guys are excited.   
It's amazing to see the improvement in our leadership.  The seniors on this football team, the players underneath the seniors, the juniors and sophomores and freshmen, they're doing everything they can so everybody on this football team has a senior year this year.  It's really exciting to see how much we've grown and matured over the last couple years.   
I can tell you this football team is more excited than they've ever been.  Our goals are still right in front of us.  Like I said, it's a beautiful day to be a Sun Devil football player.  We're just excited for this week because it's Monday and we're already rolling.  We're ready to go.   
 Q.  How does it affect the offense when you learn the day before the game that you're not going to have Kalen?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: What this football team is all about is responding from adversity.  And for Kalen, specifically, it's just sad not to see him out on the field because he is such an imposing football player.  But we really didn't flinch.  We have guys who stepped up.  We have a lot of guys who have game experience, and for him, it was unfortunate that he didn't get to take the field with us.   
But as a football team we just kept moving along.  Unfortunately 9 didn't get any carries or touches, but in the next few weeks he'll be back out there and we'll be going with him again.   
 Q.  Did you find it difficult to get into any kind of passing rhythm in that game with the pressure you were facing?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: No, I don't think it was that.  I think one of the things we stress is getting first downs, and I think we came up inches, half yards, yards short of third down, so that's what really gets this offense going.  Pass rush or not, my job as a quarterback is to get the ball out and not take sacks.   
We did put ourselves in some really good situations.  Unfortunately, we're one broken tackle away from getting that offense rolling.  It wasn't a rush or press.  We didn't feel pressed at all during the game.  It was pretty much a 7-point game for about 3 and 3/4 of the football game.  But, like I said, we've learned, we're excited, and we can't wait for Saturday?   
 Q.  Mike, in each of the last three years I think since you've been here in 2012, early season loss to Missouri, 2013, early season loss at Stanford.  Last year UCLA.  Each time this team bounced back.  Can you give us your insight as to why they were able to do that and do you see similar qualities on this year's team to bounce back from last week's loss?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, well, one of the things that I as a football player always look forward to is today's meeting with Coach Graham.  When he stands up here on this podium and he looks at his football team's eyes and says we're ready to go.  We know what we have to do.   
That was one game.  We're not going to say that game was insignificant because it was.  But you can look at the leadership on this football team and the guys up front who have been here for four or five years, you can look at some of the freshmen who you can already see have matured, it means so much to football players.  You see tears after the game and whatnot.  As a leader, those types of instances know that people love this game.  People sitting on these chairs, it's not just a game to them.  It's what we do.   
It's fun to take to the practice field tomorrow because you know the type of energy the guys are going to have.  There was a sense of urgency.  Obviously, it wasn't the outcome that we wanted, but our sole focus right now is going to be Cal Poly, and it's going to be exciting to see what we do Saturday night.   
 Q.  Right before you threw your first touchdown pass to Kody you were trying to get the ball snapped because the play clock was running down.  It just seemed you guys were having trouble communicating.  How much was the crowd a factor in that?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, unfortunately a couple times in the game we were fighting against the play clock.  They were right there, it was counting down, and it was a little bit loud, but we have that sweet tempo system that costs a whole bunch of money that I'm pretty sure is louder than that.   
But it wasn't a huge factor.  It's something that once again it's adversity.  It's things that we practice for.  It's great practice for the rest of the season because in the Pac-12 you do play in some hostile environments, and I thought we did a pretty good job of communicating.   
Obviously communication is something you grow on throughout the entire year.  We feel we did a pretty good job for the first game, but obviously there is so much improvement that can be made and that's what's most exciting is that this team only took a small step down the mountain, but here we go.  Let's start climbing and it starts right now.   
 Q.  Coach was saying No. 8 didn't get the ball enough.  Obviously, that's true.  So number one, what was the reason for that during that game?  What do you think needs to be adjusted going forward?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, well D.J. is one of those players that can make, what do they say, that can make a meal out of a crumb.  Obviously there are going to be ways he can dial up for him to get the ball more and we did give him some opportunities, but there could always be more with a player like that.  I think the biggest thing is playing fast.   
We've identified ourselves as a no-huddle offense, and that means getting our feet set, lining up for those big boys up front, following the ball on every single play and then special plays happen.  It doesn't mean D.J.'s got to go down the field 80 yards and catch passes like that.  It could be handoffs, it could be screens, whatever the case may be.   
We've got guys like D.J., Gump, Lucien, Jefferson stepping up, and Tim White's obviously going to be big with Tim and Demario in the back field.  All those guys have the capability of taking catches or runs to the house.  It's just a matter of being our ourselves on offense, identifying ourselves as a tempo team and doing what we're coached to do.   
 Q.  Given that you were watching a lot of LSU film with Chavis, how tough was that especially given that Texas A&M had a lot of new personnel, and were they a lot different than maybe what you guys expected and in what ways were they maybe different?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: To be honest with you, no.  I think that we didn't see anything that we didn't expect.  Obviously their personnel with their defensive line, they did a really good job of getting off on the ball.  That's something that you can't really prepare for that.  It's obviously game 1.   
But we saw the looks.  We had answers for everything.  But like I said, we were missed tackles away from having huge 20, 30-yard explosive plays.  But moving forward, we're obviously a very senior-led team.  We've got guys that understand that stuff like this happens during the season.  It's about pushing that to the side.  It's one game, and now it's about going 1-0 this week.   
It's just going to be fun to see the game plan that's put together this week.  Everybody on that offensive unit is going to grow.  Defense did an incredible job giving us opportunities.  They're going to grow as well, special teams, and we just move on as a football team.   
 Q.  Todd said you guys had a plan for varying cadence to keep those guys from jumping the snap, but he said it just broke down.  Can you address that?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, I think one of the big emphasis in the game or one of the big factors of the game that hurt us was playing against the play clock.  There are a couple times where we were sitting there with five seconds left on the clock, and everybody on the field and even in stands, they know we're snapping the ball.  I think that hurt us a little bit.   
But at the end of the day, we have to execute.  That's lining up right.  That's me making sure that I have enough time to set the protections so that we can get rolling.  Really at the end of the day, if we break a couple tackles and get our alignments correct, that game is a completely different game.   
Their defense did a great job swarming to the football and tackling as a unit.  But we've learned so much from this game moving forward that you already see guys in the weight room talking about what we're going to do moving forward that we know we can play faster, we can get first downs.  We can make sure we have a better understanding of where the sticks are.  Like I said, we've grown so much from Saturday night to right now.   
 Q.  The next two games are obviously going to be taken very seriously, but probably not going to be as true of a gauge as it was last week.  Would be fair to say all the lessons learned from that Texas A&M game is going to show up against teams like USC and UCLA in three or four weeks?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: My experience in college football from being a fan and being a player is that you're still playing against 18 to 22-year-old kids.  So it doesn't matter who is on the other side of that 50 when you're in pregame.  You've got to bring your best.   
I think that we did show some good things in all three facets of the game Saturday night, but we're still learning.  We're still getting stuff corrected.  We're moving on to Cal Poly right now, and I think that you're going to see a football team that is going to be fast, physical, and that's going to finish.  That's going to be our MO as the weeks go on because as we've seen, teams do get better -- great teams get better week to week to week, all the way until the 11th and 12th week.  That's what's going to be exciting.   
I don't even want to mention the other teams we're playing, because the only focus right now is Cal Poly.  When those weeks come, you're going to see a football team that's more excited, that's faster, that's stronger, and when that time comes, we'll be ready for those teams.   
 Q.  When Kweishi Brown had that interception early in the third quarter and the ball was turned right back over, did that seem like a big turning point in the game to you?  
MIKE BERCOVICI: Yeah, that was a big turning point, obviously.  As a quarterback, what we do is control the football, and that's something that I failed to do on that play and I take full responsibility, pressure or not.  The one identity as we all know here is we have a mindset of owning the football and I didn't do that on that play, and I let the offense down especially in a critical situation right there.   
But I can't say enough about what our defense did that entire game.  We felt that there was a chance every second of the game.  I kept telling defense, I kept encouraging them that offensive line kept encouraging them just because they know that they kept us in that football game.   
You never want to learn from experiences like that, but unfortunately, we did as an offense learn when you have a turnover like that, you have to capitalize on that, and I take full responsibility for that.  Once again, if I could say anything about that, it's just the fact that our defense did such an incredible job all game.  Just all Saturday night, all Sunday, all Monday today, I've just been encouraging those defensive guys and telling them what a game they had.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT