NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: WEST LAFAYETTE
March 23, 2014
Whitney Bays
Courtney Moses
Sharon Versyp
Dee Dee Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and get started with an opening statement from coach and then take questions for the student‑athletes.  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   Looking at the matchup with Oklahoma State I think both coaches see that it's similar matchup, fours and fives and shooting guard and great point guards.   So, it's going to be a very, very good matchup Big‑12, Big‑10, both conferences are exceptionally tough.   And we just have to continue to do the little things and do what we need to do in order to be successful on both ends of the floor.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take questions for the student‑athletes.   
   
 Q.   Speak to what Dee Dee has meant for you guys this year.   Especially since KK has gone down.   
COURTNEY MOSES:   Dee Dee ‑‑ has been four years with Dee Dee, so all the way back to freshman year until now.   We put her on the other team's best defensive player and she can guard anybody in the country.   Just the positive energy that she brings.   She's always talking on the court, she's a great communicator, always being positive and bringing energy both to the guards and the post.   And she's so versatile and can play any position and she is just a great teammate.   
WHITNEY BAYS:   She covered all the bases of ‑‑ she's a great teammate, vocal leader for us, always positive, can play the inside and outside and defensive stopper, so she's contributed a lot this year.   It's been great playing with her.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about the interior matchup with Oklahoma State?   You guys had had your way a little bit with the Zip's but I would imagine that facing a Big‑12 opponent like them you expect it to be pretty physical inside.   
WHITNEY BAYS:   Definitely.   We went over the scouting report and we're prepared for them and what they have to offer and bring.   But, they have two really good bigs, so we're just trying to prepare and it will be a great matchup.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about their outside game.   They didn't shoot a lot of 3's, they hit some big 3's down the stretch and Donohoe got off to a good start.   How concerned are you about their outside shooting and their ability to hit big outside shots?   
DEE DEE WILLIAMS:   I feel like from watching film we're just going to have to communicate.   Donohoe, she's a great shooter from the three, especially.   And we're just going to have to not help off of her on ball side and everybody else just has to contain.   I feel like the biggest part will be number four, but I feel like we're going to take care of that and be fine.   
   
 Q.   For Courtney and Dee Dee.   Courtney, your impressions of Bias, the point guard, remind you of anybody that maybe that you faced this year?   
COURTNEY MOSES:   Nobody comes to mind.   She's her own player and her own self.   She's a very quick player.   She's crafty on offense and she's a very good defender.   She's a great leader for their team and keeps them going.   
WHITNEY BAYS:   I agree with Courtney.   She's a great leader, they run through her.   She likes to go right a lot but I feel like at the same time she can go left if she needs to.   She's very crafty and we're just going to have to do a good job of communicating and playing her.   
   
 Q.   Whitney, you got your offense going a little bit more lately and from some of the early misses yesterday, what did you feel like you did differently to be more engaged and be able to take advantage of some of the things that they were doing?   
WHITNEY BAYS:   Yesterday I was like maybe a little anxious.   It was a long two weeks.   So, I was ready to get out there and I was really hyped, but I think that focusing on where I'm trying to score, where I am scoring, if my jumper is not falling then I can drive.   If I can get my layup to go, then shoot some jumpers.   So, I'll look for my other teammates, also.   When they give me the ball, it's in a great position.   So, being more smarter when I'm trying to score, I guess.   
   
 Q.   Courtney and Dee Dee, you know that tomorrow is your last time down the tunnel.   Other than focusing on Oklahoma State, have you given that any thought?  
COURTNEY MOSES:   It's gone through our mind since yesterday and what better way to go out than to be playing to go to the Sweet 16.   
DEE DEE WILLIAMS:   I agree.   I thought about it plenty of times and I'm ready to go out there and have my last game and just play hard for my teammates, for the fans.   But, it's exciting, but at the same time, it's kind of sad to know that it could be our last game at home.   
   
 Q.   Dee Dee, is it Whitney's versatility offensively that makes her a pretty good player on that end?   
DEE DEE WILLIAMS:   Definitely.   She's an awesome player.   I love playing with her.   You can give her the ball on wing, she can shoot it, you can give it to her at the three, she can do everything with it.   Give it to her down low, she can score from anywhere.   And that's a huge part of Whitney's game.   And for her to be able to come back from her injury and still be able to do all the things that she does, it's great for us.   
   
 Q.   Courtney, there's a lot of similarities, where do you see the similarities between you and Oklahoma State?  
COURTNEY MOSES:   I see it in every position.   It's a Big‑10, Big‑12 matchup and it's similar to playing a Big‑10 team where we matchup at every position.   So, every single position, I feel like it's a similarity and matches up.   
   
 Q.   Courtney, what do you plan on doing all day tomorrow before the nine o'clock game?   
COURTNEY MOSES:   Sleep in, eat some food.   We're going to see if we're going to go work on homework, watch a movie, maybe Frozen, I heard it's pretty good.   And take a nap.   Eat some food and go play.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'll excuse you to the locker room and take questions for coach.  
   
 Q.   Are they similar to you or are you similar to them?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   If you go through the lineup, the versatility at the four spot when 31 is in, she can shoot the three or take it to the hole.   So, they got versatility there and they got the big down low which is like Camille.   
Number four, she's a great set shooter.   So, we got to limit her and they may compare that to someone else on our team, even though she's smaller.   Martin's very, very good and she's one of the really overall best players if you look at rebounding, if you look at how she can score the basketball.   They really go to her and isolate her quite a bit.   
Their point guard is ‑‑ how your point guard goes is how you go.   And that's kind of the same with us.   
We just have to do what we do well, and they're going to try to do things that they do well and we need to try to exploit any weaknesses from each side.   But, I know they mentioned that they're worried about our rebounding, we got to crash, we got to do that exceptionally well, and we got to be able to run.   
   
 Q.   What strikes you about Whitney's offensive game?   Her versatility, ability to do it a bunch of different ways?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   Yeah, I knew she could really face the basket really well when I recruited her during high school.   She had great one‑on‑one, ball handling skills, but being able to score down low is something that we have continued to help develop.   But she's better, she's gotten so much better in that area.   So, it is hard to guard her.   Next year she will have a 3‑point shot.   She can take that, she just doesn't use it very much this year, but I think when she adds that to her arsenal then she will be really, really tough.   But she's just very, very hard to defend.   
   
 Q.   You talked earlier in the season, you had a few rough stretches with like two games in three days.   Do you think that's really going to help you right now?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   We have had games like this pretty much all year.   You play a game, you're prepared knowing who you're going to play, you have one day to prepare, and we were very successful there.   So, it's when you play three games back to back, that we obviously didn't have that this year, but we'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Dee Dee has had games when she's been able to score for you and maybe others that she's had the high assist total or rebound total.   Do you think yesterday was maybe the best game that she's put all of those things together at one time?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   Yeah, I think so.   Everything just came natural.   Nothing was forced, nobody was getting excited if you do this or this or people playing off, she just played.   She was open, she shot the three.   If shot clock was going down, two dribble jump shot.   She just was really comfortable.   And when she can score, obviously that benefits us.   When she can defend and rebound exceptionally well ‑‑ and when you're defending their top player, you got to be able to box that person out.   So her stats are increasing, but again she does all the intangibles.   
You got to have a kid that's on the court and in the locker room that's willing to play that role to a T and be that glued to the team.   And that's Dee Dee.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you played nine players and nine players scored at one point.   When you look at matching their depth, they had some players come off the bench too, Oklahoma State did.   Just getting that similar production tomorrow, how far can that go in pushing you guys forward?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   I think it's real important.   If we can keep bringing bodies in that keeps us fresh, that wears teams down, hopefully.   Yesterday I was just bringing two posts, two posts, two posts.   And at the guard spot, depending upon matchups, that type of thing, being able to get Hayden and Bridget in quite a bit.   That's what we have to do in order to be successful.   
You hope you don't get in foul trouble, but if you do, at least you have that tournament experience, which is real important.   
   
 Q.   Do they remind you of anybody you played either in the conference or non‑conference?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   No, they just have similarities.   Each of the players might be similar to somebody in the Big‑10, but I wouldn't say, boy, this team is totally like X Y and Z, I wouldn't say that.   We just know that one of their post players can step out and shoot the three, so we have to be aware of that.   Another one is more a 15‑foot shooter.   And the other ones are really back to the basket.   But at the guard spot, it's pretty similar in the Big‑10 to the type of people we have to defend.   
   
 Q.   Impressions of Bias?   She didn't have the greatest game on Saturday, but you watched film on her.   She has performed at a high level.   
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   Oh, she's a very, very good player.   There's no question about that.   Courtney alluded to it, it goes through her.   It should go through your point guard.   And if she's ‑‑ because maybe she didn't do as well yesterday, she's going to be ready to play.   So ‑‑ and she was ready yesterday, she just maybe didn't, things just didn't happen for her.   
She's the one that can come off on ball screens, she can fake to the hole, does pull up jump shots, she find the role player exceptionally well.   So we just need to slow her down little bit and not allow her to really get going and get her tempo going.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about the now nine o'clock tip?  
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   I think it's great.   I think it's great for us at Oklahoma State.   I think that nine p.m. it's prime time.   They have talked this game up, if we got to this, they have done it all on national papers as well as ESPNW, that's all they talked about, so they moved it for a good reason.   
So we just want to encourage everybody to continue to come out.   I think it will be great.   We had a great crowd here yesterday, so we want to continue to show that people that women's basketball here in the Midwest.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.   
COACH SHARON VERSYP:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT