TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 28, 2011
Bill Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   '86 team still stands all these years later.   What do you remember?
BILL YOUNG:   Unbelievably talented football team.   We were the defensive line and two deep with‑‑ our second‑team players went on to play in the NFL.   A lot of them did, Trace Armstrong, Shawn Patterson.   Very, very talented football team. 

Q.   I bet your own team, it seems like there was maybe some sort of defensive‑‑ at least as far as the whole game from start to finish against Oklahoma that you haven't necessarily shown?
BILL YOUNG:   We played just a little bit better than most people think. 
The problem with us is playing in the Big 12 is such a bunch of explosive offenses.   Total offenses, I would say five or ten of them‑‑ I mean, five or six of them in the top 10 or 15.   You face a lot of very talented team.   It skews up your stats a little bit. 
We had a nice solid game against Oklahoma and was excited about that.   That was a huge game for our program.

Q.   Bill, your defense was 107th ranked in the country in yardage, number one in turnovers, turnovers gained.   How do you explain that?   Can you go over a little bit about the drills or whatever approach you use to cause fumbles? 
BILL YOUNG:   Nobody in the country works harder in forcing turnovers than we do.   It has been a point of emphasis for the last three years.   We double whistle all of our scrimmage plays against the scout team.   At the first whistle everybody stops on offense and the defense tries to get the ball to turn over, rip it out, strip it out. 
As coaches we sound like a bunch of idiots screaming "rip, strip, turnovers" and all that.   After practice each day, if we haven't created five turnovers against the scouts, we have to run a gasser for each one we didn't it. 
It is just across the field and back.   It is a reminder.   We chart them in the ball game.   It is a point of emphasis.   Whatever you emphasize has been your chance of getting.

Q.   Has that been your emphasis throughout your career? 
BILL YOUNG:   It really has.   All of our coaches we have the same philosophy.   Our number one goal defensively is to score.   If we can't score, we want a turnover.   If we can't get a turnover, we want a three and out.   We didn't create that philosophy.   It is just what most coach versus.

Q.   If you could be first in total defensive and 107th in turnovers would you like that straight? 
BILL YOUNG:   No, we would like the turnovers.   I would like to point out if you look at the Big 12 stats, if you look at the nationwide stats, it gets misconstrued because you are talking about a lot of teams playing three, four teams that may be subdivision or whatever. 
But you line up against Baylor and Oklahoma and Texas Techs and teams like that, the offensive stats are going to be a little tougher to accomplish.

Q.   When you look at Andrew Luck, does he remind you of anybody you have faced before in your career?
BILL YOUNG:   I'm sure we faced somebody similar, but, you know, he is a unique individual.   He is a much better athlete than I think a lot of people would anticipate.   The catch he made against‑‑ I can't remember who it was.

Q.   UCLA?
BILL YOUNG:   Arizona or somebody on the sideline was just phenomenal.
He runs out of the pocket.   He is a patient guy.   Obviously he is a very, very intelligent guy.   He is the total package.   That's why he is predicted to be the first guy in the draft.   Great player.

Q.   You mentioned you played a bunch of good offenses in the Big 12.   Do you anticipate Stanford being the most difficult matchup?
BILL YOUNG:   They are different than most of the teams in the Big 12.   They will probably be more similar what we saw versus Texas where they are going to be a lot of tight ends, huge offensive line.   I think they have‑‑ two of their offensive linemen are projected to be first‑round draft picks, tight end that's first round draft pick. 
They are very, very talented offense.   We have been playing basketball on grass for about nine games and now all of a sudden it is going to be smashmouth football.   Hard to simulate.

Q.   What have you been impressed with the Stanford running backs?
BILL YOUNG:   They never get tackled for the loss.   They continue to drive their feet and move the pile.   They are a very patient offense from the standpoint if they can make two or three yards, they will try to get three or four more on second down, and then they will hit you with a play action pass when you are sucking it up to play the run too much.   They are a patient group.

Q.   Earlier this year you were looking at different drills to help keep the players fresh.   Did you come up with any?
BILL YOUNG:   The big thing that we have been able to do is cut back a little bit.   We gave them a long time off after our last ball game.   We got an entire week off.   Generally we start preparing for the Bowl and they come back fresher and quicker.   That helped us.
In playing an offense like that, it is difficult to not just line up and play heavy runs like that.   You got to get ready to get all your run fits in against each call you are going to use.   It has made it tough to prepare, but we tried to keep them as fresh as we can.

Q.   You guys have had to rotate players in and out all season.   The standard offensive line, all of them are around 300 pounds.   You guys have given up 15 pounds on your D line.   Do you feel the rotation will help keep you fresh? 
BILL YOUNG:   It is something we always do and have to do.   You are exactly right.   Leaning on big guys all day long, not only that, but their tight ends are huge.   You get a guy, 8, 6, 9 pounds, that's a big guy. 

Q.   Anything more you can learn from the Arizona game considering it is a common opponent? 
BILL YOUNG:   It is just a totally different offense.   Arizona is much like a lot of the teams, Texas Tech and a lot of the teams in our conference.   They are four‑wide most of the time.   Occasionally they line up with a tight end or two tight ends.
It is nothing like what you are going to see versus Stanford where they will line up with what we call 23‑personnel where you have three tight ends in a game and a fullback and a tail back.

Q.   Is it one of those deals where you throw that film off to the side and focus on the other side?
BILL YOUNG:   It sure is.   It is nothing like what we have seen in the majority of our games.   That's one of the things that's difficult to prepare for because it is something you haven't seen.   There is not a lot of carryover.

Q.   Which games of Stanford did you watch the most? 
BILL YOUNG:   We tried‑‑ we watched them all, obviously.   We try to focus in on the games where their defenses are similar to ours.

Q.   Are there a couple specifics?
BILL YOUNG:   There were several.   The 4‑3 is a pretty basic college defense.   So there were several teams that run it.   Some had a little nuance where they would take the defensive end and put him in the outside shade of the tight end as opposed to what we do. 
They changed some of the blocking schemes.   Pretty much their whole schedule is like that.
Obviously Oregon was totally different.   They are more of a three‑man front. 

Q.   If you had written a reasonable best‑case turnover, what would it have been? 
BILL YOUNG:   30 something.   This is the most turnovers that we have ever been around.   It has really been a blessing to get this many.

Q.   So 35 would have been‑‑
BILL YOUNG:   35, 36 would have been a great number.

Q.   Can you ever remember a matchup that you have been involved in where a team takes care of it as well as Stanford against a team that strips it as frequently as yours does?
BILL YOUNG:   That is the real key right there.   They do a tremendous job in not turning the ball over.   The running backs hardly ever fumble.
The quarterback, it is a rarity for him to throw an interception.   I forget what his touchdown/interception ratio is, but it is phenomenal.

Q.   In terms of their ball security, it kind of reminds me of the Kansas State matchup because they are not going to do anything silly. 
BILL YOUNG:   That's a great analogy.   Kansas State was one of those teams that Coach Snyder and his staff are a very patient group.   The difference is they were primarily a quarterback‑run team.
We will get some wildcat switches where they will take the quarterback and smooth them out to the wide receiver.   They have done that in some games we are preparing for.

Q.   They are not similar in how they take care of it?
BILL YOUNG:   Kansas State we run the powers and the counters and have the huge offensive linemen that Stanford has. 
There are a lot of similarities.   They had tight end like Stanford had, 250 guy that could run really well as a tight end.   There was a lot of carryover in that game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT