SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2005
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Co-leader Gavin Coles, thanks for joining us.  Followed up a great round of 65 yesterday with a 69 today, tied with Brett Quigley heading into the weekend.  If we could start with some opening comments, a great start for you.
GAVIN COLES:  I think so.  I'd rather be where I am now than missing a cut.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Maybe talk about your round today and yesterday, pretty flawlessly you played, and today a couple bogeys on the card, but overall a good day.  Maybe just go through it a little bit.
GAVIN COLES:  I suppose I started on 10, and I was sort of in between clubs down there and I hit my 8-iron, sort of my little cutoff drill that I do, and I landed about five yards too far and went over the green.  Again, I hit a poor chip like I did all day yesterday when I missed the green.

Then I almost chipped the next one in and made a 5, so I was pretty lucky I was thinking walking to the next tee, and I rolled my putt -- after I pulled my 5-iron on the left edge of the green, a 65-footer, I suppose, across the green there, it was a monster, and that sort of got me going.

I didn't probably putt as well today as I did yesterday, and I probably didn't hit it -- although I only missed three greens and one fairway, I probably didn't hit it as close as I did yesterday on the back nine.
Q.  You make the bomb on 11, you chip in on 18 when you looked like you felt pretty fortunate there when that went in the hole.  Do you start thinking it's your day, your week, when you start having things like that happen?
GAVIN COLES:  Mate, you can look at it that way or you can look at it the way -- I walked off the last nine, I didn't birdie either par 5 and I left four putts short in the jaws.  You've got to take the good with the bad.  You're going to get some breaks.  I haven't hit a good chip all week and then I chip one in on 18.  That's a bit of a turn-around.  You've got to take the good with the bad and you've got to cut with it, I suppose.
Q.  Is this about as solid a ball-striking round as you've put together?  You've missed tree fairways in two days.  You only missed about four greens each of the two days.
GAVIN COLES:  Actually I put a new driver in the bag this week and it's been going quite good.  When you look at my greens in regulation stats, I probably missed the green more with a wedge or sand iron than I do with a 3, 4- or 5-iron.  I think from 125 yards to 75, I stink with the stats basically.  I'm basically 150th in that stat, yet I'm a short hitter.  I don't get to play too many of those shots these days, I suppose.
Q.  You talked yesterday about being a short hitter compared to the boomers out there.  Obviously it hasn't hurt you out there today.
GAVIN COLES:  Not when the course is running a bit.  The mis-hit shot that you can hit on these fairways runs into the rough, whereas when you mis-hit it in the fairway and the fairways are soft, it just sits there and the guys are playing one more club into the green and it doesn't affect them, whereas I've hit one bad drive or two bad drives in two days and I've only had to hack it out of the rough once.  But because the ball is running I'm not hitting a 3-iron to the green, I am hitting a 5-iron or a 7-iron.  I couldn't believe I could hit a 7-iron onto the 17th green today.  I mean, that's just outrageous.
Q.  John Daly was in here earlier, and he said that when he plays this course, he feels kind of the same way he does playing St. Andrews, he gets that same feeling, comfort zone for him.  I'm wondering, what does this course make you feel like when you play it?
GAVIN COLES:  Actually frightened.  If you miss the fairway I'm going to have to chip it down the fairway.  I've got to be pretty well playing -- when I got to 18 I'm just trying to get it in play.  I don't mind having to hit a 5-iron or a 6-iron up there, whereas most guys just want to sort of grip it and rip it, where I'm just sort of trying to get it in play.  I don't want to hit it in the rough because I know how penalizing rough is for me.
Q.  Have these two days done a lot for your confidence?  Are you a lot more confident than you were two days ago?
GAVIN COLES:  Probably not.  We play all different types of courses, and you just never know which is your week.  When it's your week you've got to ride it while you can, and you've got to try to learn from it, learn from what you do, so when you're having a downer week, you can sort of try and get out of it.
Q.  Are you getting the feeling yet that it's your week?
GAVIN COLES:  It's only Friday.  There's two more days to go.  I don't like to get ahead of myself too often.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Gavin, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT