84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 18, 2003
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DAVE SENKO:   Gavin, thanks for joining us.  Before we get started with your seven birdies, maybe just some general thoughts on your day.  A pretty good start for you.
GAVIN COLES:   Yeah, I've been playing so badly.  I just went out there and tried it do the best I could today.  Seven birdies, no bogeys, that's quite unusual.  My rounds usually have a few bogeys in them.  My coach is here this week and we are working on a few things, and the ball started going the right way for a change and that's good.
DAVE SENKO:   Take us through your birdies, starting on No. 10. 
GAVIN COLES:   10 I hit a good drive and not a very good 5-iron,  but holed about a 35-, 40-footer across the green and it went straight in the middle and went from there.  It was quite an interesting round. 
I knocked it onto 16, about 20 feet.  I had a little 2-footer there.
I made a bomb from the back edge on 17, at least 45 feet. 
Then I hit it close for birdie on 18 from about six feet.  My second shot on 18, I had a little sand iron about 110 yards. 
6, I hit on the wrong side of the fairway and hit 7-iron to ten feet there.
7, I hit a little sort of cut a 6-iron into the wind and made that.  Then I hit a lob-wedge for my third from about six feet and made that. 
DAVE SENKO:   Any significant saves? 
GAVIN COLES:   Well, you know, I didn't hit a lot of greens.  I chipped it pretty close when I did, and I think there was only one putt, like about eight feet.  So I chipped it pretty close when I missed the green. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
GAVIN COLES:   I played in the Monday in the Pro-Am, nine holes.  16, 17, 18 in the Pro-Am, I got through those pretty good.  I practiced yesterday and I spent a little more time on the greens than I normally would, which I think helped me out this week. 

Q.  A lot of the guys are saying that the greens are kind of tricky, and we have not seen too many long putts, but you hit two bombs today.
GAVIN COLES:   You know, the two holes I made them, I was only putting down one slope or across one slope.  So it's just a general slope that it's going to go in.  On 17 and 18, I had the same putt on Monday in the Pro-Am and same putt Tuesday in the practice round.  So it was in a pretty similar spot.  It was a putt that I thought I knew where it was going to go. 

Q.  Inaudible?
GAVIN COLES:   Not really.  I mean, you can't control the weather, and that's just one of the things that happens.  I remember playing in the second round earlier in the year in San Diego and the course was water-logged and it was wet.  It was quite a long course to play and they moved the tees up to make it more fair for everybody.
The weather is going to do what it's going to do and we can only do what we can on the day.  That's all I can do. 

Q.  What happens when you qualify for out here and you come out and you didn't make the cut for however many that was, how do you keep yourself positive?
GAVIN COLES:   Well, the 13th one was pretty hard to take but after that, I think I wasn't planning  -- inaudible. That was the thing that was getting me, was making two birdies a round and one birdie in a round.  You're just not going to compete out here doing that.  You have to go out there and make seven birdies to compete with these guys.  They are just great at getting the ball in the hole. 
When you come out and you're not hitting it great and you're not putting it great, you're going to be in the back of the field every week. 

Q.  Was the weather affecting --
GAVIN COLES:   I think the wind a little bit when --  I think the wind is starting to blow again now.  But not really.  I mean, the wind was fine. 

Q.  Could you see a round like this coming, has it been getting a little bit better for you?
GAVIN COLES:   You know, I shot 3-under at Boston on the second day there and probably left four or five out on the course. 
Last week I played pretty good.  Every time I hit a bad shot, I would either make a bogey or a double; I couldn't get away with it, just missing the green or missing in the wrong spot all the time. 
It wasn't that I expected to go and shoot 6- or 7-under.  I knew if I kept playing, hitting it in the fairway, hitting on the green, it was going to come.

Q.  What was more surprising, that you made seven birdies or no bogeys? 
GAVIN COLES:  To be honest with you, that the ball actually went somewhere where I was looking.  I didn't hit a lot of shots that were 20 yards off from the target on the short side, that I wasn't looking at it.  I think that was the big thing.  When I did miss it on the short side, I missed close.  I think that was the biggest difference today. 

Q.  What do you think of the course in general?
GAVIN COLES:   Magnificent facility.  Especially yesterday it was awesome.  I just think it's two golf courses that are great golf courses to play and overall, it's unbelievable. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT