STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Unfortunate thing happened on 18. How are you feeling about that?  
 GAVIN COLES: It was like a train wreck. I put it in the wrong spot in the bunker an didn't get a very good lie. Tried to make it. I couldn't even make par. So it was a self-injury. Wasn't much fun, but maybe I might get one later.  
  
  Q. You were thinking holing out from the green side bunker?  
 GAVIN COLES: You need a win. I would love to have gotten it down and just make a bogey and finish 3, but, you know, I had a chance to chip it in. I wasn't good enough to get it up and down. Maybe I should go work on my short game.  
  
  Q. What's your thought process on the tee at 18?  
 GAVIN COLES: Well, you know, where the flag is, you have to get it down there a fair way. I was just trying to get it out to the right so I could sort of try and hook something in there and run it back to the back and try to have a 10, 15-footer and make a birdie. You can't make 3 from the bottom of the lake over there on the left. At least I still had a chance. I probably hit it too far to the right with my second shot anyway. I don't think it was going to stop by the green.  
  
  Q. What were you thinking about today as far as maybe a score that would possibly win this thing?  
 GAVIN COLES: Posting 3-under and 4-under and you play maybe 11 holes rather than post 4-under, now you got to get to 5. It was just a matter of hang in there and hit it close and play your opportunities, and I didn't hit it close, and, you know, that was just the way that it is.  
  
  Q. You walk out of here, "Hey, I played a really good tournament and" --  
 GAVIN COLES: No, you don't look like you had a bad hole. If you look at a bad hole, you're going to never get over your bad hole again. There are 71 holes where 50 of them I played pretty good. Twenty-two I probably could do something better with. So, you know, it's what I got to work on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT