STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2008
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Gavin Coles, thanks for joining us. After the third round of the Stanford St. Jude Championship, you're 2 off the lead heading into the final round. Birdies on two of your last three holes.  
 GAVIN COLES: Lot of up and down. I didn't really hit it that well until I sort of made a couple of bogies in a row on the back-9. Then I sort of hit a couple decent shots, and I was hitting my irons shots, but I couldn't get it where I wanted it off the tee. And, of course, when you don't drive it well, you're hitting it out of the rough all day long and it's not a lot of fun.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: You played with Marc. He had some struggles on 18. You had a different story. Talk about your 18th hole.   
 GAVIN COLES: Yeah. We were deciding where he was going to drop it and took a little while, and I hit a nice 6-iron from about 175 yards out, landed maybe on the green or just short of the green and almost went in on the way past. It was nice way to finish.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We'll take some questions.  
  
  Q. With the way the scoring has been, is it a free-for-all tomorrow, anyone can win if they get hot tomorrow?  
 GAVIN COLES: I think so, yeah. You know, look what Tim did today. He went from 1-over to leading the golf tournament. Yesterday I went from 69th to tied for the lead.   
 You know, I think somebody gets hot -- well, not necessarily hot. Someone plays the golf course smart and putts well, they're going to -- they would walk away with a nice prize.  
  
  Q. How hard is it to keep your composure in difficult conditions, especially when it's hot? Is it tough to make -- keep that focus and decision? You have to drink a lot of liquids.  
 GAVIN COLES: I think today it was a lot hotter than every other day because the wind wasn't blowing. Today, the wind would blow and stop and come from a different direction, and, you know, I think there's a lot of guys out there that looking at No. 11 and scratching their head, you know. I played No. 9 and -- No. 10, I mean, and hit a shot there, we're not playing for any wind and get the wind. We get on the next tee which is almost -- pretty close to the exact opposite direction. We play for wind and don't get any and nearly go in the water over the green.  
 So, you know, today with the wind, it was probably more iffy than it was the first two days. At least you knew it was there and it was going to blow.  
  
  Q. How did you play 11? Where did you end up?  
 GAVIN COLES: Over the back, nearly in the water, in between the two bunkers and, yeah, didn't play very good from there on.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT