STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 6, 2008
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vt ALEXANDER: All right. We'd like to thank Gavin Coles for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Stanford St. Jude Championship.
 Great round. No bogies, six birdies, tough conditions. Talk about what you did.
 GAVIN COLES: Just got lucky. Just hit the right shot at the right time.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Questions?

 Q. Is it that simple? I mean, there were so many people, they birdie and then they tend to get it back with the club selection in the winds.
 Was it a matter of keeping an eye on the gusts, or how did you handle it?
 GAVIN COLES: Well, it's pretty slow out there, really. So you can sort of back off and have another look and sort of take a bit of time, sort of wait for the gusts to go by sometimes.
 It was difficult, but, you know, I think if you putted well today, you would have had a pretty decent score. Because I just didn't think that the pins were as hard as yesterday. Lot of the pins were pretty tough yesterday. A couple today you just didn't go for, and I just seemed to putt well. When I did get in trouble, my putter sort of got me out of it a little.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any turning points in your round where you might have saved par?
 GAVIN COLES: The 4th hole. The 4th hole I got a wicked lie, about a pace and a half off the green. And it was like -- I didn't know how to play it. I sort of tossed a coin and knocked it on the green and made a putt from -- actually nearly holed the chip, which is surprising. That was probably a bit -- that was only my 4th hole of the day. That was pretty good to save par after having such a wicked lie from two paces off the green.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Anything else?

 Q. If this stands right now, got about a six-way tie at the leaderboard. Winds are supposed to die down a bit. Does that make a free-for-all going into the weekend?
 GAVIN COLES: Yeah, I'd say so. I think it's -- I like it when the wind blows. Makes it's a little bit more interesting. Not going to blow, it's not going to blow. Anything can happen in 36 holes. I might shoot another 6 or 8 or 10-under tomorrow, and no one else might not shoot any good. It's that sort of golf course. You can be playing really good, and you get around that back-9 there, you know, 11 and 12 and they can really bite you in the proverbial so -- it's just where you don't want it to be biting you. There's plenty of interesting holes out there, especially when you get past the 8th hole. I sort of try and hang on. I'm a bit nervous playing 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. So I don't like those holes very much.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any more questions? Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT