SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 24, 2005
Gavin Coles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GAVIN COLES:  Well, you know, I hit it a bit short and a bit crooked on the back nine, and every time I seemed to hit it short, I maybe took the wrong option or I laid it up in the wrong spot or got a bounce into the rough.  My tee shot down 14, that's right up against the collar of the rough and it just catches the wrong line.  There's nothing you can do about that.  You've just got to play and get on with it.  I seemed to follow up a bad shot with a poor decision and probably another poor shot.  That's something to work on, but I really enjoyed myself out there.  It was pretty good.

Vijay was great to play with.  He played a lot better than the 1-under score or whatever he had today.

Q.  What happened on 11?
GAVIN COLES:  On 11, well, again, a bad decision.  I hit a bad tee shot, then I made a bad decision.  Instead of pitching it down the fairway and probably giving ourselves 100 yards, trying to get it up-and-down, we tried to hit it in the front left trap and I hit it left of that, and then I just got a wicked lie and I knew -- I hit a great shot that didn't get it anywhere near it, and then I didn't come out with a good bunker shot after that, either.  I seemed to follow up with bad shot, bad decision, bad shot, bad shot.

Q.  Did somebody say something to you?
GAVIN COLES:  Well, somebody had a nice comment about whatever it was, I forget now, but it wasn't very nice, and that's the game.  That's all part of the game.

Q.  Did you ask that that person be removed?
GAVIN COLES:  Did it really need to go that far?

Q.  I'm curious.
GAVIN COLES:  Why is that?

Q.  Well, I'd like to know.
GAVIN COLES:  Well, there's no comment on that one.

Q.  All right.  Are you happy --
GAVIN COLES:  Look, to be honest with you, first time in that situation, it was great.  I had a good time.  Obviously I'll go back and work a bit harder with my coach because crooked doesn't work out there.  4,000 yards on the back nine and I'm hitting it short and crooked, that isn't going to work anywhere.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT