CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Brevin Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
Q. Just wanted to get your emotions.  It was obviously an emotional football game for you guys, behind 21-0 and coming back and just falling short.  Emotionally how are you feeling and then I guess what did you think of the effort and for yourself individually what do you do from here?
BREVIN JORDAN:   I'm very disappointed.  Very disappointed in the fact we didn't come away with a win, but I'm also very humble to be a part of this team.  I mean, these guys did not -- they never quit.  And just the way this team carries itself, like we just keep going.  It's always -- it's always play the next play with these guys.  So it's very -- it's a little disappointing but I'm just happy to be on this team.  There's no quit.  We have such a thinking backbone that that's just the way we are.
Q. And I guess have you made a decision at all about your future?  Obviously everybody wants to know if you'll be coming back.  We know D'Eriq said he was and that's a question on a lot of people's minds.
BREVIN JORDAN:   I haven't made a decision yet.  We just took a loss.  I'm not even thinking about any of that.  Just trying to put all my emotions and my teammates -- I'm worried about the next step in my life.
Q. You just talked about the love and you have played the way you played tonight, really, in just about every game since you got here three years ago, and you guys just keep coming up short, over and over and over again.  How frustrating has that become?  I mean, you couldn't have played with any more effort tonight, I mean, really, and it's just got to be enormously frustrating that you're not getting the results out of it.
BREVIN JORDAN:   It's always frustrating when you don't come away with win and things don't go your way.  The thing about this team, man, is like we just don't quit.  Even though you take a loss, the loss is sour because we gave all our effort.  We gave all our fight.  We fought four quarters with them.  It makes the loss a little bit less sour, but a loss is a loss.  We've got to get better, that's all it is.  Just learn how to finish.
Q. And obviously watching D'Eriq go down tonight had to be extremely emotional for everybody.  You made a decision to play in this game when maybe it was or wasn't, you know, the best move for you as an individual yourself based on the decisions that you have to make now.  What went through your mind?  I know one of their players basically took himself out of the game after that point.  What went through your mind?
BREVIN JORDAN:   When I saw D'Eriq go down, first thing I did was I prayed for him.  I thank God for everything and thank God for having him on this team and I asked for protection, that's the first thing I did.  Next thing, I gathered up the whole offense and said, yo, bring it in, and it's next man up.  It's no different in our starting center or Zion or anybody gets hurt, it's always the next man up.  But when he went down, it rattled us.  That's the energy D'Eriq brings to this team.  That's the passion he brings to this team.  We rallied.  We said, all right, cool you want our quarterback -- let's go play football.  That's what it did to us; it rallied us.
Q. I wanted to ask you about N'Kosi's performance.  We had not seen him get a whole lot of meaningful snaps over the last year.  What impressed you about him today and just obviously the last year he's been sitting on the bench, I'm sure waiting for a chance line this.  Obviously didn't get the win but how satisfied are you to see him get a moment like that?
BREVIN JORDAN:   I'm very happy for N'Kosi, he works very hard.  He comes to the building and he knows he's not the starting quarterback.  He knows he's not the guy but he prepares every day like he's the starting quarterback.  He comes to meetings and he's the first guy in the meetings.  He practices very hard.  It's not like N'Kosi doesn't -- you know what I'm saying, he goes in every day thinking, I'm the starting quarterback.
When he was in the game for us, it was normal for us because he's so cool and so calm and collected that it wasn't a big deal to us.  We knew Kosi was going to go out there and do his thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT