U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 12, 2017
Hyemin Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good morning, everyone.  How are you doing?  Is everybody having a good time today?  Thank you y'all so much for coming to the U.S. Women's Open Junior Day.  We are super-excited to have you.  We hope you're having a great time on a beautiful day in New Jersey.   
What's been your favorite thing you've done so far today?  What did you like?  Water balloons.  Oh, it's fun.  What did you like?  That's awesome.  I'm glad.   
You guys are actually all having a great day.  This is one of the things that the LPGA really likes to do.  We like to welcome you to the Women's Open Championship, give you an idea of what it's like to be at a national championship and also have a fun.  Thanks for coming.   
I also want to thank my friends from the LPGA Foundation and LPGA Girls' Golf Program.  They are great partners of ours and super, super-excited about having you here and being able to teach y'all about some of the things that they do.   
So, I want to introduce my friend Kiernan Schindler who is going to talk a little bit about that and also introduce a special guest.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: Thank you, Beth.  It has been a wonderful morning, hasn't it?  Everyone having a good time?  Yeah.  I saw a few people that never left the water balloon station.  I think it was the cool effect of the water that was helping them.   
So, I just wanted to say thank you guys for being here.  I want to also thank our teachers.  Before you guys leave, if you see any of the teachers you can say thank you, they're part of our Teaching Club Professional Division at the LPGA.  They volunteer their time for free because they loving being with you guys.   
We have a special guest with us.  Her name is Hyemin Kim.  Hyemin you want to come down here with me?  So, Hyemin plays on our Tour called the Symetra Tour.   
How many weeks a year do you play on the Tour?   
HYEMIN KIM: 12 weeks this week so far.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: She's played 12 weeks so far.  She had her very first win recently at an event called the POC Med Golf Classic.  Where was that again?   
HYEMIN KIM: It was in Northern California which is close by San Francisco, Windsor Golf Course.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: So one of the exciting things that Hyemin did is she is donating her winning check to girls' golf and the reason -- how about a cheer for that?   
So what's exciting about that, the first time that's ever happened from a Symetra Tour player that donates her entire winning check to girls' golf to further the game.   
Okay.  So we so appreciate that you're doing this for us and we have a check here, this Larissa "Thes" who is part of our group.   
What we're going to do with this check, so you know, it's going to go for scholarships for girls and boys just like you who are out there, junior golfers who are interested in being part of the program and also some clinics like this.  This supports these clinics so that y'all can come and attend for free.   
Thank you so much for everything.  Hyemin has a few words to say so we're going to turn the mike over to you.   
HYEMIN KIM: Hey, guys.  I'm from South Korea and I've been playing on the Tour in the 6th year for this year.  So, it is -- thank you so much for having me this week.  It's such a great opportunity and it's an honor to be here.  I'm really nervous, more than when I win the Windsor Classic.  I'm really nervous.   
I've been watching with a lot of great players giving back their -- giving back to kids or sharing their talents.  I really admire them.  That's why I think I decided to use my first check for really special purposes.  That's why I decided on my -- I really thank my parents.  They love to use my first check to the golf.  I wish you guys fall in love with the golf and I love to see you guys more on the golf course.  Thank you so much.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: Thank you so much.  That was terrific.  Congratulations and thank you again and I do want to let you know Hyemin actually wanted to qualify for the Women's Open this year but she was injured.   
HYEMIN KIM: Yeah.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: She was still so happy to come and be with everyone today so we're very, very grateful to her for being here and for making a generous donation and we will look forward to seeing you in the Women's Open next year on the golf course.   
HYEMIN KIM: Thank you so much.   
KIERAN SCHINDLER: Thank you everyone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT