U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Lauren Greenlief
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a crazy match this morning, and followed by maybe not quite as much this afternoon, but incredible come back to get it to all-square, and then had a birdie on 17. Too bad it was just basically one club too many on 18?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: Yeah, I hit it exactly how I wanted to, a little cut, and we just misjudged the wind. It didn't hit the ball and put me in a really bad spot. She made a great up-and-down.   
 Q.  I know you would have loved to have had some magic again here like you did this morning where you knocked in probably close to a 30-footer to extend that match?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: Yeah, it was probably 30 feet. You have a different mentality when you know that you have to make it and you kind of just hit it and it went in. It was really exciting.   
I was proud of the way I played today. Started out really shaky in the quarterfinal match. I had a really bad four-hole stretch and then made six birdies after that, so turned it around and played some good golf in the afternoon. Not my best, but Talia definitely played great today.   
 Q.  The stretch where you went from 1-up after nine, all of the sudden you were 2-down, but then you battled back and won two holes in a row with birdies. You have to be at least proud of the way you rebounded there.  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: I was trying to stay patient. I got some bad breaks with afternoon. I thought I hit a good tee shot on 10 and the wind pushed it. Went on the upslope of the bunker. Then on 18, the wind not catching the ball.   
 Q.  What about 12, the ball that went through the fairway off the tee? Were you surprised to see it go that far?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: I thought it would be in the rough. I didn't think it would be in the tall grass. I thought it was a bad break, too, because I really hit all my tee shots to the line that I wanted and just dead. Wasn't super exciting. I rebounded well on that hole and I had a chance to make a putt and I missed a putt there and on 16 and that's probably what did it.   
 Q.  The putt on 16, were you not clear on the line?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: We just didn't read enough break into it for the speed that I hit it. So need a little more break there. Almost got the low side lip-in.   
 Q.  Just in general, I know it's hard to look back on an entire week. You've played nine rounds of golf in seven days. How would you assess the overall week? Didn't end the way you wanted it to?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: Played some really good golf. Proud of the way that I battled. Threw in some birdies. Obviously I'm disappointed to not make the championship match because coming to this tournaments, the goal is pretty much to win and that's it. That's how you have to have your mentality. Came up a little bit short today, but that's okay, I'll be back next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT