U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Lauren Greenlief
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How important was it for you to get off to a good start against Julia today, did you feel like?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: When she hit it over the green on the first hole, I wanted to go in there and take advantage, just to grab a quick 1-up lead. Then hit a good shot on 2. That makes match play easier, especially in the wind. I made a lot of birdies in the front but there's not a lot of birdies out here unless you hit really good shots.   
So to be able to get up early, the match is more in your control, because as long as you make pars, you're in good shape.   
 Q.  Feels like it's early in the match, but on No. 5 when she stuck it in there like within two feet and you were over the green, the chip-in you made to halve the hole, you didn't let her get any momentum?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: Hit a pretty good shot in there. Just got a big bounce on the green and my caddie, Jeff, said it's chip-in-able. Those are the shots I'm pretty good at. You just do the best you can. It went in. I was really happy with it.   
 Q.  You were already a little bit looking forward to this possibility of this match yesterday after your first round match. How important is it to not look ahead too much, because anybody can win a match at any time, but you also need to keep your focus, right?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: I think you need to take it one shot at a time. Especially I looked at the forecast the next two days. It's supposed to be windy and when it's blowing 15 to 25, you have to really just be in that shot and try and put a lot of focus there. I'll play whoever's next and just try and do my best. I hit the ball really well. Hopefully that continues tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've had a busy summer with golf. You haven't gone back to work yet, have you?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: I go back September 30th.   
 Q.  So obviously you feel like you had a lot of events where you had three good rounds out of four. Do you think you're still peaking for this championship?  
LAUREN GREENLIEF: Yeah, the last couple week, I had two full weeks to practice and work on stuff. So coming out of the Florida Women's Open and the U.S. Women's Amateur, a couple parts of my game, especially on the putting green I really wanted to work on put some focus there and it's really paying off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT