NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 27, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How much have you talked to James about just maintaining his aggression because there have been times he's been kind of passive and then as of the last game he was very aggressive for you. 
KEVIN McHALE:   I don't talk to him about that stuff.   I talk to him about how we need to play and stuff like that.   He's had 45 points without me talking to him.   I don't think he needs me yapping in his ear.   We talk about how we have to play and what we have to do as individuals, but nothing more than that. 

Q.   We know that Dwight spent most of the night during the storms at the arena.   Did the storms have any impact on the rest of your team?
KEVIN McHALE:   No, some guys had a hard time getting home.   I know some guys were stranded for an hour or so.   The owner had the toughest time.   Leslie got stuck, and he was extracted like at 6:30 in the morning from wherever he was, so he had the roughest night of everybody, but he's not playing, so... I live a block and a half away, so I had that big commute all the way to‑‑ and I live on the 16th floor, so I'm okay. 

Q.   When the Celtics were going to four straight Finals in the '80s, I'm just wondering did you feel the physical toll at the time, or is that something that you realized later?
KEVIN McHALE:   No, you were playing basketball.   I mean, no.   The physical toll was when you saw your pops come home from working in the mines every single day.   Believe me, every single day I played basketball was a blessing, and they paid you for it, as my pops said, you were a lucky man.

Q.   117 times a team has led three games to none in a series.   No team has ever come back from that type of deficit.   What are you telling your guys to get them to believe, hey, we've still got a chance to win the series?
KEVIN McHALE:   We've got to win a road game.   We've been in that position many times.   We've got to win a road game.   You don't win a road game today, nothing else matters, so we've got to go win a road game. 
After you said 117 times?   I'm sure there's coaches a hell of a lot smarter than me.   If there was a magic word, I'm sure someone would have found it by now.   Words don't win.   You've got to be out there.   You've got to be able to grind yourself to wins, you've got to be able to tough it through tough times.   But the reality is we've got to win a road game.   We've been there many, many times, and I don't know how many road games we've won between the regular season and Playoffs, but we've won our share.

Q.   Bogut and Howard are going at it pretty good.   Is that just kind of garden‑variety, two big guys banging around, or is there more to it because of what's at stake and who they are?
KEVIN McHALE:   No, I mean‑‑ yeah, they're holding and grabbing and doing all the stuff big guys have always done.   They're both big guys, big, strong guys, and you get big strong guys and you can get some banging.   This is not a physical‑‑ I don't think this is a really very physical series.   Hell, there's 37 threes made the other day.   If you told me there was 190 free throws, I might‑‑ and everything was in the paint‑‑ I don't know, just garden‑variety big guys hitting each other. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT