NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 20, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much does it help that you've been through this so many times?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Again, we'll deal with that tomorrow.   I'm not sure what it's going to be.   I'm not going to speculate.   We'll see where Dwight is at tomorrow and then we'll make our adjustments accordingly.   
   
 Q.   You played without him for the majority of the season, so it's not a new deal for you guys.   
KEVIN McHALE:   Again, like I said, we'll find out where‑‑ I want Dwight to feel good and play tomorrow, but again, I don't know that.   Today is not tomorrow, so we'll find out what that is tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   After seeing film, thoughts on‑‑  
KEVIN McHALE:   You know, I thought we had opportunities to spread the game out throughout the game.   I thought we had some especially three or four in the first half where we drove in that I thought a lot of contact, a lot of grabbing on James' arm, didn't get to the foul line, and it was a 97‑all game, and we made‑‑ we didn't make the plays that we had to‑‑ plays were there to be made and we didn't make the plays that we have to make.   
You know, I don't think we played particularly well.   We had stretches where we played well, but everybody that plays is going to have to make a play.   That's what it comes down to at this time.   Play tight games, you've got to make plays.   
We made some mistakes defensively that hurt us, and we had some bobbled balls in the paint and some different things that we catch and gather them, they're dunks.   We had three or four of those, and all those plays make a difference.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, we made some mistakes.   I mean, some of it was our offensive mistakes where we turned it over and did some stuff, we didn't get back.   But I thought in our base defense we were pretty solid, and we just‑‑ in the break you've got to recognize where he's at, and you've got to get to him.   I thought we made three mistakes on Curry on just transition where he got open baskets, and we've just got to be better on that.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what Trevor Ariza has been doing for you guys?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Been playing great.   Trevor has been fantastic.   He had another really good game last night, and we've just got to use the fact that they really pack the paint and they come in off the weak side corners, and they're coming around, we've just got to move the ball and find those spots, and the guys got to knock them down.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you gave one away with a 16‑point lead?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, hey, they won the game.   Whether we gave it away or not, what the hell difference does it make what I feel?   We play tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about Clint's development?   
KEVIN McHALE:   He's been playing well.   Clint came in early in the season from the D‑League mostly because we had injuries, and we needed him at practice, and every day you watched him in practice we liked him a little bit more, and we were like man, he's playing better and better and better.   He's an easy guy to coach.   He's an easy guy to gain confidence in because he's just so diligent and he's just a hard‑working kid.  
   
 Q.   How much do you need to be able to go big against this team?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, I'd love to be able to go big against this Warriors team.   We've got to punish them on the boards.   I thought‑‑ we had 14 offensive rebounds.   The problem is so did they.   But five or six, seven of those were driven by their guards coming in and rebounding from the perimeter.   We've got to do a better job of that.   
   
 Q.   If Howard isn't healthy, is there a way to keep them from really going to that super small lineup and being able to do what they want to do to really dictate your pace?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, if they go super small, believe me, there's holes in that lineup, we've just got to exploit them.   
   
 Q.   Having gone through so many of these things throughout the year of uncertainty, is it about attitude in dealing with it or is it tactical, making changes, some combination of those?  
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, a bit of both.   When you have different players, you have different strengths on the floor, so when you have different strengths on the floor, you've got to play to different things.   But 90 percent of it is‑‑ Clint is not going to turn into Dwight Howard overnight.   He might, but I don't know.   He's got to hit the weight room.   (Laughter).   
You know, those are really impossible questions to answer because different players bring different things, like we're a different team every time we make a substitution.   Your team changes a little bit.   We've just got to go out there and play.   There's no excuses.   No one wants to hear anything about what's going on.   You've got to go out there and we're going to have to play harder, we're going to have to play tougher, we're going to have to make more plays down the stretch.   Like I said, with five minutes to go in that game, it was a tie game.   We've got to be the team that makes the plays.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, you'd have to‑‑ I don't know.   You've seen this all year long.   You answer that.   
   
 Q.   Was Howard able to do anything today or did he just rest?  
KEVIN McHALE:   He just rested.   
   
 Q.   If he plays‑‑ when you first came back at the‑‑  
KEVIN McHALE:   Again, we'll have to see how he feels before I do any of that.   I have no idea.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT