NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: CLIPPERS v ROCKETS
May 8, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Can you just run through what happened in that third quarter when Austin got hot and what happened to the defense there? 
COACH MCHALE:   Well, we didn't play much defense at that point.   They made a few shots on us, we had a couple turnovers during that stretch, and you know, they were running, we weren't getting back, played very poorly during that stretch, needless to say. 
They played very well.   They made some shots, and I mean, the game got completely loose at that point, and they were playing with a ton of confidence and we weren't. 

Q.   Coach, you guys didn't get to the line nearly as much as you did in Game 2.   What does that do for your team or how does that change things for your team?
COACH MCHALE:   We weren't as aggressive as we needed to be going downhill.   We missed lay‑ups early in the game.   When the game was in flux, the game got out of hand, so anything that happened after, I don't know, the three or four‑minute mark in the third quarter, with three or four minutes left in the third quarter doesn't make any difference, but prior to that we had a lot of blown assignments.   We had shots that we missed, and it was rubbing on our guys. 
You're going to have nights like that, man, unfortunately.   We couldn't get shots to go, and we didn't have any flow.   Really James was the only guy that was kind of making plays for us in the half court. 
You know, we weren't getting‑‑ we weren't running, we weren't getting stops.   We did not play very well.   And you give them credit, they did play well. 
Our turnovers, they ran off it, and, you know, we did not.   We did not do a good job of handling all the pressure, all the things that came with that little bit of a run, we just let go of the rope, and they piled on us. 

Q.   From a physical standpoint, how do you think you guys‑‑
COACH MCHALE:   I didn't think we were very‑‑ we did not play physical tonight.   I thought that we didn't set good screens, we didn't get into people.   You know, the most disappointing thing is when the game was in the balance, we just had a lot of plays where they outran us.   They outworked us. 
Sometimes they started off in the corner, we started off in the corner defensively, we're on offense, and by the time we got down to the other end they were ahead of us getting lay‑ups.   As I said, we didn't push the ball.   We didn't necessarily do anything good.   We were able to hang around a little bit in the first half, but then at the rate we were playing, we just couldn't maintain it.   And Rivers and Reddick are 8 for 12 from the three‑point line, and they got it rolling, and, hell, what were they, they were 21 for 27 between the two of them from the field, so there were no answers there.

Q.   Can you talk about Austin Rivers a little bit?
COACH MCHALE:   Played very well.   I mean, hey, he got it going.   We're going to have to‑‑ 25 points in 23 minutes.   Played very well for them.   Attacked off the dribble.   We started hugging up on our guys when they started making a run, we didn't get back in, we didn't help each other defensively, they took advantage of that with some drives and made some threes where we didn't close out to them.   We went under them a couple times.   We went 10 feet under, daring them to shoot, we wanted to go under but we should have had some ball pressure. 
Like I say, in the first half, we were able to score, and we ended up with 57 points.   But they had 64 points in the first half, and it was just‑‑ it was a very mistake‑prone game for us, which you can't have that.   And it's really disheartening, because this is the third time we've played them, and even though Chris Paul is coming back, none of our schemes changed, and we made a lot of mistakes.

Q.   J.J. Redick getting loose early on‑‑
COACH MCHALE:   He made some shots early.   I mean, the mistakes we made on him were late.   Brew went up for a steal late, he gets a three because we were going up for a steal. 
We made some plays tonight that you just‑‑ we did not play with a bunch of composure and a lot of just smarts.   And we got rattled in that third quarter, and we were hugged up. 
So he's driving and there's no one coming over to help, and everybody is body to body.   Our team defense went to hell in that third quarter. 
Again, you know, I mean, they scored 124 points.   We've got to get some defensive‑‑ we've had one defensive half so far.   That was the second half of the second game.   But other than that, we haven't gotten anything. 

Q.   Coach, with the momentum they gathered from this game, how do you disrupt that and how do you turn it around as far as‑‑
COACH MCHALE:   Been here 35 years, and momentum comes and momentum goes, baby.   You've just got to go play on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT