NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 26, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coach, did everybody, all the players, your staff, everybody else get home okay last night? 
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, you know, I live a block and a half from the arena so I was able to make it home pretty easily.   Yeah, I think everybody did.   I think the last thing I heard was the light in the arena was from the guy who lived kind of the farthest away, so I think he was last to leave.   He left late. 

Q.   So nobody stuck on the highway or‑‑
KEVIN McHALE:   Nobody I've heard of, no. 

Q.   What you described in the way you guys played is what you've been looking for all along.   How much of a feeling was there that they kind of got it, that they were willing to do the things that you've described, and how much was playing on emotion early in that game and making it happen?
KEVIN McHALE:   I mean, we played well.   We had to come out and there was nothing else we could do besides play well.   We had to come out.   It's a good team over there.   I hadn't thought we really attacked them the way we needed to all series long.   We had two tight games in Golden State that could have gone either way, and then they pounded us in Game 3.   It wasn't really a contest.   Last night we got after them and we've got to get after them again.   We've got to attack them, we've got to play our style of basketball.   If the ball moves from player to player, the more willingly and the more rapidly and harder and quicker it's harder to guard.

Q.   What did you like better about what you guys were able to do defensively to slow down their ball movement a little bit last night?
KEVIN McHALE:   You know, they made 20 threes last night.   They're a good shooting team.   We've got to take away a lot of easy baskets.   I thought we didn't take‑‑ we made mistakes from the perimeter that left the basket open.   We still made mistakes on the outside jump shooters, and we have got to stay attached to Curry and Thompson, and some of the other guys are going to make a few shots because of how they're playing things, but we have to live with that.   We just can't allow Curry and Thompson to open up and get open for a shot and do a better job of knowing where they are after offensive rebounds, when they get an offensive rebound, they kick it out in transition, in mismatches, in cross‑matches, and we've just got to do a better job of that.

Q.   Have you heard anything from the league regarding a review of Dwight's flagrant foul?
KEVIN McHALE:   No, I haven't heard anything. 

Q.   You saw it on film; do you agree with the call on Dwight's flagrant?
KEVIN McHALE:   I don't know about the play.   He just tried to get him off him.   Bogut is just grabbing him and as always the second foul gets called.   As usual the second foul gets called.   I think you can turn around and look at the guy like‑‑ he swipes his arm back because he felt Bogut is grabbing him.   But again, in our league it's been that way since I first got in the league.   They usually call the second one all the time.   I guess the one thing we'll learn is that we should be the first one to grab.

Q.   How good was your supporting cast last night, especially Ariza and Josh?
KEVIN McHALE:   Josh played really well.   He got off to a great start, and I thought that Trevor had a really good defensive game.   Trevor has been solid all year long.   He's just been great for us.   That's what we need.   We need every‑‑ they played well.   They're a tough team to beat if you don't have guys just playing well, and part of playing well is just making some shots.   It always helps.   Just making the right pass, making the unselfish pass, making the extra cut, making the extra pick, making the extra movement for your teammates.   I mean, when we're doing that, we can be a very good team, and just, again, we've got to go into Golden State and we've got to hit them with our best punch and see if it's good enough. 

Q.   Were you guys able to leave on time today?
KEVIN McHALE:   I think so.   The only thing that's holding me back from leaving on time is you guys. 

Q.   Was there a greater emphasis on some of the back cuts when they're overplaying?
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, we've been talking about that the whole series, that they play on top of things, how they play stuff, certain things they do, and you know, I've said a million different times, if the score was 2‑0, defense would dominate.   You can't be in two‑point stuff one time, you can't take away my top cut and take away a back door.   You can't do both.   They stayed on top, and we were just constantly harping on trying to get behind them.   We've got to play behind them, we've got to play with peace, we've got to play with force, and those are all the things that we talk about, and last night we did a great job of doing that. 

Q.   Did you feel after the game that you guys' confidence is rolling now?   You have a confident team anyway, but just the fact that you got one win over them, do you think you guys are like, okay, we got it over with, now let's move on to the next one?
KEVIN McHALE:   We're not going to say anything.   Today we'll have a film session and we'll talk about the importance of winning one road game, and that's what it comes down to.   Our season comes down to winning one road game.   That's not going to be anything new.   We've been in that situation before.   We've just got to go in there and execute.   But it's all those things that you've got to do to allow the execution to happen, which is, like I said, more cutting, more back door, more attacking, more all that stuff, so if we can do that, we'll give ourselves a good chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT