NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 25, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've had very good success in these elimination close‑out games.   Is there anything in terms of the message that might have led to that over these eight chances?
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, I think it just comes down to a point where you've got to be honest with yourself.   You're either going to fight or not fight.   I mean, that's just kind of what it comes down to, and we talk about that some, but talking doesn't win.   I don't know what the hell I'm doing here, but talking doesn't win.   We've got to go play.   But that's usually the message, or some form of that message. 

Q.   Still sticking with Josh starting and Terrence coming off the bench?
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, yeah, we'll probably do that. 

Q.   Kind of following up on that, the bench had a real hard time getting going last game.   Do you do different things in rotation or otherwise?
KEVIN McHALE:   Got to get them going, guys.   Got to move the ball more and got to play a little bit more together.   I think if we can get out and run and get some more spacing, we start stopping short on the court again and stopping on the free‑throw line, not getting down to the corners, and our spacing got jumbled up.   We just didn't have much flow offensively going in.   When we did get some shots we didn't make them early, and that seemed to kind of throw us off a little bit.   But I mean, no, I don't think we'll put‑‑ we didn't put a new offense in yesterday if that's what you're asking.   I know you were waiting on that.   (Laughter).
Guys have got to just play better.   I sit up here and I basically just get so tired of hearing myself say the same thing, but guys got to play better.   They kicked our ass.   They played much better than we did.   We've got to play better than that.   We can't get out‑rebounded like that, 50/50 balls have got to be‑‑ we've got to win the majority of them.   Just all the little things that are so unsexy to talk about, but that's what wins games.

Q.   Now that you've had an opportunity to review the film, what stood out to you about not one turnover the first half?
KEVIN McHALE:   Well, you know, we started off, I thought we had pretty good juice, especially defensively.   We missed some shots early, we were kind of hanging around, and then all of a sudden Steph kind of went off at the end of the second quarter, and we had some comebacks.   We came out in the third quarter and had much more energy.   Seemed like we couldn't get anything going offensively and that affected us on both sides of the ball.   We couldn't get anything‑‑ we never really did get anything going offensively, and defensively, like I said, they got second shots.   Hey, they played a hell of a lot better than we did.   That's what it looked like on tape, too.   It actually looked like that that night when I was sitting there.

Q.   You talked all season about this team's character, what they're made of, and it showed a lot the last series.   Are you seeing those indicators the last day and a half or so?
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, the guys were down a little bit.   I think they didn't expect that.   But like I told them, no one is feeling sorry for you.   Don't feel sorry for yourselves.   I don't understand what feeling sorry for yourself has ever done for anything.   I'm not a big fan of that.   I kind of got on their ass yesterday about, if you feel sorry for yourself, then don't show up, but we're going to go out and fight.   I don't know, hey, do I wish we'd have played better the other night?   Hell yeah, so do they, but that's over.   All we've got left is tonight, and we've got to come out swinging. 
Like I said, I don't‑‑ I can't say a lot about it.   Just you literally have one more game to play if you don't win, and if we win, we play another one, man.   Believe it or not, playing basketball for a living is a really, really, really good gig.   Everybody should try it if you can. 
Any other questions? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT