NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 25, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   I know we've been through this territory many times, but responding to the situation again, can you‑‑
KEVIN McHALE:   I know, guys played really well.   Josh got us off to a great start, James had a phenomenal game.   Between the two teams, I don't know the last time I saw 37 made threes.   That's been a while for that.
I thought that Trev did a really nice job, made some big shots for us early, we got a big lead big lead.   They cut it back, then we were able to extend it out again, just guys played‑‑ guys went out and played a hell of a gutsy game. 

Q.   They kind of hit you with runs, they got it down to six at one point in the fourth quarter.   Do you think you did a good job responding to their runs?
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I mean, they're going to make some runs.   I thought we did a nice job responding to their runs.   Just can put yes on the end of your question, okay.   Yeah.   They're going to go small, they're going to do some different things, they're going to make some tough shots.   Curry made those couple threes, Klay had it going there for threes, but we were able to get to the line and slow some of that stuff down. 

Q.   What is it about James, after he has a bad game he comes back so strong? 
KEVIN McHALE:   You know, when you have a tough game, you're not very happy with everything.   He was extremely unhappy yesterday, and took it out‑‑ but that's what you've got to do.   You've got to take it out on them.   It doesn't do any good to take it out on the trainer and your teammates and your coach.   You take it out on the other team, and he did it.   He went out and he played a hell of a game. 

Q.   You mentioned gutsy game.   Do you have any feel after all these times why this team always seems to be its best when things are worst?
KEVIN McHALE:   I have no idea.   I wish we were better when things were better.   But hey, now we've got to go there, we'll have a big crowd and we've got to attack them.   You've got to be in attack mode against that team.   You've got to be willing to make the extra pass, you've got to be willing to make the extra screens, then defensively you've got to make the extra rotation.   They have a lot of guys that ‑‑ normally you shoot 17 threes, you figure you got them in the three category.   We lost by nine points in threes and we made 17 of them.   They're a good shooting team.   It's just‑‑ that's kind of how we have to attack.   We have to get downhill on them, we have to get to the line, and granted, a lot of those were they hacked us on purpose, but they're still free throws.   We've just got to play with pace and with force.   I didn't think we played with any force the last game.   Tonight we played with more force.

Q.   Given how poorly Saturday night went, how critical was it to get off to a 9‑0 start, 12‑0, get the crowd into it early tonight?
KEVIN McHALE:   I thought it was really important for us to get off to a good start, but regardless of the start, it's a long 48‑minute game.   You very seldom win the game in the first few minutes but you can kind of set a tone, and I thought our start got us juiced up and got the crowd into it.   We needed that, but also, we needed to have fuel to make runs and then counter back.   It just ends up‑‑ any game you play in, you want to be ahead and make them chase you, and I told our guys, that's our goal is we've got to get ahead in Golden State and make them chase us, punch, counter punch, and hopefully you can make the last run, and we've got to win a road game at a tough place.   They haven't lost a lot of games there.   But I like what our team will go out there and what we're capable of doing.   One thing I'm pretty sure of ‑‑ we'll fight.

Q.   Curry fell pretty much right in front of you.   What did you see there and were you a surprised‑‑
KEVIN McHALE:   I didn't see him fall, honestly.   I was looking back out after the play.   I didn't see him fall.   I didn't look at the monitor, I didn't look at anything.   I had enough stuff looking at in front of me without looking at what's going on with Steph. 

Q.   When Curry came back into the game, what is your approach in terms of you know that he's been dinged up, you know this is an injured player who suffered something potentially serious.   Does that change your approach at all in terms of‑‑
KEVIN McHALE:   No, I assume it's not serious if he's playing, so I assume that the seriousness went away when he came back and played.   Look, I didn't see the fall.   I was blocked out by a player, and then I didn't even really look at the replay, so I was just trying to‑‑ you know what, they went on a 27‑13 run when he went out of the game, so I was just worried about our next possession, our defense, and what we were doing.   So yeah, you'll have to ask somebody else that, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT