NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 24, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Part of your job all year long is to be amateur psychologist.   When you get into that today what do you tell the guys?  
    KEVIN McHALE:   They played better.   They out‑rebounded us, they out‑hustled us.   I said last night, nothing changed last night.   If we don't win the points in the paint, don't win the rebound battle, we don't win a lot of games.   You can look at our record throughout the course of the year.   We've got to win at least one of those, and if we win both of those, we do pretty well.   They had 17 or 18 offensive rebounds, I don't remember anymore, but they had too many of them.   They had a lot of second‑chance points.   They got threes off their offensive rebounds.   They were quicker to loose balls than we were.   They played better than we did.   We've just got to play better.   I don't know how much psychologist you can do after you've played this much basketball, but you don't have a whole lot of options.   We've got to come out and we've got to play better.   We just have got to play better.   We've got to play with more force, we've got to run harder on them.   We had plenty of opportunities, especially early in that game, where we got stops.   We didn't convert on breaks.   We got guys stopping early in the break, our spacing was bad.   We just did not play very well last night, and it started, I thought, from the offensive end.   I thought our defense was pretty good for a while, and then they got loose and started making some shots, and we never, ever found an offensive flow.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to see the pace offensively‑‑  
    KEVIN McHALE:   We've got to have more flow and more movement.   It was very sticky last night.   Unfortunately throughout the course of the year we've had games like that, but that was not a time to have one of those games.   We've got to have more cutting and‑‑ nothing with force.   We didn't do anything with force.   We didn't attack the rim with force.   We didn't cut with force.   We didn't do anything with force.   Their willingness to cut and move for each other is what‑‑ the reason that they've had 67 wins this year.   We've got to cut and move and play with force.   When we did have things, we kind of came in there and we didn't force them to foul us.   We didn't get the ball up on the board where Dwight can clean it up.   We got in between.   Like I said, we did not play very good.   We did not play a very good game offensively, and we never got a rhythm offensively.   
    And then defensively, they made us pay, like I said, with secondchance‑‑ I think they shot 45 percent or something like that from the field, but they made us pay with the second chance where we couldn't come up with clean balls.   We couldn't come up with 50/50 balls or rebounds.  
   
 Q.   Did they defend James in any way differently than what they had been?  
    KEVIN McHALE:   They loaded to him a hair more, but no.  
   
 Q.   Should he be more aggressive in those situations?  
    KEVIN McHALE:   Well, you've got to be more aggressive.   It's just all earlier decisions.   If there's two on you, get off it.   It's the same thing we've talked about all along.   He's just got to go play basketball.  
   
 Q.   All those things you talked about with your team, were you surprised, disappointed‑‑  
    KEVIN McHALE:   Yes, very surprised, very disappointed, yeah, because that's not the time to have a game where we just seemed‑‑ but it reminded me, when I watched the film last night, it reminded me a lot of how we played in the first Clippers game.   We kind of came out‑‑ maybe we were thinking we were at home and everything was going to be rosy, but hey, that's not the way it is.   Like I say, you've got to play with force all the time.   You've got to just play with kind of a reckless abandon.   Any time we get out‑rebounded that badly by a team, we're not playing with enough force.   
   
 Q.   Your bench has been one of your strengths all season.   Last night until Corey Brewer had some stuff in the third quarter, they really hadn't done a lot.   What do you need from them?  
    KEVIN McHALE:   Well, I need everybody to play better.   Hey, I'd like to tell you that there's some magical thing, but there's not.   We've got to run harder, we've got to space better, we've got to get the corners filled in the break.   We've got to get our second big‑‑ our first big has got to get in front of the rim, our second big has got to trail and play through him.   Like I said, we were discombobulated, and last night it just kind of fed on itself.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to see your team be a little bit more physical?  
    KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, we need to be more physical.   Any time you lose the board game that bad, they're more physical than you are.  
   
 Q.   How much does it help that after Game 4 it felt that way, that you guys‑‑  
    KEVIN McHALE:   You know what, this is no time for‑‑ there's no feelings.   There's no feelings.   I don't understand feelings.   You're playing basketball.   You've got to play with force and you've got to play harder.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT