NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 23, 2015
Kevin McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did Dwight look today at shoot‑around?
KEVIN McHALE:   He didn't do a lot at shoot‑around today but he said he felt pretty good yesterday, just from flying back and was glad to hear he felt pretty good after putting a lot of minutes the other night.   I mean, you know, we're going to play him as much as‑‑ about as much as we can. 

Q.   In these kind of situations, game day, travel day, are there things you might want to work on or put in that you just can't?
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, there may be a couple adjustments, but the adjustments you're trying to make right now, if you haven't worked on them all year long, it's hard to make adjustments on the fly, just something completely new. 
We're looking at a few things, but again, we're going to have to just go out there and play well.   We had low turnovers last game, got to continue that.   Going to have to get the ball moving a little bit more, make their defense go from side to side, but we've got to make plays when we have them available.   They put two on the ball with James, we've got to get off that and make plays downhill.   Same things as we always talk about. 

Q.   There's a significant difference in you guys defensively first 15 minutes to the last 30.   Did you find something there?
KEVIN McHALE:   I mean, I think the more you play a team, the more each team catches a rhythm.   You very seldom see series‑‑ as the series goes on, the scoring just continues to improve.   Everybody kind of catches a little bit of a rhythm with each other, and they're a tough team to catch a rhythm on, but we've got a couple things that we like what we're doing.   We've got to take away some of the mistakes, like leaving Steph Curry to help out on other drives.   We keep harping on that.   Instincts do take over at times where guys all of a sudden, they're halfway of helping and then they, oops, they'd better not get back there and it's too late.   And the guy has got a tremendously quick trigger and doesn't take a lot of space to get it off. 
And then they've hurt us on some back screens and some stuff that the back guy has just got to read that and not be worried about flying out of the front.   He's got to just take care of the back and bump the guy or switch it.   I mean, there's some things that we'll get better on, and the bottom line is you've just got to do it out there.   When you stop the tape, believe me, everybody is really, really smart and everybody is really in the right position.   The game is not played like that.   Every decision is you're a hell of a shooter, I'm running up, I think you're coming off, you stop, you brush back, back quick, that guy goes.   It happens very quickly.   We've just got to be better at it.

Q.   You talk about bumping.   Has the series been as physical as you want?
KEVIN McHALE:   You know, we've got to get on the boards a little bit more.   I think we need to pressure them there.   They play a lot of five out, especially when they go small.   We've got to get the ball to Dwight more when he's open in the post.   We looked at that one, especially when they go small, early in the clock. 
But you know, I mean, I would like to see us bang around, move around a little bit more on the inside and get some more offensive rebounds, more put‑backs.

Q.   How has your relationship with Daryl kind of evolved over the years?
KEVIN McHALE:   This is like the third relationship question.   Is this like Oprah?   We get along great.

Q.   Just your appreciation of what he's done the last couple years. 
KEVIN McHALE:   I mean, I said it earlier this year, adding Brew and Josh Smith were fantastic.   I think everybody would like to have continuity.   With change, there's always different things.   I mean, you're trying to learn players, trying to figure out what buttons to push, trying to figure out do some guys respond different ways to different situations.   But no, I thought that this year, kind of on the fly with a really bizarre year with a lot of injuries, a lot of just different stuff going on that the additions of Josh and Brew were huge.   Saved our season really.

Q.   Is it a point worth making about catching a rhythm?   You're specifically referring to defense. 
KEVIN McHALE:   Yeah, but they usually catch a rhythm on you.   But unfortunately there's another team out there.   We'd do really well if we were 5 on 0.   They're doing the same thing.   That just happens in series.   I'm sure you can show me some examples where it doesn't, but I can show you a million of them where the scoring just gradually ticks down a little bit.   After I've played you three or four different times, if I can't get a feel kind for your‑‑ you get a feel for things, and if you don't, then you're not concentrating enough. 

Q.   How have Josh and Terrence played the first two games of the series from what you've seen? 
KEVIN McHALE:   I mean, hey, look, if those guys are‑‑ I thought that Terrence had a really good‑‑ finished around the basket well, which he's going to have to do.   We need Josh to play make from that spot.   He's one of our top playmakers, so as the ball comes out to him we need him driving and moving and getting on top of the defense more.   But you know, I mean, both those guys have got to rebound the ball better.   We haven't rebounded that position as well as we need to, and they're both capable of playing much better, and I'm sure they will. 

Q.   Did you ever tell a guy to stop shooting? 
KEVIN McHALE:   No, I don't ever say stop shooting because what do you do if there's one second on the shot clock, Coach told me to stop shooting.   You just tell them earlier in the clock, move it, attack.   If you miss this shot, do this.   I mean, you give them different things to do, but no, I'll tell you what, if you ever want to see a guy shoot really bad, tell him he can't shoot.   The day that works, I'll change my philosophy, but I've got 35 years of seeing guys yell at players, like you've got to stop shooting.   I'm like, do you think that helps the guy?   As a player, I'd say, really?   Okay.   You can tell him drive more.   You can tell him to do some other stuff, and everybody is capable of doing other stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT