NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 5, 2000
Walt Weiss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much of a disadvantage is it not to hit today?

WALT WEISS: For me? Well, I mean, you get kind of used to it. There are a number of
times over the course of the season you do not take BP outside. You go in the cage, me
personally, I would rather go through a regular routine out on the field. I like to get
ground balls before every game and hit out on the field, but we are used to having to
improvise and take BP inside, get ready that way. You need -- when you do that, you need
the go out a little earlier than you normally do before the game and work a little sweat
up.

Q. What do you think of playing a series that seems to have more off days than games?

WALT WEISS: It is a little draining, especially in this sport, we are used to playing
every day. You get to the postseason, you have days off, it kind of makes it a little
different, you make the adjustment. It is really not that big a deal, other than it is a
little odd because we are used to playing every day.

Q. You played for Tony a number of years ago, is he the same manager now that he was
then?

WALT WEISS: It is hard to say, you know, totally. I do not see him every day. Not a
whole lot has changed, just the handful of times we played against him over the course of
the season, I don't think a lot has changed. I learned a lot playing under Tony, broke
into the League, he was my first manager. I really learned a lot playing under him. I have
a feeling for what he likes to do in certain situations, he usually does it. But -- yes, I
don't think a lot has changed. He is very well prepared, it is tough to surprise him.

Q. If this is your last season as a player, are you looking at the Playoffs in a
different way?

WALT WEISS: I catch myself at times thinking this might be the last time I am doing
certain things. Particularly playing in postseason. Once the game starts, you are focused
in on the task at hand. Sure, there are times when I am sitting around and thinking, this
may be the last time I do this, there is no doubt that I reflect on that.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT