NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Walt Weiss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Walt, can you describe how you feel about contributing so much to the offense of
last night's game?

WALT WEISS: I think particularly in the postseason, a lot of times it's up to the guys
at the bottom of the order. Sometimes the very top of the order can't make a contribution
because they're usually trying to pitch around the guys in the middle and come right after
the guys at the bottom of the order. They don't want to walk those guys, put them on base.
So you tend to get more pitches to hit when you're down there. They're always a little
more careful with the middle line-up. So I was in a position to get a hit or two in a key
situation last night, and it just happened to come through.

Q. Walt, Bobby talked a little bit about you swinging better and the work you've done
with Don. Can you talk about that a little bit?

WALT WEISS: Well, I spent a lot of time in the cage the second half of the season,
especially when I wasn't playing. I spent a lot of time up in our cage during the game.
And Don knows me real well. We've been together half my career, with three different
teams. He's got a keen eye for when I'm doing things right at the plate and when I'm not.
And it just takes a word or two from him to plant a seed, or to really let me know what I
need to do. We don't have to spend a whole lot of time talking. He just says a word or two
and gets the point across. He's just got a -- he's real observant with me. He's seen me so
long, and it's nice to have him around. It always helps when a guy knows you that well and
he's that observant.

Q. Can you give us an example of a word or two that he might say that would trigger a
thought?

WALT WEISS: Basically, he just keeps it real simple. He tells me to -- most of the
time, I need to stay back. Like my first at-bat last night, I was trying to hit the ball
out in front too much, and I was real susceptible to the splitfinger from Yoshii. It's
just a matter of him usually telling me that I need to stay back, use a big part of the
field, stay inside the ball, don't get to hooking the ball. And that's really the key.

Q. What were you doing at the plate in September that you weren't doing in August and
July?

WALT WEISS: I think when I missed the month on the DL and I came back, I really had a
hard time finding any kind of timing or rhythm at the plate. And I started trying to make
some big time adjustments and ended up getting worse and worse. I think when I wasn't
playing later in the season, it gave me a lot of time, extra time really during the game.
Early in the game, a lot of times I would come up and hit in the cage for the first two or
three innings, and I was able to work some things out. Really, try to just get back to my
basics and keeping it simple, instead of trying to make the big changes that I was trying
to do, I think, in July and August after missing all that time. So it was just a matter of
getting back to my basics and simplifying my whole approach.

Q. What was your reaction at the time when the team acquired Jose Hernandez? Have you
gone up and down confidence-wise this year?

WALT WEISS: Well, it was obvious when they got Jose, I knew my playing time would be
decreased. And justifiably so. We got him at a time where I was really at the height of my
struggles. He's a force offensively. We needed that especially after Javy went down, and
we lost a lot of our pop in our line-up when Javy did go down. Having Jose in there was a
big lift for us. I knew he could play a bunch of positions, but I was really the only one
struggling offensively in the line-up. It's not hard to figure out. I knew he'd be playing
a lot. So as far as confidence-wise, sure, that fluctuates at times. When you're not
getting a whole lot of playing time, you wonder if you're in the picture at all, if you're
fitting in. But the thing with this game, we play every day for eight months and things
can change rapidly. Fortunately for me, I've been able to get a chance in the postseason,
and I'm looking at it as a new start.

Q. The play you made in Game 3 at Houston, have you seen that on tape, and when you see
it, how do you look at that play?

WALT WEISS: You know, I was interested in seeing it, just because it happened so fast
during the game, I don't really remember how I got the throw off. It was just a reaction
play. I was interested in, like I said, in seeing how I made the throw. I wasn't sure if I
threw it from the ground or if I got to my feet; it just happened so fast. I just kind of
spun around and let it go. Eddie made a nice play on the other end to stay on the base, on
home plate. But I was just more interested in seeing how it materialized.

Q. Can you remember ever having to make a throw like that, because it was like you were
spinning and throwing at the same time without knowing where you were throwing?

WALT WEISS: I've made throws like that before; I don't think ever to home plate. I've
had to make throws like that when I had to dive in the hole and throw the guy out at first
and had to kind of throw from that same position. But never where I had to kind of do a
360 before I threw it.

Q. Walt, what are your impressions of Ordonez as a fielder? Is he as good a fielder as
you've ever seen at short?

WALT WEISS: I think most people have seen Rey has a flashy guy who makes the great
play, but what's been so impressive is his errorless streak. I think it's 100-games plus.
To do that, I think, is next to impossible at shortstop. That really goes to show his
consistency on the routine play. A lot of times, the guys that are real flashy, they get
labeled as guys that make the great play, but they botch the routine ones, and he proves
that he makes the routine play every time. He's as good as I've ever seen.

Q. Do you take anything from watching him or does he do things at different levels at
shortstop?

WALT WEISS: Fundamentally, I think he's basic on the routine ball. The one thing I
haven't figured out how to do is how he goes in the hole and slides on one knee and throws
right away. I don't think I'm going to try that one (laughter).

Q. Walt, you're from New York, so the fact that when you are around players on teams
and fans and media who talk about New York or not from New York, what do you think about
that?

WALT WEISS: I can't argue with them (laughter). I grew up there; so I know it better
than anybody, probably, on this club. It's different there. There's things I miss about
being there and things I don't. But there's no doubt it's a different breed of fan in New
York. They live for their sports back there. And that's not the case in a lot of -- in
most other areas of the country. So I think for that reason, the fans are a little bit
different, a little more harsh.

Q. Talk about facing Leiter in Game 3, what Leiter can do?

WALT WEISS: He's proven to be the Mets big-game pitcher down the stretch. He's tough.
He continually gets inside on guys and jams them with the action on his fastball. He cuts
it in on the right and makes it real difficult. If you do hit it, you usually hit a foul.
It's tough to hit it well and keep it fair, because it bears in on you so much. And it
looks like a strike for about 58 feet, and the last two feet, it's on your hands. So it's
a tough at-bat every time you face him.

Q. Walt, does playing behind a pitching staff of the caliber of the Braves make it
easier on defense than it would say on a lesser staff?

WALT WEISS: Yeah. The bottom line is they throw quality strikes. It's always a little
tougher when you've got guys working behind the count all the time and walking guys. The
important thing for me is that they hit their spots. And that let's me call the coverage
on the hit-and-runs and on the steals without any apprehension, because I know that the
pitch is going to be where the catcher wants it to be. And that means a lot defensively.
It means a lot anticipating where the ball is going to be hit. And like I said, if I have
to switch up coverage on a steal, I know that they're going to put the ball where it's
called. So that definitely helps. 

Q. How much better are you physically now or has that been a factor? When you came off
the DL, were you okay since you came off?

WALT WEISS: I was fine when I came off the DL. It was more just the time missed, I
think, that I struggled with. But my leg has been fine. I got a lot of rest on the second
half, so it feels great.

Q. You've won 10 of 13 against this team, do you have to guard against any
overconfidence going out here?

WALT WEISS: No, that's not a problem. Everybody knows how dangerous the Mets can be.
The way they stormed back into the playoffs definitely made an impression; so I don't
think overconfidence will be a factor at all.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT