MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 6, 1998
Andres Galarraga
Walt Weiss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. For the millionth time, could you just talk about being in your first All-Star Game,
the gesture that the Rockies did in being able to have your family out here with you in
light of the events that transpired?

WALT WEISS: I mean, I haven't had a whole lot of time to really anticipate these next
three days. But it's special for me to be back here in Colorado, particularly, and playing
in this game for the first time. The owner of the Rockies, Jerry McMorris, had his private
plane fly to Atlanta and bring my whole family back here to Denver. That really enabled my
son and my -- my three year old son, Brody to come back with us and watch the game. I
don't know if he would have had the energy to fly commercially. Jerry made that gesture
and offered to bring us back. I told him I didn't know how to thank him. I mean, it just
blows me away that he would consider even doing something like that for my family. Really,
it's something special. I'll never forget that he's done that for my family.
MODERATOR: Next question.

Q. What's it going to be like? You both are going to get a warm welcome tomorrow night.
How are you guys going to fight back the emotion when you get that kind of reception?

MODERATOR: How are you guys going to fight back the emotion, both you and Andres, when
you are introduced tomorrow night on the lines at Coors Field?
WALT WEISS: I don't know if I will be able to. I mean, it's going to be something that
I can't probably prepare for. I don't know what to expect. But I know the fans have always
been good to me here. I've always felt like I had a special relationship with the fans
here. I think they're the best fans in baseball. So to be able to play my first All-Star
Game here in Denver is ironic and really special for me.
ANDRES GALARRAGA: If I play here against the Rockies, the first time we come here, play
against the Rockies, all the people they give me great ovation. I think tomorrow night
they got to be better because I think that's the best fans in the world, too. They show me
to play hard every day, keeping going no matter how is the time, what's the weather, what
happen with the team. I just play hard every day, every inning. That's something I really
appreciate for the fans and here.
MODERATOR: A couple more questions. 

Q. What has Brody's day been like today, Walt?

WALT WEISS: We took him to our pediatrician here in Denver. This is where we make our
home, so we have the pediatrician that normally sees Brody for the everyday type of stuff.
We took him there this morning, got him checked out. He's going to have to be monitored
once or twice a week for the next few months, just make sure that he's doing okay. He's
definitely on the right road. He doesn't have the energy that he once had yet, but he'll
get there. For the most part, he went to the doctor, now he's been sitting around the
house. It's not tough to keep him from being too active because he doesn't have a whole
lot of energy yet, but that will change.

Q. Home run hitting contest today. What's your prediction and how do you think you'll
do?

MODERATOR: Andres, the home run hitting contest, what's your prediction? I might as
well tell you, he's not participating due to injury.
ANDRES GALARRAGA: I feel really sorry, too, to not participate. I want to do, believe
me. Probably everybody know about two week ago, I've been losing four or five games. I had
a problem in my low back. Right now I feel much better, but I don't want to get hurt again
to miss some in the regular season.
WALT WEISS: I'm going to take his spot (laughter).

Q. Do you still have a prediction who might win?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: I don't know, it's difficult. There's a lot of good power hitters in
the competition today. I say McGwire will probably hit the farther one, but I don't know
who is going to win it.

Q. When both of you left Coors Field, didn't think your numbers would be as good as
they are. Proved everybody wrong. Do you think that kind of takes away from the stigma
that Coors Field juices up the numbers a little bit? You've been able to get good numbers
together in Atlanta.

MODERATOR: Do you think the numbers you put up in Atlanta have taken away the stigma of
the numbers at Coors Field being as high as they are?
ANDRES GALARRAGA: I think it's really good for all the players that have played really
good. They've been hitting really good at Coors Field. What we do outside Coors Field,
they give you more publicity for other players. Like Dante, Walker, Ellis, all those
players. I know I get tired when I get here. Believe me, I feel really happy to be here
today to put some good number outside of Coors Field to show a lot of people that don't
believe that we can do that. That's why it's something really special for me, probably for
other players here in Colorado. They can hit a home run anywhere.

Q. Your old teammates thank you for doing that, taking away that stigma?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, probably, what I want to say is probably give more publicity,
to Walker, Vinny, Dante, all those guys. If they hitting here, they can hit anywhere they
go. So that's why that's good what happen to me and Walt. Even McCracken, a couple
players, they play here before, so they got a good year outside of Coors Field.
MODERATOR: Walt, your thoughts on that?
WALT WEISS: I mean, I feel the same way. Everyone around the game knows that Cat is one
of the best run producers in the game. I feel good for him because he's finally, I think,
getting the recognition and the respect that he deserves as a player. There wasn't any
doubt in my mind that he was going to put up big numbers in Atlanta. When you can hit, you
can hit. There's no doubt that Coors Field is a hitter's park. No one is going to deny
that. You don't automatically come here and hit 40 home runs. I think any of the players
that are playing here that Cat mentioned: Dante, Walker, Vinny, Ellis, you put those guys
in other parks, they'll put up big numbers there, too. It's good to see Cat doing so well
outside Coors Field. I think it does erase the stigma for some of the guys that are still
here. I hope it does.
MODERATOR: One more question for these two.

Q. Would you please elaborate on the All-Star experience, what you enjoy the most about
it?

WALT WEISS: I don't really know yet. This is my first one. I haven't really had a
chance to really take it in yet. I think when I get outside and I look around at some of
the true superstars out there, guys like Gwynn, McGwire, Bonds, then it will probably hit
home more for me. I haven't had a whole lot of time to reflect on it yet. This whole
process is just getting started. But I'm sure it's going to be real special.
MODERATOR: Andres?
ANDRES GALARRAGA: It's really special. Every moment we get in the All-Star is something
that's special for every player. It's a moment we never forget. I mean, the Home Run
Derby, a lot of baseball, a lot of interview, they have fun with all those players
together, all the superstar together. I mean, every single thing, it's something special
to all the 25 player here of the world.
MODERATOR: All right, guys, thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT