WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 9, 2009
Scott Richmond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT RICHMOND: I've prepared myself. I've been ready. I came into camp early. I came in ready. I got a little tired the last inning there against the Blue Jays coming into the fourth inning, or the third towards the end. I extended my pitch count, and I feel like I can get four. The whole thing for me and everybody is just keep the pitch count down so you are not exhausted by the fourth. You are just hitting your prime and can go through the fourth no problem.  
  
  Q. It kind of suits your style, right? You go after guys, right?  
 SCOTT RICHMOND: Right, exactly. Up here with Team Canada, even in Toronto, you have to have big league defense behind you. You got all those guys behind you. I like to take advantage of that. I don't want to try to get anybody out myself. I want to use the defense behind me. By doing that, I just have to pound the strike zone. They can't defend walks, and I'm trying to throw strikes.  
  
  Q. Did you watch Venezuela yesterday to see what you might want to do against those guys on the mound?  
 SCOTT RICHMOND: I watched the game. I watched a little bit. I was having dinner, but I was definitely keeping my eye on it.   
 Yeah, I saw some things. I saw some hitters, what their tendencies are. And Russ and I are going to go over it, and I'll be prepared.  
  
  Q. What's the issue this time of year versus once you've gotten your strength up? Is it velocity? Is it control? Execution?  
 SCOTT RICHMOND: Just duration of the game. It's just, you know, just how to get your pitch count up, keep pitching through many innings of the game. I want to go six, seven, eight innings a game. That's what spring's for, to get your pitch count up.   
 I had two outings until this one coming up, and hopefully, it just gets that pitch count up. You know, throwing and working ahead, and that's the whole thing for me. Just like you said, throwing strikes and getting ahead so you are not exhausted by throwing balls and going deeper into innings and gets that pitch count up.   
 It's very important to work ahead and use that defense, get outs within three pitches, you know, don't take five, six pitches to get an out. If you are going to get an out, get it in three and make it easy.  
  
  Q. Has it been difficult to wait for this start?  
 SCOTT RICHMOND: It's been exciting. We've only had one game, but practice yesterday was good. The first game was one of the best games I've been part. The whole crowd was amazing, standing for the whole ninth inning. The guys played great. We're excited to get out there today and get to that next game tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Knowing that you pitched here last year, with the nerves going through and your home debut last year, will it be equally as stressful tomorrow?  
 SCOTT RICHMOND: I feel comfortable here, for sure. Even though I only had four starts here, it's four more than a lot of the guys here have. So I feel comfortable here. The crowd's great. They know me. They're going to be behind me. I'm just excited to get out there.   
 And, you know, it's just a great place to play. And we're at home, Canada's team, and we're going to give another good showing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT