SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 24, 2015
Cindy Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was the round out there today?   Pretty solid position. 
  CINDY FENG:   Yeah, I played great today.   Made a lot of birdies, which always helps.   Made some putts.
  Just didn't did anything too stupid.   I think.   Yeah, it was good.
Q.   You find yourself in the hunt going into the weekend.   What's your approach going to be?
  CINDY FENG:   No clue.   I don't know.   I don't really feel like I'm in the hunt, so to speak.   Like I played two decent rounds, and I'm sure they can post some numbers out there today.
  Just keep doing what I'm doing, I guess.
Q.   How were the conditions out there today?
  CINDY FENG:   In the morning it was a little cold.   It was fortunate because I was hitting some good shots in the morning so that didn't get to me too bad.
  Then towards the end‑‑ well, the wind was like on and off, so wasn't like crazy windy.   When we saw the forecast and it was like 20 miles, I'm like, Oooh, 20 miles.   That's kind of in intense.
  But some of the trees block it.
Q.   This course is considered one of the tougher ones out there.   Obviously good finish at the Open last year.   Is there something about tougher courses that fits your game?
  CINDY FENG:   I hope so.   I don't know if anything fits my game.   If I'm playing well, any course is fine; if I'm not playing well, any course is hard.
  That's how golf goes.
Q.   Could you tell us a little bit of your back story, coming to the states at young age to play golf. 
  CINDY FENG:   Yeah, I don't really feel young anymore.   See some of those teenagers, and obviously Lydia is leading, and then the winners this year, they are all like ‑‑ there is like a 19 year old out there and 18 playing on tour.
  Yeah, I don't really‑‑ feel like age is not that big of a deal anymore because there are so many young good players.   Like I say, I don't really feel that young anymore.
  I've been playing golf for a long time.   I know some of the girls out here from junior golf.   There are a lot of good players from overseas, Korea.   So it's a growing game, and there are a lot of names popping up that I never heard of before.
  They come out and play really well, so it's really competitive now. 
Q.   And kind of from your own background, how did you get started in the game and what brought you over here to the LPGA? 
  CINDY FENG:   I started playing when I was four and a half in China, and my dad was one who got me into it. 
  Then it helps that Tiger was in China and I got to play with him.   That was like a defining moment because my dad such a die‑hard Tiger fan.
  So that definitely helped, to meet your idol and then, Oh, wow, I get to play with him.   Let's do this.
  And then we moved here ten years ago to Orlando, and I've been there since to just play, play junior tournaments, practice every day.   You kind of just go through the junior tournaments, play some AJGA s, considering if you go to college or not.
  At the time, I was playing well enough and I did well at Q‑School, so I was fortunate where I said, Oh, if I get the chance to play here, why not? 
  So here I am.
Q.   For the people that don't know, could you tell the Tiger woods story from when you were younger? 
  CINDY FENG:   Yeah, so he made his first trip to China in 2000 I believe.   I was almost six at the time, and somehow I got play with him for two holes. 
  But, yeah, it was two holes.   I got to walk with him.   I mean, I was still young.   I had his pictures all up on the wall at the time.   It was one of those like ‑‑ he was my idol. 
  To see him in person and then to have all those people follow him, it was crazy.   It's such a long time ago honestly that my memory is not that great.   It's kind of like in that distant foggy memories.   Like, Oh, wow, I played with him. 
  You see him and you're like, You're supposed to know me.   No, you don't, but you're supposed to because I played with you before.   But you don't. 
  Yeah, it was such a fond memory.   Like I said, I was six.   You don't really know what you're doing.   I remember when he first came and at the hotel.   It was kind like a red carpet welcoming him and like a farewell thing. 
  There were ropes everywhere.   I just ran underneath the ropes and hugged him.   He's mine.   I'm supposed to do this.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT