NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Peter Malin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Peter Malin was selected by Mavs Gaming with the No. 5 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is PeteBeBallin.
Q. What is this like for you to be picked into the 2K League?
PETER MALIN: Yeah, it's definitely a surreal experience.  Of course, you can't really prepare for an experience like this since there's nothing to go against.  But, I'm definitely prepared for this experience.  I think I've put in a lot of work, and the hard work I put in, it paid off, and I'm really happy for the people that believed in me.  I'm really happy to prove them right.
Q. How many hours a day do you spend playing the game?
PETER MALIN: I'd say on average I spend about four hours on NBA 2K19 a day, trying to perfect my craft and get better at the game, and even more than a playing type of person, I really pride myself on being a good teammate, so definitely that's some of the biggest aspects of my game that I bring.
Q. For some people like me who doesn't really know exactly what it means, what does it mean to be a good teammate?
PETER MALIN: Yeah, so playing with my teammates, say a negative situation happens.  Always being a positive teammate, maybe giving them positive feedback and positive criticism, rather than negatively throwing shots at them or making them feel uncomfortable in the moment.
Q. When did you start playing?
PETER MALIN: My first 2K was NBA 2K8, so I was only eight years old when I picked up my first 2K.
Q. When did you realize that you had developed into a pretty good player?
PETER MALIN: So, really when I considered taking 2K competitively and I realized me playing professionally was possible was when I started winning tournaments and leagues in NBA 2K18.  I won thousands of dollars playing in leagues, and that's when I realized that this could actually become a future of mine.
Q. And I take it you were happy to discover that?
PETER MALIN: Yes.  Very excited.
Q. How old were you when you started to [get good]?
PETER MALIN: Eight.
Q. And then when you become really good you were 18 you said?
PETER MALIN: I'd say I became really good when I was around 16.  That's when I started taking it competitively and realized a future could come out of this situation.
Q. What did your parents say when -- generally we tend to say don't stay too much in front of the TV, don't stay too much in front of the screen?
PETER MALIN: Yeah, so growing up, maybe the first couple years of high school, that's what I heard a lot from my parents, but eventually once they saw the money that I was making and experiences that were coming from this situation, they started to support me even more, and they're really supportive of the situation 100 percent today.
Q. You qualified as a small forward.  I'm assuming you were selected as a center for the Mavs.  How do you feel you're going to fit with Dimez on the court play-style wise?
PETER MALIN: I think I'll fit in really well.  It's just the type of person I am.  I'm one to be a positive teammate, not really cause any problems within an organization or a team, so I think me going to an organization I'll have a positive mindset and I'll be perfect for someone that wants to fit in with Dimez.
Q. How do you feel with playing along with Dimez in the future?
PETER MALIN: I don't think Dimez gets a lot of credit for the things he does.  I think he's a really good player, and he's really under-looked in terms of how people portray him, but I'm really excited to go to Dallas and form a great organization with him.
Q. Is basketball your favorite sport or you have some other ones you enjoy?
PETER MALIN: Yes, basketball is my favorite sport.  I played basketball one year in high school, and I love watching it and playing with my friends at the park all the time.
Q. Have you been to Dallas before?
PETER MALIN: I have not.  I have not been to the West Coast or really anywhere central.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT