ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Audrey Albie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Z. DIYAS/A. Albie   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  What is your overview of this match in the French Open?  
AUDREY ALBIE: It was a wonderful experience, but it was tough match.  She played very well.  I played less well.  But all in all, it is a wonderful experience.   
 Q.  Was there a lot of stress, a lot of apprehension or was there pleasure?  
AUDREY ALBIE: There was a bit of everything.  There was certainly stress.  Certainly you saw it.  But I enjoyed myself playing here.   
 Q.  From a tactical or technical point of view, what are your regrets?  
AUDREY ALBIE: I would say it's more a matter of mindset.  This is where everything was crucial.  I couldn't manage my feelings, my emotions, and this is why it was so tough.   
 Q.  From a tennis point of view, what was lacking?  
AUDREY ALBIE: I didn't feel relaxed enough.  As I said earlier, I couldn't manage my emotions.  This is what was lacking.   
 Q.  During the second set, it seems that you didn't manage things well.  
AUDREY ALBIE: Well, I tried to do my utmost.  I tried to play loose as much as I could.  But when I was up again, I was stressed again, and this is why I was even more tense than before.   
 Q.  I felt that it was hard for you to win the points.  
AUDREY ALBIE: I was far behind the line.  She was actually taking the balls very early on.  And I was so excited to win the points that I was actually making unforced errors.   
 Q.  What about the atmosphere on court?  How did you feel it?  
AUDREY ALBIE: I thought it was awesome.  The atmosphere was great.  With the crowd being French, I was cheered by the crowd.  I felt supported even though I didn't play well and I was struggling.  It was a wonderful moment.   
 Q.  Did you hear the fan behind you?  He's quite well-known here.  Did it make you laugh or did it embarrass you?  
AUDREY ALBIE: No, it doesn't bother me because he's still respectful.  He doesn't do that during the important points.  He's doing that between the different points, so it doesn't bother me.   
 Q.  What is next?  
AUDREY ALBIE: I will practice, and then I will continue on the French clay court tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT