PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Kelly Mitchum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round.   Struggled out of the gate a little bit but you were able to make a birdie on the back and really stabilize the round. 
KELLY MITCHUM:   Yeah, I felt like I played better than I shot.   But there's not much forgiveness out there on that golf course.   We played it condition wise probably about as easy as it's going to play.   Very little wind until the last few holes. 
I would have liked to have gotten a little bit more out of my round today, but overall I'm glad to be done.

Q.   What time did you get off this morning and what time did you get to the course?
KELLY MITCHUM:   I got up at 5:00 and got here‑‑ was running a little bit late, so I got here about 6:30.

Q.   Any sort of extra nerves or butterflies being the first out this morning?
KELLY MITCHUM:   This is the PGA Championship.   I'm not in it every day, so yeah, it wouldn't matter what time I was off.

Q.   Pretty proud to be out there, first tee shot, first ball in the PGA of America's national championship?
KELLY MITCHUM:   Yeah, it was awesome getting out there.   I joked with people earlier in the week, I feel fortunate to get the ball in the air first shot.   At least I hope I'll get it in the air anyway.   I got it in the air, and yeah, that was pretty neat.

Q.   Do you take any honor in that, being able to hit the first ball of the tournament? 
KELLY MITCHUM:   No, I'm just glad it worked out.   I don't know how I got that tee time, but I'm glad it worked out.

Q.   There were one or two shots where I had a chance to do a little better than you did.   Where were those? 
KELLY MITCHUM:   Yeah, on the 4th hole I drove it really good.   Had a good, comfortable yardage, 6‑iron into the green.   I just missed it a little right.   Didn't get up‑and‑down, so I made bogey there.   And then 7 I hit a good tee shot, tried to play a little lay‑up shot and lost it in the right rough and made bogey there on a par‑5 when I was in the middle of the fairway off the tee. 
And then 10, 12 and 13, I hit a bad drive on 10, and then 12 and 13 I kind of gave a couple of short putts away. 
There was definitely some room for improvement out there, but I got up‑and‑down a couple times, too. 

Q.   How many times have you played in the PGA before?
KELLY MITCHUM:   This is my fourth, and I played at Southern Hills in 2007.

Q.   What are your thoughts on getting back here and the process of trying to get back here?
KELLY MITCHUM:   Yeah, kind of neat to get back here because it's been a while since I played in one.   Kind of went through a couple of years of some poor play.   It's always nice to get back here.

Q.   Were you afraid you weren't going to get to another one?
KELLY MITCHUM:   You just never know in this game.   You just got to keep hanging in there.   I played well at National Club Pro this year, so that was fun, and to get back here and especially in my backyard.

Q.   Between the Club Pro and this week did you have a chance to come down at all?
KELLY MITCHUM:   I didn't.   I have a full‑time job, you know. 

Q.   Speaking of back home, how excited is Pinehurst Resort and the local community about you coming out here, and do you have a pretty good following on television? 
KELLY MITCHUM:   Yeah, I'm afraid so.   They're a little too excited back home.   Yeah, you know, it's been neat.   Pinehurst has been very supportive, and they've been getting the word out.   A little extra pressure to play well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT