TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2016
Robert Garrigues
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
ROBERT GARRIGUES   
 Q.  Back-to-back 67s.  What a great way to finish with the birdie on 9.  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: Yeah, it was great.  I got a perfect read.  (Indiscernible) got up and hit it.  I was standing on the other side of the hole and I was kind of surprised he was already hitting.   
Got a perfect read and right where I wanted to, right in the middle, and went in the hole.   
 Q.  Yeah, it was really quick.  So you knew the line all the way, didn't you?  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: Yeah, it was pretty easy actually.  He was hitting it behind me all -- the last two days.  Was kind of nice.  I had the reads on a lot of putts.  It was nice to get one there.   
I kind of had an idea what it was doing.  Didn't break as much as I thought, which was nice to see, and I rolled it in.   
 Q.  6-under puts you in great position.  You know how important this weekend is.  You're 133 right now in FedExCup points.  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: Yeah, golf is not really too important, but this weekend is.  My family is the most important thing, God is the most important thing in my life, so I'm not really too worried if I take one down.  So be it.  If not, it's not the end of the world.  I have two more tournaments to go and I'm really playing well, calm, and I'm swinging well and I an rolling them so good.   
I'm not really too worried about things.  I am going to go take a nap, enjoy some sleep, and come back and see if I can get it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Bookend rounds of 67 for you.  Must be pleased.  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: Yes.  Very solid ball striking last two days.  I've been hitting it well every since New Orleans.  I've been on a tear.  I had a bunch of rounds under par, maybe 24 in a row out here.  Putting well, hitting it well, thinking it well.  That adds up to under par rounds.   
 Q.  You finished with a birdie, and that's going to make lunch a little bit nicer.  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: Yeah.  Going to make my nap a lot nicer.  I know that.  I'm going to sleep when I get back.  I know that.  Kind of tired.  I got here Tuesday night.  I had to see my kid off at kindergarten on Monday.  I had to do that.   
Got here on Tuesday night and grinded hard and grinded hard on Wednesday.  I think I definitely need a nap.   
 Q.  Obviously the course is setting up nicely for you.  The sightlines suit you?  
ROBERT GARRIGUES: You know, it does.  The changes are perfect.  They did a phenomenal job.  I didn't even know there were changes until I played because I didn't play practice rounds.   
It was nice to see some of the runoffs.  The grass into too much into the green.  Not too bad.  I just think the bunkering they did was phenomenal.  Made them a little bit deeper.  Nothing but praise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT