TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2013
Bradley Marquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Bradley, could you talk about what you guys accomplished offensively in this bye week this week? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Just each and every day we practice just getting better.   We didn't change anything, but try to keep the same schedule and do the same things we were in the weeks before.   But definitely getting some rest was big for us.   But just continue to work on everything as an offensive. 
We haven't clicked like we want to thus far throughout the season, so we're definitely looking forward to getting all of that together pretty soon.

Q.   These last two games against Kansas have been at 11 a.m. and you've kind of struggled with them.   Is there something about the early game that makes it difficult for you as players? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's a little different than what we're accustomed to.   We've had these 6 o'clock games these last four games, and we've just gotten into a routine.   They'll change it up a little bit.   But I think we're more mature as a team now where we can overcome that and have that not affect us this time around.

Q.   When you go into an environment like that on the road early in the morning, do you guys take it upon yourself to create some energy because you may not get it from the crowd or whatever? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's going into anybody's house.   We have to create our own energy you know because we're all we've got when we go into those stadiums and these fans playing the Big 12.   There are great stadiums and fan bases, so we have to create our own energy, definitely, and just go out there and play the way we know how.

Q.   Kansas had two fumbles against Louisiana Tech the other day. 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, I've seen that.   I didn't watch that in particular, but watching the defense, they're a great defense and they're coached really well.   So definitely in the red zone for our own sake.   We've got to finish in the red zone on our own.   We have our own things to work out, so that's something that we want to get better at, that is something that we're going to have to get better at to continue to be successful and to come out with these games.   But we're just excited.   They have a great defense, and we'll be ready.

Q.   What do you have to do specifically to improve in the red zone?   Practice the fade routes more?   What is it? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   No, we have to execute.   We're getting false starts and holding calls and things that we're inflicting upon ourselves and things that we can control.   So we've got to execute and focus harder down there so we don't make mistakes and push ourselves back.

Q.   What can you do to help the quarterback?   Is it about limiting those mistakes that you talk about, or do you feel like you guys are doing enough to help whether it's Mayfield or Webb in there to do what they need to do to be successful? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I think the biggest thing is we need to minimize our penalties because we're getting positive yards.   We've had 30 yard runs, even touchdowns.   Just getting called back for holding calls and things that we're doing to ourselves.   That's setting us up in bad positions for first and 20s and things of that nature. 
So if we minimize those things, I feel like it will help those guys and help our team as a whole and our offense to keep rolling and not shoot ourselves in the foot on these drives where we get all the way down to the red zone and not finish the way we want to.   So I think that's just the biggest thing.   They're not freshmen anymore.   They've played four games, so they'll be ready.   They're maturing throughout the season.   So we're definitely excited about what's coming.

Q.   Can you practice not getting penalties?   Do you have somebody out there during workouts that calling penalties? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, we do have somebody.   We do have consequences of when we do get penalties of things that we have to run or whatever maybe that day.   So we're definitely trying to emphasize that and want to cut that down definitely.   It's one of our focuses.

Q.   Are you aware of for a couple weeks now fans have been talking about the possibility that you guys will be 7‑0 before you play Oklahoma?   (No microphone).   If so, what are your thoughts on the opportunity? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   We're not worried about that.   We're excited about the opportunity to play Kansas and get this conference on the road and playing in the Big 12 conference the rest of the way now, finishing up the non‑conference.   We're not worried about looking down the road to 7‑0 or whatever it may be.   We've got Kansas this week.   That's all we're worried about.   That's our main focus.   We'll take that approach each and every week for the following teams.

Q.   What were you able to learn about your team during this bye week this past week? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I mean, to ourselves, we know we have a really good team.   We have something special here.   I feel like our team chemistry with players and coaches is great.   We're definitely excited and just seeing the mistake that's we've made over the past few weeks and knowing that we can control those things, we can be really good if we make those corrections. 
So we just feel like we have something special here.   That is the biggest thing.   We're behind each other a hundred percent.   We're just excited about what's to come.

Q.   Coach Kingsbury said the seniors stepped up this past week and showed some leadership.   Can you enlighten us on what happened and what occurred?   Did somebody say something that sparked that? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I just think as a whole it's maybe been different than in years past with bye weeks where guys kind of just let up and kind of take the week off basically the entire week.   We still had to focus and practice and had things to do in our bye week.   That's where the seniors stepped up and they controlled it, just kept practice as normal as possible and kept the energy up, even knowing that we did not have a game Saturday that we had to keep that energy and bring that focus and the intensity to practice to get that extra week in.   I think that's where seniors stepped up was just getting us going and not taking the week off like maybe had been done in years past.

Q.   Why do you think this team is different in that way? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I think the biggest thing is team chemistry.   All the way from our spring workouts to fall camp, everything else in between.   It just feels different around here.   It's more family, and we're just excited about everything.   We've got each other's back, offense, defense, special teams.   That's on and off the field.   We're just excited. 
We love playing for this program, so we're just excited to be in the position that we're in right now and being able to move forward.

Q.   Going back to Texas State, Jace Amaro, talk about how hits like that ramp up the team? 
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, those are big things.   You see the sidelines, guys get jumping up and down on plays like that especially when they're clean and no penalties get thrown, with the way referees are trying to crack down on those things.   But that's a big play.   That's just guys hustling, finishing plays, and not giving up on it, breaking off your routes and coming back to trying to help your teammates get extra yards.   That's exactly what he did.   That was a big play for us and got us going.   Yeah, it rams up the energy any time whether it's on the road or at home. 
So those things are exciting about football.   That was definitely a big play, and hopefully we'll have a lot more in the future.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT