TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2013
Bradley Marquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   How big was it coming back after the touchdown that the defense gave up and you guys went up 20‑7 and you had a big 39‑yard catch and run for a touchdown?
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   We knew we had to answer it direct.   We hadn't been doing a good job of it the entire game as an offense, and the defense had been bailing us out time and time again.   We knew it was our time to get that momentum kind of back on our side, so that drive was big for us to get it down there and get some momentum back and some points, so it was definitely big.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   We definitely left a lot.   We need to finish in the red zone.   We pride ourselves on that, and we can't be settling for field goals, when granted, Bustin did a great job tonight setting the school record.   He's definitely a good person to be able to have in your corner and to be able to put them through the uprights, but as an offense we need to finish it down in the red zone when we're close like that.   I feel like we left a lot out there.   The first half was definitely not our game. 
    And defense just played their hearts out today, played as good as they did, and they put up more points than we did the first half, so it was definitely big. 

Q.   Talk about having two different quarterbacks. 
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, it's a little different.   They both have their strengths and weaknesses and their unique styles, the way the ball comes out.   It's something we've been kind of used to.   We've been doing it the entire fall camp and up until now, so it's two great quarterbacks competing each and every week. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's not too big.   I mean, they pretty much split the reps in practice, too.   It's pretty balanced in where each one‑‑ we're kind of used to each other basically, and that just comes with seven‑on‑seven in practice, and they both come to work each and every day.   It's no big difference for us as receivers. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, he's a great player.   He's the leader of this team.   We look up to him as receivers and even as an offense, and the team, he brings so much to this team, and he's done so much for this program.   It's definitely good to see him get out there and get some catches.   Definitely was good for him to see the end zone again.   It's been a while.   He's a competitor.   He wants to be there, and he just never complains about it, just goes to work each and every day, and when the ball is thrown his way he's going to make a play, just like he did in the end zone today.   I didn't get a good look at it, the one‑handed, but I'll end up seeing it later.   But he's made plays like that time and time again over the years, and it's not a surprise to us. 

Q.   Do you think the offense is playing as good as the quarterback right now?
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   No, this is a team game, and it's not any individual.   It's O‑line to quarterbacks, running backs, receivers.   It's a team game, and we've just got to get better each and every week.   We struggled a little bit today, but we'll bounce back from it. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It was just a post route.   I was just able to get on his toes and go up and make a play. 

Q.   What is glove juice and does it work? 
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, it does work.   It's just kind of some liquid.   It's called glove juice, and kind of when you're sliding around on the turf and kind of the stickiness rubs off a little bit, it's good to have.   It's definitely good for us to get the stickiness back in with that glove juice.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's definitely big.   This is a long season, and getting a break, trying to get everybody back.   Everybody is banged up a little bit.   Get our legs back, but definitely get ready.   We're about to go on a long run of conference games now.   The non‑conference is over, so definitely we've got to get our legs back, get our bodies back in order and continue to get better. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, I did.   It's a big body moving at a fast pace, so he can do that to some people.   It's just good luck by him.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT