TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2013
Bradley Marquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's good.   I think, going into the TCU game, I think we had about 11, 12 days straight where we had no days off.   So it was definitely good to get some time off in a way and to ourselves.   The rest is good for us.   Any time you can get rest you want to take full advantage because it is a long season.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible).   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   A lot.   I watched a whole lot of it.   I tried to watch every game.   They had all the TVs on different games, so it was nice to be able to sit back and watch and enjoy it as a fan.  
   
 Q.   Bradley, as a receiver, what do you think about (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, there's definitely instances where it's definitely a good thing, I feel like, from my perspective.   But I know for the defense it's frustrating and it's something that they're going to have to gradually have to get better at because of the instinct to take somebody out or try to separate them away from the ball.   It's kind of difficult.   There is a fine line, and there are some plays that they go one way or the other.   But it's the rules.   Everybody's not going to like it, but it's definitely going to change.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, definitely.   We go into every game really expecting to have big games.   We'd love to have the ball, and we do throw it around here a lot.   So we enjoy doing that.   Anytime we can get into any game, we're looking to have big games, it's not blocking, regardless of catching it or blocking, we're going into the half, definitely.   (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   (Asking about Webb, Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   He was just ready to go.   He took over like he had been in the game the entire time.   I noticed quickly when Baker was down; I knew he was going to have to at least come out for a play, if not more.   Davis' helmet was on and ready to come in before he even stepped off the field.   It was good to see that and he was ready to go.   He was just ready for his time.   He took over and had a really good drive.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I just knew somebody had to make a play.   We had to put points on the board at that point in time.   Just get in the play just ready.   Once my number was called, I was ready to go.   I was able to get a good ball, and great ball by Davis.   Couldn't put it any better.   Getting to the O‑line and everybody, and we finished the drive off the way we needed to.   Definitely good to get a touchdown.  
   
 Q.   What is the difference between Baker's ball and Webb's ball?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   They both have their strengths.   They have their strengths in their game and they're different and unique in their own way.   You know, like I said, Davis is tall, he can probably see a lot more things, but Baker makes plays with his legs when things break down.   
So just the two guys as far as throwing the ball, Baker has great velocity and really quick.   The ball gets down really quick, especially in the shorter routes.   And the intermediate and long passes, Davis throws a great ball as well as Baker.   But they're both working on their game all around and going to get better in all aspects.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) on the sidelines (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   There is, but there was some frustration, but the way the defense was playing it kept us in and kept us confident.   I didn't think we pushed the panic button by any means.   That's credit to our defense.   
It's a team game.   Football is a team game.   For our special teams and defense to play the way they did at the point in time we weren't putting up point when's we needed to.   It was just good they kept us in the game because we knew at some point we were going to be able to get over that and start making plays.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   The call was an in‑bounded fair catch signal.   So as far as that, I guess it was an inbound, fair catch signal.   That's just the way it goes.   I guess we just agree with it on the side.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I don't know if they're much different as far as handling the huddle.   For both of them to be true freshmen they handled it like they've been there before.   They're definitely confident in what they do, both of them in that aspect.   They both have sense of humor and things like that.   They're just having fun playing the game.   
They're young, and we're all enjoying playing the game.   Especially once game time comes, it's all about having fun with all the working put in at practice.   Once the game comes, I would say both of them.   Just relax, have a good time and go out there and play.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's good.   Baker has played well, I would say that.   I would say people are trying to diminish him because of that one drive or how the stretch went.   But he's not going to go through the season with everything going his way.   There is going to be some adversity and things of that nature.   So definitely the quarterback.   He's won the job, and the coaches appointed him that, so we're behind him 100% regardless who is in there.  
   
 Q.   How special is it watching the team (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   It's awesome.   I don't think anybody does it any better.   It's good to be out there and see him and be able to help.   That is the thing with the outside receivers.   We've got to stay on blocks a little longer, you know, for him, because he does make those kind of plays and it's definitely fun to watch.   He's an electrifying, elusive player and he can change a game in a heartbeat.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) coming into the game last year, did that blow over during the course of that game?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I would say it's blown over.   It's a new team now.   It's definitely two in‑state teams.   They love playing.   We've really enjoyed playing them the past two years and hopefully it will continue to grow.   But as far as holding anything over from last year, it's a new season, new team, so we're just ready to go out there and do our thing.  
   
 Q.   How do you prepare for (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   No, I don't think about that at all.   It's about this upcoming game.   All of that is in the past.   We're worried about the future now and having a successful season, you know, trying to win the game each and every week.   So that is our mindset now.   No, no hold overs from back then.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) white‑out game?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   A white‑out game?   Is that what it is?   No, that's nice.   We haven't had one in a while.   So it's been nice.   I've always seen Penn State do it, and it looks like a fun thing.   So, yeah, the white out is definitely exciting.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) did he address you guys about that?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   He hasn't addressed us as a team.   I'm pretty sure he addressed DeAndre on that.   But it's a learning experience.   You know, tendencies with the emotions and the impact of the game, just people being excited.   It's happened all the way up into the NFL.   
So I mean everybody says it's not that hard to hold it all the way in there, but when emotions and things are running high, you can understand it.   It's just a learning process for him.   He won't let it happen again, and we're just glad it didn't hurt us anymore it did.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   We're excited.   Actually, I asked Siri on my iPhone who her favorite team was yesterday and she said Texas Tech, so that was pretty fun.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I was really excited about that.   I talked to Coach Chaney, and they're all excited.   It's a big rivalry.   Regardless how many years removed you are from it or growing up, how old, it's definitely exciting to see.   It's always a rivalry between friends and everyone else on the (Indiscernible) side.   And me and (Indiscernible) kind of exchanged words on Twitter.   So it's a fun rivalry and glad they got the W.   They really deserved it.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   The one handed catch, that was nice.   Little man getting up and making plays, that's what he does.   He was excited to play.   It was good to see that.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   He probably got over six feet.   He's got some ups.   He strained that little arm out and stretched it as much as it can go, and snagged it down.   It's fun to watch him play.  
   
 Q.   Is he the most electrifying player?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I would say so.   He can make plays.   His looks may be a little deceiving.   He looks small out there.   But when he's out there, he's making plays and he's fast, as fast as anybody.   Like I said, he's an exciting player playing.   He can take it to the house at any point in time.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I would say just my blocking.   Both of those plays were big plays.   Blocking, the catch may have been big.   But credit to Davis, when the ball is thrown that good, you've just got to stick your hands up and catch it.   It's not that hard.   
Blocking, I pride myself on that, and for those running backs, got to get them out in open space.   So I enjoy helping my other teammates, you know, and the running backs be successful now.   So I would say the blocking.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   I kind of had it coming here, just because I was a running back before, so I know what it's like.   A lot of the success from a running back standpoint comes from blocking on the perimeter.   A lot of the success I had in high school was because of good receivers blocking down field.   So once I transitioned to receiver when I got here, it was just something that I knew was really important that I needed to do.   And, obviously, the coaches coach us up each and every day at practice about finishing playing and making plays.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   We just enjoy playing football in general.   Playing Texas teams is good because the fans come out and support you and you may have friends at the other schools.   So it's good to see that and play against them.   But we're just excited for the season and ready to play anybody each and every week.   We're just excited to continue to be playing.  
   
 Q.   Is that nice to play on Saturday?   
BRADLEY MARQUEZ:   Yeah, it is nice to kind of get on a normal schedule.   It's been a little funky the first few weeks, but it will be nice to play on Saturday again.  
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT