FEDCUP WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFFS: SWEDEN v USA
April 20, 2013
Sofia Arvidsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ARVIDSSON/S. Stephens
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on the win.   You played really aggressive, served well, and she was struggling there.   What was the game plan going in?   
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   I played her last time in Brisbane and she was dictating the points.   You don't want to be second when you play her, so I tried to be aggressive.   
That's when I won my points.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about after the break you seemed to come out very focused and you were able to handle the conditions a little bit better.   How were you able to keep your focus in the winds and everything else?   
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   Yeah, first set was really hard and I was kind of tired in the second set.   I think the break was good for me.   It was a little cooler when we came out again and a little bit windy.  
It kept changing so it was kind of difficult, but I just tried to stay focused and watch the ball and try to do what I was supposed to do.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday when I talked to Lars he was very happy that you would be playing first.   He thought that you would have a really good chance.   Was that the message he sent to you once the draw was done, that he felt like you would have a good chance and he was happy you were going to play the first match?  
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   Well, first match is always important.   You want to win and put a lot of pressure on the other team.   Of course Serena is very big favorite in the second match.  
So, yeah, it was good.   
   
 Q.   Besides obviously getting on top of her, was there anything in particular you felt you did really well to take her off balance, particularly in the third set?   She seemed very rushed and uncomfortable.   
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   Yeah, well, I was focusing on myself and just trying to play my game.   The wind was difficult, but just tried to be aggressive and be the one who hit first, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Compared to other Fed Cup matches on the road especially, was this kind of a calm atmosphere?   Sometimes when you're on the road it can be pretty rowdy?  
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   Pretty rowdy?   
   
 Q.   Loud.   
SOFIA ARVIDSSON:   Yeah, we were in Argentina in February and they were maybe not so fair.   
This was fun.   It's a great atmosphere.   We really like Delray Beach.   We had a great week here.   It was really exciting to go on this nice court and play today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT