CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
Sara-Maude Juneau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about your round today?   
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   I feel good.   I was just here to have some fun and putts started to fall in.   I made one or two mistakes at the end that I think I could have been lower, but in general I'm really happy.  
   
 Q.   Course conditions kind of favorable for shooting a lot of low scores today but throughout the weekend?  
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   I think it is.   The thing is you've got to stay in the fairway because if you go in the rough it's definitely penalizing because it's really thick, but if you stay in the fairway and you're accurate with your irons, it's definitely scorable.   
   
 Q.   How many more events are you playing?  
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   I have three more on the Symetra Tour.   We are in off weeks now, so that turned out to be good for me, and then I have another week off after this, and we have three more, and then that's it.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you can get from 17 to 10?  
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   I'm trying real hard.   I've done it before, so you know, it's definitely doable.   Everybody is playing well right now, so I think it's good for me to be here and get some experience, and I think I can bring that in two weeks.  
   
 Q.   Would it help if you made the cut?  
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   Yeah, definitely.   Yeah, it's definitely one of my goals is to just keep improving.   I've always put pressure when it's the Canadian Open because you're Canadian and you want to play well.   But this week I just went in there and was like, I'm just going to have fun this week, and it's been good, I had fun today.   
   
 Q.   It seems like everybody other than Brooke is taking the approach of just enjoying themselves.   
SARA‑MAUDE JUNEAU:   Yeah, everybody‑‑ I know maybe how Brooke feels because it's tough to play in front of your country, your crowd, your people, but in general, yeah, I'm just trying to have fun because I know if I put pressure it's not going to work.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT