CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: WASHINGTON VS ALABAMA
December 29, 2016
John Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you guys feel like there's almost a little sense of disrespect out of it all, that you haven't been talked about as much or people seem to not be giving you as big of a chance as you guys think you deserve?
JOHN ROSS: Well, I feel like the whole season, we've been getting the same thing.  It doesn't matter who we play.  People will never give us the credit for what we deserve, how hard we worked.
So it's not even so much about Alabama or this game.  We've been hearing it all season.  Even before the season started, people didn't believe in us.  That never not once knocked us off our course.  Like I said, we just got one goal, that's to win and to stay focused.
Q. I'm sure you guys have been watching a lot of tape on these guys, their games.  What's been the biggest challenge or what is the biggest challenge you think you guys are going to face against this defense?
JOHN ROSS: I wouldn't say the biggest challenge.  I'd say maybe where our competition has to -- you know, like we'll have to show up the most is maybe it starts in the trenches and on the line.
You know, we handle our business there, the game should be a good game.
Q. What's been the biggest surprise so far in this matchup?  Anything surprise you about it?
JOHN ROSS: No, not really.  We prepare hard enough and we work hard enough to not have many surprises come game day.  And I think that's going back to coaching.  We trust our coaches.  We've had a long, a long time to prepare for this game.
Q. A lot of people know Jake, know you.  Who is someone on the team you think that is going to be kind of a key player that you're looking for a big game out of them?
JOHN ROSS: Maybe Dante.  Even though he's had a phenomenal season, I think he's underrated.  Also, Aaron Fuller, another young receiver who I think will have a big game, just because just watching these guys prepare.  Andre Baccellia.
I think there's a lot of guys.  I can go on and on.  I can almost say the whole time because of how underrated we are and none of us get respect, really.  I think it's going to be a good game for a lot of us if we just come in and, you, make no mistakes and have fun.  Sometimes you get in big games like this, everybody wants to be the hero.  But I don't think that's the case in this one.  I think it's more of, you know, teamwork, coming together, trusting each other and having fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT