EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 29, 2012
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Rough start to the round, but you got things going after that.   What was were the keys out there?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Rough start definitely in the beginning.   I was very mechanical when I started.   We got to 5 and we started trying to figure out my swing.   (Indiscernible) Just go out and just trust it.   Let's try to hit shots.   
It was significantly better the bottom two thirds.   
   
 Q.   When you got things going finally on the birdie stretch, what was going through your mind?   
NATALIE GULBIS:   Well, I mean, (indiscernible) players that are not only playing well, but really good at making a ton of birdies.   So I just tried to make as many as I could and take my chances.   
There were a couple pins you had to stay away from.   Then I actually bogeyed 16, so it was nice to birdie the last two.   
   
 Q.   And playing with Karrie today, both of you were playing well and pushing each other.   Do you feel that when you're playing with someone?  
MODERATOR:   You feel it, and you like playing with players that you have a good rapport with.   I always like playing with Karrie.   She had gotten off to a better start than I had, but it was fun when we were both making birdies.   
So you do feed off of good shots.   So if they hit a good shot, you think, I can hit that shot, too, and so you continue to back and forth.   
   
 Q.   I know it's not a victory, but how does it feel to be back in contention again and have that opportunity?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Good, because I had missed three of my last four cuts, and two of those four were in big events.   I had a rough kind of couple weeks off to work on my golf game, so it's nice to see positive things.   
   
 Q.   And for you overall, just this season you've had some really good finishes and some up ups and downs.   (Indiscernible.)  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I have.   I have been healthy, which know on wood has been great.   I've made a couple caddie changes.   It will looking forward to this next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT