U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about how tough it was out there condition‑wise.   
NATALIE GULBIS:   I mean, if you just look at the board, I don't know if anyone has posted an under‑round score yet, but it was playing tough.   The course is long.   The greens are firm, but it's not unplayable.   If you hit good shots you're definitely rewarded for them.   But if you miss a shot it's going to be a really tough up and down.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that someone who's a conditioning person like you has an advantage in this heat?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I think most of the players here are in pretty good shape.   And we play in a lot of these conditions, especially over in Asia.   We start the year in Australia and we play in Thailand and Malaysia, which this field is pretty similar to, so I think most of the girls are used to this kind of heat.  
   
 Q.   The tone of your answer is you don't feel like you've gotten yourself too far out of position.   Is that a correct assessment?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah.   We'll see what scores look like this afternoon.   But you always think even par ‑‑ you know even par is a good score.   But I was frustrated because I bogeyed the last two holes, and I was doing average or at even or being at plus two.   So I've got a little bit of work ahead of me.  
   
 Q.   What things do you need to work on?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Just miss‑hit some iron shots and it's very hard to get up and down.   If you miss a shot here the rough is really tingly.   And it's hard to get a read on how it's going to react coming out but if you hit greens the course is pretty fair.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about getting out early in the morning before the heat settles in getting some holes under your belt?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I don't think the heat is as big a deal.   Maybe in the morning not having as much wind.   I know it can get pretty windy here, and any time you have a morning round you get nice calm conditions and the greens might be a little more receptive.  
   
 Q.   Is there a stretch of three holes out there if you get through those three in par you might be picking up a stroke or two on the field?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   That's a good question, because on this golf course, at least for me, it feels like I have a wedge or five or four.   And those are kind of spread around through the golf course.   You can get a stretch where you hit three or four wedges in a row and then you're hitting a couple 4‑irons and longer clubs.   It's just a really good golf course.   There's not a stretch somewhere sometimes in opens where you get to 13 the course gets tougher.   There's some scorable holes and some kind of hang‑on holes.  
   
 Q.   Is there a number you're looking at tomorrow that you think you gotta shoot to get yourself back toward the top of the leaderboard?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I always think even par is a good score in the Open.   If you can shoot even par and get a couple under is a good score.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)  
NATALIE GULBIS:   This is my 11th year.   I played with a 19 year‑old today.  
   
 Q.   And you were a 19 year‑old yesterday.   What are the changes that you've seen, the biggest changes on the tour since you joined?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   The biggest changes on the tour.   Well, tournament‑wise it's very international now.   We used to play a majority of our events in the United States, and now we have a pretty worldly tour.   Just the level of play.   Players are so good.   They're so good young.   The depth of the tour is better than it ever has been.   You have so many players that can win on any given week and it's in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
NATALIE GULBIS:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT