SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 23, 2010
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon. We have Natalie Gulbis here after a great round. She's in the final leaderboard in the Top 10 for today and looking forward to obviously a good day tomorrow. Natalie, tell us a little bit about your round and overall your feeling and how you're playing right now.  
 NATALIE GULBIS: I played much better today. First I was happy to finish because it looks like it's grumbling pretty good out there.   
 But I love this golf course, actually. This is a golf course that suits my eye real well. I'm an aggressive putter, so these greens suit my game well, and depending on what the leaderboard looks like at the end of the day, it will be fun to go out there and play aggressive and see what happens.  
 THE MODERATOR: You were talking a little bit about last night's dinner and overall about your experience here in Malaysia.  
 NATALIE GULBIS: My experience has superseded my expectations. I had just done some cultural research about Malaysia, but what really has made the difference this week is how we've been treated. They had so many fun events, whether it was at the first dinner they went to, and we got to paint and participate in some of the culture activities.   
 One of my favorite things about traveling and playing on tour is being able to travel to different countries and also learn about different cultures, and they've really done a great job this week at introducing us to different cultures.   
 And then that dinner last night was phenomenal. Even after a long day, it's tough to go to those dinners, but they made it worth its while with the different music and just the whole ambiance of the whole thing.  
 THE MODERATOR: Well, obviously last night was about raising money for breast cancer, and you're wearing the colors today. Perhaps tell us a little bit about your commitment to the cause.  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Well, when we first came off the plane, Cristie Kerr, Michelle and I -- Michelle Wie and I all went over to the hospital, and we got to learn about the different research centers that they have here and what they're doing to raise awareness.   
 And it's been great to learn so much about what they're doing here in Malaysia. Breast cancer awareness is very high. We have a whole month dedicated to it in the United States, but it's nice to see that they're following suit here with raising awareness.   
 And you know, this event is going to raise a lot more money for breast cancer, so it's fun to be over here, and it was fun looking on the range this morning because there was a lot of girls in pink, and the LPGA does a great job with that.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Where's your pink?   
  
  Q. Going into the last round do you have a game plan?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: To play aggressive. My goal always for every tournament is with nine holes to play to have a chance. So based on what the scores will be, yeah, go out there and play aggressive. That's what's fun about tournament golf.  
  
  Q. What's the key to doing well on this course?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: The key to doing well on this golf course is your placement off the tee, especially on the back nine. The club selection that you make off the tee and the position that you are coming into the greens, you know, we get a look at what the pins look like tomorrow when you're out there, and a lot of them are tough, so you're really going to have to pay attention to what side of the fairway you're on so you don't get blocked, and have a shot to play aggressive.  
  
  Q. Your putting style with these greens, are the greens slow for you or?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Well, the greens have a lot of grain on them, and they're not necessarily slow, but there is a lot of grain. And when you have grainy greens, you can hit really solid, good putts. The grain doesn't affect it as much. If you don't hit them as hard, the grain can take it off line pretty quickly.  
  
  Q. Is it unusual?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: We don't see a lot of grain. We see grain when we play in Florida, which we'll be playing in about a month or so. But often we play -- I grew up on the West Coast, so I play on bent greens, so I don't play in a lot of Bermuda. I think this might be like a Bermuda mix. I don't know exactly what the type of grass is here. But it is grainy.   
  
  Q. Seashore Paspalum.  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Seashore something. Did you catch that?   
  
  Q. But you're used to Bermuda?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: I played a lot on Bermuda. I love Bermuda greens. So you get to play and play aggressive and take the break, which when you're putting well is fun to do.  
  
  Q. You're saying that you're an aggressive putter as well. So that means you are never short today on the hole?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: No. I wasn't short today. Yesterday I was short a few times after the weather delay, but I'm an aggressive putter in general. So I like being able to be aggressive.  
  
  Q. You wanted to make sure today you were always one to two feet past?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Yeah. One to two feet. Yeah, I drilled it actually going into the week because I put the tee behind the cup and actually putt right to that, let the cup get in the way.  
  
  Q. Do you have an approach shot also? Are you always past the hole?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: No. I like to be below the hole with an uphill putt.  
  
  Q. Natalie, you played with Kelly Tan yesterday. What do you think about her game and do you think she's matured?  
 NATALIE GULBIS: Yeah. She's got a lot of future. She's got a beautiful swing. She played very well when I played with her, and she looks like she's got really good fundamentals and mechanics. Where I was really surprised was where I did the junior clinic which was a couple of days and got to see a lot of the junior players that were 8 to 14 years old and see their fundamentals and mechanics. It's the best junior players that I've seen. We do a lot of clinics all over the world, and they had unbelievably good golf swings.  
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? All right. Thank you very much for coming in, Natalie.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT