RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2008
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER: We have Natalie Gulbis in this morning, having scored a 68 for a 7-under par total of 137. Congratulations. 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Thank you. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Your thoughts on the round today.
 NATALIE GULBIS: It was good. It was an early start. I was off to a good start. I birdied the first two holes, which is nice to take advantage of the two par 5s, and I think I took advantage of another par 5 with a birdie. I just think anything in the 60s is going to be pretty good today.
 COLIN CALLANDER: How did the conditions change from yesterday? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Yesterday it played really easy. The golf course was about as easy as it could play: No wind, sun was out, weather was good.
 Today there was a little more wind and spots of showers, a little bit more like the British Open.
 COLIN CALLANDER: Are you glad you were out in the morning? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Yeah, if the forecast is correct, yes, I was happy to be out in the morning. 

 Q. You said you were going to have a lesson with Butch after the Jamie Farr and wondering what you worked on, and are you driving the ball better? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Driving the ball better, yes, all week when I went home was drivers, testing drivers. I pulled out every single driver that I had hit in the last couple years, which was 15 drivers and some new ones and just tested and tested and worked on my set up and ball position. It worked well last week and in the first two rounds, it's been really good, too.

 Q. What driver are you using?
 NATALIE GULBIS: It's a YS6 with a blue shaft. It's the same shaft that I used most of last year but it's a new head. And I've used in the last couple of months, probably four different drivers in the last six events, four different drivers. I had a driver that I was using that broke at McDonald's playing, and since then, I had switched four times trying to find a good fit. 

 Q. How much of you is fashion and how much of you is golf, and do you think more girls should try and get the blend right like you seem to do?
 NATALIE GULBIS: Hopefully all fashion and all golf, from what I wear on the golf course to we went down into town, I went shopping one day. I think about golf, I think about fashion; I like both of them. 
 I hope to leave my mark. I've always like fashion and I'm fortunate to be with a company like Adidas who is very fashion-conscious and is always trying to be ahead of what's new and come out with different things, so they have definitely helped. 

 Q. What did you think women golfers looked like in the pictures you had seen from 20 years ago?
 NATALIE GULBIS: Just like they do today. They wore dresses and skirts and high-collared shirts and fashion seemed to do a round kind of circle from what I saw early women using or wearing. They were wearing dresses, and now you've got girls wearing dresses again. 

 Q. Curious about what influence you have on what you wear with Adidas and the line and stuff. 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Well, for majors, the only influence that I have in a major is I like to wear black on Sunday. Outside of that, they script me and pretty much I have this little piece of paper that has what I'm supposed to be wearing for all four days, and it will be like that next week when I play in Japan and Canada. Both Paula and I get scripted on what we wear and either they give it out to the retailers -- but outside of that, I can wear whatever I want in the line, which is a big line, luckily. 

 Q. Was there something difficult out there with the closing holes and the weather changing a little bit? You missed a couple short ones; wondering if the weather played a part in that. 
 NATALIE GULBIS: I think when the weather started getting worst last couple of holes, the last hole I 3-putted I was 50, 60 feet and had 8-iron in my hand. Last few holes seemed like I was lagging more than earlier in the round and I 3-putted two holes coming in. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Could we get the details of your birdies and bogeys Todd, please. You birdied the first? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: Driver; I don't know it, was seven o'clock in the morning, some wood; and I hit it six feet short of the green and made birdie.
 Pulled my driver off the tee on 2. Had to punch out and hit a wedge to about five feet and made birdie. 
 6, driver, 8-iron about 25 feet below the hole. 
 10, driver, 3-rescue and 2-putted for birdie from 30 feet. 
 Then driver, 3-wood on the par 5, 15, to about 15 feet and missed the eagle putt and tapped in for birdie. 
 17, driver, 9-iron about three feet.
 18, 3-putts, and I also 3-putted 15, the par 3, my other bogey. 

 Q. What time were up this morning, and you've obviously sort of made up your face and everything, but was this done at 5.00 in the morning or whatever? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: I played at 7.14, I had an alarm at 4.00 and left the house at about 5.00. So got up, stretched, got something to eat, got ready. 
 What I do in the morning -- I lay out my clothes. My clothes are scripted for the week and I iron my clothes ahead of time and I put the outfit out the night before, jewelry, ribbons, hat, shoes, everything, mark my golf ball. Everything is done the night before, and when I get up, I just do my hair and makeup, put in a braid, maybe takes 15 minutes, not very long. It's nice I don't have to do my hair. So all I really have to do is my makeup and put my clothes on. 

 Q. How long is your warmup before the round?
 NATALIE GULBIS: My warmup is an hour to an hour and ten minutes. I putt for 15, 20 minutes; chip ten, 15 minutes, and the rest of time I'm just trying to get loose.

 Q. While you were looking at pictures of the Wilhelmina 7, do you feel like that or if you were at the start of the movement? 
 NATALIE GULBIS: I love to see it. I remember a couple of years ago when my swimsuit calendar came out, it was a big shock and I thought how feminine they are, and the female athletes out there are not afraid to express their feminine side and to be both good and attractive at the same time, so I like it. A couple of the girls I didn't recognise and wasn't sure who they were, so I was going to look at them again. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Natalie, thank you very much indeed, well done today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT