HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2008
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Natalie, thanks for coming in.  Welcome to Singapore.  You've been here before.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I have.  I think this is probably the fourth or fifth time.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can you just talk a little bit about the tournament, obviously a big one for Asia and also for the LPGA with an HSBC sponsorship.  Just talk about being here in Singapore and the tournament.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  This is a big tournament.  It was one of our largest premier events when it was a match play event, HSBC event when it was in New York.  And now moving it to Singapore and really making it a world event has really kind of raised the level of prestige.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the golf course a little bit, Tanah Merah?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  This golf course, I previously played on this golf course for the Lexus Cup, two years here, not this previous year, so I'm familiar with the golf course.   
 But they have made some changes for this event.  I think it's playing more difficult than it did when we played the Lexus Cup.  It's in fantastic shape.  The staff and everyone has done a really great job with it.  Weather is always good here in Singapore, a lot better than most places in the States where it's cold and windy and rainy and snowing most everywhere in the U.S.   
  
  Q.  You won a big-name tournament last year, the Evian Masters.  Obviously you must be gunning to win this one, especially with the field.  Can you just talk about the field a little bit?  That $2 million purse must look pretty good.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Well, this is the strongest field all year.  We probably draw maybe four, five, six events where we get the strongest fields, and now this is definitely one of them.  And you're seeing that.  I don't know how many of the top 50 in the world are here, but probably almost every single one.  And this is the biggest event we've had so far, so I think all the preparation that everyone has done in the off-season, including myself, is to play well in this event.   
  
  Q.  Are you ever hard on yourself on the golf course because you're always so cheerful all the time?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Absolutely, every single shot.  But you have to get over it.  I work really hard to do what I do and be here, and I care deeply for my performance, so when it doesn't go my way I get frustrated like everyone else.  But you have to get over it and move onto the next shot.  That's something I've worked very hard on with my instructors and teachers in the past is getting mad and getting over it.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us what your goal is for this season and how important it is for you to get off to a good start first couple of events?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  It's very important to get off to a good start at the beginning of the year, to play well in the big events such as this one and also the Kraft Nabisco that's coming up.   
 My goal for this season is to win a major.  This is indirectly a major championship with the quality of players here and the emphasis on how much effect it has with the World Rankings.  This is a big event, big world event.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks for coming in, Natalie.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT