ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2007
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What was your mindset going into the playoff? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Make birdies, definitely go out and birdie, try to birdie the first hole.  For me at least, even though I didn't hit the 6-iron we wanted to the first hole, I'm a pretty aggressive player in a playoff.  I just want to go out and try to make a birdie. 
 My philosophy was a little bit different on 18 because I did have a pretty severe downhill putt.  I was lagging that more than trying to make that putt. 

 Q.  It's not like a normal cut.  Could you talk about what it was like to play in the playoff? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Exciting.  Today was exciting in general.  I was kind of close to the cut line starting the day, and you have a completely different mindset when you're playing out there.  Normally if I was seven shots back I'd be firing at pins a little bit more, but you're not.  You're just trying to kind of make it an easier day, hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, make a couple birdies, don't be too aggressive, and it's been fun.  I think that's what makes this whole playoff system so exciting is there's a whole new level of strategy and a whole new level of excitement for Friday. 

 Q.  Do you like that the scorecards are wiped out? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Absolutely, absolutely.  Last year they weren't, and I actually -- that was different for me because I was closer to the top after the first two days.  So it's fun that we're all going to start off square tomorrow. 

 Q.  And you just picked up ten shots on the lead.  Did you ever think of that? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I like that.  I wish they did this all the time. 

 Q.  You looked to be in pretty good shape the second round until the double bogey.  Did you have to kind of regroup, or what was going on in your mind after that? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Well, I hadn't really hit the ball that well all day.  I had been kind of scraping it around, but I kind of roped it in for most of the back nine, and I had a pretty easy 6-iron that I pulled into the water. 
 Even though I was close, I really knew where the board was at, but then you have to start watching it then because you have to be careful.  I had a putt on the last hole that was about 10, 15 feet that was straight downhill. 

 Q.  Did you know if you made that you would have been in? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I had a pretty good idea, but I didn't want to be aggressive enough to where I took myself out of it, too.  Some of these greens if you're above the hole, they can get away from you quick. 

 Q.  Does it seem strange to you that Annika is going home? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I mean, she's -- not only is she a friend of mine, but she's the best ever player in our sport.  She's always going to have that intimidation factor forever as long as she steps onto the tee.  You expect her to make birdies.  I thought she was going to make that putt.  I would have bet that she would have made that putt or holed out the chip.  She's pretty spectacular. 

 Q.  You seemed to be (indiscernible). 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Exactly.  We were talking about that, Ai and I were afterwards.  The three of us are pretty good friends off the golf course, and if it was a regular round, in between shots you'd probably talk, and in a playoff you kind of have to space yourselves.  What were we talking about?  I was telling Annika I saw a little snake about this big, and I was actually telling Greg that Annika heard it so I continued the conversation. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT