RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2007
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER:  Natalie Gulbis, fresh over a victory in the Evian Masters.  How does it feel coming to St. Andrews with a victory under your belt? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  It's great.  I love the way that opening sounded, of course.  It's a lot of fun to be around the players and get the feedback from the players.  I think I've hugged about a hundred people today.  So it's been a fun day. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You've had a chance to look at the Old Course.  What are your thoughts on that? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  It's so much more than I thought it would be.  I knew that it was hyped up, and I also knew it was the first golf course that was ever built.  So I wasn't really sure if it was going to meet the expectations of what I thought it might be, and it definitely supercedes them; beautiful. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  What that make it so special? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Just being in all the spots of where I've seen players on TV.  I went into the bunker today where David Duval was on 17; and I walked across the bridge and I've seen players and hearing the different stories and getting to go to some of the places that have the different memorabilia and the moments from this event.  It's really special. 

 Q.  Who did you receive these hugs from, players or R & A members? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Players, caddies, family, it's just been a lot of fun.  It's been a lot of fun the last couple of days, and being around the players, and basically being here at the start of golf.  It's really cool. 

 Q.  What else do you know about St. Andrews that makes it so special? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Oh, no, this is a quiz now!  I think what really makes this special sits the first time we've ever had a women's event here.  That's going to supersede everything.  It's been something that's been on the schedule for a couple of years.  We've been really excited about coming over here and having an LPGA event.  And having a major over here at St. Andrews, I think the players have been excited all year.  This is one of those golf courses that you're not sure if you're ever going to get the opportunity to play, not only to play this golf course, but to play it in a major championship.  It's going to be a lot of fun. 

 Q.  What do you think of the clubhouse? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I'm a bit confused about the clubhouses.  I've been to the one off the left, the R&A clubhouse, but it was to register and walk through.  It's beautiful, from just looking at.  And it also coming back towards the clubhouse seeing St. Andrews as a backdrop, it's pretty beautiful. 

 Q.  What makes the British Open such a great event? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I've always been a big fan of the British Open.  It's really a unique event.  I mean, today I was working on putts from 50 yards away, and I was working on them for five, ten, 15, minutes, just 50, 60, 70 yards.  Usually I work on wedge shots, 50, 60, 70 yards.  But there's a green that's a hundred yards long. 
 There's some shots that at first look like at a course you would see at a semi-links-style in the United States, and it's not the case here.  You can't take any of these shots for granted.  Going out tomorrow we are going to take -- my caddie and I have hired a local to go out with us just to get as much information out of him as we can. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Have you ever putted from 100 yards before? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  No.  Today was the first time.  First putt was pretty good.  Greg hyped it up before, but I got it to within ten feet so that was pretty good. 

 Q.  You've taken a while to win on Tour, were you surprised when you won last week? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Not surprised.  Was very pleased.  Every week I go out to the event to try and win it, and I really do.  I thought that I was going to win it when I started the week, I prepared that way.  I went into Sunday that way having a number in mind of what I wanted to do.  Some of the times it didn't work out; last week it worked out and the timing was perfect. 
 There's good things and bad, for sure, and I'm looking forward to playing this week. 

 Q.  Can you talk the back injury you had? 
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yeah, I got hurt using a swing actually, just kind of a weighted device that I was working on some swing changes with, and that was just enough to push it over the edge.  I have a tendency, if a trainer tells me to do it ten times, I do it 20, and that was one of the things that I couldn't do 20 times.  I was swinging it a lot and little did I know, I got hurt. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Natalie, thank you very much and good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT