VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2015
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I hear from a lot of other players that their putting has really been on and the greens are rolling nicely out here.   Is that kind of the success that you found today, or was it kind of more on the fairway?   
NATALIE GULBIS:   More on the approach shots in.   I had a lot of makeable birdie putts, but the greens are in great shape, and even despite the rain that they had earlier in the week, the course is in really good shape, and we have perfect weather.   I don't know if it's 80 degrees, but it certainly feels close to it, and no wind, and really good scoring conditions.  
   
 Q.   It's good to have you on top of the leaderboard again.   It's been a little bit.   You've been out with an injury and rehab and everything.   How are you feeling, and what have you been doing to get back?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I feel great, and I spend a lot of time in physical therapy, and‑‑ almost still, all the time, but I feel good now.  
   
 Q.   What's your plan heading into the weekend?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Well, I have one more round tomorrow morning, but doing the same.   I wish we had more interesting things to say, but you do the same thing over and over again and just try to keep repeating that.   
   
 Q.   What's the biggest key to coming back?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   From an injury?   
   
 Q.   Uh‑huh.   
NATALIE GULBIS:   Patience, because I got hurt in July of last year, and so I wanted to be back by October, and I tried to come back in October, and I wasn't ready, and then I ended up having a laser surgery on my hip in‑‑ I don't know what month it was after that, but it was just patience.  
   
 Q.   Seeing a lot of signs, though, of kind of the golf from old coming back?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Just being healthy.   That's what's the greatest is just being healthy and having the ability to be able to practice after rounds.   This is my 15th season, so just days when you feel‑‑ events when you feel healthy, you can go out and you can practice is just a different sort of enjoyment.  
   
 Q.   How long do you want to play?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Until I have kids, so hopefully I have kids sooner than later, but at least through this year.   
   
 Q.   What was the key out there today?   I know this golf course, it seems like it's kind of a bomber's golf course.   
NATALIE GULBIS:   I'm hitting fairways.   I think if you can hit fairways out here‑‑ as soon as you miss the fairway you're in trouble, and even though the course is a little wet, just hitting fairways, because once you hit fairways, you didn't have a lot of long irons in, you had mid‑irons and short irons and the greens were receptive, but if you were in the trees on this golf course, it makes for a very long day.  
   
 Q.   Coming back from injury and seeing all these young players play so well, what are your thoughts?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   It's awesome.   I love to see what the next‑‑ I played with Cheyenne Woods today who's a rookie, and I just am very excited about the future of the Tour.   The Tour is in such good shape, and there's so many incredible stories, and I just love seeing the story lines, young players.   You've got Juli Inkster on top of the leaderboard, the Solheim Cup captain this year.   It's cool to see a little bit of everything.  
   
 Q.   Cristie is at the top of the leaderboard‑‑  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, Cristie.   What's cool about golf is you can have a mix of players like myself and Cristie that have been here for 15 years and Juli who's been out here for a few more than that, and then you can have a 17, 18 year old.  
   
 Q.   Is that almost motivating?   I would think it almost makes you give pause if you ever decided to hang it up, knowing that you can still compete at Juli's age, for example?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, absolutely, take a little break, have kids, come back.   I mean, Juli is awesome.   She's an anomaly, though.   She's very, very special.   Pat Hurst, too.   She's a veteran player that's still out here, Karrie Webb.   So there's definitely a mix.   But I think that's what's cool about golf is you can have so many different generations competing and can play.   
   
 Q.   So if you did decide to hang it up to have kids, would you consider coming back after‑‑  
NATALIE GULBIS:   No.  
   
 Q.   You would be done?  
NATALIE GULBIS:   I don't think so.   Maybe coming back out to cheer for the younger players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT