GINN OPEN
April 13, 2007
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Natalie, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there.  You shot 66 today, three shots off the lead but in second place.  Just talk about how you played today.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Played very good.  I played pretty similar to yesterday just without a couple of mistakes.  I hit a lot of fairways, greens and made putts.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can we go over your score card?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Sure.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You started on the back.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  No. 10, I hit an L-wedge to about 10, 15 feet and made birdie.   
 No. 12, I hit a 9-iron to about ten feet and made birdie.   
 16, I hit it about 15 feet left of the hole with a rescue club, similar to like a 3-iron.   
 17, par 5 I got up-and-down from just off the green and made a 5-, 6-footer.   
 No. 1, I hit an 8-iron to about two feet.   
 Then on 18, I hit L-wedge to about 10, 12 feet and made the putt.   
  
  Q.  After you birdied No. 1 from like two feet -- could have been a better score, 8-under easy?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yeah, today was one of those easy rounds of golf.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I had a lot of opportunities, didn't get into too much trouble.  One of those boring rounds of golf I really like.   
  
  Q.  Also on the 4th hole you were close.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yeah, it was one of the few greens I missed.  So the birdie putts I missed, I made up for by making a good par putt there.   
  
  Q.  You're already one of the most popular players on Tour, but what would a victory, your first one on Tour mean?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  It would mean a lot to me.  That's one of my goals.  That's why I play and I come out every week to win the tournament.  So personally it would supersede anything.   
  
  Q.  There's a name on the too much the board we have not seen win in a while, Laura Davies.  She has not won in like six years.  With all of these young guns, what does it mean when you have a veteran leading the way so far?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Laura is a great player.  She's got a lot of motivation.  I think she's, what, one victory short of making the Hall of Fame, and she's been a great player for years.  She's a phenomenal player with all of those victories and all of those wins.  I think you're surprised when you don't see her on the leaderboard.   
  
  Q.  Is there something about this course that particularly sets up well for you, or are you just at the top of your game right now?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Just working hard on my game more than anything.  Working hard on my irons.  I know that you have to hit a lot of fairways, so I've just been practicing a lot and that's what I'm going to go out and do again and do the same thing for the next couple of days.   
 I do like this golf course.  I really like it.  It's in such good shape, and if you hit good shots, you definitely can make some birdies out here.   
  
  Q.  I know you were signing lot of autographs, and I think I heard you were signing some during the round; talk about the importance you think of connecting with your fan base and being acceptable to them.   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I'm just thrilled to have fans.  It's really, really flattering to have somebody want your autograph.  That's been -- it's been a really fun part about being a professional athlete and being a professional golfer is having fans that are out there cheering for you and wanting the best for you and want you to sign things.   
 You know, I'm just really lucky to have them out there.  I think we all are.   
  
  Q.  Is that typical or because you're playing so well?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Typical.  I like to do all of my hard work before and then when I get out there just try and enjoy myself.  I love what I do, living my dream and being a professional golfer.    
Once I put all of my time in, I definitely grind from right before the shot and when I hit the shot, but you know, we're out there for a long time.  Five hours is a long time and I don't think -- maybe players can hold their concentration for five hours but I enjoying being out there too.   
  
  Q.  Have you envisioned what it's going to be like when you break through and get a victory?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Have you imagined celebrating?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  For sure, absolutely.  I think I have since I was five or six years old.   
  
  Q.  What's it look like?  What does that vision look like?   
 NATALIE GULBIS:  What does the vision look like?  You know, I've won a lot of tournaments as an amateur, so it would be pretty much just the same feeling.  Not only winning the event, but getting to celebrate it with your friends and family and thank all of the people that have supported you along the way.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT