LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2006
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER:  Natalie, thanks for coming in and joining us back here at Corning.
NATALIE GULBIS:  Thank you for having me.
PAM WARNER:  You've played pretty well here in the past.  You just got done with your pro am.  Talk about being back at Corning and the course and everything.
NATALIE GULBIS:  The course is probably in the best shape that I've seen.  It's just perfect.  The greens, the fairways.  Everything is immaculate.  They have done a phenomenal job getting it in good shape.  And if we can keep this 70 degree weather for the next four days, the better.
Q.  (No microphone.)
NATALIE GULBIS:  I thought I was playing pretty normal.  It wasn't really soft or fast.  This course usually we're used to playing in a lot of rain, a lot of weather, and it playing very soft.  It's just in really good shape.
Q.  You're pretty much a regular here in your young career.  What is it about Corning that brings you back?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I really like the golf course.  But I think what's amazing about this event is, not only the history of the event, but just how many people really come out to support us.  This whole city of Corning really embraces the LPGA and they have for many years and it's hard not to want to come back to an area that just loves the LPGA.  It's a lot of fun for us?
Q.  Looking ahead to the tournament just in your own mind, who do you see as a favorite?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I'm not sure exactly.  Morgan Pressel, I saw her last night.  I'm not sure of all the players that are in the field, but our Tour is getting more deep all the time.  Whoever plays good for four days.
Q.  This week there are a lot of big names that aren't here, Annika Sorenstam, Karrie Webb, does that provide more of an opportunity, do you think?
NATALIE GULBIS:  They are very strong players, the top three or four players on our money list, but there are a lot of really good players out here.  It just all depends how I play.  It doesn't matter who is in the field.  I feel if I'm playing well, then I'm the best player; and if I'm struggling, then pretty much anybody can beat me.
Q.  You're having a pretty good year this year.  What are you doing?
NATALIE GULBIS:  The last couple of years I just really tried to be more of a consistent player, just working on that and trying to tighten everything up.  I'll try that again this week, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, give myself a lot of chances for birdie.
Q.  You're still looking for that first win.  What do you think needs to happen for you to get it?
NATALIE GULBIS:  Consistency.  For me, I've played well in events and had really good rounds or really good maybe 70 holes out of 72, or whatever it is, but I haven't been able to be strong for an entire event, putting that together for four rounds, three or three and a half or three and three quarters.  You have to play well when somebody else is.
Q.  What part of your game, putting, iron game, driving?
NATALIE GULBIS:  Just inconsistencies.  At least in the last couple of weeks I've made a lot of birdies, but I've also made a lot of bogeys, too, so just consistent.
Q.  What would it mean to win?
NATALIE GULBIS:  It would be great.  I try every week to win an event.  I've always loved this golf course.  I've played well here in years past.  I look forward to playing here.
Q.  (No microphone.)
NATALIE GULBIS:  Not so much, I don't think.  It seems like every time I've been in the hunt I've played well in that position.
Q.  (No microphone.)
NATALIE GULBIS:  I've been doing that for about two years.  The company is out of Chicago, and they came up to me and asked me to try it and I putted well with it and I've still been using it.
Q.  What kind of score do you think will win?
NATALIE GULBIS:  We were talking about that today.  I think if the weather is like it is now, probably 15, somewhere in there.  You can make a lot of birdies on this golf course, especially if you're hitting your irons well and if you're hitting fairways.  But if the ball is straying a little bit, it's tough.  Because out of the trees you can't score, out of the rough you can't score; the rough is good.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT