SYBASE CLASSIC
May 20, 2006
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Just in general, how would you assess your round?
NATALIE GULBIS:  Not so good.  I started off okay and then just kind of made some mistakes and three putted.  Just not a very clean round.  I'm still working on tightening things up for tomorrow.
Q.  How would you assess it in comparison to Thursday's round, like to contrast what you thought you did well on Thursday that wasn't working so well for you today?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I putted better on Thursday than I did today.
Q.  Was there a reason for that perhaps?  Teeing off later in the afternoon, were the greens bumpy?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No, these are tough greens and I putted really well on Thursday and didn't putt quite as well.  Just golf in general.
Q.  How about the fact that you were coming into today's round, you know, a great course, a tough course, a tough field and you're in the lead.  What was your mental makeup?
NATALIE GULBIS:  To try to get to 6 or 7 under today.  I knew the conditions would be tough.  I did really well on the range and just didn't really get anything going.  Every time I made a birdie, I made a bogey.  And then I would make another birdie and then I made double.  It was just kind of up and down.
Q.  The fact that you were in the lead and looking for a nice win here and everything, did you feel any extra pressure being in the lead or not?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No. In between shots, yes, I was definitely pretty relaxed.  I have to be able to turn on the concentration and turn it off.  We're out here for a long time.
Q.  I think it was your 8th hole, which was the 17th hole.  When you went under the tree to the back of the green.  That third shot, what kind of lie was it and what iron did you use?
NATALIE GULBIS:  That chip?
Q.  Yes.  You saved par with a great chip.
NATALIE GULBIS:  Just a 7 iron bump and run.  I hit a drive there, but I underestimated the wind.  I should have played it out a lot more right.
Q.  The wind drew it underneath the tree?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No, I hit it straight, but it was more into the wind.
Q.  What's the mindset tomorrow?
NATALIE GULBIS:  Go out and play aggressive.  I'll see my instructor on the range and have him clean up a few things and go out and have fun.
Q.  What happened on 6?
NATALIE GULBIS:  On 6, I pushed it right into the back edge of the bunker and didn't have a really easy bunker shot to a tight pin and then I left it in the rough.  Then I hit my chip up and it went down on the other tier and I 2 putted.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT