NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 2, 2014
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round for you. 
NATALIE GULBIS:   It was a good round, definitely a good round, in the wind here.   I haven't played a lot this year, and I haven't played very well in the events I've played in, so it felt really good to get a good round in the 60s and to get around making some birdies.   It felt more like how I played at the end of last year, which I hadn't seen yet this year. 

Q.   Anything you did differently that caused it? 
NATALIE GULBIS:   No.   I've been injured, so I haven't played a lot, and I pulled out a couple weeks ago.   Just been trying to stay patient, so it's nice when the rounds come together.

Q.   Kind of like baseball, they say that's the way baseball is, you just find it one particular day.   Is it a kind of similar analogy in golf?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, I had a really great off‑season.   I had a lot of time to work on my game and I felt really good coming into the season, and then I got hurt in like the second or third event of the year and took some time off, so that's been a bummer.   But I had a really nice off‑season, so I've been trying to fall back on the work that my coach and I did in the off time. 

Q.   You said it was a wrist, right?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, a wrist, I still have.

Q.   You're still injured?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah.

Q.   A little bit of tape, obviously not preventative, just support?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Well, it just hurts.

Q.   Just sore?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah.   The tape helps, though.   Everybody has got something out here.   If you guys went through the list of 144, there's probably a lot of girls with taped wrists and elbows and ankles.   I heard one girl yesterday in the fitness trailer yesterday, and they're like, oh, my gosh, did you sprain your ankle, and she's like, I wish it was just a sprain.   It's part of being an athlete.

Q.   You've dealt with other injuries, too.   Do you think at this point in your career you know how to deal with it? 
NATALIE GULBIS:   I've never had a wrist injury.   I've had a couple of back surgeries, which my back has been feeling good, knock on wood.   But yeah, I think you just be patient.   You know if it's not season‑ending or they don't tell you it's career‑ending, it's just kind of being patient and listening to the trainers what you're supposed to be doing, so I'm pretty good at that from being an injured athlete a lot of my career.

Q.   With your wrist the way it is, has it limited the amount of balls you've hit or anything like that, any preparations?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Oh, yeah, completely.   Yeah, it does.   Injuries you definitely change things.

Q.   Was this a sprain?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I have no idea.

Q.   Is that what you'd call it?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I just call it a wrist injury until I see a specialist next week.

Q.   You're seeing a specialist?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Next week, because this is six events for us, so we haven't really been home. 

Q.   You talked about being patient with that, but when you're in a position like this going into the weekend, talk about being patient with your game. 
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, I think when you're playing well, you try to make as many birdies as you can.   That's always been my mindset.   Golf is fun when you have days you're playing well.   You hit good shots and you try to make as many birdies as you can, and I got to enjoy that today.   We'll see what happens over the weekend.

Q.   After yesterday did you feel like that was possible?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, I was 3‑under on the front nine, and then I bogeyed 8 and 9 and didn't really do a lot on the back.   But I really like this golf course and love coming here, and so looking forward to a couple of rounds on it. 

Q.   What did you hit coming in?
NATALIE GULBIS:   4‑iron, and they moved the tee up 50 yards.   I would have hit 3‑wood if they wouldn't have moved it up.   Yesterday I think I had a rescue in.   8 and 9 are really tough.   I hit 4‑iron, 4‑iron into those two holes.

Q.   Does this course change a lot with the direction of the wind?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Oh, yeah, big time.   Yesterday we didn't have a lot of wind and it's very scorable, and we didn't really get any wind until the last couple holes, and when the wind picks up, you go from having 7‑irons to having 4‑irons, so it definitely makes the course more challenging.   But then on Wednesday in the pro‑am, it was freezing, so this is‑‑ we'll take this weather and wind.   I played early on Wednesday, and it was like I was going skiing. 

Q.   It's supposed to be in the 90s by Sunday. 
NATALIE GULBIS:   I know, I love that.   That's awesome.

Q.   Does this course suit your eye?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Yeah, I like to play courses like are like this where you've got to hit a lot of different shots.   I think what's cool about this course is when you hit good shots, you can score, but as soon as you're missing shots, it makes for a really long day because you're in the trees, and you really have to hit good, solid shots on this golf course.   But if you do, it's a very fair course if you hit it in the right spot, but if you're not, you're in the wrong part of the fairway and you miss it just a little bit and it rolls off into the trees quickly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT