U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2005
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you like your position?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I have no idea what position I am in.  I just asked my friend.  I don't even know what the leaders are at.  I know I am at plus 6.  You could tell me.  I don't know.
Q.  The leader is plus 2 but she's in the rough.  How about the last hole, what was going through your mind there on the tee?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I was trying to hit the fairway, hit the green.  I actually hit a pretty good shot, hook line, needed to turn a little bit more.  I think I caught it a little bit solid because it didn't turn.  Good bunker shot, I picked out a spot for my putt and I hit my spot, just didn't go in.
Q.  What is it like out there?  Scores are going all over the place.
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I just was kind of concentrating being 6-over par.  During a typical events you are 12, 11-under I was concentrating on on being plus-6.  I saw the scoreboard after about nine holes and after that I really didn't see it.  The two-somes are so fast that you kind of just keep going and just work on the next shot.
Q.  Did you have a number in mind when you started the day?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yeah, I thought probably I'd have to shoot about 67 or 68.  I thought I'd had to get plus-3 to get into a playoff or have a chance.
Q.  You haven't had a birdie since the 5th hole.
NATALIE GULBIS:  I had a drought.
Q.  Are you kind just trying to mentally just plug away and keep at it for the last couple of days?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yeah, it's frustrating because I am usually pretty high up on the Tour in birdies.  After having a lot of birdies the first day, you know, it's something that I am always used to kind of having, so...
Q.  Were you aware when you got to 18 if you had parred, you would have had the lead in the clubhouse?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  No.  No idea.  It's probably a good thing.  Actually, I probably wish I would have known but I would have still played the same spot.

There was like this little divot that I was trying to hit.  I hit it.  Just played too much break.
Q.  Did you have any idea of the struggles that Lorena had on the 18th hole?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  No.  What happened?  Like I said, I have no idea.  I was trying to finish out my last five or six holes and hit fairways and greens and make a couple of birdies.
Q.  She put her tee shot in the water and made --
NATALIE GULBIS:  That hurts.
Q.  No matter where you are, score ends up, are you going to be pretty happy how you played this course this week as tough as it was?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  Yes and no.  I hit some good shots, hit some bad shots.  I mean, going into it my goal was to be even par for this championship, but you know, it was grind out there.

Hit a lot of really good shots today.  I am definitely pleased with how I shot today, shooting even par on such a difficult golf course.
Q.  Will you watch the how the last hour or so unfolds?
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I planned on watching it anyway.  I have got a lot of friends out there, see how they are doing of course.
Q.  Putt on 16, did that break how you expected it to?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No, I just overread it a little bit.
Q.  Where you stand on that, you had your putt lined up and everything, it is kind of --
 NATALIE GULBIS:  I did everything I could.  For the last six or seven holes I had birdie putts and I made good par putts in the beginning that may not have got me there.  I hit some good shots.  You never know, it all evens out throughout the week.  If I would have left it short maybe (laughs).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT