MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2005
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Probably your best finish ever?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I am not sure where I finished , but it definitely was a good week.  It was always nice to play well here knowing it was a $2.2 million purse.
Q.  Tell us about the last round.
NATALIE GULBIS:  First round I played really well, shot 4 under.  Actually I think I hit it better in the second round, but I tended to score better in the first round.
Q.  The scores aren't all that low, what made it such a challenge all week?
NATALIE GULBIS:  It is just a tough golf course.  It is just a good ball striker's golf course.  You could have trouble off the fairway.  Just a really good ball striker's golf course.  If you are not striking the ball well, the course gets really tough fast.
Q.  Were you paying attention to how your buddy is doing up at the top?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
Nah.  She's going to win.  She is fine.  She had like a 3 , 4 shot lead.

She had a really good event here last week.  Her swing, she has been hitting it really good, so she was due.  I would have liked to have caught her, but I didn't.
Q.  Was there a time when you thought you were making some headway towards that?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
After the first round.  I bogeyed 18 in the first round.  I didn't know where she was at, and I thought if I could have a similar round in the afternoon.

What happened on 18 in the first round?  Actually I hit it in the crowd, just like (inaudible), and then I hit it by the grandstand.

So I didn't play too well on 18.
Q.  Was 36 a problem?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No.
Q.  You felt fine?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
Yeah, felt fine.  I would like to go play a couple of those holes back again.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
NATALIE GULBIS:  And you know what, and conditioned players.  That is why Cristie is going to play so good; she is in great shape and I think that was huge for her today.
Q.  You played 36 with Annika, what were your impressions?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
It was great to play with Annika.  Any time, you know, you are paired with the best player, she is going to play well, and it is fun to play with her even though she was going to be making a run today and trying to make birdies.  That is always the type of players you want to play with, whoever it is.
Q.  Was the gallery big around her?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
No, Not really.  It was kind of cold this morning.  By the second round they got bigger.
Q.  Are you at the point where you are feeling as though you can be a consistent contender almost every week?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
I think I am getting there.  I am working hard towards that.  My swing is not there yet.  But I will go back and work on it again tomorrow and try to get back here again.
Q.  So do you think it is more of a full swing?
NATALIE GULBIS:  
Oh yeah.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT