CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2004
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Natalie, we'll go over your score card real quick.
NATALIE GULBIS:  All right.
Q.  Tell me your club, how far your putt was on 1.
NATALIE GULBIS:  1st hole, I had a sand wedge.  I hit it to about 20 feet, left of the hole, made the putt.

THE MODERATOR:  3?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No. 3, I had -- actually, I was above the hole there.  I had about a 20-footer coming down the hill.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit into that hole?
NATALIE GULBIS:  8-iron.

THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 5.
NATALIE GULBIS:  Yes.  I hit the ball right actually into the hazard, had to punch out of the hazard.  Had to make a 3- or 4-foot putt for bogey there.  My third shot, I was just in the -- I had to chip up, actually had to make a putt for bogey.

Then the par 5, I hit a good drive there.  I was going for it in two.  I caught the right bunker, hit it to about two feet, made birdie.

THE MODERATOR:  What was your second shot there?
NATALIE GULBIS:  3-wood, out of the sand.

THE MODERATOR:  13, par 5.
NATALIE GULBIS:  Hit a 3-wood just short of the green, chipped up to about four or five feet on the par 5 for birdie.

14, I hit driver, L-wedge to about 10, 15 feet below the hole.  Had a pretty straight putt up at it.

15, I hit driver, 9-iron or 8-iron.  It was 8-iron.  Had about a 30-footer there that I made.

THE MODERATOR:  18.
NATALIE GULBIS:  18, I hit driver, 6-iron, into the par 5, 2-putted from about 10, 12 feet.

THE MODERATOR:  Very solid day out there.  Can you tell us what was working for you.
NATALIE GULBIS:  This is one of those golf courses, if you're hitting the ball well, the greens are so pure, they're in such good shape, that you can crop a few putts.  As long as you're in the fairway, the pins were accessible today.

THE MODERATOR:  How do you feel where you stand now going into the weekend?
NATALIE GULBIS:  It's always nice to be in the media tent, obviously up on the leaderboard.  I think it's still going to be a long weekend, especially with the weather.  I got a good break having a morning tee time today.  We thought we were actually going to have some weather in the morning.  We got lucky.  I don't know if the players are going to get weather in the afternoon.  This event could end in three days or have to go to Monday.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  Everyone is scoring pretty well.  It's a tough course.
NATALIE GULBIS:  Yes, it is a tough golf course.  The par 5s are very accessible.  We've been fortunate enough not to have any wind, not too much wind.  But I think the greens really make the difference.  Also having a week off before, players come in very fresh.
Q.  Are you scoring better than you're shooting or shooting as well as you're scoring?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I got a new driver a couple weeks ago, TaylorMade built me a new driver.  That's helped me a lot.  I was missing quite a few fairways early in the season.  I started to hit fairways.  Just a little better easier to attack pins instead of where I was just trying to get out of trouble.

I always played TaylorMade, but you always kind of tinker with different equipment.  I've made quite a few adjustments in my golf swing in the off-season.  Sometimes you have to change the equipment, too.
Q.  There's not a leaderboard in here.  I assume you've looked at it.  Can you look at the top of the leaderboard, kind of assess what you know?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I'm not really sure who is up at the top.  The only person I checked was Cristie Kerr, to see how she played, my friend, to see how she played.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
NATALIE GULBIS:  On this golf course, yes, you expect that the good players are going to play well here.  It's definitely a ball-strikers golf course.  Like I said, a pretty long weekend ahead.
Q.  I'm doing something on Grace Park.  Do you know much about her?  Have you played with her much?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I haven't played with her a whole lot, but she's kind of in my class of younger players.  You know, I spent a little bit of time talking to her.  Obviously, a great player, great putter.  Really nice to see her win the first major of the year.
Q.  Speaking of young players, are y'all just getting accustomed to seeing Aree Song?  We're amazed someone 17 can be in contention, competing well.  Is that becoming sort of routine?
NATALIE GULBIS:  No, it's not a surprise at all with her.  She played in her -- she was competing when she was 13 or 14 in the Nabisco and holding her own.  Everyone's known she's been a good player for a long time, strong player, very disciplined player.

There's another rookie that's been playing really well that people kind of overlook, Stacy Prammanasudh.  She's a good player.  I know her very well.  She's from Thailand.  I think she's from Thailand.  Stacy P.  Call her Stacy P.  That's what we called her in college.
Q.  (Question regarding Annika)?
NATALIE GULBIS:  I have no idea where she's at.  She's a player, she's always going to be there.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT