WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2002
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Nice finish.  Thanks for coming in.  Obviously been playing solid.  Did everything really just come together?
NATALIE GULBIS: On the driving range I was hitting the ball well, and with the conditions of today I knew there was going to be a lot of girls making a lot of birdies.  You can go after the holes and after the par 5s.  I just played real aggressively and played some birdies. 

Q.  How far was the chip-in on 18?
NATALIE GULBIS: 25 feet.  But coming in the last four, five holes I had a good, at least, three or four putts inside of 20, 25 feet that I had just left short or just left right and it kind of evened out on the last hole.  That was nice. 

Q.  Have you played many links courses?
NATALIE GULBIS: Maybe an abbreviated version of a links course that we may have in the States, could be like a Spanish Bay or a couple of courses in Nevada where it gets real windy and you have links but nothing like this. 

Q.  Have you ever been in the UK before?
NATALIE GULBIS: Only played in Japan.  First time here. 

Q.  You obviously like it?
NATALIE GULBIS: My mom and I have been staying in a bed and breakfast about five, ten minutes from here.  We're having a great time.  Just coming into the week, learning how to hit a new variety of shots.  Keep the ball down in case of the wind and the rain and chipping over the moguls and into the hills and stuff, it's just been fun. 

Q.  So you're comfortable with those kinds of shots?
NATALIE GULBIS: I have hit it so many times. (Laughter).

Q.  How have you done in the majors so far?
NATALIE GULBIS: I missed the cut at the Open and I finished 15th at the McDonald's. 

Q.  How did you feel out there today?
NATALIE GULBIS: Real good.  I changed caddies probably four, five, weeks ago and I have played better with him.  

Q.  What is his name?  Who did he used to caddie for?
NATALIE GULBIS: Worth Blackwelder. Mi Hyun Kim.
She finished second twice and she fired him.  Two times in a row and she fired him. 

Q.  What does he do for your game?
NATALIE GULBIS: Just giving me real good numbers - early on in the year, I flew a lot of greens, came up short a lot, and just doesn't allow me to keep it short with all the bunkers out here or at least back in the States, short of the dog legs and maybe a little more conservative, a little bit smarter playing than what I was used to.  Where I just had the mentality of -- as a teenager like if there's one little spot I can get over that tree, I used to try take it over there.  Or if there's any chance that I can clear that bunker, but the odds are always against me, and just he brought me back a little bit.  So I am hitting longer irons, but much better than being in trouble. 

Q.  You don't seem to be too nervous about the occasion?
NATALIE GULBIS: I didn't really have anything to lose coming in here.  I was excited to come over.  Never been over here, and just trying to have fun and I have had a great week.  Really enjoyed just being out on the golf course.  Beautiful weather and you can see the water on every hole. 

Q.  Have you enjoyed the food over here?
NATALIE GULBIS: We have had some great food inside the clubhouse, great lamb and meat and a little different sauces that you guys have. It has been great. 

Q.  Have you had your first legal pint?
NATALIE GULBIS: I don't like to drink. 

Q.  What is your background?
NATALIE GULBIS: Yeah, my family originates in Latvia. 

Q.  What is your mindset for tomorrow?
NATALIE GULBIS: Go out there and just enjoy myself again.  Hit fairways and greens and once you get on these greens, you can make a putt from pretty much anywhere, the greens are so pure.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT