U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Natalie Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You looked like it was just sheer joy out there at times.   What was your day like out there?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Well, this is my 12th season on the tour, so every U.S. Open is pretty special.   I've been fortunate to play in quite a few Opens.   And being an American, it's a really incredible week. 
What a great setting.   I have been to the Hamptons quite a few times.   I played Shinnecock and I didn't even know Sebonack was here.   The first time I played it, it's spectacular.   It sets right on the water.   It's in great shape and it's the U.S. Open.   What could be better than this? 

Q.   What have you done to get ready for this week?   You said you hit it better last week.   Anything you're doing differently?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Just working on my golf swing.   With golf it's always a work in progress to work on your golf swing.   And this week in particular, it's just more lagging.   The greens are big and they have a lot of slope and undulation.   You can work on your putting. 

Q.   Much more important question:   How is your health?   You had a rough go earlier this year.   How did you feel and how did you get through that? 
NATALIE GULBIS:   I feel good actually.   I started feeling better in Rochester, which was probably three or fourweeks ago to where I was playing full rounds of golf and feeling good and able to practice and starting to work out again.   It was exciting to get some of my energy back.   I felt good since March or since April, I would say.

Q.   How did you get through that?   Is there medicine?   Just rest?
NATALIE GULBIS:   A lot of rest.   And just I thought I was ‑‑ mentally you can think you can do more, then I would think I would just practice a little more.   That just kept setting me back.   Then I would have to start again.

Q.   That had to really catch you by surprise when they told you what it was, right?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I think it was better that they knew how to treat it and what to do.   That always helps when they have a clear understanding of what to do.   They told me it was going to be six weeks, but I had an athlete mentality that I could come back sooner.   And they were right.

Q.   Did you feel like the harder you work the quicker you could come back?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Absolutely.   Isn't that what athletes do?   They always come back before when the doctors say they can.

Q.   Obviously you know you talked about the signings you have.   You know how much you mean to this sport and to this TOUR.   How does that make you feel and what sort of responsibility is that? 
NATALIE GULBIS:   Fantastic.   I mean, it's an honor not only be here at the Open but to have great partners like Lexus and Adidas who was involved in this event.   They want me to do signings and do more to grow the game and to give back to the fans and the people that are also excited about those companies.   So all positive things.

Q.   How do you balance those responsibilities with how much you have to work on your game?
NATALIE GULBIS:   Those are my only responsibilities for the week.   I had a pretty good week.   They don't like to do signings during tournament rounds, so I haven't done any since I've gotten here.   Just enjoyed the golf course, signed a few autographs.

Q.   When you played Shinnecock, what were the circumstances?   Was it an outing?
NATALIE GULBIS:   No.   I had a friend that used to have a house here in Southampton, so I'd always go and play Shinnecock over there.   It's great golf course.   I had known of National, but not of Sebonack.   But this place is beautiful.

Q.   What is the best you ever did at Shinnecock?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I broke 81 and shot 77 from ‑‑ I don't know what the tees were, but that's one of the hardest golf courses I've ever played.

Q.   Raymond Floyd won the U.S. Open and he just stayed here.   He bought a house here.   Is that any possibility of that?   If you won a U.S. Open, would you move to Southampton?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I like where I'm at.   I like Nevada and I like California, so I would enjoy visiting here.

Q.   In terms of the course setup, is it easier today?   How important was what you shot knowing that this is going to get much more difficult?
NATALIE GULBIS:   It's always great to shoot par any day at the U.S. Open, and under par is even better.   Yes, it did‑‑ if you hit good shots, you were rewarded for it.   The greens were perfect this morning.   The wind wasn't too tough.   I think that the morning rounds definitely showed that.

Q.   Did you feel like the round would get away from you at all?
NATALIE GULBIS:   I think you are remained that you have to hit fairways and greens.   I hit it well most of the day, so I stayed away from the tall stuff that causes stress during a U.S. Open.

Q.   Everyone seems to think that this will come down to putting.   Now that you've had enough experience on these greens, how difficult are they? 
NATALIE GULBIS:   Very difficult.   They are very difficult.   If you miss a shot just a little bit, instead of having a 15‑foot birdie putt, you've got a 50‑foot lag putt and hoping to make par over some slopes or roll off the green. 
As soon as I get done with you guys, that's the next thing I will be doing is working on putting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT