NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2015
Dylan Strome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel to be a Coyote?
DYLAN STROME:   It feels amazing.   I obviously didn't know what to expect coming into today, but I'm proud and I'm honored to be selected by Arizona, and I can't wait to get started.

Q.   Take us through the draft day. 
DYLAN STROME:   Like I said, I didn't really know what to expect.   I mean, there was so much talk about trades and things, and I felt like if Arizona was picking I had a good chance to go there, so I was kind of ready when they picked, and fortunately enough I was their guy, so just really happy.

Q.   Who was here to share this with you today?
DYLAN STROME:   My brother, both my brothers, my dad and my mom, so yeah, really happy to share with them, and definitely means a lot.

Q.   Two spots ahead of your brother?
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, I'll let him know after, but right now I'm kind of taking it all in.   It's pretty surreal.   I'm not going to lie.   It feels unbelievable.

Q.   What has your brother meant for your career?
DYLAN STROME:   So much.   He always helps me, and whenever I need anything, he's always there for me.   I'm happy to call him my brother, and I'm proud of him, and he's doing so well with New York.   Hopefully I get to play against him some day.

Q.   Were you kind of paying attention even after you were drafted in terms of how it was going to shake out?
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, there was lots of talk about everything else and I was happy for Mitch.   I know he wanted that, so Toronto is going to love him. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
DYLAN STROME:   It's pretty cool.   You know, doesn't happen very often that two people from the same team go that high.   I'm proud to call him one of my best friends.   It's an honor to be in that category with those guys.

Q.   I know you were paying attention to that thing yesterday on Twitter with all the trades that were happening. 
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, like I said, on the way to the draft, there was trade talk, and Buffalo‑‑ Boston got stacked with those three picks and people were saying they were going to trade it for Arizona's pick, and I didn't really know what to think.   I was kind of just hoping for the best.   But I was really fortunate for this to happen, and I'm really happy.

Q.   Just a few words about your season. 
DYLAN STROME:   It's huge.   I mean, the year was unbelievable, so fun.   So many guys in the area that are such close friends to me.   I'm really close with all of them, still talk to them every single day even when I'm home in the summer and I miss them to death.   No, it was so fun, going to every game expecting to win and just having fun with the guys, and every time you get off the ice you're happy and you're proud to put on that sweater every day.   That's what a good team feels like, and I'm ready to get started in Arizona.

Q.   Where do you foresee you might fit in there?
DYLAN STROME:   I don't know, it's a little early for that, but I'm excited.   Like I said, I'm ready to go.   I wish camp or something was tomorrow, but I'm happy and we'll see what happens. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
DYLAN STROME:   You know, huge.   I can't say enough good things about him.   He takes so much heat from everyone, but the only people he cares about is his players, and we love him and he loves us to death.   I have no idea where I would be to this day without him in my life, and such an important person in my life up to this date.   I know he's going to stay around myself and all the guys on the team for a long time.   I'm really happy to call him a good friend. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, we didn't organize that, but I think he wore his for Toronto.   I just wore mine because of my suit. 

Q.   What's it like now that it's all sunk in? 
DYLAN STROME:   It hasn't really sunk in yet to be honest.   It's a cool feeling, and I'm happy and I'm excited.

Q.   Does it make it easier to go through something like this?
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, for sure.   Really close, and just makes everything so much easier, whatever you do. 

Q.   He was telling us you had a rivalry at first?
DYLAN STROME:   Yeah, we hated each other when we were younger, but it's cool, and we're good friends now, so that's what matters.

Q.   So do you like a dry heat?
DYLAN STROME:   I guess we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT