CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2006
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Steve Lowery, thanks for joining us here in the press room at the Canadian Open.  Third round 65.  You're at 9 under par, a couple shots off the lead.  You made eight straight cuts here at the Canadian Open.  This week you find yourself in contention after a good day.  Maybe some opening comments.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, you know, it was a tough day yesterday.  It was actually a little tougher than today, but it was different conditions.  It was kind of soft.  You know, it was tough to get the ball close to the hole because the greens being soft.

You know, just stayed patient out there for a while early in the round, made a few putts on some par 3s I wasn't expecting.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If you could talk about your eagle on 17.  Obviously, that put you right near the top of the leaderboard.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I hit a good drive and a 3 wood.  It was probably playing about 265.  Hit it in there I guess maybe 25 feet below the hole.  I had one of those putts that you just kind of play the maximum break, just kind of hope that it dies up there by the hole.  Kind of went up there, fell in at the end.

It was pretty fortunate for me.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Do you have any expectations of what it's going to be like tomorrow, just given how crowded the leaderboard is, the golf course being soft?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I think it's the type of thing, you know, there's so many people around there.  The golf course is such a good, solid golf course.  I mean, it's just going to come down to, you know, who holes a few putts tomorrow.  I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of running away with it here.  It's just not that type of golf course, I don't think.

Obviously it takes a lot of patience, you know, a little bit of luck.  If you can knock in a few putts, you can probably be right there.
Q.  Is it the kind of day where if you're a scoreboard watcher, you watch it?
STEVE LOWERY:  Today or tomorrow?
Q.  Tomorrow.
STEVE LOWERY:  You know, I don't think so.  The golf course is right there.  You have to really be focused to play this golf course.  You got to drive it in the fairway, be below the hole.  You got to be in good speed with your putts.  It's hard to spend a whole lot of time doing anything other than trying to manage the golf course.

I'm sure late in the round there will be, you know, a few looks at the leaderboard to see where you are.  But I think out here, you know if you're playing a good, solid round you're going to be right there.  It's not like you don't know.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you.
STEVE LOWERY:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT