EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2005
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Steve, thanks for joining us here this morning.  If we could just start out with some opening comments, obviously a great round for you, 65.  Good start to the week for you.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I played well.  We were in the first group, so we got out early and the wind didn't really come up.  It doesn't look like it's going to.  Obviously you don't get the opportunity to play 18 holes with no one in front of you and perfect greens.  There was certainly an advantage to going out early.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about playing on the two golf courses.  One of the good things for you guys is the players aren't backed up on No. 10 to come to the turn or vice versa.  Just talk about how nice it is to be able to do that.
STEVE LOWERY:  It is nice because you can just kind of play along.  You don't have to slow down your pace when you know that you've got a big wait coming up and you can just kind of play and just move along.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about your season.  I know that you haven't gotten off to the best of starts, but I don't know if there's something you've been working on or whatever, but something clicked today.  Talk about your season so far.
STEVE LOWERY:  Hasn't been that good of a season.  It's been very slow for probably the last eight months, haven't played very well.  Last week I started playing a little better.  I did finish 12th in Jacksonville at THE PLAYERS.  Starting to come around a little bit, made some equipment changes, changed my irons, the ball, a few things, and I feel like I'm heading back in the right direction.
Q.  What exactly did you change, and was this recently, the equipment stuff?
STEVE LOWERY:  I changed irons maybe about three or four weeks ago, just a different model of Cleveland irons.
Q.  Same brand?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, same company.  And different Titleist ball but the same company.
Q.  When is the last time you played around here when you didn't have to deal with wind?
STEVE LOWERY:  You know, I don't remember.  We played the Pro-Am yesterday and it was blowing really good.  We kept talking all day, well, it's not blowing as hard as it was yesterday in the Pro-Am, and kind of gauged in that -- we heard it was going to blow pretty hard but it just seemed like it never came up.  That was good.
Q.  Can you talk about your eagle there on 16?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, on 16 I hit a good drive down there, and it was between a 2- and a 3-iron and really didn't ever commit to either one of the clubs and hit the 2-iron in the right-hand bunker.  It was about a 35-yard bunker shot, a pretty tough bunker shot, and I hit a gap wedge out of there, kind of blasted it out, and it came out just perfect and rolled down there.  It was a little bit of luck that it went in, but it wouldn't have gone more than about a foot by.  I'm pretty happy it rolled in, but it would have been close.
Q.  Was that the left side of the green?
STEVE LOWERY:  The front right bunker, and the pin was like 32 back left, so it was pretty far back there.

It might have been about 40 yards maybe.  Not the one you think about holing.  Maybe that's why it went in.
Q.  How big a boost was that for you today, kind of like stealing one?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, literally I don't know how close I hit the ball, but all day long I hit the ball close and couldn't get the putts to go in.  I made the one on the 1st hole and I couldn't get the putts to go in.  They were inside ten feet all day.

I got around fine, made a putt on I believe it was 13 for birdie, and then 14 I missed the green short and chipped that ball in and got a lot of momentum going with that.  Then the eagle out of the bunker, that was the whole day.  A chip-in and a hole-out of the bunker.
Q.  How far away were you on the chip-in?
STEVE LOWERY:  Probably about 20 yards, something like that.  Just short left of the green there on 14.
Q.  So a couple of zero putts technically, huh?
STEVE LOWERY:  You know how golf is.  You hit it in there ten feet, you can't make any of them, you chip in twice.  It looks like you putted all right because your putts are low.  Yeah, I hit good putts all day, just couldn't quite get them to go in.
Q.  Do you guys look at having -- at one course being significantly lower score-wise, and for that reason is it better to get a great round at the TPC course?
STEVE LOWERY:  Well, you'd think Cottonwood would be the easier golf course, but it's always cross-winds over there.  I think with the wind not blowing, it definitely plays easier.  When the wind blows it's definitely a cross-wind over there.  It's difficult to get the ball close to the hole and in the fairway.  I guess TPC has probably historically been a little tougher, but a lot of those cross-winds at Cottonwood make that golf course pretty close.
Q.  Not to have that today was kind of a treat for you, right?
STEVE LOWERY:  Absolutely, yeah.  I don't think it's going to play much easier than it played today.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Steve, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT