CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 4, 2004
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome the runner up to the 2004 Cialis Western Open, Steve Lowery.  Steve, disappointing that you didn't come up with a victory today, but that last putt was a huge one for you, got you into the British Open.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, it was.  The conditions are really tough, hard to make a move in those kind of winds.  I battled all day trying to do the best I could, and I played really well and I felt good about it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the putt there on 18, eight and a half feet.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I saw that I needed to make that to get sole 2nd, and that's really the only thing -- I wasn't thinking about the British Open thing at all.  I knew if I made that I'd be sole 2nd, so I was happy to knock that putt in.
TODD BUDNICK:  Nobody really made a run today until Stephen got to 10.  Talk a little bit about why it was so difficult out there.
STEVE LOWERY:  There was just a lot of wind out there.  The golf course changes a lot.  The rain softened the greens early, and then with the wind, tough pin placements for Sunday, and it's just a difficult golf course in general.
Q.  Talk about potentially going to the British Open.  Are you going to go?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I just kind of found that out, but I didn't try to qualify at Congressional and I wasn't planning on going.  I had already committed to tournaments over here.

Last year I didn't play and I finished 2nd to Craig Stadler at the BC Open opposite the British Open, so my plans were to go play there because I have good memories from last year.  That's what I was doing this year, embracing the schedule that I had this year, but this obviously has changed it.  I'm sure it got me into the PGA, so yeah, my schedule is going to change and I'll have to look at -- I'll probably withdraw out of some of these tournaments and go play the British Open.
Q.  What happened on 13?
STEVE LOWERY:  13, I guess I just wasn't very focused on the tee shot.  I hit it in the left rough and just kind of resigned myself that it's a hard hole so I just tried to hit it downwind about 100 yards so I could wedge on and hit a par putt.  I hit a good shot out of the rough and I hit a bad wedge shot and it got left over the fringe and I was unable to get up-and-down.  I had to give back two on that hole.
Q.  What were you thinking in terms of chasing Stephen?
STEVE LOWERY:  At that point I need to really get back on the par 3, hit it in there close and lipped it out and didn't birdie the par 5 15th.  You make a mistake like that -- I played well all day, but you need to come back and make a couple birdies.  I just couldn't do it.  If I could have gotten within 1, playing 18, it would have made a difference, but I couldn't get the putts in.
Q.  You mentioned the wind.  Was it tough to judge clubs and was it -- how much wind was it, two, three clubs?  Was it different every hole?
STEVE LOWERY:  There were some holes it was two- or three-club.  It was straight out of the west today.  We've had a northeast wind, southeast wind, today was a west wind and it stayed west all day.  Normally the golf course, you get through the first six and then it's 7, 8, 9 downwind, and we were back in the wind on 7, 8, 9.  It just changed a little bit.  18 played a little shorter, 17 played a little shorter.  But the holes just did not play the way they played the first three days.
Q.  Did you plan to go to the British Open and qualify?
STEVE LOWERY:  No, they had the qualifying at Congressional right after the Booz Allen.  I didn't even go to qualify.  I wasn't planning on doing that.

Now I'm definitely going to consider that.  Everybody is telling me I'm in.  I've got all these commitments to these tournaments I'm going to have to change if I go.
Q.  So you are going to go to the British?
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, probably so.
Q.  The Congressional qualifying, did you enter that or did you withdraw?
STEVE LOWERY:  I did not.  I didn't even enter it.  I actually withdrew out of the Booz Allen.  I got food poisoning and had to go home so I didn't tee it up, and I wasn't planning on playing the qualifying.
TODD BUDNICK:  If you'd just go through the birdies, Steve, starting with 3.
STEVE LOWERY:  3, I hit an 8-iron about 20 feet.

7, I hit 7-iron to 12 feet.

10, bogey, I hit a wedge shot in there -- I actually had to putt through the fringe and the ball didn't come out of the fringe very good, so I didn't make that.

Birdied 11, hit a 3-wood just short of the green and pitched up with a 9-iron to about eight feet.

17, I hit a 3-wood and an 8-iron, probably about 25 feet.
Q.  7, that's that first one into the wind, it looked like you were wondering what club to hit.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, we had been hitting driver.  We had been hitting over the bunker downwind and hitting sand wedge in there.  I hit a driver and 7-iron to a front pin placement, so it was three or four clubs difference on that one hole.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Steve.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT