U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Steve Lowery, 68, 2 under par for the Championship.

Q.   You had it to 4 and finished at 2.   Was it just a bad break, or did you not finish as strongly as you wanted to? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Well, I hit not a very good shot on 17, but buried in the bunker.   It was a bad break in that regard.   I was pretty fortunate to make 4 there. 17, I hit in the right rough over there, tough spot. 
So just didn't finish good.   A little disappointing, but I made seven birdies out there, so I felt like there was a lot of good golf.

Q.   The wind picked up from the morning.   How much of an effect was it on you guys today? 
STEVE LOWERY:   It was a little bit.   I didn't think it was dramatic.   But I think it definitely affects the drives, trying to aim the drives, the targets and everything, tend to fit them in the slopey fairways.   It's definitely a little bit of a challenge when a golf course is firm and fast.

Q.   Obviously, you're picking up more and more knowledge of the golf course if you made seven birdies today.   Did you feel you got some more today, ammunition for the weekend? 
STEVE LOWERY:   I think so.   The more you play, the more comfortable you are with the lines you're picking and where you need to be on the greens and everything.   And the speed of the greens down is important so you feel like you can make some putts.

Q.   Despite the fact that you lost some shots at the end, other folks who are in the lead are dropping away as well.   The gap is narrowing.   And obviously, it's a USGA event.   So anything could happen.   What's your mindset going into the weekend? 
STEVE LOWERY:   I feel like my game's good.   I'm up there.   I've got an opportunity to play 36 more holes, and I just keep playing the good golf and trying to eliminate some of those mistakes.   I'll be right there.

Q.   Does the fact that the guys who are in the lead are backing up toward the field‑‑ what does that say about the golf course?   Or is that just the competition itself? 
STEVE LOWERY:   I think the golf course is firming up, and I think as you're out there in the heat and playing, it just, your focus and concentration, after time out in the sun like that, I think it just gets a little harder and harder.   The golf course is getting harder and harder.
So I think, yeah, if we don't get any rain and the golf course keeps firming up, I think the scores are going to slow over the weekend.

Q.   Does that suit your game?   You like that consistency to try to grind for pars? 
STEVE LOWERY:   I hope it plays hard, I really do.   I think I play better when it plays hard.   I don't want to get where guys are shooting really low numbers out there.   I think it has more of an advantage if the golf course is playing closer to where a couple under is a good score.

Q.   You like the golf course? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Yeah, I do.   It's got some challenges about it.   There's obviously some uniqueness to it.   But all in all, say it's a good golf course.   It's not as long a golf course as I'd like for them to have.   I think if the golf courses were longer in majors, I think it would be better.   But it's a good golf course.

Q.   Thanks.   Appreciate it. 
STEVE LOWERY:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT