THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 1, 2002
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   You're still in good position going into the weekend.  Conditions were tough, but you battled hard.  Could you make a couple comments, and we'll go into questions.
STEVE LOWERY:   Conditions were really tough.  It got cold and windy and it was tough to hit the ball in the fairway.  Vijay and I didn't do a good job of hitting in the fairway, but we scrambled good and made some pars and kept our kept ourselves in the tournament.

Q.  In your situation, would winning this tournament be a special situation?
STEVE LOWERY:   Yeah, it definitely would be a special situation.  This tournament is the strongest field, Top-30 players all year.  So I think winning this tournament would be very special for me to win. 

Q.  How did the weather change affect you, and where were you when you noticed the temperature dropping and how much different did it play after that?
STEVE LOWERY:   I think when I walked out of the clubhouse.  It was cold.  We played  -- it seemed like it was cold most of the day.  We were hitting some long irons early, and then obviously it dropped a lot the last four or five holes.  The temperature dropped a lot and we were hitting in the woods on some of those par 4s. 
It was tough, cold and windy.  You get tired walking out in the mud a little bit by the end of the day.

Q.  How many clubs different is it in weather like this, versus a nice day in the summer? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Probably two-club difference.  Most of those shots that are cold, at least two clubs.  The greens were soft and backing up, so you have to try to fly it long and spin it back a lot.

Q.  Most of the players don't think you are going to be able to play anything but lift, clean and place.
STEVE LOWERY:   I don't think so, either.  We had mud all over the ball.  A couple of places, you could not get the ball to the green from the fairway because there was so much mud.  They would have to mark off some white paint areas and they would be out there all morning trying to get that where you could get relief from that area. If you want to do that, you could.  It's pretty tough.  A lot of heel prints, too, from guys walking.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies and bogeys. 
STEVE LOWERY:   4, I hit in the back, just over the green above the hole.  I was above the hole on the front nine almost the whole time.  The greens were quicker today.  I putted it by four feet and missed the putt for par there. 
9, I had about a six-foot birdie putt and 3-putted. 
11, I made about a 20-footer for birdie.
12, I was all over that hole.  I missed about a 12-footer for par there. 
15, I drove it in the left rough, then hit in the greenside bunker got up-and-down.  Made about a 15-footer for birdie there. 

Q.  What happened on 9 on that putt? 
STEVE LOWERY:   I wasn't even thinking anything about 3-putting.  I was trying to take a break and jam it in and just knocked it by pretty good.  I was probably about 3 1/2, 4 feet by, something like that.  A little more than you want to be. 

Q.  Tomorrow will probably be a cold day, too. 
STEVE LOWERY:   Yeah, it's tough to dress for this.  You just put a bunch of layers, put it on, take it off.  It's tough because I don't play well in a lot of clothes.  Try to play golf in a short-sleeved shirt and vest, and it's going to be cold doing that.

Q.  Do you approach this tournament differently with the small field, and a lot of ways, a much better chance to win? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Yeah, you play aggressively.  You go out and try to win.  Everybody in the field is trying to win the tournament.  Why not?  We are all here.  There's no other reason not to.  So I think you just go for it and see what happens. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Steve, for joining us. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT