WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 23, 2002
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  Welcome Steve Lowery.  65 today has you tied for the lead at 10-under.  Let's talk about the last two days.  You were playing very well.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I played real well again today, got off to a good start, hit the ball close the first three holes, and kind of got some momentum going early. 
TODD BUDNICK:  It looks like this course is really a different course than it was in '98.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, I think so.  It's in really good shape.  I think the last hole playing par-5, a lot of guys making birdie there.  Yeah, it's in great shape, and it's a good, solid golf course.

Q.  I heard somebody mis-identify you today as John Daly in the gallery.  I know you were mis-identified as Kirk Triplett last week at the PGA.  Do you hear that stuff a lot?  A lot of people don't know about you?
STEVE LOWERY:  I hear it a lot:  Paul Lowery, instead of Paul Lawrie, so I'm used to it.

Q.  How would you summarize your career so far, and your year?
STEVE LOWERY:  My career, well, I'm 40 something in all-time career money winner, played solid every year.  I play to win.  That's kind of my style.  I play aggressive.  Occasionally you'll see that.  I enjoy myself on the golf course and I'm enjoying this run.  I've been playing pretty well here lately.  I've been just having a good time.

Q.  Do you feel like you're having your best year up to this point?  And what has clicked for you?
STEVE LOWERY  I don't know.  I think I was 31st two years ago, 27th last year.  I think I'm 31st this year.  The best year I had was '94.  I finished 12th and won the International.  But I've been consistent.  This year has been pretty good, especially the last couple of months.  I think my game's improved.  I'm driving the ball better.  I'm putting better.  So, you know, I think I'm just improving through the years a little bit.

Q.  What about the last month, Steve, and this hot streak?  What's clicked, especially?
STEVE LOWERY:  I think putting probably.  I putted really well.  I made 26 birdies in Milwaukee.  I switched putters and I've been putting good with that ever since, and played good at the International and the PGA.

Q.  How many times did you hit your driver today?
STEVE LOWERY:  Let's see.  I think six times I hit driver.

Q.  Is that part of the playing aggressive?  That's more than some guys utilize.
STEVE LOWERY:  Yeah, this golf course sets well off the tee.  I hit it left-to-right, so my driver fits in there pretty good for that.  I've always played it kind of on the aggressive side.  But, yeah, I think that's probably a little more than most guys would hit.

Q.  A few years back you had the house burn down.  And I'm just wondering, that's kind of a significant negative thing in anybody's life, I would think.  What happened in those months, years after that?
STEVE LOWERY:  You learn from stuff like that.  It's like making a triple bogey somewhere, is the way I look at it.  The first few times it happens, it's devastating.  After that, you look forward, I think, when something like that happens to you.  Most guys have played golf for a long time have already dealt with adversity.  I think it helped me being able to deal with that.  For most people it would be probably a whole lot harder. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Steve. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT