WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 STEVE LOWERY:  Interesting, he played really well on the front; I had a couple good holes and he missed a few putts early, and then I kind of got the momentum going, made a long putt on No. 4. 

Q.  How long was it? 
STEVE LOWERY:   It was probably about 40 feet. 
And then the next hole was the long hole.  We both struggled a little bit and he ended up missing another putt for bogey, and I won that hole with a bogey. 
Then I hit it really close on 6 for birdie, and it just, you know, he was too far behind. 

Q.  What was the turning point? 
STEVE LOWERY:    I think probably the next hole  -- the next hole.  I was 3-up going into that hole, I think, and I made bogey on one hole to go 4-up.

Q.  How do you make bogey?
STEVE LOWERY:    Drove it down the fairway and hit it in the green-side bunker and hit it out about ten feet and missed the putt. 
He drove it in the left rough and hit it short of the green, chipped it over the green, but he was putting and 3-putted. 

Q.  How long was his putt?
STEVE LOWERY:   His putt, he left it way short, I would say about 12 feet. 

Q.  Do you feel pretty good? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Yeah, it was an early tee time for me.  Normally I come out a little slower, so it was nice to get out that to get up in the match that early.

Q.  Do you enjoy this style of golf? 
STEVE LOWERY:  You know, I have an aggressive style of play.  I pretty much play the same.  I was trying, even when I was 4- and 5-up, I was trying to keep playing aggressive because you don't want to back off.  I was playing aggressive most of the round there. 

Q.  How much fun is match-play? 
STEVE LOWERY:   It's certainly different.  It's a different type of pressure and stress.  It's single elimination and you play today and you're out.  He's driving back in the van making airline reservations; that's a little bit different.  A little bit more pressure on you each day to play.  A little bit different type of pressure.

Q.  Any idea you would get off to this good of a start? 
STEVE LOWERY:   Not really.  I played pretty good in the practice rounds, but I wasn't sure what shape my game was in.  I haven't been that sharp early in the year; so it was nice to have a good day. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT