THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 1, 2001
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE LOWERY:  Thank you. 
 
STEVE LOWERY:  The golf course, it's in really good shape.  I was fortunate to keep the ball in the fairway today.  The rough is pretty tough but I kept it in the fairway.  The greens, if it doesn't rain, the greens are really going to firm up and speed up.  They were some really quick putts downgrain out there, and with the wind blowing, pretty challenging to get the putts lagged close to the hole.  
 
 
Q.  Steve, earlier in the week we talked.  You said the thing that you felt that you could do out here with the length of the course, if you drove it straight, you could be in contention, you could score well.  Your thoughts there.
 
STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, exactly.  I drove the ball well.  This golf course is a similar set-up as Atlanta Athletic Club, it's bermuda grass.  It's a fairly long golf course.  You have got to drive the ball in the fairway.  Bermuda greens, I mean, sometimes you can really get the feel for them and some weeks you can't.  They can be pretty tough sometimes if you don't have the feel for the break.  Today I seemed to have it and was able to judge the speed really well.  
 
Q.  Overall, then, the putting, you'd say, was pretty good, kept you in there?
 
STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, driving the ball in the fairway, like you said, and then able to lag the putts up and make the 5-foot putts you have to make out here, and then make a few birdie putts, which I was able to do. 
 
Q.  Expecting to have a good week this week?  Been playing well?  Feel good coming in this week?
 
STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, it's been a good year.  I have been playing solid.  Most of my game is in pretty good shape.  I need a little rest.  I took yesterday off, didn't even play a practice round, felt a little fresher today, and, hopefully, be fresh for the rest of the week.  I have played a lot here at the end, I played Vegas, Disney and Callaway Gardens, so just need a few days off there. 
 
Q.  Playing so much at the end of the season, did you get in the groove and want to keep going?
 
STEVE LOWERY: I took about a month off there during the  
 September 11 deal, just was not in the mood to play for a while.  I kind of came back and playing on bermuda greens at Disney and Callaway Gardens, I felt was good preparation coming in here.  So I think it's probably really good I played in Callaway. 
 
Q.  What do you think about Langer's play?
 
STEVE LOWERY: Really, I mean, me and him played well together.  He was very consistent.  He drove the ball in play.  He was pretty good with his long putter all day, and just really didn't make any mistakes.  He just played really solid.  I think he maybe 3-putted one time, ran a putt by and missed it coming back.  Other than that, I think that was  -- that was the only mistake he made all day.  He played pretty solid. 
 
Q.  Does that surprise you?  We know he's a good player, but he hasn't played in THE TOUR Championship since I think the first  --
 
STEVE LOWERY:  No, I think his game suits this course well.  He drives the ball in the fairway.  He wasn't even close to the rough doesn't seem like all day.  The way -- watching him play today, yeah, I'd say he has got a good chance to do well.  He really hit it well.  He looked good with his putter. 
 
Q.  I know you must be but I'd like to hear it in your words for the listeners, are you pleased with your position after the first round on a course like this with the group that you are playing with?
 
STEVE LOWERY: Absolutely.  If the conditions get tougher and the wind blows and the greens dry out.  I mean, the scores aren't going to go anywhere because the greens, speed of the greens is going to keep the scores up.  If it rains obviously it softens it up, you will be able to stick it in there close.  Yeah, the grain on the greens makes it tough, so you need to get off to a good start because it's not going to be a whole lot of catchup, I don't think on this type of golf course. 
 
STEVE LOWERY:  No. 3 I hit 3-wood and 8-iron about 20 feet, made the putt there. 4, made bogey.  Actually hit it down into, what is that, Cyprus Creek; was lucky to get that ball out of the creek and onto the green about 50 feet away and managed to 2-putt that for a bogey. Par 5 I hit 4-wood about 35 feet, again that putt went way by the hole, probably eight feet by, was able to make that putt for birdie.  6, I made about a 25 foot putt that was going really hard, it went in.  Would have gone by about eight feet.  I used a 7-iron.  No. 8, hit 7-iron there about I'd say about eight feet there.  
 
STEVE LOWERY:  Par 5, I drove it down the left side, hit a 4-wood over the trees in the bunker.  And hit the bunker shot out about I guess about ten feet, was able to make that putt.  
 
Q.  Steve, the group in front of you  -- (inaudible) did they holed you up?
 
STEVE LOWERY: It was a little bit erratic, I don't know, because of the size of field, we waited 7, 8 minutes, the par 3, is that No. 4?  
 
STEVE LOWERY:  Then I hit it in the creek.  We had to find the ball and so we waited on the group.  Then you know, it kind of slowed play down; then they went on the clock.  We caught back up; ended up waiting on them.  They were on the clock.  We went on the clock.  We actually were ten minutes over at one point with the last 3 holes we were on the clock coming in.  I don't know, it was kind of unusual.  We weren't waiting on anybody; nobody was waiting on us, but they said we were. 
 
Q.  Stricker had some problems on that hole.
 
STEVE LOWERY: Okay.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT