KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 2, 2000
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE LOWERY: Thank you. 

STEVE LOWERY: I played well in the first nine holes I played. I was fading a little bit
mentally on the last nine. I hung in there and made a few good up-and-downs, and I think I
did make one birdie on the back. But it was pretty hard out there. I was having a hard
time concentrating. I'm hoping for cooler temperatures. 

Q. Both days you've come in and talked about how difficult it is for you to finish as
strong as you had started. Is that something you'll worry about in the weekend? 

STEVE LOWERY: Obviously, I'd like to finish strong. It makes you feel a little bit
better. But I made pars yesterday and pars today, but I just could tell it was a struggle
in that heat out there. Just maintain concentration more than anything. I was able to make
pars, but it was pretty tough to concentrate.

Q. I guess twice now you've reiterated it was a struggle in the heat. Is this the kind
of day where Casey having the cart can really help him? 

STEVE LOWERY: What's he shooting? 

Q. He's gotten to 8 or 9.

STEVE LOWERY: The problems he has, you can't say it's an advantage. He has such trouble
with his leg. I've heard him say many times, "it's not an advantage," so I would
think not. 

Q. What's the difference between the course today and yesterday? 

STEVE LOWERY: Let's see. There was a little more wind today. It kind of was switching a
little bit. On the driving range it seemed like it was blowing northeast and then it kind
of turned south, southwest there I think in the middle of the round or something. Just
trying to figure out the wind. Greens were getting a little scratchy. 8th hole is looking
really kind of bluish with the spikes -- you see the footprints on them. It's kind of
drying out. That was the main difference. 

Q. And is it the poa annua, getting crusty or combination?

STEVE LOWERY: I guess the heat, just stressing them. I don't know if they put water on
them. I'm sure it will be all right tomorrow. That hole is kind of sitting up and there's
no shade. 1st hole was key. I missed the green left with a pitching wedge. I was probably
20 feet off the green and was just trying it put it somewhere up near the hole and it went
in. Started the day with that. 

Q. How far was that?

STEVE LOWERY: I don't know, that was probably about 50 feet. 2, I hit wedge in there. A
little shallow thing. It rolled just an inch off the green. But it was a nice uphill.
Probably about a 12-foot putt. 4, I hit a 9-iron to the left about 25 feet and made a
nice, long putt there. 5, I spun a sand wedge to the front of the green probably 25 feet
there and made that putt. 7, I pulled a 6-iron in the left bunker, not a good spot to be.
The ball came by and released about 15 feet and I missed that. 12, I drove it in the right
rough. Hit a 3-wood off the tee, and just didn't really hit, you know, that good a drive.
The second shot was pretty good. I was over to the left and I tried to run it, you know,
put it just like I did on No. 1 and it didn't come out right. Really didn't get on the
green there and 2-putted from the fringe for bogey. 14, I was starting to struggle a
little bit right there. Hit in the hazard on 13 and made par. So I just played it safe,
tried to regroup, hit 4-iron off the tee, sand wedge in there about 15 feet and made that
putt for birdie. 

Q. You talked about with the heat and everything, maybe running into a wall after the
fast start, is that kind of what you meant by that or not? 

STEVE LOWERY: It was hard to concentrate after about 8 holes out there because of the
heat. I just noticed that I was getting really hot walking, you know, up and down the
hills in the heat. Up until 8, I started having a little trouble with the whole thing.
Because of the heat it was hard to concentrate and focus, to get the shots, you know, to
where you wanted them. 

Q. Has that been a problem for you in your career, dealing with the hot temperatures?

STEVE LOWERY: Not really. I've played well in the summer. I won in August out in Denver
and it was hot out there. I think in general the difference between shooting 7-under and
3-under a lot is being able to focus or concentrate. The golf course was a little tougher.
The wind blew a little bit more. But it was just much harder to concentrate start to
finish. 

Q. Do you have any idea what sort of number you think will do it for the weekend? 

STEVE LOWERY: You know, I really don't know. Have to see how it is out there tomorrow,
what conditions are like. If that front blows in, you know, I don't know if it's going to
rain. It's going to make the golf course longer, soften the greens up a little bit. The
scores might be low again tomorrow. Just hard to say until you see the conditions. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT