THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 27, 2000
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 STEVE LOWERY: We ended up playing 18 holes without using the umbrella the whole time.
But you've got to be calm mentally got to be prepared to play all day. I was trying to
tell myself that on the range, because you just never know. They told us an hour and a
half window in the locker room and ended up playing all of them. Just come in and play, be
prepared to play, you know, when you do play.  
 
Q. Does it ever get discouraging to look at the board and see somebody pull away like
that?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: I wouldn't say discouraging. Any time you see a player like Tiger play
that well, you just take your hat off to him. He's playing great. He's a great player.
He's playing well. Hey, my hat is off to him. 
 
Q. Is it any tougher when the guy pulling away is the No. 1 player in the world? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: No. I'd rather -- if there's somebody ahead of me, I would rather it be
the No. 1 player in the world, so at least I know I'm playing pretty good if I'm second
behind him. 
 
Q. Kind of a benefit to play with him tomorrow rather than having to look at the board
and see how he's doing?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: You know, I watched the board some today. You know, a lot of red numbers
going up by his name, but not a whole lot. I mean, I played in front of him today and
there's a lot of people coming up behind tomorrow. You know they will be holding back a
little bit. But I played well, and, you know, so we'll just have to see what happens.  
 
Q. I mean, it's not match-play because you're starting out behind, but would you rather
have your guy ahead of you where you can see exactly --
 
 ? STEVE LOWERY: Well, you spot the No. 1 player 7 shots for 18 holes, I'd have to bet
on Tiger. (Laughs).  
 
Q. You have to be more than pleased with the way you're playing right now?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, I'm playing really well. I mean, all I can do is take care of Steve
Lowery; go out and play golf. Two rounds at 6-under par on this golf course in some pretty
good conditions, you know, I'm very pleased. I've played really, really well, and that's
all I can look at and take care of. Very pleased. 
 
Q. When you play as well as you played on a course like this, this has got to give you
a lot more confidence?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: I think so. It's a tough golf course. You've got to be paying attention
really on every shot out there, and, you know, it gives me a lot of confidence. I'm
starting to feel the confidence I've had before, to be able to play well, and it's
encouraging.  
 
Q. On a day that was relatively easy, especially with the lift, clean and place, the
two guys paired with Tiger are likely to shoot over par today. From your own experience of
being in the final group, either in the third or fourth round, if someone goes off like
this and is 6-under on one stretch for six holes; is it easy to get caught up and lose
focus on what you're doing?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: It's easy to get to the point where you feel like you're just trying to
stay out of the way of him, and you get to watching him too much and not taking care of
what you need to take care of. It's important for me tomorrow playing in that situation to
just take care of my own situation. If he shoots 59, so be it. But I've got to go out
there and take care of what I have to do to play well. It's easy, though, to -- when he's
making all the putts, to, you know, to kind of lose a little bit of interest. Maybe those
two guys are struggling with that a little bit.  
 
Q. If he shoots 59, you've got to shoot 51. 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: (Laughs).  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT