MCI CLASSIC
April 15, 2000
Steve Lowery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 STEVE LOWERY: I played well, and I putted well again today. I putted good yesterday.
Started off, bogeyed the 1st hole today. Yesterday I started off fast; today I started off
slow. But No. 2, I knocked a 4-wood on about 35 feet and 2-putted that. 4, I hit a 5-iron
about four feet; made that putt for birdie. 5, I hit 3-wood on in two, but it rolled on
the edge, and I chipped up to about three feet, and made that for birdie. 8, I missed the
fairway to the right and had to punch the ball out and made bogey there. 10, I hit driver
8-iron to about four. 8-iron to about four feet, and made that putt. 13, I hit a 9-iron
about 15, 20 feet, I guess; and made that putt. 15, I hit a pitching wedge about eight
feet, and made that putt. 18, I hit a 7-iron to about four feet, I guess; and made that
putt.  
 
Q. With the course, the way it played today, what was par out there? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Well, this is a hard golf course. You've got to drive the ball in the
fairway -- when the greens are soft, the ball is sticking, you know you can get a lot of
birdie putts. But I think that's the biggest factor of why everyone is shooting low
scores: The target is small, greens are sticking, the ball will stay close to the hole. 
 
Q. Were you bummed it wasn't windy, rainy, and cold again?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: No, I had enough of that. I need to rest after that day. 
 
Q. Was it tough adjusting to normal weather here today after the last two days?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: It was kind of a relief. It had been blowing so hard, just kind of wears
you out. Today was a little bit of a relief. Even though there was not much wind, you
still had to deal with it. Kind of switched on us in the middle of the round. 16, all of
the sudden was down. 17 was down after it had been the other way on 10. So it was a little
bit of a change, but it wasn't a big factor. 
 
Q. Did you see enough of the scores that you went out, you knew it was going to be a
pretty good scoring day?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: I saw Scott Hoch was 6-under through 10, something like that. I saw a
couple low scores, and I knew guys were sticking the shots close to the hole.  
 
Q. Is it tough not to let that work on you, or is that just so commonplace you get used
to it? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Somebody is always going nuts out here, but you just can't worry about
it. You've got to play the game you've got and try to execute the shots that you're given
in a day. It's kind of hard to do it, but you just, you know, hope you make putts.  
 
Q. Does it matter who you're chasing? This week, it's Davis who plays well and Ernie
who is obviously on a roll. Did that make any difference? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: You know, it's the same old thing. I can't control them; I just try to
control myself. They have been here a lot more than I have lately, so I need to kind of
pay attention to what I'm doing, execute my game, execute my shots. Ernie hits it a lat
farther than I do, and you just can't worry about it. 
 
Q. Were there any signs that you were going to put two rounds together or more like
this? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: I think I've been putting better, you know, like I said. And if I can get
some consistency with my putter, I can make a lot of birdies. And I've tried to minimize
mistakes this week and just trying to get in there. I mean, you putt good, you can compete
with anybody. If you can hole putts, that's kind of the key. Everybody talks about Tiger,
you know, how far he's hitting the ball. But to knock those putts in is the big key. 
 
Q. But no precursors as far as something that keyed you that you were going to start
playing real well? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Not really. I think just been building momentum this year, starting to
play better. It seems my game has been coming around. Nothing in particular.  
 
Q. Seems everybody is beating up No. 2 today. Was that hole playing particularly easy?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, it was playing downwind today, and I actually missed the fairway to
the left and was still able to get a 4-wood on the green. You try to hit it in the left
center of the fairway, and the wind was blowing right-to-left; so the ball ended up in the
spot you want, and downwind, you can knock it in there. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Yeah, you're kind of backing up; it was playing four, four and a half.
Like I said, if the green is soft you can fly a long iron and stop it. Normally the ground
is really hard and it rolls in the back bunker all the time, the back rough there, but I
flew it in out of the rough and it stopped flew on the green and stopped on the green.  
 
Q. You said you've got to play your own game and all that, but does having somebody
like Ernie Els up there, does that make trying to catch somebody like that a little more
daunting? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Sitting right here it doesn't, but tomorrow on the first tee it might.
You know, he's a great player and I give him all due credit. But, know, he's not going to
lay down. I have to go out and play one of the best rounds of my career to beat him.  
 
Q. Have you played with him before? 
 
 STEVE LOWERY: Yeah. I've played with him. He's a great competitor, nice guy.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT