WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Hideto Tanahara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER: Victory here in the first round over Jordan Spieth.  If you could, just maybe talk about a couple of the pivotal moments in today's round.   
HIDETO TANIHARA: The first hole both of us had a good shot, the first shot and second shot.  And we both tied as birdies.  And then on the third hole had a bad shot and had a -- probably about I seven or eight foot par and I made it.  So I think from there I just got a little confidence in playing well from there.   
 Q.  What did you think when you saw you had Jordan in the first round?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: At the beginning I already knew that whoever I'm going to play is going to be high ranked.  So I didn't know who it was going to be, and eventually it was Jordan Spieth, who was a hometown favorite.  I knew it was going to be tough.  I never got to pair with him, so I wanted to see how he played, who Jordan Spieth is.  I was actually looking forward to it.  I was going to try to enjoy it, every moment of it.  And it was fun.   
 Q.  What does this do for your confidence going forward and do you think you can win this tournament?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: More than the confidence level, it's just that we have to take it a step at a time.  Every day it's always different, just how you feel, how you play.  It's totally different.  If the opponent plays better than you you're going to eventually lose.  You just never know what happens, so just trying to take it a step at a time.   
 Q.  Did the state of Jordan's game today surprise you at all?  He just seemed off from his usual self, did that surprise you at all?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: More than a surprise.  I thought it was more of a chance to win, so it was good.   
 Q.  Do you think you intimidated Jordan today?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: I think -- well, it's his hometown.  I guess it's his favorite course.  It's actually harder to play in that kind of situation -- actually it's the other way around, not feeling at home, but it's more like you have to play well.  So I think it was harder for him to play than myself.  So I think I just had a better chance, less pressure.   
 Q.  How much match play do you play on the Japan golf tour, or is there any?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: This year in Japan there is a match play in the fall.  The previous game was in Perth, where it was the Super 6 played at the Super 6.   
Before that, maybe after the EurAsia Cup, the first one, which was, I think, 2014, played there.  Not a lot of match play.   
 Q.  How did you do in Perth?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: 15th.  So I made the cut and then -- you have to be top 24, and I was in one of the top 24.   
 Q.  These matches must have felt like a marathon?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, there's only two players and you play pretty fast, compared to of course six holes it feels long.  But it was pretty good.   
 Q.  Are you aware that this is the last chance for qualify for the Masters this year?  Did you feel like it was attainable?  You can do that?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Yes, I knew this was the last chance.  Probably I need to get to probably the top eight to probably get into the Masters.  So just need to win all the way.   
 Q.  Who was your golf hero growing up and why?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Jumbo Ozaki.  Jumbo Ozaki.  There wasn't a lot of International TV, so I didn't get to see a lot of International golf, America or Europe.  So it was all in Japan.  So I got to see a lot of Jumbo on TV and that's my hero.   
 Q.  Do you think he or Matsuyama can win a major in this country?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: I should be -- he should be able to win, yes.   
 Q.  Is there any one part of your game this year that's improved to allow you to play so well winning in Japan?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: I've always been a good short game player, putting, too.  And off the tee I was hitting well.  But since probably last year I've been playing -- hitting it pretty solid.  And because of that, the second shot is getting easier.  I guess from the tee shots it's been improving.  And that's why I think I've been playing well, driving it.   
 Q.  Are you as popular as some of the baseball players in your country, like Ichiro?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Maybe (laughter).   
 Q.  Do you play baseball?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you watch the game last night and does this make up for it?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, they didn't have it on TV, so I didn't get to watch it.  But it was a pitching duel and I wish they would have won.  But I got to see the first -- the first one in 2009, the WBC.  I think it was San Diego.  I got to go and watch it, and it was exciting.  It was really fun and Japan got to win, so it was a great feeling there.   
 Q.  Did you play baseball?  How long?  What position?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Just when I was in elementary school.  I started out playing baseball and then turned to golf.   
 Q.  What position?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Catcher.   
 Q.  Why did you pick golf?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: My father made me play golf (laughter).   
 Q.  Did your father teach you?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  And how old were you when you started playing golf?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: 12.   
 Q.  How much attention do you get at home first with Ishikawa and then what Matsuyama is doing?  Do you get lost behind the great play of Matsuyama?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: It's still how the Japanese media do it, it's just whoever is popular, they attract more people.  But as long as you play well, they'll come to you.  You've just got to play well is how I think.   
 Q.  Do you think you can be as good as Matsuyama?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, I'm getting old, so maybe not.  But just happy to see that Matsuyama is playing really well.  It attracts a lot of kids over in Japan.  And in the future they might think they want to be like him, they'll want to be golfers.  In some way if I can help, I would love to help and help these kids become golfers.   
 Q.  Have you played with Jumbo?  The first time you played with him, were you nervous?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: It wasn't my debut.  Probably the second or third tournament, I paired up with Jumbo Ozaki, and another player, Shingo Katayama.  The first couple of holes was nervous, but I was fine.   
 Q.  What do you consider your greatest achievement in golf?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, 2006 or 2007 I was 5th at the British Open and at that time I was peaking, playing really well but then got hurt.  And couldn't play for a while.  And wasn't playing really well but got back to this right now and still trying to get back to it.  Still getting there.  So it's not really achieved yet.   
 Q.  Is that a back injury?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Shoulder.   
 Q.  You would have been hurt earlier if you had stuck with being a catcher.  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Yes, probably so.   
 Q.  Is the Presidents Cup a big goal this year?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, I have to keep on playing well.  If I get to play maybe out here in the States, maybe some tournaments in Europe.  I'm on the Japan Tour, so keep on playing the Japan Tour and hopefully can get in, but we've got to see how it goes.   
 Q.  There was a South Korean that won the PGA, they called him the "Tiger Killer" back in 2000.  Are you going to be the "Jordan Killer" from now on?  
HIDETO TANIHARA: It's only once (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT