NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 1, 2020
Kendrick Nunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. How was the atmosphere in the locker room after the loss in Game 1, and then Game 2 is that a chance for a response after the loss in Game 1?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   We were upset about how Game 1 went.  Good thing about it is the series is seven, so we'll prepare for today and make some adjustments going into Game 2 and we'll be ready.
 Q. The team just announced that Bam and Goran are doubtful for tomorrow.  Obviously being shorthanded you'll be one of the biggest underdogs in a while in a Finals game.  Did anyone mention that today in terms of inspiration?  Was there a speech from UD [Udonis Haslem], anything other than business as usual today?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   No.  I mean, I don't I think I need a speech or anything like that.  I'm ready to play.  I’ve been ready, been all season.  I had to step up, and simple as that.  I'll be ready to play and compete and go out there and try to get a win.
 Q. And I was going to ask you also what was the last thing physically that came back for you after COVID that affected your game? Rhythm? And is it all the way back?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   It was my rhythm a little bit.  Just having that time off, that long period of time off in quarantine and things like that.  So my rhythm was a bit off.  I’ve been here in the bubble for almost three months now, so stacking some good days on top of each other and feeling good.
 Q. Spo was talking about just the effort he's seen you expend in the practice setting after going through COVID and arriving late.  When you go in the second half of a Finals game and are able to play the way you did, does that feel validating?  Did you feel like you were still sort of looking for people to see the effort you put in in that time?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   I mean, I do it for personal reasons.  I mean, just because I know the type of player that I am.  I know what I bring to the game, so it was definitely some inspiring moments there, and I felt good about it for sure.
 Q. As you sat on the bench last few games, at least up until last night, a you sat with Derek and Kelly, and with Meyers, you all obviously are total team guys.  Was there ever a conversation among yourselves of, Boy, it would be great to get one more opportunity, because that opportunity is obviously going to come tomorrow?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   Of course.  Of course.  As a professional athlete you want to be out there on the floor, and I believe I can help my team win.  So definitely had those thoughts and now is the time.
 Q. What's it going to take to even the series up tomorrow?  What adjustments or how do you guys need to attack this game?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   It's going to take an extreme amount of relentless effort and smart basketball and just making winning plays, competing at a very high level and just get the job done.  Try to stop them defensively and limit the things they do well and control the game.
 Hopefully get a win.
 Q. Kendrick, the players have spoken out a lot about social injustice and systemic racism.  Why haven't the players come out publically and talked about the lack of Africa-American coaches in the NBA?
 KENDRICK NUNN:   We have been speaking as players and using our platform to make it visible.  We continue to talk about it.  We continue to make it our business to support that, and we want everyone else to see how we feel, how we feel about it and our thoughts about it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT