MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: WEST VIRGINIA VS ARIZONA STATE
December 31, 2015
Nick Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seems like when it comes to these types of bowls, the team that really takes it seriously, prepares, is the team that wins.  
NICK KELLY: This past couple weeks with practice, the way that our team has been practicing is at a high level.  We've been going full pads, going goods against goods, get the rust knocked off of us from Christmas break.   
I feel like this week we definitely prepared ourselves for West Virginia and believe our team is ready to win this.   
 Q.  What is your main motivation for this?  
NICK KELLY: Got to win out with a W.  I'm a senior.  Senior year.  You got to win.  I don't want a losing record.   
 Q.  There's a big difference between 7-6 and 6-7, isn't there?  
NICK KELLY: A big difference, uh-huh.  People don't notice how you won, how you lost, but they notice for sure if it's a winning or losing record.   
 Q.  How would you describe this whole season for you guys?  
NICK KELLY: Lots of close calls.  Just up in a lot of games and couldn't finish it out.  Had a chance to win all of our games.  Texas A&M beat us.  We were up in the fourth quarter and couldn't finish.   
 Q.  Looking back on your career here, what do you take away from it?  
NICK KELLY: The experience of being in a brotherhood like this, a family like this.  Just never going to have it again.  Realizing what I'm losing after that week.  It's pretty sad.   
But ready to hit the real world and continue with a football career, so on with my life.   
 Q.  When will you graduate?  
NICK KELLY: I'm going to finish up classes in May.  I have five more credits left.  Just taking more classes.  I'm going to train for the NFL.  After that I'm ready.   
 Q.  Do you feel good about the NFL?  
NICK KELLY: Yeah, I feel pretty good.  I don't want to have an agent or anything like that, I'm going to do it after the bowl.  I feel pretty good that I will succeed because I've always flew under the radar, but able to hold my own, really define who I am as a player on the field and off.   
I feel like I'll do a good job at the next level, if I just believe.  All I really need is a chance to be good.   
 Q.  As far as West Virginia defensively, what do you see there?  
NICK KELLY: Good team.  Do the stack.  Fly around on the secondary.  They know how to stop the run with their 3-3 stack.  Good safeties.  It will be a good game this week.   
 Q.  Their formations, how aware do you have to be of linebackers coming in and blitzing?  
NICK KELLY: You have to be aware, that's a big key, on third down and second.  There's tendencies of them running certain blitzes that comes with film study.   
I believe that West Virginia is going to come with a lot of blitzes.  I believe their coach was one time with Coach Graham.  You know how Coach Graham is with his blitzes.  I feel like he does the same with their defense.  They run blitzes.   
But it's something we can pick up.  Nothing we haven't seen before.   
 Q.  Players that stick out to you?  
NICK KELLY: No. 97 on their D-line looks like he's the most versatile player, just with his pass-rush, with his hands.  Looks like a pretty good player on the D-line.  Linebackers like to come downhill.  Same with the safeties.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT