THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2019
Wes Short
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel like you performed?  
WES SHORT: I didn't think I was going to really play this morning.  I did a little better than I thought I was going to do.  My back is pretty hurting right now and had a pretty good spill on the back of the arm -- I don't know, unlucky this morning.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it will be affecting you this morning?  
WES SHORT: I'm hoping not.   
 Q.  Did it affect you today?  
WES SHORT: It did with the backswing and stuff.  Seemed like it was a little shorter today.  Back's pretty tight.   
 Q.  What attitude will you bring to the course tomorrow?  
WES SHORT: I'm going to come and give it all.  I'm going to fight to the end.  You never know.  The weather is supposed to be like this tomorrow, too.  You can shoot a good round tomorrow, you can gain some ground.   
 Q.  Was there a doubt you might not be playing today?  
WES SHORT: Yeah, I took a spill this morning on the steps and landed right on my back and scraped up my back and arm pretty good, my back and arm and neck.  I'm hurting pretty good today.   
 Q.  Did that affect your play?  
WES SHORT: Yeah, I didn't feel like my golf swing was near as long as it should be, a little quick and short, just seemed like.  Couldn't get any rhythm.   
 Q.  How tough was it to play in these conditions?  
WES SHORT: Yeah, it was a tough day today with the wind and the rain and the coolness.  We got all the elements today.  So it was a tough day.  Saw some pretty good scores out there, though.  A lot of good players played really well.   
 Q.  Nice to hole a birdie putt on 17 to finish strongly?  
WES SHORT: Yes, I was leaking oil there for a little bit, so it felt good to make a putt and made a good up-and-down on 18, too, so maybe that will get me started for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're only two shots off the lead.  Nice to be in contention at a major?  
WES SHORT: Yes, it is.  Luckily for me I played really got first couple days, not to great today, and I'm still in it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT