THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2019
Wes Short
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were playing well prior to the stoppage of play and kept the momentum.  Was it difficult to come out and get refocused after that delay?
WES SHORT: You know, being a little bit older, it seems like it's hard to stay loose.  The last two or three holes, it wasn't too bad.  I mean, the weather was better, but being a little bit stiffer was a little bit tougher.
Q. It worked out there for you.  As you look back at the entirety of your round, what did you feel like your strengths were?
WES SHORT: I actually putted pretty good today.  My iron play was good.  I caught a few good breaks around some bad tee shots.  Was able to get some irons on them and make pars, and actually, I made a birdie on one hole that I really hit a poor drive on.
Q. I know they don't hand out championship trophies on Thursday, but getting off to this good start, what frame of mind does that putt you in, heading into at least tomorrow?
WES SHORT: It's been a pretty tough year for me this year.  It's good to finally get off to a good start, and maybe I can hang in there and see what happens on Sunday.
I played a good round.  Got away with a couple of bad drives and didn't get into any of those tough bunkers, which is key out here.
Q. And a good back nine, as well?
WES SHORT: Yes, I played really good on the back side, especially before the delay.  I was hitting it really good and made an eagle and birdie and then I birdied 16.  So it was a good finish.
Q. Do you think this golf course suits your game?
WES SHORT: As long as I don't get in those bunkers.  I like it.  I think it's a great golf course.
Q. Nice to get off to a good start?
WES SHORT: Very good.  Like I said, it's been a rough year for me and it's nice to get off to a good start.
Q. What do you think was the biggest key to your success out there today?
WES SHORT: Today, I actually think that -- I hit a pretty poor shot on No. 1, and chipped it up there to about probably, I'm going to say about 15 feet and I made it for par.  So that kind of got me going, instead of making bogey on the first hole, I made par.  I made another bogey and something later, but that -- I think that first hole is the key.
Q. What do you think you need to improve on going forward?
WES SHORT: I need to drive it better, and my iron play today was like I said, really good.  Hit a lot of good iron shots.  Just got to keep it in play.  I was missing it wide enough where I didn't get in any of those bunkers.  You know, fortunately, I had some decent lies where I could get on the green, at least at an angle away from the pin or something.  So made pars on some of those holes where I hit poor drives.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT