ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 13, 2018
Laura Delaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second loss in the group and it's a tough group.  What are your thoughts?  
LAURA DELANEY: Second loss?   
 Q.  Second loss.  
LAURA DELANEY: My apologizes. Yeah, obviously not the result that we wanted here today. Pakistan was a target for us. We definitely thought we could get a win over them.  Bitterly disappointed.  To come 40 runs short after the confidence and self-belief we had going into today's game is very disappointing.   
 Q.  To restrict to Pakistan to 139, do you think that was a target that was sort of too much or was it par score?  
LAURA DELANEY: Yeah, I think before we went out to the field we said 120, 130 would be par on this wicket, so a little bit more than what we hoped they would achieve.  Look, I think going out into the batting innings we were still pretty confident with the lineup that we had, that if we executed our plans we would get the result we wanted.   
 Q.  What was the thinking to promote Gaby Lewis to open?  
LAURA DELANEY: We changed our teams since Celeste Raack came in and we took an extra spinner and we left out Cecelia Joyce.  We decided to put Gaby in the order; she got three, so not much of a change.  She's quite an aggressive and attacking batter, so herself and Chills, thought if they got us off to a flyer we would be in a good place.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you will take from this match and the last one heading into the back end of this group stage?  
LAURA DELANEY: From a batting point of view we need to look at our scoring shot percentage.  I think we faced way too many dot balls, and unfortunately ended up putting a lot of pressure on the middle order batters.  I thought Chills got us off to a flyer, as she has in the last two games.   
Bowling-wise, I think we just need to make sure we execute our plans, I thought we bowled incredibly well in the first six overs, even first six, eight, ten overs, and then I think we took our foot off the pedal slightly ans we allowed them to score more than what had hoped.   
 Q.  You guys had multiple times mentioned this is the game you want to look at.  Do you think you put too much -- you have much pressure on yourselves?  
LAURA DELANEY: No.  Look, I think it was a given coming into this tournament you have a tough group.  Pakistan are closely ranked to ourselves, so that was the obvious target that we were going to go after.   
After beating Sri Lanka in such a convincing way (in a practice match) I thought Pakistan would be the next target for us.  Obviously Australia first up, No. 1 in the world, was always going to be a tough challenge.  So Pakistan was next on our list.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it considering the opposition now on the table?  Couple of tough teams ahead.  Even Pakistan, who are ranked close to you, are still a professional team.  They are able to train almost full time.  Most of you guys are not.  How frustrating is that?  
LAURA DELANEY: So incredibly frustrating, because if we were professional, I wonder what the score would've been out there today. To lose by 40 runs, again, that we genuinely believed we could win, it's very disappointing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT