PELICAN WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You played today.  It's been five weeks since you won the KPMG and went home Korea.  What was it like going home as a major champion?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   After win the major champion I got my country airport and my family were there and they were very look like happy, and then when I looking at my family I was like almost -- my tears almost in my eyes.
So I was so emotional, yeah.
Q. Did you ever think you would get to that point where you would win a major?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, yeah.  That's my dream.  Yeah, always think about it.  So, yeah, dreams come true, so very, yeah, happy with that.
Q. Every time you stand on the golf course now do you feel more confidence because of it?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah.  I mean, even win the major tournament and then in this year I played quite very consistently, so I got a lot of confidence, and when I played the golf course it feels very comfortable.  And then, yeah, confidence.  Yeah.
Q. When people see your name at the top of the leaderboard they know what a great player you are.  How will you approach the weekend knowing people will be chasing you down?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   You know, when I have a chance to reach the -- yeah, win, I'm not going to watch, see the leaderboard, because I -- if I see the leaderboard make me a little bit like emotion, and so then I couldn't focus sometime.  Yeah.
So, yeah, just focus on my game, don't see what's going on.  Yeah, I just focus myself.  Yeah, trying to overcome myself.  That way, yeah, make the good result.
Q. Here with Sei Young Kim, the new 36 hole leader at 8-under.  A bogey-free round on top of that.  How comfortable are you feeling with your game right now?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   You know, it was a tough to make the chance to birdie back nine, especially back nine, because pin position really tough.  Pins, most pins were right next to undulation, so if you miss the distance it'll come back, all the way back.
Yeah, so it was -- I had three good up and downs, so, yeah, with the bogey-free round it was really good play today.
Q. How important is it to get those up and downs and to save those pars on a course like this?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Well, sometime I need a chipping or sometime I need a high pitch shot.  Yeah, just depend what's the grain.  Yeah, you just need to right judge what's the situation around the green.  Yeah.
Q. But quite a few birdie opportunities on your front nine.  Take us through some of those.  Were they long putts for you?  Short putts for you?  What were some the things you remember?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I had a four birdie on par-5s, so I had two shot on the green.  So two-putt, and then, yeah, it was -- yeah, able to make the four birdie.
One shot I had the good shot like five feet, four feet.  Yeah, I made it.
Q. Were you feeling the most comfortable on the par-5?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Depend the wind.  If you got into the wind it's tough to make the -- reach the two shot.  So if you get right to left or downwind, it's, yeah, feels more comfortable because easy to get the two shot on the green.
Q. You were playing in quite a major looking group.  What is it like when all of you are trying to find the pieces and work together?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   What does that mean?
Q. You were playing with a pretty good group.  What does it mean when you're all trying to hit it long and get all the birdies you can?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   You mean tomorrow or today?
Q. Today.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Today, yeah, Bianca, she's a really long hitter and is she every hole pass me like 20 meters.  She look like a skinny, yeah, like me.  I'm not skinny, though, yeah.  But, yeah, she's a long hitter.
And Brittany, she's also long hitter.
So we, yeah, we are -- yeah, it was really, yeah exciting to play with them.  They are really friendly and nice.  Yeah, we talking through and chill.  Yeah, it was good play with them.
Q. You just mentioned with the Golf Channel that you don't like looking at the leaderboards.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah.
Q. Why is that?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Golf is compete with myself, I think.  Yeah, if you see the leaderboard then I think I think about the other things.  I just want to think about focus on myself and what I have to do.
Yeah, that makes it help, yeah, if I don't see the leaderboard.
Q. What's there is to work on going into tomorrow, Saturday?  I know you just told your caddie you are going to the driving range.  Are you still going to be out here?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Last hole a little bit pull this so miss left, so I just check out couple shot.  Yeah, I just hitting couple shot and then go to the bed.  I need the rest.  Yeah, little tired today.
Q. I want to know what you did for two weeks in the quarantine in Korea at your parents' house, I guess.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   My whole family stays there, but I didn't go out.  I stay in my room.  All the meal they put, yeah, my room front door.  Yeah, so...
Q. Did you watch movies?  How did you pass the time?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, there is only thing I can do watching movie or drawing something.  Yeah, and call my friend, talking with them.  Yeah.
Q. Have you seen the final round of the KPMG?  Did you watch yourself at all?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   It's weird.  I can see the TV when I playing, but, yeah, I just, yeah, I didn't see that.
Q. Afterwards you didn't?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah.  Not really.  Just YouTube highlights.
Q. Got you.  Are you playing some of the best golf of your career right now?  How would you sum up how your game is?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Me?
Q. Uh-huh.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   You mean how the game?
Q. The state of your game, is it as good as it's ever been?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, I think so.  I mean, since last July I play very steady, and then I think this year best year in my life.  Yeah.
Because my weak point is sometimes too bad, and that's -- for my coach and the all around the people, around the people saying, Sei Young, you should be -- if you are steady play, you may be next level.  Yeah.
Q. Wow.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   So I trying to steady my golf, yeah.
Q. How do you do that?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Just keep simple.  Yeah, don't think too much.  Just keep simple.  If you get it, just don't change anything.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT