KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Sei Young Kim, just finished a 3-under 67.  Sei Young, you had a nice run of three birdies in a row there on the front nine on 5, 6 and 7.  Could you tell us about those birdies, please?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I had a good front nine yesterday.  It felt really good on the front nine, and same as yesterday, I had a good front nine today.  No. 9, I missed a putt which was disappointing, and No. 10 also, a missed tee shot led to a bogey, but I got my composure back, and I'm glad I finished strong.  The last bogey on 18 was disappointing, too.
THE MODERATOR:   It certainly was a disappointing way to finish, but still, you go into the final round with a two-stroke lead.  How are you feeling as you go into the final round with a two-stroke lead at a major?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I wouldn't say I'm nervous, but I'm also excited about going into the final day.  I just want to take each shot at a time and just keep focus, and the results will follow.
THE MODERATOR:   During the break when we weren't playing, you were playing a lot.  You did play a lot in Korea.  I'm sure that kept you fresh as you came over here to the States and then you've played so well.  Do you feel like your game is in a good place right now?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I always tried to maintain my game-ready condition during the off time, and fortunately there was tournaments happening in Korea which I was able to compete, and that really helped me kind of transfer on and get ready for the LPGA as it returned.
Q. In the last two days alone, you have 10 birdies on that front nine.  That's a lot of birdies.  What is it you like so much about the front nine?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I feel like after the tee shots on the front nine, I'm left with a shorter distance to the green, which I was able to capitalize.  Birdies build me confidence.
Q. Earlier in this week did you have a good feeling about this golf course?  Was there something early on you really liked here?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Coming into this course, the first feeling I had was it was a long course, but I was confident with my long iron game, so I knew I was going to play well knowing that I had confidence.
Q. You've won a lot of tournaments out here, but last year you won a big one for a really big check, for $1.5 million.  How much confidence do you take from making such a clutch putt with so much on the line?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   If I knew the answer to how to make clutch putts, I would have won so many more times.  I just tried to stay calm during the rounds, and when I'm home not playing, I do a lot of image training of my game, so I just try to keep composed, and I guess that's turned out to good results.
Q. How hard will it be tonight and tomorrow morning to realize that you're going for your first major championship, and how do you think your focus will be?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I'm just going to stick to my routine.  I'm going to hit some balls, have a great dinner and rest up for tomorrow.
Q. Did you buy anything special with your $1.5 million?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   So I've received that question numerous times, but to be honest with you I haven't spent it on anything.  I'm just saving up for the future.
Q. Tomorrow you'll have an early tee time.  It's an unusually early finish, 2:00.  Do you like playing in the mornings?  And will it be weird if you're not the last group off?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   It's definitely an advantage to tee off later, especially here, because it's a bit warmer.  But the only thing I have to keep in mind is that earlier tee times will be a little chillier temperature wise, so I'll make sure I have my hand warmers and be ready to play tomorrow.
Q. Do you have anyone here with you, family?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   No, just myself.
Q. The best part of making all these birdies, has it been your iron game or has it been your putting?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   My iron game has been consistent and pretty sharp.  I feel like I've made a few nice mid-range putts, which helped me get the momentum.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT