NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What a great round today.  You actually made history shooting your lowest score here.  How do you feel about that, because on the 17th hole, which was 8 for you, coming in you could have tied your score in the past, but then you birdied the last hole.  How do you feel?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, the front nine I had a lot of birdie and then we got the thunderstorm, and then after that the lot of rain, the blow the wind, so it was tough to judge the distance.
 And, yeah, it was play really good and I finish strong.  Yeah, I'm very happy with that.
 Q. What do you do during the 30, 40 minutes of delay, and how did that affect your mental game?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I just chilled.  I had a little talking through with couple player, but we keep the, yeah, social distance.  Yeah, wearing a mask, yeah.
 Year, we are back to teen girl. (Laughter.)
 Q. Yeah.  And then compared to yesterday you had a lot more really great up and downs, a lot more birdies, and you had an eagle.  How is that eagle life?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, my tee shot I little push it and finish little in the rough.  I had 170 meter to the pin and a little bit into the wind.  I try to just cut shot with my hybrid.  It was, yeah, pitch right there where we want area.  So, yeah, it was closes.  Yeah, finish close.
 Q. How is your game now compared to Gainbridge earlier in January?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I was just trying to keep same feeling and, yeah, I didn't do anything.  Just keep practice.  Yeah, same feeling as in January.  Yeah, I think okay now.
 Q. So you opened up today with a birdie at 10 and then again at 12 and then 14.  How much does your confidence increase as those birdies start to come along?  And then you capped that front nine with a great eagle at 18.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, I got the good momentum after eagle.  I want to keep playing but we stop because of the weather.  And, yeah, but my atmosphere is the same as, yeah, before stop.  So, yeah, just trying to keep the -- make the birdie as, yeah, as soon as possible, yeah.
 Q. The rain on the course, does it make it an easier course to play after rain like that?  Does it soften it up?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, greens were softer but the wind is stronger than, yeah, front nine, so it wasn't easy.
 Q. So you'll carry what looks like right now a one-shot lead.  We'll see how the second half of the day plays.  How do you feel going into tomorrow?  What will your approach be going into tomorrow?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think my position is really good now so it could be a lot of pressure myself, but I try just relax myself and then just -- yeah, relax and play like first round and second round.  Yeah, that's what I have to do.  (Laughter.)
 Q. Last question from me.  You mentioned relax.  How do you plan on relaxing ahead of tomorrow?  Listen to music?  Watch TV?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, having a good meal and then watching Netflix show.
 Q. What are you watching on Netflix, Korean TV shows?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, that's my favorite.  I love it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT