DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 18, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with Sei Young Kim, who finished at 11 under today. You had a roller coaster there on the back nine. Take us through this round and what was working for you so well.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Today was pretty windy, but a different wind direction. It was opposite. So it was tough to judge the right distance. Then a couple of holes were longer than the last two days.   
Yeah, so it wasn't easy, but I'm happy with good results.   
 Q.  When you looked at the weather report today and you saw the wind direction and saw some of those gusts, did you have to sit down and mentally prepare for that out there?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I talked with my caddie Paul, so we tried to commit every shot. So we did that, and I think that commit gave us a lot of help on every shot, each shot.   
 Q.  I know you had some good celebrations offer your CME group win, but how you're close to the top. How does it feel you could possibly pull out another win tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Hopefully good weather tomorrow. Yeah, I'm very happy where I'm positioned, so I have a chance tomorrow. Hopefully good playing tomorrow. Then, yeah, having fun tomorrow.   
 Q.  Given Inbee's stature, her reputation, what's it like when you get a chance to go up against her? Inbee Park. When you get chances to go up against her, given her reputation in Korea, what's it like for you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: She's a great player. She's a Hall of Famer. When I was young -- I've been watching her play since I was young. So it's a dream come true for me to play with her, and we have a chance to play the final round in 2015, and I'm not sure 2016. All the times I played with her, it's a good experience. I learned a lot of things from her. So, yeah, I'm very glad to play with her.   
 Q.  Which tournament were you paired together in the final round?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: KPMG 2015 and then LOTTE championship.   
 Q.  Oh, the playoff?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: The playoff, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you remember about watching her before you came on Tour when she won? Which tournaments?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: At the time I was in high school, she won a lot of times major tournaments. It might have been 2011 or 2012.   
 Q.  2013, that's when she won the three in a row. She had won before then.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Might be the time, yeah, when I was in high school.   
 Q.  What kinds of things have you learned by playing with her?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: She's very consistent. It's very opposite my character, so yeah. I learn from her kind of how to play very consistently, and then her emotions are very calm, so whatever happens. Yeah, kind of that.   
 Q.  What did you learn from her?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Me? She looks really smart, and in my conversations with her, she's very deep and very smart. She knows how to life getting better -- like develop her life quality better and enjoy golf. In my conversations with her, she's talking about enjoy your life, like don't push yourself too much and too much stress.   
 Q.  Is that something you had difficulty learning for yourself how to balance life and golf?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, a little bit, but it's tough to me. Personally, I always push myself too much, but I like that way. Yeah, I understand what she's saying.   
 Q.  You had a pretty good finish last year. How is that helping you coming into this week?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: We had a very short off-season, so I tried to keep the same feeling as much as last year. That feeling helped at the beginning of the year until today. We have one more day. I feel it's the same as the last tournament.   
 Q.  You played in Inbee's event, right? Did you play in Inbee's event after CME?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Last year?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: No, not last year. I played it three times, but not last year.   
 Q.  So how much time did you take off before you started practising again? How much time did you take in the off-season before picking up the clubs again?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Three weeks. Yeah, three weeks I didn't touch a golf club, and then the last two weeks I practiced hard.   
 Q.  Can you talk about those four birdies in a row on the back side today. You had four, and I didn't see the length of your putt on 18. Did you have a chance to birdie 18 as well?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I don't have a chance to birdie on hole 18 because it's too long. It's about 220 yards with the 5 iron. I could have, but I missed the green from the tee shot. Yeah, I had four stretch of birdies. What was the first birdie? 14? Was it 14?   
 Q.  14, 15, 16.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, starting at 14. I had a bogey on 13, so I thought I need more birdies. I'm trying to get birdies. Then, yeah, I was able to.   
 Q.  Short putt?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It wasn't a short putt, like six feet.   
 Q.  The first birdie?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yes.   
 Q.  Do you get nervous when you play with Inbee, or does it not bother you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It's fun. She's -- it seems like lots of fun. She's really fun when we're talking. I like talking with her, but she's so busy.   
 Q.  Are you aware of how many consecutive rounds under par you've had?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think five. Consecutive birdies?   
 Q.  No, consecutive rounds that you've shot under par.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I don't know.   
 Q.  I think it's 18.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: 18?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I didn't know that.   
 Q.  Did you ever think about things like that when you get on a roll like this, where you're playing so many rounds under par?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: No, never. When I'm playing really good, maybe I think about it. It could be going to a course where it helps. Except that I never think about it.   
 Q.  How do you carry over good play from last year to this year when you have a big break?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It's too short to me. Like just three weeks off and then two weeks I practiced hard, last two weeks.   
 Q.  And then what has been the best part, the ball striking?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Ball striking and then putting and then chipping around the green.   
 Q.  There's no weakness, really? No weakness then? You feel good about it all?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yes. It's getting better, but it's tough to get the right distance.   
 Q.  You haven't got your distance control down yet?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Uh-huh.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT