CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're here with our CME Group Tour Championship winner, Sei Young Kim, who just drained a 25-foot birdie putt on 18 for $1.5 million.
Congratulations. As you were over your putt on 18, did you know what was at stake, and what was going through your mind?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) To be honest with you, I was only aware of Nelly's position when I was putting. I had no idea Charley's score. So I just thought of two-putting to secure my win.
Then I found out about Charley's score when I was submitting my scorecard. To answer your question, I did not know.
THE MODERATOR: You had your putter raised to the sky before that ball got to the hole. Did you know it was good? Did you have a good feeling?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) I knew I was on a good line. I did not know it was going in, but once I heard the gallery scream, I think simultaneously I knew that that was going in.
THE MODERATOR: It was quite a round out there. A battle between and you Nelly, and then Charley and Danielle making it close there at the end. You said you weren't aware, but how aware were you throughout the round of where you stood on the golf course?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) I was really just aware of Nelly because I was playing with her. I knew that a lot of the girls were catching up, but I kind of shriveled on the back nine, to be honest, but I knew that if I kept my composure I could get it done.
THE MODERATOR: And now before we open up to questions, you just won $1.5 million. How incredible is that, and what does that mean to you to earn that?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) It means a lot to me just knowing that I just won the biggest purse in women's golf history. That itself is an incredible honor.
THE MODERATOR: Open up for questions.
Q. Just to be clear, with the noise that came with that putt and Amy and Jin Young running out, you had a pretty good idea that you won then, right?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) You're absolutely right. I knew that when I heard the crowd and saw Amy and Jin Young running out, I knew that I won. Today, again, I focused on just maintaining my score. I knew that if I could keep up with Nelly that I could win this tournament, so I did that.
Q. You had really good birdie chances on 15; 16, 17 did not look very comfortable over the putts. Was trying to win the tournament making you nervous, and how did you calm down for the putt on 18?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) There was a lot of pressure on those putts. Under normal circumstances I probably would've made those putts. Just given the fact that I was fighting to win and there was very nervous putts. So looking back at those three holes, I feel like I could have made it in a normal circumstance.
Q. Thursday. What about the last one? How did you calm yourself down for the last one? Maybe she didn't.
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) So on 17 I think I actually tried too hard and went past a little bit. So knowing that, coming into 18 putt I just reminded myself what I practiced out on the range, the putting green. Just nice pace putt, and luckily went in.
Q. Did it feel like a major championship today?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) Well, I haven't won a major yet so I don't know that feeling.
Q. The pressure on the golf course.
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) But if I come to a similar situation at a major, I think I would be less nervous now.
Q. So the pressure felt like a major. I guess I should have explained that a little better.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.
Q. You seemed to be talking to Paul quite a bit on the back nine. Yet when you got to 18 you didn't speak to him over the putt. Was it something where you knew going in that you had the line and speed and felt confident over it?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) Normally I don't have too much conversation with my caddie during a round, but I think Paul, you know, initiated some conversation in the back nine because he maybe -- perhaps I looked nervous. Kind of for the purpose of relaxing me.
So, yeah, talking about the back nine, I think conversations we had might have been Paul trying to relax me out on the course.
Q. For as much as you've won, your stature in the South Korean game is pretty high. What do you think about the fact that you probably don't get the attention you really deserve that a lot of other Korean stars have gotten more attention? How do you feel about that?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Tough question. (Through translation.) I think it's natural for everyone to look at newcomers and new stars like Jin Young Ko and S.H. Park and the attention kind of shifting that way.
But the only thing I can do is play my game, keep on grinding, and just showcase that I'm still there.
Q. You said that one of your goals this season was to win three times. What are your goals for yourself for your career?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) Just for the short-term goal I do want to compete in the Olympics, so 2020 Tokyo Olympics is definitely on my map.
Because I initially had a goal win three times this year, maybe set for four wins next year.
Q. Can I follow up on the attention question? Do you like kind of being under the radar? Does it make your life a little simpler, or do you crave more attention?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) I think it's both helpful in some ways, because getting a lot of attention means you're doing really well. Being also under the radar and having the attention kind of shifted to other players, not myself, it really motivates me to work harder.
So to answer your question, I think it's helpful in both ways.
Q. Do you remember how much your first check was as a pro, and what you did with the money?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) My first win was KLPGA event, and the winning prize money was about 100,000. At the time, what I did with the money, I want to move -- I bought a house actually with that money.
Q. In Korea?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, in Korea.
Q. What will you do with this big check?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) It's very sudden question, so I have not thought about what I'm going to do with the money. I do want to do something meaningful, so I'm going to give it some thought.
THE MODERATOR: That $100,000 in Won or U.S. Dollars?
SEI YOUNG KIM: U.S. Dollars.
Q. How challenging was it to block out what a victory would mean this week, because that's all we are talking about was $1.5 million?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) I really want to thank CME Globe and Terry. And speaking of women's golf, how much the prize money has grown and the growth in women's golf in general, I'm very thankful. I think women's golf is in a good track.
THE MODERATOR: What was your club on 18?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Second shot? 6-iron.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SEI YOUNG KIM: Little pulled it. (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: Anything further for our champion? This was the last event for the 2019 LPGA season. What is up for you next? Are you playing any more in Korea or taking a break?
SEI YOUNG KIM: (Through translation.) I'm going to head back to Dallas where I live, be there for a few days, and head to Korea to celebrate with my family over there. I'm going to come back to the States and do my winter training in Miami.
THE MODERATOR: Well, enjoy. Buy yourself something fun. Do something good with it, and we'll see you next year. Congratulations.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT