CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rumor has it you had no idea what was at stake. What was on your mind when you're standing here on the 18th green with that putt ahead of you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I have no idea. Last putt I just trying make two-putt because I didn't see the leaderboard the hole, 18th hole. I didn't know what if I made a two-putt it could be go to playoff.   
So I just try and make the right distance; made it. It's unbelievable. I was like so emotional. Almost crying. But I try I'm not going to cry. So, yeah, I'm still unbelievable, yeah.   
 Q.  You told me yesterday after your round that on the back nine you lost your focus.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.   
 Q.  Cost you some shots out there.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the discussion like with Paul to make sure that you had that focus down the stretch?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You know, I knew going to some happen, so got -- starting my body is shaking just hole 12, but I try to calm down. And then, yeah, but my shot okay, but I miss a lot of birdie chance.   
Even there I try to just relax until the last hole. That's my goal today. So, yeah, I did. I'm very proud of myself. Thank you to my caddie. He's a really hard work for me. Yeah, all my family, all the fans.   
 Q.  Paul is going to get a really nice Christmas bonus. You have done a lot in your young career. Now a double digit ten time winner on the LPGA tour. You accomplished your goal of three wins this season. This was a big one, the biggest check in women's golf history. Where will it rank in what you accomplished?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Three win this tournament, this year, very satisfaction. Yeah, I try to another level for next year. Yeah, better, better fighter. Yeah, I hope next year try and win this tournament.   
 Q.  You may be small in stature, but you pack a powerful punch. Congratulations. What a season.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT