CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Out here with the leader, Sei Young Kim, going into the final round tomorrow. What was it about today that really kept your lead going?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Front nine I play quite solid. I had three birdie. And then back nine it was kind of boring, yeah, play. Then I had a lot of chance but I couldn't make the back nine, except I have pretty solid round today.   
 Q.  As we were walking up here I said you hit every single green today. You said, Yep. How confident were you hitting your approach shots?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I've got the confidence from the starting of Asian Swing, and then I played quite consistently. Also this week I played quite consistently. Yeah, got a lot confident. Yeah, ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had a nice par save out there on 14. What did you say to yourself to really get yourself together and keep going forward?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You mean 14?   
 Q.  Whatever the par save was; I think it was an 14.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think when I have a par putt I'm not thinking anything, just, okay, I'm going to make it. I have to make it. I think that thinking, yeah, I didn't miss it. Yeah, and the good up and down.   
 Q.  One more round of the 2019 season for you.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  What's it going to take to stay on top?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Just relax and enjoying for tomorrow. I probably play with Nelly tomorrow. Yeah, she's my favorite player. Yeah, we going to play tomorrow and hopefully with good strong finish.   
 Q.  She's your favorite player?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, she's good friend.   
 Q.  Why is she your favorite player?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: She plays so fast. So fast, yeah. When I play with her, it's like, yeah, very fast, fast, fast.   
 Q.  What about the way she plays, her style of play?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Her style?   
 Q.  Yeah. What do you think of her game?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: She hitting driver so far and then play very simple, don't think too much. Yeah, that's what I like. Her play, yeah, very aggressive, uh-huh.   
 Q.  How long have you been under the weather?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: How long did I what?   
 Q.  How long have you been sick or is it allergies?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Oh. After Thailand I went back to Dallas. Dallas is really cold weather, 28 degree, so I couldn't practice that much because of the weather.   
But I try, so that's the reason why I got bad cold, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you have any key to relax? How do you spend this evening?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Just having a dinner and a talk with my family. Yeah, and then watching some fun video, Netflix, yeah.   
 Q.  ...you felt on the front nine today. 3-under when you made the turn. How much did that score help take some of the pressure off you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I had a pretty solid round front nine. I didn't think about any future. Just stay focused on what I have to do. That thinking make me good result.   
But back nine was little tough to focus, yeah, what I have to do. I kept think about like future, so I was like, Nope, Sei Young. Stop thinking. Focus on it.   
So, yeah. But, yeah, I had a lot of chance back nine. I could have made it. Yeah, going to practice and ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You mentioned kind of losing the focus on the back nine. Could you feel it when it started to kick in, and how do you think it affected you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, back nine it was a little tough to focus on because I was imagine before the third round if I lose my focus, what can I do. So I'm talk to my caddie, Paul, and then try to relax. He made my laughing, but that's like helping a lot.   
 Q.  Obviously tomorrow as you chase this title, your tenth title on the LPGA Tour. You mention that focus. Do you think that that experience today, sort of losing focus, will help you tomorrow to keep the focus all day long?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You know, tomorrow whatever happens, and then I know that if I win that's my career ten times win, but I don't want to think about it. Just I want to how to play well. That's my biggest target, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT