CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sei Young Kim, 67 on Friday at the CME Group Tour Championship. What was the key to your consistent play out here?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I shot pretty solid round today. My shots and putting, wasn't anything bad today. Yeah, I think I had a lot of chances for birdie today, but I couldn't make a couple last holes. Yeah, pretty good today.   
 Q.  With the changes to this tournament this year with the $1.5 million up for grabs to the winner, does that add any extra pressure, or how much has that been on your mind this week?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I mean, it definitely feels like U.S. Open or British Open. It feels like a major tournament. But even I try to -- I put myself any extra pressure. Just playing normal, and I just focus on my best playing.   
 Q.  You have to like your position on top of the leaderboard with just two rounds to go with that winner's check there. What are you going to do this weekend to try to hold your lead?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Just play -- I just focus shot by shot and relax and enjoy, have fun on the course.   
 Q.  How good has the ball-striking been through two rounds?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You mean how the ball-striking was?   
 Q.  Hitting the shots, driver, irons, has that sort of been --  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Consistent, yeah, very consistent. I didn't miss a fairway today, and yesterday every hole -- every hole keep it in the fairway and I didn't miss any greens. I think that has been the key that I was able to low score.   
 Q.  And when you're hitting the ball well and the golf course is playing difficult, how much more do you think that is to your advantage?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I mean, this golf course, the grass isn't really short, so if the swing tempo is a little weird, it's easy to hit it fat, so I try to focus on ball-striking well.   
 Q.  What are your keys for tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Tomorrow, just relax, have fun.   
 Q.  Do you feel the nerves out there? Does it feel like the nerves of a major?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, the last couple holes I got a little nervous because I wanted another low score. But I think that thinking made myself a little bit of extra nervous. Tomorrow I just try and relax and then have fun.   
 Q.  You and Paul have a great relationship. How much does that help out there, having him to talk to when the nerves kick in?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: We don't talk too much during the tournament, but yeah, if I get nervous or I get too serious, he tries to make me like -- yeah, relax, yeah, make me fun. He's a really good guy.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 18 coming in, and how does it feel to finish like that?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Cristie told me after I missed the hole 17 birdie putt, Cristie Kerr followed the back nine. She told me like yeah, you might be finishing strong, taste better dinner. I just said, yeah, should be, I'm going to make the birdie. Yeah, it come true.   
 Q.  Was she chatting with you a little bit out there?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Not really, just before 18.   
 Q.  What did you hit, what club, on 18?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I hit a 6-iron.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT