MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 13, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sei Young Kim, you're taking a one-shot lead into the final round at the Marathon Classic.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Tomorrow I play with -- pairing with Lexi Thompson, one of my favorite players.  Yeah, I'm very exciting play with her.  Yeah, we hopefully good (indiscernible) each other and then, yeah, make the good result.
Q. What was the key to your 5-under round today?
SEI YOUNG KIM: It was a little tough to judge the distance.  I mean, wind very gusting, on and off.  So after that couple hole I miss second shot distance, and then I try to setting my mindset.  And then just committed every shot, and, yeah, back nine I got a lot of birdie chance and then I make the four birdie.
Yeah, so I'm very happy with 5-under today.
Q. How much confidence are you bringing into tomorrow?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, a little bit.  It's not like, Oh, I'm very confidence right now.  I'm not like that.  Just, yeah, play same as last three days.  Yeah, last three days and just whatever happens, just let it go.  Just do my best.
Q. How comfortable are you being the one at the top of the leaderboard having everybody chase you?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, a lot of players behind me, so, yeah, just -- this golf course is not easy, so just focus on what I have to do.  Yeah, a lot of player has chance to win this week, tomorrow.  Yeah, so I think it's just focus on what I have to do.
Q. On the back nine did you gain a sense that you were just in a groove and feeling good and that's where all the birdies were coming from?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I mean, I was a little -- feeling little bad because hole 18 I made the bogey after I lost momentum a little bit.
Then hole 9, reachable tee shot, made the birdie and I got momentum, good momentum.  And then, yeah, got a little bit confidence and back nine played pretty solid round.
Q. Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?
SEI YOUNG KIM: No.  (Laughter.) No.
Q. I'm sure you recognize how big the crowds are following Lexi.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Oh, yeah.
Q. She's going to be the fan favorite here tomorrow.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.
Q. Do you sense that, and what is that like to play in?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I have a lot of experience of like a lot of people going on.  So, yeah, like to play a lot of people around, yeah.  I'm very fine with them, yeah.
Q. So you'll be well-prepared.  Got no problem with the big galleries and someone else in your pairing being the favorite?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, just focus on what I have to do, and when they like clap, just thank you, say thank you, yeah.
Q. Alongside Sei Young Kim.  How good was that 5-under today considering it was so difficult with the wind?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I know.  It was a really windy so it was tough to judge distance, especially the front nine.  Back nine I got used to it with the wind.  Yeah, I was able to a lot of chance to make the birdie.  Yeah, I'm very satisfied with the 5-under.  Yeah.
Q. You had a 3-shot lead coming into the 18th.  I know you were watching Lexi.  You saw her make eagle there.  Now you just have a one-shot lead.  Thoughts on playing with her tomorrow and having a big fight for this championship?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm very exciting play with Lexi Thompson.  She's really long driver and great player.  I'm very, yeah, excited to play with her.  Hopefully (indiscernible) each other and make the good result.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT