THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 2, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right everyone, back inside the media center here at Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic.  Now with me is Rolex Rankings No. 12 and defending champion, Sei Young Kim.
It's been a long day out there for you today, but how are you feeling?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Very happy to be back here because especially I have great memory I shoot 31.
THE MODERATOR: I was going to say, what's most memorable thinking back to that record-smashing performance last year?  What were some of the most memorable takeaways you have just thinking about this time last year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Last year I was focus on what I have to do, and then very calm even I made a lot of birdie.  Before that round if I make the birdie I'm little exciting or if I make the bogey I'm pretty upset.
But I try to control my emotion last year and that works.
THE MODERATOR: What did it mean to you to break the record of your idol, Annika Sorenstam, with that amazing score?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Because it's really big deal because I want to setting goal, one thing very special.  I want to break a record and I did last year.
2016 I shoot 27-under; almost break record, but, yeah, tie.  After that, okay, after couple years maybe I could be break record.  So, yeah, after I did I'm very happy and then, yeah, pleased.
THE MODERATOR: You had that performance at Founders Cup where you had the 27-under, did you draw on that experience for your time last year at Thornberry?  Was there a moment you realized that I could go out here and break this record now?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Pretty similar when I play Founders Cup.  My swing thought and then my mindset is pretty similar when I play the last year in Thornberry.
So, yeah, I try to keep that way, but sometimes it's not easy.
THE MODERATOR: You've had already a really consistent year.  You said you aim to be consistent.  You've already won this season.  You have at least five top 20 performances already additionally to the win.
For you, how would you grade your season overall now that we're just about halfway through the tournaments?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Every year I setting my goals I want to better last year.  First year I won three time, but next years I won second times.  After getting less my wins, okay, I need more.  I want to more improve myself.  That thinking make me consistent playing I think.
THE MODERATOR: You've said also that you want to win multiple times this year after your win at the Mediheal Championship.  Is that still on the brain as you go into this tournament after what you put up last year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, but it's too high.  I'm not confidence I can break up 31-under.  I try, but, yeah, I just keep trying.  Just what I have to do.  Just process.  Focus on the process.
THE MODERATOR: I was going to say, is there a score in mind this year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: No, no.
THE MODERATOR: Not for you?
SEI YOUNG KIM: No.
THE MODERATOR: You've been on the course already and there are some rainy conditions out there.  How are you feeling going into this year's tournament after getting the lay of the land?
SEI YOUNG KIM: This course is got a lot of rain this week so greens are really soft and the fairway also little wet.  So if I hit the driver it's little long, feel like a little longer than last year.
Yeah, keep the fairway.  It's very important.  And then I think key is putting really well.  Yeah.
THE MODERATOR: All right, we'll open it up to questions.
Q. After winning last year how much confidence do you bring in?
SEI YOUNG KIM: After win this tournament I got a lot of confidence so I was able to in Top 5 in the British Open, and then almost reach the Evian Championship.  Yeah, that means I got a lot of confidence.
But after the off-season I got a little bit of back pain and then I have to change the swing so I couldn't play that way.
But, yeah, another good way I'm still going on, so, yeah, I feel better.
THE MODERATOR: Speaking of the back pain and rearranging yourself and your swing, going into L.A. and coming out of the L.A. Open in second and going on to win Mediheal, how do you think you've transformed as a player since you were here last year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Because swing is not big deal because if you feels comfortable.  I think big deal is what your mindset.  That's really important I think.
THE MODERATOR: Would you say you have a very confident mindset as well?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.  Kind of.  (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: After a great season so far, I would say so.  Anyone else down here?
Q. After you win a tournament and come back the next year it's obviously hard to repeat.  Why is it so hard to come back and win the same tournament the second year in a row?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, when I got here people were saying, You going to break up 31-under.  A lot asked me.  I answer that could be, but it's not easy.  But trying to.
However, I don't think about what I did last year.  Just keep doing it what I need to and then what I have to do, yeah.
But key is just forgot -- I think key is just forgot about what I did last year.  Uh-huh.
THE MODERATOR: All right, anyone else?  Sei Young, thank you for coming through and good luck this week.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT