KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sei Young Kim, who is no stranger to going low and you have the lowest nine holes of the tournament thus far on the backside.  
 I talked to your caddy, he said she's hitting it plenty well enough to do what she does.  Maybe go really low tomorrow.  Do you feel that way?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.  Again, really good moments.  Hopefully as soon as today, tomorrow, yeah good play tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had a couple of really good moments you referred to.  We're going to look Colinas at them right here starting with your pitch in at 13.  
 Tell us about this.   
SEI YOUNG KIM: At the tee shot I have 162-meter but I miss the shot but it break right to left.  I try to just close as much as I can but --   
 Q.  Then one from 92 meters, 101 yards.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I had 92 yards -- 92-meter to the pin.  Just hit shot with 53-degree wedges.  It made it but I couldn't see where I was standing so one in the galleries went, "Oh."  I went, "Wow."  So I made it.   
 Q.  Great round and we wish you luck tomorrow.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Thank you.   
 Q.  Nice finish at 14 to really cap off your back-9.  What was your reaction when it went in?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: After front-9, I felt I really need to birdie because Inbee in front of me, she made a lot of birdies.  I can hear that.  So I just trying to little more aggressive than front-9.   
So, yeah.  But this course is not easy attack the pin.  I just try on the green and then try to make the putt from where I am.   
 Q.  Your eagle at 14, what did you see on that second shot?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I had 92-meter to the pin.  I thought where I landing was downhill so if I pitch there it's going to be lot of release so like trying to pitch at the pin but it made it.  I was so surprised.   
 Q.  What did you think of that moving up 16 today playing as a shorter par 4?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: They make the tee tomorrow?  You mean today?   
 Q.  Today.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It's not easy.  Lot of risk.  If you take the risk you can get an advantage.  I try -- it's not attack the pin, left side of the green and chipping and that's easier than attack the pin, yeah.   
 Q.  The course play a little easier today?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: The weather pretty calm than yesterday.  Yesterday really hard wind and strong winds.  It was hard, yeah.  Just trying to make par yesterday.  But, today, yeah, I was able to make lot of birdie, yeah.   
 Q.  Tied for third right now, six back.  
 Do you feel you're in a spot where you can maybe make a push tomorrow?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, I just trying my best tomorrow.  Whatever happens, yeah.  That's my goal.   
 Q.  Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, I don't know, I don't know yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT