HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 28, 2019
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Maybe not the way you wanted to end it, but still a fantastic round for and you a fantastic tournament overall.  How are you feeling now that you're off the golf course?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think this golf course is not easy even regular tournament.  The greens are really fast, and if I miss the wrong side it's tough to up and down.   
Even that I'm very satisfied with my playing.  Yeah, I'm very happy with my score.   
 Q.  I was going to say, what are some of the qualities you think you really got to shine during this tournament?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: What do you mean?   
 Q.  Ball striking?  Putting?  What was your biggest asset?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think ball striking, because I kept every fairway and then second shot is very solid.  I was able to attack to the pin and I got a lot of birdie chance.   
Yeah, I think biggest key is second shot and the tee shot.   
 Q.  Now, poana greens are going to be there next week as well in San Francisco.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I know.   
 Q.  I can see you breathing hard already.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I know.  I use a lot of energy.  If I hit little hard it's going to be little too far left what I got, so it's tough to judge the distance every putt.  So, yeah, I have to more focus than the regular green.   
 Q.  What does it do to your mental game out there?  How are you able to stay focused and calm?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It's tough.  Last hole, last putt I was a little nervous and shaking my hands.  Even then I try to focus on what I have to do, but it's tough.   
Always keep the mental is not easy.   
 Q.  When you're out there and those tough putts are ahead of you, what are you thinking of to calm yourself down?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Just focus what I have to do.  Sometimes when I got nervous what I have to avoid that, but that's not good thing.  Just focus on what I have to.  Yeah, that's only way I can success something.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT