BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 19, 2018
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(In progress. )   
SEI YOUNG KIM: I felt pretty good today.  I made four birdies in a row 4 through 9, and then made the huge big par putt 10, 11, 12.  And then I make several putt back nine, except that I'm very happy today play.   
THE MODERATOR: So you had four birdies in a row on 6 through 9 today.  You said you were making a lot of putts.  Can you talk about that stretch in particular and what you were doing there.   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Starting on hole 6, I have a chance to birdie putt but it's not short putt.  It's probably about seven or eight feet, and then couple hole like 7 and 8, 9 hole I made tap-in birdie.   
Then 10, 11, 12 hole I had like four feet for par putt, but I still had one par -- one putt until 14 hole.  So one putt that was huge, big part of my golf game today.   
THE MODERATOR: And you have won an LPGA tournament already in China in 2015, Blue Bay LPGA.  What do you remember about that win?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: I pairing with Stacy Lewis and Candie Kung.  We were going to the same score, tie, and then last hole I made a birdie and the Stacy and Candie missed the putt and I was able to win the tournament.   
It was a really strong windy weather.  It was tough to play full day.  But, yeah, in Blue Bay very good memory for me, especially China.  So always happy to play in China.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  As you mentioned, you won in China at one of the stops on the LPGA; you're also doing pretty well.  Any key to your success so far?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You mean playing in China?   
 Q.  Playing well in China.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: When I play well in China and the U.S. my thinking pretty simple.  When I thinking too much I play really bad.  Last week I play in my country I was too much thinking.  I got pressure especially in my country.  I too much wanted to win that tournament; that's the reason why I played not good.   
This week I trying to empty my mind and then trying simple my mindset and then just go for it.  That help a lot of good condition, shot condition and putting condition, everything.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  We saw you still practicing on the green.  Is that normal for you?  You've been faring pretty well.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: You mean green or...   
 Q.  Yeah, on the greens today.  We saw you practicing there.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I like these greens.  Greens are bermuda, and around the green -- greens are bent grass and around the greens bermuda.  It's different.   
 Q.  He was asking you why would you still practice today after.  
THE MODERATOR: Because you played is a well.   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Oh, okay.  Because last couple holes I missed -- hole 15 I missed left-to-right putt to about two feet.  I kept thinking about why I miss that, so I just want to check that.  Yeah, just easy.   
 Q.  Did you find any key to solving your problem after you practiced just now?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Commit.  Because before I hitting, when I didn't commit -- if I didn't 100% commit it's definitely miss.  So the point is 100% commit before I hit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT