THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2018
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic round.  Bogey-free.  Must've been so much fun for you out there.  How are you feeling?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Feel great, because great a bogey-free round today.  Before I play today I setting my goals no bogey, so I'm very happy with that.   
 Q.  Just a moment ago you were asking us who the leader was.  Are you not a leaderboard watcher?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I didn't watch it during the tournament.  I just keep focused what I have to do.   
So, yeah.   
 Q.  Five top fives in majors so far.  You've played pretty well here.  Fifth in 2016 and tied sixth last year.  Is it time for you this year, and what do you have to do tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Just take the rest and then practice for tomorrow and then hopefully, yeah, another good round tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've had seven wins in your career.  None of them have been a major yet.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.   
 Q.  How do you think it would feel if you were able to break through tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, big goal is win the major tournament.  I had seven win but there is no major tournament, so I wish I could win the major tournament.   
But I don't know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  You had your 31-under par earlier this year.  Here you are again contending in a major championship.  Is it as good as you've felt on the golf course?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, kind of, but it's not feel same.  Couple weeks ago I played wasn't good, so after I took one week off.  I practice hard trying to putting well, and yeah.   
But going into this week feels getting better.  So, yeah, very happy with the 7-under today, and also my position.   
 Q.  What do you like about this place, Evian?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I like here.  Result really good past couple years.  The golf course suit my eye and greens are really soft and I could attack the pin the way I want.   
So, yeah, that's the reason why I play good this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT