SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 27, 2017
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were on course to equal the course record of 62 for that double on 17.  Were you aware of how well you were going and did it affect you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: After we got the weather suspended, the greens are a little softer.  So I was able to hit it and attack the pin.  I had a lot of birdie opportunities, and then yeah, my putting really felt good.  That's the reason why I made a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  Would you say that this is some of the best golf you've played in a long time?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Oh, yeah.  It's been a long time.  I played well today.  So yeah, I'm very happy to get back the good feeling and then nice ball-striking.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend, now that you've had this great round, what's your strategy?  What are you going out there tomorrow thinking?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: We have two more rounds.  I'll just focus on what I have to do.  That was key today.  So I'll keep going, whatever happens come to me, and I just focus and trust myself.   
 Q.  A second round 65 today, on fire today with your putter.  You had the little hiccup on 17 but still a great round for you today?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm very happy to play great today.  I wasn't really feeling good.  Me and my caddie were in really good synergy on the course.  Yeah, I'm really happy with the great score.   
 Q.  You had the four-hour rain delay in the middle, and it's always tough for any player to start and stop.  How do you deal with a big rain delay like that and keep your mind focused on your game?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It was a little tough to focus again.  So after the restarting again, I made a bogey on the first hole, and then I kept trusting and focus on what I have to do, and I'm able to make a lot of birdies.  It's a booster.   
 Q.  And a booster, as well, you played well last week in Chinese Taipei and you've been playing well this season; your victory earlier this year at the Lorena Ochoa.  How do you feel coming into this week?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: It's been a long time to win a normal stroke format, so I really want to win this tournament.  But I don't think about it.  I just think about what I can do.  Yeah, just do my best and trust myself and trust my caddie.   
I'm very excited that we have two more rounds.  Yeah, just keep trying to make the birdie every hole.  We'll see what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Wanted to ask you about what happened on 17?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Honestly, I thought I could move the leaf, but it's not a factor, the leaf behind my ball.  Then I just picked up the leaf and then throw some air.  Then Brittany came to me, did you move the rock or leaf?  I move the leaf -- she said (indiscernible) sorry, that's fine.  We have two more rounds.   
 Q.  You have two more rounds, and you still played really well today.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: That's okay.  That's not a big deal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT