U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 13, 2017
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Minus three, well played.  What hole did you have your birdie on and what did you do to get those birdies?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: I had a birdie on which hole is it?  2nd, 11 and Hole 2 and 14 and 7.  No, no, no.  6 and 7.  6 and 8, yeah.   
 Q.  What did you think of the golf course?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Golf course is kind of tough.  But the fairway easier and wider and then greens are softer.  So if I attack to the pins to stop the ball, yeah.  And then I think it depend on the pin position is kind of tough courses, yeah.   
 Q.  Some players have said they believe it is a second shot golf course.  Do you agree with that?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Sorry?   
 Q.  It's a second shot golf course.  So your approach into the green is what makes the golf course tough.  Do you agree with that?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, definitely.  This course, greens are a lot undulation.  If I miss the wrong side, it's all the way down.  And miss the green, it's tough to the up-and-down.  So that's mostly important to the pars to the fairway shot.   
 Q.  You must be pleased with a good score on the first day.  It's tough to get in contention if you don't play well the first day.  Now that you have a good round under your belt, does that give you more confidence for tomorrow?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Kind of, yeah, I played a good back nine, so I got good momentum.  But hitting -- not better ball striking the ball, so I practice a little bit of shot and hopefully better round tomorrow.   
 Q.  How hot was it?  Was it very hot for you?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.  The front nine it was really hot.  I feel like really hot and it was almost dizzy.  So I keep the cool.  I kept cool.  That helped.   
 Q.  How many bottles of water did you drink?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: About six bottle, yeah.   
 Q.  That's a lot for someone your size.  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, that's a lot.  I drunk a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT