KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRISTINA LANCE: Again, the rain brings us in.  Thank you very much for joining us.  We're here with Sei Young Kim who tied at the top of the leaderboard at 7-under, a great bogey-free round today.  Sei Young got off the golf course just before the rain.
Has to be a good feeling, but tell me how you feel seeing yourself up top.
SEI YOUNG KIM: I'm very happy to be in good shot conditions, because yesterday I had a lot of birdie.  But last couple holes, I made double and bogey, bogey.  It was really disappointing.  But I'm very happy to bounce back now.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Was there anything specific that changed with your game today?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, after the double and bogey, bogey, I realized my grip's getting a little loose.  That's the reason why both, little pulled it, I kept -- pulled it.  And then my tee shot was left and my ball, second shot, was in the bunker, three in a row.  So that's the reason it was really tough golf.
CHRISTINA LANCE: So did you work on your grip to tighten it up or what did you do to fix it?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, just little adjustment.  Just stronger than before.  That was key.
Q. What were the course conditions like today compared to yesterday?  It was windy, and today it was not quite as much.
SEI YOUNG KIM: Fortunately when I tee off, a little less windy.  So I was able to play to the pin, attack to the pin.  So I made a lot of opportunities for the birdie chance.
And then tee shots, when I hit a tee shot, a little into the wind, a little long distance.  So I have to hit long irons.  Yeah, I had a lot of long irons.
Q. After that disappointing finish, what were you telling yourself?  What was your self-talk after?
SEI YOUNG KIM: You know, I realize, I try to find out what's the reason the fail and what's the reason came from the double and bogey.
But I found.  After I saw the leaderboard, I try to, I think I thought future, but I have to focus on what I have to do, but I couldn't focus on my position.  So I kept my -- told myself, don't think about it or anything.  Just focus on what I have to do.  Don't think of future.  Don't think of other players's score, yeah.
CHRISTINA LANCE: We should all learn from that.
One question from me.  Had you been here before this week and what are your thoughts on the North Course here at Olympia Fields?
SEI YOUNG KIM: This year, first visit Chicago.  Golf course are kind of old school.  Yeah, pretty wide open but a lot of bunkers in the fairway.  So it is a little tough to the tee shot.  But weather's rain, so greens are holding the ball.  Yeah, it's a good course.
Q. You proved yourself in Korea.  You came over here and won and proved yourself.  How much more important have the majors become over here in winning one?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I don't have any win of the major championship, not yet.  Beginning of the year, setting my goals, I really wanted to win the major championship.  So I prepared a lot with my caddie and with my coaches.  Yeah, it means a lot to me.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Thank you very much, Sei Young.  Glad you got done and we will see you tomorrow afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT