CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 5-under par 67 to begin your title defense at the CME Group Tour Championship.  How did it feel to start the tournament as defending champion?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, it's feels very good.  Yeah, because I play with Inbee and Danielle, and those are really good player.  And then, yeah, then we play in the warm weather and it's feel really good.
 So, yeah, the course are same as last year, and, yeah, every thing is same as last year.  So I just when I walking the last hole I reminded the final round last year.
 Yeah, it was great to finish it.  Yeah, pretty good.
 Q. What were you reminded of specifically?  The overall celebration?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, final round I made a long putt last hole, so when I walking down hole 18 I reminded that memory.  I was like, oh, it's already, yeah, one years ago.
 So feels like time goes by so fast.
 Q. You mentioned it's nice to be in the Florida warmth.  I would imagine just a good feeling to get back and kind of swing freely with limited layers on.  You don't have to the have parka and all that.  What's the difference for you in your game with that?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Biggest different is distance, because I'm really weak cold weather because I never play really good in the cold weather, especially like British or Houston.
 So, yeah, but when warm weather I hitting so farther, so I think that that's the reason why I play more free and then, yeah, so muscle very smooth and relax.
 So, yeah, it's feels more very tender.  Yeah, uh-huh.
 Q. When you got back on the premises here at Tiburon, you have a lot of good memories obviously, but was there a calming factor compared to other years when you arrived knowing you've won and you know what you can accomplish on this course?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   What does that mean?  (Through translation.)  Yeah, a little bit, but I don't think about that.
 But, yeah, a little bit.  But because a lot of friends call me last night, Okay, you are defending champion.  Keep it up.  I was like, Okay.  Thank you for calling me.
 But when I got that call I remind, oh, I'm defending.  But, okay.  I just keep doing it, yeah, same as last year.  Yeah.
 Q. Who called you?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   My friend.
 Q. Just a couple friends?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, my neighbor where I live in the Dallas.
 Q. Very cool.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah.
 Q. How are you finding the course conditions this year compared to previous?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think pretty similar.  Yeah, very similar.  Greens are softer.  I think last night a little bit got rain, the green, so feel like little softer than yesterday.
 But, yeah, everything very similar.  Yeah, distance, yeah, everything.  Yeah.
 Q. The final round in Houston was a tough one.  What turned around for you?  Was it more coming back here or did you self-correct anything?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   You mean compared to last year?
 Q. Compared to Monday.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Oh, Monday.
 Q. Monday wasn't a great day.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Oh, it's way different because when I played in the cold weather I feels really like I'm -- it's not free.  You know, it's very -- I was like, oh, I want to play more sensitive and play more aggressive, but I hit the fat every -- not every hole, but couple hole I hit the fat.
 I was very disappointed.  If I trying to something, but -- I know I try for something on Monday but it wasn't works.  So, yeah, it was very, yeah, tired.  Yeah.
 Q. Did you find yourself thinking at all about Player of the Year when you're playing?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, before the tee off I think about it, but on the course I was just very focus on my game.
 So I didn't think it, yeah, on the course.
 Q. On the LPGA it's a point system for Player of the Year; on PGA Tour the players vote for the Player of the Year.  Which system do you prefer?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I'm not really specifically know about PGA Player of the Year.  (Through translation.)  Oh, okay.
 I never think about it, but I prefer the LPGA.  Yeah, I think because it's for the who is the best player on the LPGA feel like.  Yeah.
 Q. You feel like it's more fair?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, more fair.
 Q. Than points?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think so, yeah.
 Q. Okay.  Thank you.  Last one we have for you, Leia Schwartz has a video from Reed.  He's a patient with St. Jude Children's Hospital.  We've just got a video for you to watch.
 LEIA SCHWARTZ:   So he was here last year and he watched you win and couldn't be here this year.  He wanted to send you a message.  If you want to take the phone and press play.
 (Video) Hi.  On behalf of all the kids at St. Jude, we want to thank your for your overwhelming support.  I'm sad that I can't be there this year, but it was amazing to watch you win.
 We know that you are in contention this year and have a chance to win, so we wish you the best of luck.  Thank you.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Oh, thank you.  Thank you.  (Smiling.)  That's cool.
 LEIA SCHWARTZ:   Yeah.  He was on the broadcast today, too, and he was watching you.  He was like, Oh, amazing putt.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Oh.  Where he is?  He is here?
 LEIA SCHWARTZ:   No he's back home but he's watching and you cheering you on.
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   Oh, that's cool.
 Q. Last question associated with that.  What's it like to be able to be part of an organization that gives back to St. Jude like the LPGA does with each hole-in-one?
 SEI YOUNG KIM:   What does that mean?  (Through translation.)  Well, I'm very glad LPGA is able to supporting all the children.  So it's good.  Yeah, it's really good.  If I can, I would like to help them.  So, uh-huh.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT