U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 11, 2020
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Great playing today.  Six birdies in round two.  How would you sum up a 2-under round to get back to 1-under par for this championship?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I had many birdie, but I had many bogey, too.
So, yeah, today I just try to make the lot of birdie, as much as I can.  But my putting, long putting okay, but I missed a few short putts.  I was just disappointed with that.
So, yeah, I think just check out, yeah, practice a little bit and then should be come back.
Q. You mentioned the putting.  The greens on Cypress are massive.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah.
Q. Just how are you able to try to navigate the greens on Cypress?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Greens are really pure, so if you read the right it's, yeah, very clearly in the hole.
So I think that is the reason why I was able to couple like really long putt I made birdie.
So, yeah, but it was tough to reach on the green, because if you miss left, hazard; if you miss right, it's tough up and down.  So a lot of things going on greenside.
So, yeah, but I had to, yeah -- I decided commit every hole.  Miss a few fast, hit it fast, but I'm very happy with the finishing strong.
Q. So you're at 1-under; the lead is at 7.  There aren't many players we would talk to who are six shots back, but you were one of them.  You can make up six shots in two days.  A lot of people cannot.  What is it about your game that allows you to do something like that?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Rest of the round you mean?
Q. The rest of the event, yeah.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   It's tough to say because depend the pin position and how you feeling, how I feeling the weekend round.
If I feel good I think, yeah, I can get the lot of birdie.  If I feel bad, I don't know.  Because golf course is really tough.
I just keep thinking positive, it'll come happen.  Yeah, I just do what I can do and make a lot of birdie tomorrow.
Q. You're naturally aggressive anyway.
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Me?
Q. Yeah.  You're just naturally aggressive, yes?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think not every hole is aggressive.  Just if I feel it, yeah.  If I got it, yeah.  I just go.  Whatever happen, I don't care about it.
But if I don't feel anything or pin is like very tough, I just keep playing the smart play.  Yeah, avoid.  Sometime avoid the pin, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT