WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Silvia Farina Elia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please.  
 
 
Q.  Congratulations with your win.  It was a tight match?
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  It was difficult match, a lot of the emotion today.  And, you know, we had  - both of us  had a lot of chances to go to reach a quarterfinal, so that was why it was difficult match, you know, so...  First time for me, so... 
 
Q.  Your first time.  How does it feel? 
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  Great (smiling).  
 
Q.  You have the hope of the whole Italian nation on your shoulders.  Does it do something for you? 
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  Well, no, I feel great  - I mean, especially for me, but of course for the Italian generally, Italian tennis.  But for me, special moment because is first time.  Special moment because it's Wimbledon, that I didn't expect it to be  -- to reach a quarterfinal here.  So it's more important.  
 
Q.  So how come you did this on grass? 
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  How come, a lot of good matches, good wining, especially the big one against strong player.  And, of course, I'm in good moment for me, good confidence, but I hope to do better again.  
 
Q.  You never won from Clijsters? 
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  No, but I always play tough matches, so of course  -- I don't go on court just to be a loser.  
 
Q.  You're playing Kim Clijsters on one of the big courts, Centre Court or Court 1.  Does it put all pressure on Clijsters, or is there a lot of pressure on you?
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  Is no pressure, you have just to play the match.  I mean, is not  -- you are not gonna die, you know?  It's just a game.  Of course important day, but, well, I hope to be on a show court because today was very terrible for both of us, you know?  Like coming back and playing on no show court, was very difficult to play out there.  So I hope to be on a good court.  Italian, you know, fans can watch me, finally, and enjoy. 
 
Q.  It's very late now.  Are you not too tired?  Because tomorrow, another game.
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  No, I mean, as soon  -- I am doing well.  I'm not thinking about the  -- I had two days to recover from last week, so I don't feel very tired.  
 
Q.  You made it tough on Clijsters the previous two matches.  Is there a reason for that?  Do you like playing her? 
 
SILVIA FARINA ELIA:  Well, I see, you know, today everybody's hitting hard the ball, and I'm trying to use more slice on this grass.  So it helps a lot, especially when it's new balls.  And of course she's another player, comparing last year.  But, come on...  We'll see (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT