EVERT CUP
March 6, 1999
Silvia Farina Elia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

SILVIA FARINA:  Actually, normally I serve much better than today.  I don't know.  I was really tight in the beginning of the first set because I know I have a chance to win this match.  Every time that I break her, I say, "Come on, this is the game that you have to do."  Maybe I put on me too much pressure.


Q.  Was the wind causing any problems out there.  Especially on her serve?

SILVIA FARINA:  Not really.  Maybe the heat (laughter).


Q.  When you're playing Kournikova, it seems like amongst the fans there's so much of a buzz about the glamour that she represents.  Is that difficult?  When you're her opponent, is that difficult?

SILVIA FARINA:  Well, not really.  I mean, I just hear the crowd to her at the beginning, but then was I think equal for both players.  I was trying to concentrate on my game.  It was okay. 


Q.  What happened in the second set?

SILVIA FARINA:  I lose the concentration at the beginning, especially the first game after the tiebreak.  Anna, she's a great fighter.  She came back playing more aggressive.  I didn't move a lot, like my feet was, I don't know, I felt like stuck on the court.  After I lost the game of the 5-1, I say, "Okay, let's concentrate and try again in the third set."  


Q.  In that game that you finally closed her out, she had five or six game points.  You fought them all off. 

SILVIA FARINA:  I think I had one bad match point. 


Q.  You missed a forehand into the open court. 

SILVIA FARINA:  Yeah.  What is the question? 


Q.  I just wonder if you have any thought that maybe you weren't going to be able to close this match out?

SILVIA FARINA:  I always had the feeling that I could win this match, but the problem is that I played like last time against Anna in Sydney, in my mind was still that match.  I had a very good chance on 5-All at that point.  I was trying to think go away this thinking.  But I always believe in me.  So I think that very help today for me. 


Q.  Have you played many matches where neither player held serve through the first eight games?

SILVIA FARINA:  Yeah, it's happened.


Q.  It happens?

SILVIA FARINA:  Yeah.  Actually, she didn't serve very bad.  Last time I saw Anna playing in Australia, she was double-faulting like 20 times in the match.  I don't think she double-fault a lot of times today. 


Q.  She has never won a tournament.  Do you think she's anyplace near where she has to be to win a tournament?

SILVIA FARINA:  Are you talking about me? 


Q.  I'm talking about your opponent. 

SILVIA FARINA:  Me, too.  I had five finals, and I never win.  She's a great player.  She reach the final in the Lipton.  It's very tough.  She reach the semifinal in a Grand Slam.  She had so many good results.  What are you thinking?  She's been Top 10.  I'm proud that I won today.


Q.  Do you think you'll win a tournament before she does?

SILVIA FARINA:  I don't know.  I hope for me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT