FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1995
Silvia Farina Elia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Looked like you were getting -- after the first set you were getting back in the match and then you got up in the -- you know, the tiebreaker and then what happened?

SILVIA FARINA: I mean, in the beginning I think both of us were, you know, nervous, we miss a lot easy ball and then I think Maggie play very, very smart.  I mean, she played very deep and then she -- when the ball came back she came in the court to make pressure and, but I had a good shots.  I start to change a lot my game to use the drop shot, to play specially to her forehand.  And I was feeling better but in the tiebreaker.  I think that it was very close match in the second set.


Q.  Did you start thinking about the score a little too much when you were up so far ahead in the tiebreak?

SILVIA FARINA: No, not really.  I think when I -- when I change the court it was 5-1, I didn't play very deep and she came in, you know.  And I had a bad luck in the forehand shot, so it's -- I don't know, it's just two points, nothing.


Q.  When did you start using the drop shot, at about the middle of the first set?

SILVIA FARINA: I start at first set but I didn't feel very well so I didn't use at all.  Then I try again the second set because it was 3-1 -- I mean, I had nothing to lose at that point so I was -- I try and I was getting better.


Q.  Seemed like the crowd was starting to pull for you.

SILVIA FARINA: Yeah, it was a good support.


Q.  What do you think getting this far and doing this well in this tournament will do for your career?

SILVIA FARINA: Oh, it's a good step.  I mean for me it's never happened, I think I can compare with a good player, so I'm thinking that I can be good player, you know.  So it's very important.


Q.  Does a lot for your confidence?

SILVIA FARINA: Yeah, for sure.


Q.  How high do you think you can go in the rankings?

SILVIA FARINA: I never count.  I didn't count, I don't know.  Let's see next week.


Q.  You said you tried to go more and more to her forehand.  What was the reasoning behind that?

SILVIA FARINA: The forehand?


Q.  Uh-huh.

SILVIA FARINA: I think she's a better backhand.  She move a lot with the backhand, she can play deep, long, everything, and I knew that the forehand was -- I mean, the worst shot -- I mean not the worst but compared to the backhand, so I -- you know, I'd say okay, let's try this way and I think it's worked.


Q.  How confident were you before the match?  Did you come into the match thinking you could beat her? 

SILVIA FARINA: Yeah, I was in confidence.  I think I'm in shape now, but I was a little bit nervous in the beginning.  I was -- I missed -- I mean, ball that usually I don't miss so it was -- you know, it's difficult start one set down, but not with the confidence.  You know, it's like to have two steps.


Q.  You had a chance to come back in the first set and then 4-1 and then you had a chance to tie it up in your serve and not a very good game for you on your serve, and then you lost it at Love.

SILVIA FARINA: Yeah.  Anyway, bad luck.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT