NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: COLUMBUS
March 20, 2015
Ed Cooley
Kris Dunn
LaDontae Henton
Jalen Lindsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DAYTON - 66
  PROVIDENCE - 53
 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement from Coach and then we'll turn it over for questioning to the student-athletes.COACH COOLEY: Well, obviously we didn't play well.  Credit Dayton.  They played very well.  For whatever reason, we didn't have it today.  But, again, you've got to credit Dayton.  I thought they played well.  When the game got tight they made a couple of big plays.  We had some errors.  We had some uncharacteristic turnovers, an uncharacteristic technical foul.  I don't know where that came from.  It didn't cost us much other than emotion in the building.  I'm proud of our seniors and I'm proud of LaDontae.  I'm proud of Tyler, Carson.  Those guys came to Providence when we were struggling with our identity.  I couldn't be more proud of our seniors to where we were some four years ago.  I think you gotta look at the big picture.  It's terrible to lose this game.  It's terrible not to see these guys have a postseason win on their resume but everything else they've accomplished.  So I'm reflecting back a little bit because I'm hurting more for them than the loss.  We're going to lose games.  And we'll be back in this game again and hopefully it's a different result.  But credit Dayton, they did a good job.
Q. What were they doing to bottle up defensively?KRIS DUNN: Really they're just a tough team.  They play under you.  They play tail you.  They did a good job today.  They just played harder than us.
Q. Do you think you pressed a little bit for some shots?  That's uncharacteristic shooting day for you?JALEN LINDSEY: I was just trying to do whatever it takes to help my team win.  You gotta credit Dayton.  They played great defense on all of us.
Q. Kris and LaDontae both, did the late starting time sitting around all day, going out there at 10:30, obviously they're starting at the same time you are, but did you think the late starting time had an effect?JALEN LINDSEY: Not really, no excuses for that.  Both teams had to suit up at the same time.  Both teams had to wait.  I don't think that had nothing to do with it.KRIS DUNN: Yeah, no, that really wasn't the reason.  We both had to get on the floor and play at the same time.  The ball tipped off.  They just played harder than us.
Q. LaDontae, do you think your team was nervous?  I think you had 10 turnovers in the first seven, eight minutes?JALEN LINDSEY: No, I don't think we was nervous.  I just gotta give credit to Dayton defense.  They were pretty much everywhere.  And they played great team defense today.
Q. What was the atmosphere like here tonight?  Obviously this felt like a home game for Dayton.  Did that come into play?COACH COOLEY: This was a neutral site.  It was neutral.LADONTAE HENTON: Like Coach said, it was neutral.  We could have put it out if we would have played better.
Q. LaDontae, any thoughts as to why you didn't play better?LADONTAE HENTON: It was just one of those days.  When the shot's not falling for a lot of guys, we played bad offensively.  We turned the ball over.  It was just one of those days for us.  Happened to be on this court today.
Q. Kris, when you guys weren't playing so well you were down by what, 44-41, were you surprised you never got any rhythm going?KRIS DUNN: Like we said earlier, they did a good job on us.  They played great defense the whole game.  We tried to get it going.  We just weren't making shots.  And credit them.THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss our student-athletes.
Q. On the technical looked like you were trying to fire up your team?COACH COOLEY: Honest, I didn't even know I hit the chair.  You're coaching your team.  You're trying to put some emotion into your team.  You know, puts the official in a tough spot.  And I was conversating with him and it was one of those things, it was more emotion, trying to fire my team up.  I actually moved the chair out, I don't know how it looked on tape or whatever.  But I'm just trying to coach my team.  That's what that was about.  Honestly, I thought it was, me personally, I'm a character guy.  That to me was wrong, in my opinion, from my seat.  I'm coaching my team.
Q. (Off microphone)?COACH COOLEY: Both apparently.
Q. You described the turnovers early.  It did look like multiple kids were nervous?COACH COOLEY: I disagree with you.  We weren't nervous.  They played decent defense.  I thought we were in a rush.  The term nervous to me, that doesn't sit well to me.  We weren't nervous.  I thought we were rushed.  Again, part of that, you know, Dayton did a decent job.  But it just was -- we didn't have a good day.  And that's on me as the coach.  I gotta do a better job when I get my team back here again.
Q. Coach, halftime, were there any adjustments made or did you just feel like taking care of the ball and sticking with the plan was the way to go at halftime?COACH COOLEY: I think our game plan was fine.  It's probably the first game all season we have 10 2s.  We're getting the ball in front of the rim.  I thought we were being pretty physical in front of the rim.  We just was missing shots.
Q. I believe they took 14 free throws before you took one and I think the final disparity was 30 to 7.  Any thoughts on how that unfolded?COACH COOLEY: Neutral site.THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT