ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 1, 2020
Robert Rock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 6-under.  Tell us about it.
 ROBERT ROCK:   Probably got lucky with the weather.  Simple as that, isn't it.  I mean, this morning's groups are going to be watching us play in this afternoon and they're not going to be overly impressed I think.  So sorry, lads, but we took advantage of what was a pretty easy afternoon.
 Q. There's a purity to playing out there, something about stroke making, something about hitting the ball, you have to use all your skills.
 ROBERT ROCK:   There's a few holes where the long drive does help.  But striking it off this turf is -- can be awkward sometimes when you get slightly tight lies and side swipes, that's a bit of a skill.
 The greens were good.  No real wind to worry about.  It was as easy as it's going to get.
 Q. Not saying you're surprised, because you split between coaching and playing, but you'll take this with you today.
 ROBERT ROCK:   Oh, yeah, yeah.  Yeah.  Definitely.  I guess you got a tiny lit of bit of pressure when you tee off when you know you've got (indiscernible).  You've got to make the most of it.  And this is the first week back coaching.  Maybe a bit more I think on Monday, Tuesday next week.
 Q. Has that helped you?  I was reading before I came out here, coaching, getting feedback from other people, does it help you as a player as well?
 ROBERT ROCK:   Yes.  Definitely.  Because you get a little bit closer to really great players.  Normally, up to a few years ago, you're watching a little bit from afar and how players do things.  And it's different watching from 15 yards away and being right there, practicing with them, playing with them, asking them questions that you might not otherwise do.
 So it's been useful, all around golf education has been great.
 Q. Coaching, but nothing takes away from playing and being hopefully in contention.
 ROBERT ROCK:   Yeah, they're separate.  The best feeling, of course, is winning tournaments, and that's why we play.  But it's a great feeling watching somebody that you've maybe contributed a little bit to, watch them have a good bounce in, the enjoyment in that.
 They're slightly different, but playing while I've still got a chance to play.  I'm getting a little bit older, so the years are ticking by.  But while I've still got a chance, I've got to enjoy those.  Thomas Bjørn has actually made me aware of that.  (Indiscernible) and soon as you're over 50 or older, the chances are limited and you don't play as good as you did.  So enjoy it while it's still there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT