WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Robert Rock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Robert, many thanks for coming in and joining us.   Well done today.   It was a tight match against Adam, but one you eventually won.   Give us your thoughts on the day and.  
ROBERT ROCK:   Quite a relief to get through, really.   We probably didn't play the best.   There was probably better matches out there on the course.   
But I went 1‑up early and pretty much gave that away.   And then we battled around until 16 and I hit a good shot on 16, definitely the best shot I hit today.   There wasn't many to choose from, but that was the best one.   And about ten foot on beyond the hole and managed to hole the putt to go 1‑up.  
And then really kind of gave‑‑ almost gave the 17th away.   I missed the green and then missed my par‑putt and Adam had one from slightly closer.   I thought he was probably going to get it but it spun out and that left me with a 1‑up lead down the last.  
I hit a really good 7‑iron into probably 10 feet again, and Adam pushed his into the bunker, and that was pretty much the end of it then.   Even though I did have to two‑putt, he got up and down.   I was struggling to work out how to hit it soft enough, but it finished a few inches away.   So that was it.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   You've got to keep plugging away in match play, haven't you?   
ROBERT ROCK:   Yeah, you've got to somehow still recognize that you're playing against somebody else, rather than get depressed on how you play, like you would do in a stroke play tournament.   
I had to put myself in a position to try to put some pressure on Adam.   Adam hit probably a lot better shots than I did.   But I managed to sneak a couple of holes where he was probably in better position around the edges of the greens and he didn't get up and down on occasions.   And I managed to pull a few holes back like that sometimes.   
   
 Q.   You have a decent Seve Trophy record.   What was the last match play event you've played in?  
ROBERT ROCK:   It was a long, long time ago.   I haven't really thought about it too carefully, but I think it was back in around 2000.   Probably some regional PGA event, a long time ago.   Seve Trophy is the only match play experience I've got really.  
   
 Q.   You've got a decent record in that, don't you?  
ROBERT ROCK:   Okay, yeah.   Okay.   The team won.   That counts, doesn't it?   
   
 Q.   First Tiger and now Adam Scott.   What are you doing?  
ROBERT ROCK:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I don't know, really.   I've been pretty lucky the past few weeks.   My game has been good up until today, really.   I maybe showed glimpses of the form I had over the past few holes.   I was a bit off today.   I got lucky today.  
   
 Q.   It's obviously quite a coup beating the world No. 8.   Do you find yourself feeding off memories of Sunday in Abu Dhabi?  
ROBERT ROCK:   Not so much, no, because the game didn't feel really there, at all, until the last few holes.   So I was just trying to work out how I could somehow put pressure on, when I'm completely out of position on some holes.   The flags are really difficult to get to from the fairways, here, let alone if you're in the rough on the wrong side.   
On one occasion, I've forgot what hole it was, but I was 80 yards short of the green, didn't really have any option of getting the ball close to the hole and Adam was greenside in two on the par‑5.   I'm thinking, how am I going to get anything out of this?   I managed to get it on to the back of the green and the best I was going to do from there was going to be par.   And then Adam took four from the edge and gave me the hole.   
Match play is a bit strange.   But these greens are very, very tricky.   So you can kind of save yourself a few shots if you're tight around the greens here.  
   
 Q.   You said in Abu Dhabi, playing Tiger, if he had beaten you by eight that would be fine by you.   That removes some pressure off your shoulders.   And today you removed pressure off your shoulders, because you're playing world No. 8.   At what point is it going to start turning around and you're going to start expecting things on yourself?  
ROBERT ROCK:   I think when my World Ranking improves a bit more maybe.   When there's such a gap between the players that you're playing against, then you've got to accept if they play their best then you're going to be up against it.   One round is different, of course.   But four round tournaments, if people of that ranking play their best, then my ranking says I should be a little bit behind.   But I'm slowly catching up, I think.  
   
 Q.   How have you been doing with the jet lag?  
ROBERT ROCK:   Fine so far, actually.   Quite surprised.   I didn't realize it was so far out here, actually.   It's a long flight.   But I kind of forced myself to stay awake most of the flight.   I was really tired by the time I got here.   And then got close to a full night's sleep on the first night.   So it put me in a decent position so far.   But it might catch up with me in a bit.  
   
 Q.   Would you have come a day early, if you had known it was such a long way?  
ROBERT ROCK:   Maybe.   I'm not a massive fan of practice rounds.   Gary was here from Saturday.   He's been studying the course, and he's done a decent job.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Well done, Robert.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT