THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 16, 2009
Robert Rock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on Shane Lowry?
 ROBERT ROCK: He's played great today. So good luck to him. But I'm concentrating on trying to win a tournament. It was a tough day. You didn't really have much opportunity to slack off a little bit. It was hard work. 

 Q. Still in with a chance?
 ROBERT ROCK: Yeah, it was a good day. You had to stay focused on every shot, because every shot was pretty hard out there and a slightly miss-hit shot on the long flight could end up anywhere, and that's when you start ringing up double-bogeys and more. I played all right. I was quite happy. 
 My results have been better but I've been playing very similar to how I've been for probably about a year. Last year I had a few weeks finishing inside the Top-10 and this year they have been two seconds, which probably seems a lot different, but it's probably not. It's probably one decent shot on the back nine when you're nearly finished. So the same sort of golf really. 
 I putted much better this week, though, so that's a big difference for me. 

 Q. Ever played in the last group before on a Sunday? 
 ROBERT ROCK: I think I've been tied. I might have been second at Leopard Creek going into the final round -- no, I wasn't in the last group there, so probably not. I could have been tied. I don't know.

 Q. Inaudible. 
 ROBERT ROCK: Today it was. Probably the first two days not so much, but we had the opportunity to hit over a few bunkers today downwind and it made some of the holes on the back nine a bit easier.

 Q. Inaudible?
 ROBERT ROCK: I like to do stuff like that but I try not to. 

 Q. Surprised to see Lowry play well?
 ROBERT ROCK: No, you have to expect it, and I was happy for him that he was playing well. I've been in the position where you can be near the lead for two rounds and then you mess it up, and that's not too nice. You don't want him to do that. 

 Q. What did you hit on the last?
 ROBERT ROCK: Last I hit a pretty average drive, terrible lay-up, good 9-iron and good putt. 

 Q. How long was the putt?
 ROBERT ROCK: The putt was probably 20 feet. 

 Q. Any advantage for you tomorrow?
 ROBERT ROCK: He seems to know what he's doing. I think he'll be all right. 
 I think I'm used to it now. The course could play different tomorrow if we get a different sort of wind, and then you just have to tackle it as you see it tomorrow, I suppose. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 ROBERT ROCK: Normally, yeah, I haven't had proper control over my swing and iron play this week, as I probably have done in maybe the past few months. But I've been able to hit some decent shots and keep it in play just about. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you, Robert. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT