WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 12, 2009
Freddy Sandoval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We want to hear your comments about going on to San Diego. 
 FREDDY SANDOVAL: I want to thank our fan base. They were there for us all the way until the end, and we did what we came to do, which was go on to the next round. This was just a really tough game, but we haven't lost faith in ourselves. We're going to face the Korean team once we're there. We're going to do great. 

 Q. You lost against Australia. They really did you in. And then Cuba really slammed you, and then you won. 
 FREDDY SANDOVAL: Well, we did the same thing. We walked in feeling the same way. Unfortunately you can't win every single day. Yes, we would have liked to be the winners every single day, and today we matched against a team that was better. There's no excuses. They hit, and they weren't able to match their level. 
 But like I said, I think we haven't lost any faith, and the team's harmony, we're doing well, and we're very happy we're going on to San Diego. 

 Q. You know, you're going on to the next round; you know who your opponent will be, Korea. What do you know about the Korean team? What can you expect?
 FREDDY SANDOVAL: We still don't know anything about the Korean team. Karim Garcia belongs to a team in Korea, so he knows the pitchers especially, and that's going to help us, the hitters, especially with the scouting. And that's going to help us. We're going to watch the videos, we're going to see how they play in California, and we're going to be on the lookout for the weaknesses and for the weak spots.

 Q. Talk to us about today and beyond, the mood today. Have you ever lived something like that?
 FREDDY SANDOVAL: Absolutely. But when you play before your own country, there's nothing better than that. Things didn't go our way, but people continued there with us, and we want to thank them. That's the most special thing.

 Q. What are you leaving with? Although you lost really badly against Cuba, you might even match up with them again in the second phase of the second round. 
 FREDDY SANDOVAL: We did learn from them. We found out who they were. They also learned about us. We're going to have to go out there and give them everything we have if we face them in the second game or face them again. We'll have to play baseball perfectly so we can really, really win against them. We'll keep our minds focused and go on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT