BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2019
Marketa Vondrousova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. VONDROUSOVA/S. Halep   
6-2, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Simona said she thought you played incredibly well today and was impressed with how you were able to close out that final set.  Can you talk through the match and what this win means to you?  
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA: I mean, it's my first top 10 and top 5 win.  I'm just so excited.   
I think I'm playing well all week, but, yeah, this is something special, because she's No. 2 in the world.   
Yeah, I was just fighting for every point.  It was very tough.  She's incredible fighter and champion.  So I was just, yeah, playing every ball (smiling).   
 Q.  It seemed like after you dropped the first break in the third set, it almost -- I mean, watching it, it looked like, oh, she looks very, very tired.  That's a bad situation against Simona.  But that third game when you held 2-1 was a big one.  Can you talk about what you were thinking during the time?  
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA: I think the thing was I broke her the second game.  She did some mistakes.  But, yeah, the third game was very, very tough.  We played some great rallies.  Yeah, I won two of them, I think.   
So it was, yeah, it was just great feeling.  Yeah, I was just fighting for every point.   
 Q.  Was that the point where you thought, Hey, maybe I can win this?  Was there a point where you started thinking the impossible isn't impossible?  
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA: Yeah, I mean, I won the first set, so I knew I can beat her, but, yeah, she's great player.  She never gave up.  It's tough to, like, close the match.  She did some great job the game I was 5-1 and serving.  She played really great game.   
I was just stay focused and play my game.   
 Q.  A question about your confidence coming in.  Would you say your success in doubles in Australia played a role in you having more confidence this season?  
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA: I don't think so, because doubles is something -- yeah.  I don't think so, but I played finals in Budapest, so I think I had confidence there.  I'm playing great tennis this year, and I'm just enjoying myself here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT