INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 20, 2020
Marketa Vondrousova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ka. PLISKOVA/M. Vondrousova
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Excellent work reaching the semifinals.  How much confidence does it give you to have four wins, five matches under your belt heading now to Paris?
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA:   Yeah, so I didn't play very good in U.S., so it's obviously very good for me also to have five very good matches.  Also today I didn't play bad, but she was just a better player.
So I'm just happy to playing my game again, and we'll see in Paris.
Q. Are you going to now take the week off?
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA:   Yeah, I'll go home now, and then we will fly to Paris maybe Wednesday or Thursday, so we will see.
Q. What would you say in your opinion makes Karolina such a good player on clay?  She's really tough on this surface.
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA:   Yeah, so I think she's feeling very good here in Rome.  She won last year.  So she's serving so, so good.
I don't know.  I think she just feels very good here.  And also, she is very calm, I don't know, like breakpoints and stuff.
I don't know.  That's why she's top player, I think.
Q. Finally, would you say you can relax a little bit?  Are you nervous at all about going to Paris?  Of course last year was so amazing, but maybe you're trying to be relaxed about it and not feel too much pressure and just play your own style of tennis?
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA:   Yeah, for sure, because I played final last year.  So it couldn't get much better this year.
But, yeah, we will see.  I will just fight every match, and we will see how it goes.
Q. I don't know if you know that Barbora won the doubles title today with her partner.  I just wanted to ask you again about those lockdown sessions when you were all playing together.  Did you learn anything from playing with Barbora, such a great doubles player, and Karolina, as well?  Anything specific from their games?
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA:   Not really, but I played with Barbora also in Australian Open last year.  We played semifinals.
So I don't know.  I was with her there like two weeks.  So, I think, yeah, the doubles with her was something special.  Yeah, that's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT