ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Radu Albot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. ALBOT/G. Barrere
4-6, 0-6, 7-5, 6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. First win in the main draw at Roland Garros.  What are your thoughts on today's comeback?
RADU ALBOT: Today was a very difficult match.  Obviously, I was two sets to Love down, and I managed to stay alive in the third set where it was also very difficult.
The last two sets I think it was a little bit more easier because he was a little bit feeling not so good.  If you was following the match, I think you could see that.  And, yeah, this made me win in the end.
Q. You hold almost every record in tennis in your country.  How does that feel and how difficult was it for you to break through?
RADU ALBOT: Yes, this is very interesting question because there is no other male or female tennis player at this tournament, or at any pro, like, big tournaments.
I have to say that it's very difficult because in my country is very small and not very popular, not everybody know about it.  It's very difficult to break through.
Because everything I did, I did with the help of my parents, with our financial things, and without any big support, I would say.
But I'm very proud that I'm the first one and hopefully the younger kids could follow my steps, and why not?  Maybe some will be even better than me, which I hope that this will happen sometime.
Q. At some point do you train in Romania?  Can you draw a parallel between tennis in Romania and in Moldova?
RADU ALBOT: Yes, I was training in Romania, but a long time ago when I was young, and it was not for a long time.  I think it was only when I was 16, 17, just a short period of time.
The tennis in Romania, obviously, is very popular.  We know about female tennis where they have a lot of top 100 players.  Male tennis is also very good, and I am friends with all of the players from the ATP, all the players from the WTA.  We talk sometimes.  We meet.  We have fun.
But this is a big comparison.  I would say that you even cannot compare Moldavian tennis and Romanian tennis.  It's too big of a difference.
Q. What is the best known person in Moldova?  In Romania we have Nadia Comaneci, Ilie Nastase.
RADU ALBOT: The best person?
Q. The best-known person in Moldova.  The most famous one.
RADU ALBOT: I would say the gold medallist, the gold medallist at the kayak.  His name is Juravschi.  I think he did twice gold, and he's the president of the Olympic committee at the moment.  I think he is one of the most known and famous, in my opinion, in my country.
Q. Do you speak a little bit of Romanian?  How would this interview go if we were talking in Romanian?
RADU ALBOT: Yes, this is my first language.  I didn't know you were from Romanian.  I thought you were from a foreign country.
But Romanian in my first language, and I would say very easy.  Not difficult at all.
Q. You played on a totally new court, Number 18.  What is your opinion on this court, or of the condition and the atmosphere with the French player against you?
RADU ALBOT: The court is very good, I have to say.  I liked it a lot from the first set I got on the court.
The atmosphere with the French support is very difficult.  It's not the first time that I play against a French guy in the Roland Garros.  I played long time ago against Calvin Hemery where I lost.  I played against last year against Chardy where I lost.  I lost against Benoit Paire two years ago in Suzanne Lenglen in five sets.
So I'm familiar with the crowd and the support that they have here, and I was ready and prepared.
But what about the court?  I liked it, and it's new court, and it's good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT