THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2018
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. GOERGES/B. Strycova
7-6, 3-6, 10-8
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough match.  What was the key?
JULIA GOERGES: Probably wanted it a bit more at the end, I guess (smiling).
I didn't really let myself go down after I served a couple of times for the match.  But I just fought my way back into the return game to really give myself another chance to serve it out.
I think at one point I have to take it.  Yeah, she didn't want it in those two games, so I said, Okay, I take it today (smiling).
No, but I was just very happy and I said, Hey, you have to go for it.  You have big weapons.  Why do you want to play here the ball in the court?  I just hoping it's not gonna happen.  I'm very happy that it paid off at the end.
Q. She's a very, very good player on grass and very tricky.
JULIA GOERGES: Yes.
Q. What does a win like this, not just getting into the fourth round, but getting a win like this over a player like that mean to you?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, first of all, it means a lot to me because I have never reached the fourth round here, but obviously we know each other very well.  We have played a lot of doubles together.  We made the quarters here in doubles already, so we know how -- I know how she plays, she knows how I play.  It's not easy if you know what kind of balls are coming.
Probably you could see it on some situation.  When I was hitting a ball she was already in that corner because she knew I'm going there, and the same with her.
For me, I knew it's gonna be a big fight today, and I just set up mentally for it to be ready, to face everything, every kind of balls you get from her, because she's very tricky and she plays a lot of different balls.  She plays a lot of serve and volley, as well, and she knows how to play well on that surface.  I'm just very, very happy.
Q. Making it into the second week here, what is the difference this year compared to the last for you, do you think?
JULIA GOERGES: I have two days off (smiling).
Q. Yeah, I know.  It will be like restarting a tournament, no?
JULIA GOERGES: Last year I left already.  No, I actually stayed because I played doubles with Bara.
Well, it's not really different on a second week than on the other slams except having two days off now.
Q. But I mean what do you think was different this year to allow you to get this result whereas in the past it's been kind of difficult?
JULIA GOERGES: Accepting the circumstances you have on that court, because some balls you cannot make, and I think I have accepted it in all matches I have played.  It was not always beautiful, but you don't get extra points for that.  It's just extra points when you advance to the next round.
So I think that's a different mindset I'm having on the grass than probably the last five, six years.
Q. Donna Vekic for a chance to make a quarterfinal at a major.  Can you talk through that?  You do have two days off to kind of think about and prepare for that match.  Do you think that is a good thing, a bad thing?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I won't come here tomorrow.  I will do something else and not thinking about tennis, which is also nice, because your mind can relax a little bit, and also enjoy the moment today and then start preparing for the next one.
Well, she's a very good grass court player.  I think she hasn't dropped a set here yet.  She beat Sloane in the first round.
We have practiced a lot of times together already this year, and I have played her last year.  I know it's gonna be a tough match.  Everybody deserve their spot in the fourth round, so every match, it's gonna be tough.  It's a big challenge.
But I will be ready for it, and I think I'm going to enjoy what I'm doing, because today I'm very proud of myself, how I managed to get to the fourth round, and then at the same time, I will enjoy the match I'm having on Monday, and then we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT