AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2018
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. GOERGES/S. Kenin
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How has it felt to arrive to this slam?  I know you want to play better at the majors and everything.  Do you feel like your preparation is any different?  Did you arrive here the same way, same mentality?
JULIA GOERGES: Yeah, I did quite the same stuff, I have to say, because why would I change something?  No, it's been going all well, and, well, it's Grand Slam time.
It's good that I had the week here to prepare the best I can.  It's never easy playing a first round, because when a new tournament is starting, it's always, yeah, kind of exciting, as well, and, yeah, you get a little bit nervous and tight, as well, in some situations.
No, I'm just very happy to be here and to be able to win the first match.
Q. She's a very good, young American.  Can you talk a little bit about her game today and what you were happy with about what you did today to get the win?
JULIA GOERGES: I served pretty big.  I must say I had a lot of good service games there.  I tried to, yeah, put a lot of pressure on the return games on her.  Yeah, she's a good counterpuncher.  She takes the pace very well and creates new opportunities for her.
I really had to take the ball away from her a little bit to get her moving a little bit away from the court, not just sitting there and having everything in her range.  I think I managed that pretty well, especially on my serve when I used my kick serve or my slice serve, to really get her out of the court to have an opening for the second ball.
Q. I didn't get to talk to you in Auckland at all, but when you started the season, given how you finished it, does this feel like a new season or does it feel like a continuation of what you did?
JULIA GOERGES: No, it does feel like a new season (smiling).  I had at least some days off at home and had a new preparation, so it does feel like a new season.
Yeah, I was quite surprised that I could start the season the same way as I have ended it, the last one; and, no, it's completely different situation.  I'm just very happy that I could start the season the way that I'm doing it now.
Q. Does the 15 matches play in your mind at all, or do you think about it?
JULIA GOERGES: No, not quite.  It's just a number.  It's nice that it's going, but I'm just focusing from one round to the other and trying to put my performance there and trying to improve with every match I'm playing.
Q. Next match against Cornet.  Thoughts on that one.
JULIA GOERGES: Well, she's a tough opponent, I think as everyone here in the draw.  They are only the best ones.  I have played her a lot of times.  We have actually practiced a lot of times.
No, it's going to be a tough one.  The main thing is for me to focus on my game, and, yeah, try to create some good opportunities to really be aggressive, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT