HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 4, 2017
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. GOERGES/A. Sevastova   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Going to the final in straight sets, how does it feel?  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think it feels good.  Well, it was my best match of the week.  I'm just very happy that I could put up this performance today.   
That this comes out that I'm in the finals, even better.  I'm just trying to enjoy it tomorrow.   
 Q.  What do you think kind of created that performance tonight?  Because it was 41 winners, 18 unforced errors.  That's pretty good.  
JULIA GOERGES: I think I moved pretty good.  I always came behind the ball and really met the ball in front of me, which is, yeah, which is very important to really create good shots, because if you don't have your, yeah, sweet spot and don't have the right point where you meet the ball, I think there's always a certain danger in it that it may not find the target.   
But I think overall I was very patient, and when I had the chance I really went for it.  Yeah, it was all in good targets (smiling).   
 Q.  Eighth consecutive win.  Fifth final tomorrow.  Do you think that when you take the court tomorrow that you'll feel differently than maybe when you took the court in Moscow or took the court in the finals before that?  How do you think tomorrow's going to be for you on your side of the court?  
JULIA GOERGES: I would say it probably helps me a bit to have played already a lot of finals this year and to just come from a tournament win.   
Every match starts from zero, and I know it's going to be my last match of the season, so I'll just put everything in what I have and trying to enjoy it, too, because it's, yeah, it's not happening every day that you're gonna play a big final, especially at the end of the season where it has been long already and a lot of matches in for me.  But I'm just trying to really go for it and play my game and enjoy it at the same time.   
 Q.  Don't know who you're going to play tomorrow, CoCo or Ash.  They seem to be different types of players than you have had to play in this tournament.  Can you just talk about the adjustments and what the matchups will be like.  
JULIA GOERGES: I think both of them are, yeah, very big hitters from the baseline and they create a lot of topspin on the ball and have a lot of varieties in their game.   
Well, I think it's kind of similar, doesn't matter who I'm going to play, but first of all, I just focus on myself and my game, and I think that's more important than just to focus on your opponent.   
Here and there you're going to have tactics and structures, but my main goal is just to focus on the things which we have been working on.  Doesn't matter who is going to be on the other side of the court.   
 Q.  It was a very close first couple of games, but was there a moment where you felt like you were starting to break away and starting to dictate with your game?  What does that feel like when it's almost like you've solved your opponent at some stage.  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I knew that from the first to the last point it's going to be tough anyhow.  She's playing a lot of balls back and she's probably one of the best defenders in the game and she reads the game very well.   
I knew there would be some moments where probably my game is not successful, but it's gonna be successful maybe after the third, fourth, or fifth points.   
So I really had to work for every chance I tried to create, and, well, luckily I got her a little bit down and got her, yeah, not really frustrated, but I got her a bit away from her game, which was my goal, to really not let her dictate the game, because this can be very ugly if she puts her dropshot in and if she creates a lot of slice and she really puts a lot of variety into the game, and then I don't get my shots in which I want to produce.   
Well, it took maybe two or three more games, but at the end, I was successful and she went away from her game.  So that was my plan today.   
 Q.  I know that you had a vacation originally planned that you don't get to go on, but how much of this week, is there any time spent planning for what comes after this?  Or do you give up on that and spend time at home?  What's the postseason look like for you?  
JULIA GOERGES: I just skipped my plans to fly somewhere else.  I'd rather be home now since I haven't spent much time home.  So I will do my plans next year (smiling).   
Well, now it's even tough to get into my plans, because we get out very late here, and, well, I will be still in a rush a little bit to get back home on time with my actual train ticket, but I'm sure I will make it, but it's still a bit rushy, but then once I get home I can relax.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  So what do you have to say to your Chinese fans?  Because they followed you all along and to Zhuhai to watch you play.  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think I mentioned it already on court.  Well, every support is great, but these guys are amazing.  I mean, they are so loud and so supportive.  They really live it.   
I'm just very thankful to have such a nice Team Julia Fan Club here in China.  I'm just very happy that they come back tomorrow and we can share all these moments together, because I won't be here as much as they maybe want to have us players here.  It's only three tournaments so far this year for me.  I'm just very glad that I could play this well today and the whole tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT