HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2017
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. GOERGES/M. Rybarikova   
6-1, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It was a good start for you and a pretty tense tiebreak.  What do you think got you over the finish line in the end?  
JULIA GOERGES: I think I was a bit more aggressive in the end.  I really went for my shots, especially at 5-All on the second-serve return, and then the next point, as well, I just tried to dictate the game.   
On one match point when it was 6-5, I think, she was serving, I felt I was a bit too passive so I just wanted to take the opportunity to really go for it and play my game, even though maybe I make a mistake or something, but I don't want to give it in her hands because she was dictating that rally and I thought I had an opportunity on second serve to really go for my shots, which I didn't do, and I just wanted to learn out of it and I think in the end it worked out very well.   
 Q.  I'm curious what you made of the fan support.  Looked like there was a sign that said, "You go, girl."  I'm curious if you enjoyed it as much as I did.  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I know from many years ago that there is a guy who brought up this Chinese team, Julia Fan Club, or whatever they call that.  So they basically come to every Chinese tournament.   
I knew in Beijing already that he was telling me if I would qualify it is his chance to come to Zhuhai.  Well, in the end, now, I knew last week he's probably going to be here and he brings a lot of fans.   
Well, I obviously enjoy it.  It's a nice thing.  For them, it's great because they don't have many tournaments and they don't get to have the chance to see us for many tournaments.  They just see us on TV.  It's great, and I like the support.  I just can't thank them enough for it.   
 Q.  Just curious as to what your thoughts are on the court speed and just the court in general.  How does it play?  Do you think it's a court that suits the way you played?  I thought you played very well today, so...  
JULIA GOERGES: Yeah, I think it does suit my game, especially because it has a little bounce, as well.  It takes really the serve and my spin.   
I didn't know that there were actually Yonex balls existing, so I was kind of a bit surprised that we play with Yonex balls, because we've never had them on the tour.  We had them at home.  My coach got some, and I felt they play pretty similar to the Babolat balls I'm used to play.  I kind of like them.   
You get a lot of control with it.  It does suit my game, because I need a little bit of control once I speed up the ball (smiling).  No, I think overall it was a pretty, pretty good match from my side today.   
 Q.  You were one of the last ones to qualify, last match got you in.  That obviously changes a lot of the mentality and the planning and scheduling to play this tournament.  So what has the last, you know, week and a half been like for you?  When did you get here and start preparation?  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I actually had booked my vacations already, which I had to cancel because I thought after Beijing, okay, my chances are not very high because I didn't want to play an event after Beijing because I played a lot of matches before.  So I just said, okay, I'm only playing Moscow, but I knew I had to win the title to get a chance to qualify for here.   
So I said, okay, I book it.  If I win it, I need to think about it and organize a lot of things, which I did, and I didn't end up going last week to Dubai.  It will not happen this year, but I think it's a good reason why it's not happening.   
Well, I was just very glad that I could be able to play this tennis in Moscow, and, yeah, really give me the opportunity to be here and I just enjoy every moment here because it's a bonus.   
I appreciate being here.  It's a lovely event, and I think that's what you play for at the end of the year, either Singapore or you play for here.  To be able to compete here and just leave everything what you have left in your tank, it's a bonus for me.  I'm just very happy about that.   
 Q.  One week ago when you won Moscow, we have a former player, Zheng Jie, I know you call her JZ and she calls you JG...  
JULIA GOERGES: Yes (smiling).   
 Q.  ...she send a congratulations on social media.  What do you remember of her?  What do you remember you played doubles with her five years ago in Doha?  Can you talk about that?  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, first of all, thanks for her congratulations.  Well, I'm very surprised that, yeah, she actually is still following it.   
Honestly, I haven't seen her for quite a while, but I always have enjoyed the time with her on court.  She was super positive.  We always had a great time, and we did play well, as well.   
Well, unfortunately I haven't seen her for quite a while, which is a shame.  Maybe she's coming here.  I don't know where she actually lives in China.  I always liked her and her husband, and they have been just so great.   
Well, I just have positive memories of our doubles.   
 Q.  She's in Beijing, by the way.  
JULIA GOERGES: Ah, okay.   
 Q.  You are always famous for your big forehand but today you hit so many winners from backhand side.  Your opponent shake her head.  And also, the number of ace, you rank No. 2 this year in WTA.  Can you talk about compared to five or six years ago, how do you become better and more competent player?  
JULIA GOERGES: I think right now I'm a much better player than I have been five or six years ago, even though I was maybe ranked higher.  I think the tennis has developed over the past years, and, yeah, I try to do the same.  I changed my team two years ago and started working with them, yeah, on a different way, because I was successful before but I wanted to have a different voice in my ears and really see different things on the tennis court, which I'm very glad about that I did make this way and this move.   
And I can only say a lot of positive things, because I'm enjoying my tennis much more than I did some years ago, because I appreciate that I can be here and be able to play, yeah, some good tennis.   
We worked a lot on a lot of things, especially in my fitness, because I'm having a very aggressive game where you need to have good footwork, as well.  That's what the main thing has changed over the last two years, that I became much fitter and a much better defense player, as well, that the rally can take maybe eight to ten shots and not only two to three and then I had to kill the ball.   
That's just a different, completely different player than I have been five years ago, and I try to use a little bit variety, as well, to use my, yeah, my power from the doubles, which I have played in the last years and really tried to involve it into my singles, that I have a lot of, yeah, opportunities but also changeup in my game so that nobody knows what I'm going to do the next point.   
 Q.  Your next match, Kiki, was watching.  Curious what your thoughts are on that matchup.  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think, first of all, it's great that we have the opportunities to watch some matches ahead of we gonna play the next one.  It's a bit weird.  You don't get to see it much often.  Well, I'm going to do the same tomorrow (smiling).   
Well, I think every match is tough.  It doesn't matter who you are gonna play here.  I'm just very pleased with today.  Tomorrow I'm going to watch a little bit and bring up some tactics with my team for the next match.  I think it doesn't matter whom you play.  It's just about yourself here, that you try to be there from the first to the last point and just give your best.   
That's what you control and what is in your hands, and more you will see what's going to happen, but that's my main goal, just give everything what I have and really, yeah, be there from the first to the last point, as I know every match is tough.  Not only here.  It's been the same throughout the whole season, because the tennis has developed so much.  I think the women's tennis got so much stronger in general.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT