ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. GOERGES/C. Wozniacki6-4, 7-6THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. You served for the match.  Didn't work.  How difficult was it to keep calm going into the tiebreak?JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think overall when you play Caroline, it doesn't really matter if you serve for the match or not, because it's the same tough points.  You have to play every ball, is a tough one.  Well, you just have to play and earn it. That's what I actually did.  I missed some balls here and there, but that's the way I'm playing.  That's why I won the match, actually, at the end.  So you always need to be there from the first to the last point. Well, at the end, I served well, and that's how I won the match.  So it's tough to stay composed when you're serving for the match and you're not quite winning it then.  But you still have to stay there.  That's what she's doing, as well, and that's what brings her to the top of the game, that she's one of the best competitors in this game. Well, I just tried to manage to stay there and still play my game.  There is nothing over, even though I was serving for the match.Q. You've got a good record against Caroline on clay.  What is it do you think about your game that affects her that gives you such confidence that helps you win?JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think I don't play the typical women's game on clay court.  I play a little bit more spin, a little bit higher the ball over the net than some of the other girls. Well, she gets the ball in her striking zone she doesn't miss any ball, but if you give her different balls, then it's tougher for her to manage to bring the ball back with good quality, what she usually does when she has it in her striking zone. You have to mix up a lot.  That's what I did in all the matches I've played her.  It's never a guarantee you're going to win the match, but you have to execute well, as well, and that's what I did mainly today very well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT