BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2012
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. GOERGES/A. Garrigues
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to be able to get out of trouble every time you were down a break.   Is that the case?
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, today, yeah.   In my first‑round match I didn't face a break point, so it was pretty important.   She played some really good tennis and we had long rallies.   It was a tough match. 
Yeah, well, I just tried to stay focused and playing my game and dictating the game.
Yeah, at the end I was pretty happy to pull it out. 

Q.   Can you look ahead to one of the next two that you play, Azarenka or Kuznetsova?
JULIA GOERGES:   No, I can't.   Before I didn't.   Well, it's another tough challenge.   I mean, every match is tough here.   Here are only the best players.   Well, for sure my coach will watch a set of both them.   I have been playing them already a couple of times.
Yeah, as I said, it's a tough challenge.   Doesn't matter who comes next, but I will be ready for it and I will, yeah, keep working hard for it.

Q.   If it's Azarenka, is there any kind of special motivation now that she's No. 1 and is on a streak to beat her?
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I think the motivation has to be every time the same when you go on court.   Doesn't matter who you are playing.
Of course, when you play No. 1 in the world you have nothing to lose, and, well, she's a tough player.   I mean, she's just recently won a first Grand Slam and hasn't lost so far a match this year. 
Well, I just try to focus on my game and play my game, and then I see how far it brings me.   This is what I have to do definitely.

Q.   Your countrywoman, Petkovic, which I'm probably mispronouncing, seems to have developed problems with her back from practicing too much.   Is that something you're trying to avoid?
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I don't want to say anything about another player.   Well, I don't know where it came from.   Unfortunately she's still injured.   I know she's coming back and she's a tough girl, so I expect her being tougher than ever before. 
But, well, I think every person is different.   I have a different body than she has, and she has different bodies than to other players. 
Well, everybody has to decide by their own how much they do and how much they practice. 

Q.   How good a prospect do you think Barthel is?
JULIA GOERGES:   Oh, Mona? 

Q.   Mona. 
JULIA GOERGES:   Again, sorry.   I just listen on the name because I didn't understand.

Q.   I probably mispronounced it. 
JULIA GOERGES:   You did.   (Laughter.)

Q.   How good a prospect do you think Barthel is?
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I mean, she has great results this year, and I know her for a long time because we just live half an hour away in Germany and I have been playing with her club matches in Germany.
Well, she's a very talented girl.   She has good eyes on court.   She has almost beaten here Vika and had some great results already this year, so she's gonna be definitely dangerous in the future. 

Q.   How old were you two when you started playing each other?
JULIA GOERGES:   Aye‑yi‑yi.

Q.   Does it go way back?
JULIA GOERGES:   Yeah, it was regional championships.   It was club matches and nothing really special.   But I think I was like 17 or something, 16, 17.   She was 14 or 15.   Could be also differently, but I would guess like that. 

Q.   We were talking to Mona here the other day, and she said she thinks it's coincidence that all of you German women are big women.   Is it?   One can think that Germany has encouraged big girls to play tennis. 
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I wouldn't say we are big girls, but we are maybe good players.

Q.   You're not little. 
JULIA GOERGES:   We are not little, that's true. 
I mean, Mona I think has been like that already for a long time, and she was always taller than me.   I don't think I'm not that small.   But, no, I wouldn't say we are big players. 
I mean, we are good players and we are doing a pretty good job right now, and hopefully it stays like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT