DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 24, 2012
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. GOERGES/C. Wozniacki
  7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Must be a great feeling to make the final your first year here. 
JULIA GOERGES:   Yeah, I cannot complain.   I mean, it's nice to be in the final and to beat, yeah, those kind of players, especially Caroline today. 
Well, it was a pretty tough match.   I mean, it's never easy playing her.   It's always a lot of balls, a lot of rallies.   Yeah, we played over two hours for two sets. 
I don't know how it would have gone in the third, but I'm pretty happy that I made it in two sets. 

Q.   Must be in the back of your head that you beat her the last two times.   Did that give you any extra confidence?
JULIA GOERGES:   Of course it did does, because on some players you can see if they really like your game or they don't.   On her I can see that she doesn't really like my game.   That's pretty important for me to see.
I mean, I had a pretty, yeah, slow middle of second set where I really didn't feel well also with my body.   But, yeah, I found a way to come out of it.   Some ways it was lucky with a challenge, but that's how it is sometimes.
But, yeah, I'm pretty happy that I found my way through the match. 

Q.   Thoughts on the final? 
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I haven't really thought about yet.   Well, it's going to be a tough one again.   I mean, she killed me in Australia.   Well, tomorrow is a new day, new match, and starts from zero again. 
Going to be a challenge.   Another final for me in a Premier event, so I can be pretty pleased with it.   Of course when you're in final you want to go out there and let everything on the court.
That's what I'm going to do tomorrow.

Q.   What did you learn from Australia about her? 
JULIA GOERGES:   I think actually you could see it on the court right now, because in Australia I wasn't even ready for that match.   I didn't really play the balls and was just missing everything. 
Well, I changed a lot since the Fed Cup, and I'm just staying better on the court and having more confidence, fighting for every ball.
I mean, in the first round it could have been already over.   I found my way out of it, and now I'm not final.   These things have already changed, which I'm pretty proud of.

Q.   Are there any things that you were not very pleased with today that you would like to change for tomorrow?
JULIA GOERGES:   Yeah, in the beginning I was a little bit too rushed and made a little bit too many unforced errors.   Well, I still played my tactics, but it wasn't always the right ball to attack. 
I think it wasn't the best match at all, but it's important that you get through those matches.   It can only get better in one way, but I think the first set was definitely better than the second.

Q.   When you say you've changed a lot since the Fed Cup, do you mean in your mental approach, in your confidence?
JULIA GOERGES:   Yeah, both of it.   Mentality and also how I look‑‑ how do you say it in English?   How I see my job and which side.
I mean, before it was, yeah, playing, playing, playing, but when something didn't go in the direction I wanted to, yeah, it really affected my mentally. 
Now I just stand there and try to get out of it and take the challenge.   It cannot be everything right in your life also, so you just need take it as a challenge and try to find your way out of it. 
That makes you a better competitor.

Q.   How have you changed that?
JULIA GOERGES:   I don't know.   (Laughter.)   Well, it's a small secret.   No, but you always try to learn from those things.   I mean, in Australia afterwards I got a lot of shit, which was the right way.
But I think the most important thing was that I saw it in myself that this was not right way to become a good player.   This is what I have changed.   It never means that it gets so fast, but, well, it has showed here some pretty good matches.
Yeah, it's nice to see that it works. 

Q.   Like you, Radwanska has been in a good way recently.   What aspect of her game will pose the greatest threat in the final?
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I'll try to stay aggressive, as is my game.   I don't change any plan just because I'm playing her.   I try to play my game.   Of course, just go out there.   You never should change your game when you have a different opponent. 
I think it's kind of similar game as today:   brings a lot balls back, pretty clever game on the court, knows how to use the whole court, and never gives you any mistakes.
Well, it's going to be long rallies tomorrow, but we will see.

Q.   Is it significant that this is your first victory over Caroline on a hard court?   Previously you beat her on clay twice. 
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, of course it's good to see.   I mean, on hard court I also lost 7‑6 in the third so I was already close, but it never means that you get a win out of it the next time.
Yeah, I think I can be pretty proud of it.   I'm beating her also on one of her favorites surfaces.   That's pretty good to see, okay, you have this level beat a former world No. 1 and also still top 5 player‑ where she should stay, in my opinion.   That's pretty good to see.
I mean, also clay is my favorite surface, but still to beat those players also on hard court, it's pretty good.

Q.   What is it about your game specifically that you reckon Caroline doesn't like?   If you sensed that on the court, there must be something you think she doesn't like. 
JULIA GOERGES:   Well, I wouldn't say I'm typical player who plays all the time flat.   I try to use also my forehand with a lot of spin, a lot of angles, and try to let the opponent a little bit moving around.
But with her, I mean, when I go, for example crosscourt with my forehand, well, for her it's maybe tough to keep the pace on the forehand.   Maybe it's the same for her when we play backhand cross. 
It's tough for me also to keep the pace.   But it's all about I think to get out of it and...
Well, I can dictate more with my forehand, and I think that's what she doesn't like. 

Q.   When you come here and you saw the draw and with how you felt about your game, did you ever imagine you would play the final?
JULIA GOERGES:   No, not really.   I mean, Stuttgart was the same.   Vika retired and she didn't play, and I'm not final again.   Maybe it's a good sign.   You never know.
You never expect being in the final when you have seen the draw before.   I mean, it started with a tough first round, expecting another big match in the second round, which unfortunately didn't happen. 
But, well, it's nice to be in the final with, yeah, so many great players in the draw. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT