NATURE VALLEY CLASSIC
June 20, 2019
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. GOERGES/E. Rodina
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Well played today.  What pleased you most about today's performance?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, overall I think my serve improved a lot compared to the first match.  The movement, in general, I think my game was very aggressive today.  That's how I have always been, but I think less mistakes than I have done in the other matches before, including doubles, as well.
I think if you just play more matches on grass, the more you get used to it.  I felt that way today.
Q. Did you feel like she made you work for some of the points more than you perhaps would like to?
JULIA GOERGES: Definitely.  I think she's a dangerous grass court player.  She redirects the ball very well.  You barely see where she's going to.
Well, I knew if I take a little bit the momentum from her and her, yeah, how should I say, her pace away a little bit, that way she can redirect easier.  With being aggressive from my side, I think she doesn't like that that much if she feels pressure the whole match.
Q. Is it the kind of match that might have caused you a lot of problems a few years ago?
JULIA GOERGES: Definitely.  Well, since last year a lot has changed.  I think my whole approach towards grass is a bit different than it's been the years before.  I definitely like it a bit more.
People were telling me always I could be a very good grass court player, but I didn't see any results so I kind of didn't believe it (smiling).  But from last year, I definitely have a different approach towards grass.
Q. You got to the final in Mallorca in 2017, the quarterfinals here last year, and the Wimbledon semifinal.  Is there a danger grass could become your favorite surface at some point?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, maybe it is already (smiling).  No, well, it's always a short period of the year where you play on grass, and I'll just try to make the best out of it.
Just in general I feel good on grass now, and we had a lot of matches now already with two doubles, two singles, another singles and doubles.  For me, it's just about getting more and more matches in and then you get your rhythm again.
Q. Did those successes last year give you a very good feeling when you started on grass this year?
JULIA GOERGES: It does help, of course.  I mean, it doesn't mean that you're successful again on grass, but it gives you a different view for it.
For me, the mental approach is the biggest difference than on the other surfaces, because there are balls you cannot do anything about it, and sometimes it looks really shitty and not so good (smiling).  You have to just accept it and move forward.
That's what I learned last year and that's what I'm trying to take as well into this year's.
Q. Does it mean you have started to set targets for the grass court season when you might not have done so much previously?
JULIA GOERGES: Not really, because my last months have been a little bit tough for me, especially on my body, as well.  I'm just very happy that I get another opportunity having another match tomorrow.
I think it's all about matches at the moment.  That's what's pleased me the most.
Q. What would you say are the main reasons for the struggles you've had in recent months?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, as I mentioned, my body was not really working.  I had a really bad neck injury, which took my weapon, my serve, a little bit away.  So I was very happy today that I could serve really in my favor today.
It's a big weapon, so if that part really goes away a little bit from your game, I think it's not that easy if you don't have the service games you're, like, aiming for and doesn't get the free points anymore.
So, for me, today was a perfect match on these conditions, like, really, yeah, going for your targets, going for your aggressive game.  I did a good job in that case.
Q. How close do you think you are to your full fitness now?
JULIA GOERGES: Body-wise, I feel good.  Well, serve, it was off in the first match, better today, so I think there is always room for improvement.  My body feels good.  I don't have pain, which is already good.
I mean, there will be days where you feel here and there something, but, no, overall compared to the last months I feel very good.
Q. You have had a great couple of wins and a great few days here so far.  How would you assess your chances at Wimbledon?
JULIA GOERGES: Oh, wow, it's still a long way towards Wimbledon.  As I mentioned, the more matches you get in, the better it is towards Wimbledon.
The grass in Wimbledon is also different.  You have to see who you're gonna face and all those things are coming together.  So, for me, if I get more and more matches in, I think the better prepared I will be.
Q. You have Putintseva in the next round.  How do you feel about that?
JULIA GOERGES: It will be a tricky match.  She's a tricky opponent.  Has a lot of variety in her game.  Sees the court pretty good.  She tries to make it as tough as possible for me.
But I think overall I just need to focus on myself, being aggressive, and not really thinking too much about my opponent.
Q. Playing doubles with Ash, as well.  Are you enjoying yourself out there this week?
JULIA GOERGES: Definitely.  Well, I didn't play as much doubles as I used to play the last years.  We have always had the goal to play doubles at some point.
Well, I'm glad it worked out here because she has her partner already and I'm not playing that much anymore.  So it's just, for me, just an extra bonus this week if we can do well in doubles, too.
Q. Obviously you play Putintseva next, and you already talked about that.  Will you look to finish the points quickly?  Because long rallies are what she loves.
JULIA GOERGES: Yeah, why not?  Because I'm aggressive player.  So, for me, I don't want to play that long rallies.
But I don't mind also going long rallies, because I have good fitness and I can move well.  For me, I need to wait for the right opportunity to be aggressive and not going crazy on my shots.  I think that's a big part of it, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT