ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. KANEPI/J. Goerges   
7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you about this year in general.  You started off well in Auckland, and I know you like playing on the clay and it's been a struggle on clay.  Just talk about the difficulties that you've had and how frustrating it is to lose today.  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, first of all, the positive thing is that I didn't have pain while playing today.  This hasn't been for a while.  And I obviously wanted to play better this clay season.  But as I already mentioned in German, it's not an easy situation for me this season.  The first half of the year I started off well, as you said, in Auckland, but my body couldn't caught up somehow.   
And for me it's actually a tough situation right now because I didn't have a lot of matches.  And when I played, I injured myself, and it's something which I'm not quite used to throughout my career.  Obviously you have some setbacks, but not body-wise I had it.   
And, well, that's something that you have to go through and you need to practice a lot and need to get matches under your belt.  You cannot train the match situations in practice and, well, you just have to get through it.   
 Q.  How important is it when you're such a good server, when your serve is on, for you to win matches?  I mean, your serve wasn't terrible today but how important is your serve to your game?  
JULIA GOERGES: Well, it's one of my biggest weapons, which was a bit sleeping today, I think.   
But as I said, it's also about matches.  If you haven't served a lot in the last few weeks, I mean, a serve is not coming from something which you have in your hands.  It has to be some work in it, and we couldn't do it as much as I would like to have it and what I also need to serve well.   
I think if you just rest and do some stuff on your body, it doesn't mean that your serve is coming right away.  So you need to get some feeling, as well, and I didn't have that.   
But you always have to get the best out of the situation with all the circumstances you are having.  And I tried the best I could today, but as I already said, in some match situations, these situations you cannot practice and you don't get them in practice.  So it's all about matches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT