HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 29, 2018
Julia Goerges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Julia.
Q. Now you're back in Zhuhai to defend your championship here.  Can you share with us, how do you deal with it physically and mentally?
JULIA GOERGES: First of all, I think it's a great opportunity being back here again.  For me, it means that I've had a consistent year, which always, like, is the case to be a top player, to be consistent throughout the year.
For me, it doesn't really feel pressured or something, or mentally anything special.  It's just like coming back here to get all these great memories in, which I had last year winning my biggest title of the career.  I think that's what it's all about.
It's another week to go.  I can be already very proud of my season, but obviously you still want to give everything you have left in your body, trying to go for it again.
Q. We saw you out there attending the drill ceremony.  How do you see your two group opponents?  Is there any area in your game you look to specifically to improve at this tournament?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, first of all, I think they're only great players here, so every match you are playing, it is very tough.  I just try to face the challenges I'm going to have ahead here, which is, in this case, Elise and Anett first of all.  I think that's the thing which I'm mainly focusing about.
I'll just look who I'm going to face first and then I'll just try to set up some tactics with my coach.
But more importantly for me, it is that I'm focusing on my game, which my game style is to be more aggressive, to dictate the game and not really looking too much on my opponent.
That's what I've done all my career.  That's what I'm going to do next week as well.
Q. So we know that you just came here, and actually on your way maybe you have noticed that there is a bridge called Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau connected bridge.  I don't know if you feel anything towards that?
JULIA GOERGES: I felt a lot because I went through it or over it, which was a great experience because a lot of things were written in the newspapers in Germany about it.  I think I can be very lucky and privileged to have gone over it already, yeah, I think after opening three or four days ago.
For me, it was, yeah, something very special.  I think it's one the biggest things in the world.  For me, it's just great that I was able to go over it already.
Q. How do you think about Elina Svitolina's win last night in Singapore, who was a finalist two years ago here?
JULIA GOERGES: Well, I think in Singapore, there's obviously only the best eight players playing, so everybody has the same chance to win it.  I think it's terrific that she won.  I think she didn't lose a match there and she was fighting all the way through it.
She had a lot of tough matches.  She really showed some fighting spirit and she just got through it.  At the end, I think it was very well deserved.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT