NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 15, 2012
Dave Tippett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Tippett. 

Q.   When you look at adjustments you're looking to make tonight, what is the biggest thing you have to do as a team? 
COACH TIPPETT:   Well, I think we have to have better execution with the puck.   Like I said the other night, there's a lot of times when if our execution is a little better, it allows you to play with the puck better a lot more, and hence you play defense less. 
Our execution with the puck was not as good as it needed to be and we gave up a lot of opportunities. 

Q.   Thinking any more about Aucoin?
COACH TIPPETT:   He's going to skate here this morning.   We'll see where he's at this morning. 

Q.   Can you speak to the value of possibly getting him back. 
COACH TIPPETT:   Well, right now, anybody that can jump in and help would be great.   But Adrian has been in and out of our lineup for a while here.   We have capable people if he can't play.   If he can play, he's been a good player for us.   We'll see where it goes. 

Q.   Yesterday you commented it was the quality of the shots the Kings had than the quantity of them.   You were going into the third period still tied.   Is that encouraging? 
COACH TIPPETT:   Yeah, I mean, we've been in some situations like that before where we've given up a lot of shots, but we were hanging around the game.   We went into that with the same feeling.   We have the chance to win a game, even though we hadn't played or hadn't done enough with the puck that we'd like to. 
It was an opportunity to win a game.   We had a couple breakdowns in coverage that cost us the game.   Those are things that we'll look to clean up tonight, and hopefully our puck play is better tonight and will give us a better chance to be successful.

Q.   The fact you have been through that before from a psychological standpoint, do you think that can help?
COACH TIPPETT:   We're a pretty resilient group without a doubt.   There's a lot that comes and goes through here that our players aren't that fazed at. 
We recognize the situation.   We're have to jump back if we're going to get back into the series.   This is a game that we have to find a way to win.   I'm sure L.A. will be ready, but I'm sure our guys will play very well tonight.

Q.   When it's physically tough, how do you keep your discipline in check?
COACH TIPPETT:   Discipline is how you win.   If you don't have discipline, you can't win.   Our players recognize that. 
We had a couple situations where we thought our discipline could have been better.   It's been talked about.   But at this point of the season, if you're not disciplined, you're not going to have a chance to win.   That's just an area that goes without saying.   You have to be disciplined.

Q.   You faced a lot of pressure in the Chicago series.   Was that the most, in Game1, sustained pressure you'd seen?
COACH TIPPETT:   You look, there's a lot of shots from outside.   I felt like in that game, we didn't do enough with the puck, so we didn't have enough push‑back.   Chicago had some chances, but we'd had some chances. 
Last game we didn't feel we did enough with the puck to give enough push‑back.   There was a little bit in the second period, thought we were all right.   After that, we just didn't do enough good things with the puck to allow us to even look like we were dangerous around the net. 
Had a couple chances late in the game, but we just need more sustained pressure that way if we're going to feel like we're going to be successful.

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH TIPPETT:   That's something between the centermen and the linesmen.   That something that will be talked about in the meeting today with the supervisor.   Trying to make things fair, I guess. 

Q.   What does Antoine Vermette do for you?
COACH TIPPETT:   Well, it stabilized our center ice.   We had young Turris there not coming.   Early in the year we had him slotted in as one of our centermen.   Until we got Vermette, seemed like we were always thin in the middle. 
He comes in and plays all situations, plays power play, penalty kill, has stabilized our center ice, been a very good player for us in the playoffs. 

Q.   What is the best way to combat their size, particularly on defense? 
COACH TIPPETT:   Big, strong, play fast.   You got to play competitive.   They're a big team, but there's a lot of big teams in the league.   That's not something that is a concern to us.   They play hard, but we got to be competitive also. 
Different players have different elements to their game.   You have players like Doan and Pyatt that are big, strong guys.   Then you have Boedker and Whitney, people like that, you have to use their speed.   Every team has different elements. 
L.A. is playing a strong team game.   Our players, whatever their best assets are, they've got to use them. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT