NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 17, 2012
Dave Tippett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Los Angeles  – 2
  Phoenix  – 1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Tippett. 

Q.   Looked like a better effort.   Where did it get away from you guys?
COACH TIPPETT:   It was a tight game all the way through.   We didn't create a lot, but we hung around the game, gave ourselves a chance to win. 
I thought we're not generating enough to put any pressure on them.   We were all right early, we hung around the game.   Ultimately, you know, they're a pretty good team.   They're getting some breaks on some calls I think that eventually wore us down. 

Q.   Is there a stunned feeling in that locker room considering the way you played so well coming into this series?
COACH TIPPETT:   Yeah, I mean, we're disappointed that we didn't get the results we want.   Certainly through the playoffs there's been some real positives to how we played. 
But, you know, this last series, we just haven't been able to get enough guys to the level that we need to get to.   We talked about that after the first couple games.   The level is being raised here.   We just haven't been able to get to the next level.

Q.   At one point you looked a bit frustrated with the officiating. 
COACH TIPPETT:   If I told you what I really thought, I think it would cost me a lot of money. 
Personally, I've talked about this in a lot of meetings with Don, our general manager, that the game is turning a little dishonest and it's embellishment by players.   When it's done well, it's very hard for the referees, very hard, because if you fall down near the boards or you drop your stick or you throw your head back, you're putting the referee in a very tough situation. 
You know, not just our game tonight, you see it all through.   The referees have a hard job.   What it does, it makes the game dishonest.   In actual fact, to make it work to your favor, you got to do it more.   You got to do it.   If everybody else is doing it, you better do it, too. 
We saw more than one penalty out there for us and against us that were called that I thought were plays where there was embellishment.   It's too bad it has to go that way.   It's too bad you get to this point in the season that that becomes a factor, but it's the reality of our game right now.

Q.   You wind up with four shots on goal in the third period.   Is that a case of their taking the starch out of you or something they're doing defensively?
COACH TIPPETT:   No, no, it's a case of us killing too many penalties, a case of us not generating enough, not executing enough to give ourselves chances. 

Q.   Can you speak to your club's ability or inability in this series to establish an offensive zone presence?
COACH TIPPETT:   I thought our first period today was the best we've been in the series so far.   We need more people making plays at critical times.   If you see, a lot of our execution, some of the execution starts in the D zone, the neutral zone, to get you to the offensive zone.   We continue to turnover some pucks that I think are easy plays to make.   We've had trouble executing. 
Whether the speed has gone up, we can't get to that level, whatever the reason be, we're not generating enough and not getting enough sustained stuff in the offensive zone to feel like we have a hard push on. 

Q.   How deflating was their goal coming so quickly after you went ahead?
COACH TIPPETT:   It was a breakdown in coverage by us.   We went into the game knowing we were going to have to play a tight, tight game.   We get that goal, get a break on a pretty good play, give it up that quick again.   But one thing you got to do in a game like this is, it's not as if we were going behind there, we were still tight.   We had to keep playing. 
The goal in the third was deflating because we brought some trouble on ourselves.   We were going to get a penalty on what I thought was an embellishment call so the momentum goes against you.   Then we ended up killing a couple more.   It's tough to come back when we're doing that.

Q.   Your situation is what it is, teams have come back from this.   What do you tell the team right now?
COACH TIPPETT:   Well, we'll take a couple days here and rest up.   What do we got to lose?   Might as well come and play as hard as we can.   They say one game at a time.   We got nothing to lose.   We might as well come and make sure we give a real honest evaluation of who we are and how we got here.   It's as simple as that.   Play as hard as we can, we'll see what happens. 

Q.   Does part of that come with the new line? 
COACH TIPPETT:   I thought (indiscernible) gave us some energy early there.   It's hard with so many penalties.   Langkow was a good player for us.   I thought his game was real strong.

Q.   The Stoll line seemed to be effective for them tonight.   What do you think made it so effective?
COACH TIPPETT:   You know, I had lots to worry about with my group.   You know, ask me tomorrow after I watch the tape.   Maybe they'll jump out at me.   But we had lots to worry about with our center ice there. 

Q.   They're telling us the fourth game is always the hardest one to win. 
COACH TIPPETT:   Like I say, we're going to come and play as hard as we can.   Like I say, we got nothing to lose.   We might as well give everything you got because if you don't do that, you'll go the next day and feel like you should have. 
That's the mindset we'll have. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT