U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
July 15, 2018
Martha Leach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did I hear that you birdied two of the last three?
MARTHA LEACH: Yes.
Q. I heard it from your sister, who walked the last few holes with you.
MARTHA LEACH: Well, it was true. It was true. I just kind of like -- I didn't know -- you know, I couldn't win the tournament. I couldn't play finishing in the top 10. I mean, low am was important to me.
So I was afraid that somebody would tell John, my husband/caddie, and I didn't want to know anything. I said, I'm going to play like I'm three shots behind. So I'm just going to really grind and see what happens.
Sometimes you get a little complacent and that's when all your mistakes. But it was a grind out there. Honestly, I didn't know where the ball was going. It was just something with these greens. I found something. I been putting in the hotel room at night.
John said, You must be really serious, because normally once there in the room I don't do anything. But I found something and I saw the lines better. You know, a lot of people say, Aren't you going to take a practice stroke? I say, No, I don't take practice strokes. I see the ball rolling before I hit the shot.
So I was very fortunate today.
Q. I know you spoke last evening about just you knew how hard these greens were and you were just going to trust and not worry about it.
MARTHA LEACH: I wasn't going to agonize, I wasn't second guess. I was just going to pick my line and just take what I got and just move on. You're going to hit good putts and have three-putts.
So I just decided to just have that mentality. After the first day. First day I didn't have that mentality. I was like, Whoa, because some of the pin placements were a little difficult to keep the ball on the green.
And so I just really worked hard on seeing every putt as a straight putt, and it worked.
Q. That's great. This also means you'll be exempt into the second championship at Pine Needles.
MARTHA LEACH: Oh, it does?
Q. Yes. As far as Pine Needles, do you know it? Are you looking forward to knowing you don't have to go play Scioto (to qualify) next year to get in?
MARTHA LEACH: I love Scioto. I'm excited for next year. I caddied for Hollis when the Open was there.
When was that?
Q. '98 maybe.
MARTHA LEACH: It was '98. I think it was one of her last Opens and I caddied for her. I know it's a little hillier. Should be good.
Q. Yeah. And this did too, but with the several Women's Opens there, I think a lot of people are very familiar with it.
MARTHA LEACH: Well, they are familiar with it, but I just like the whole village of Pinehurst area. I like Seven Palms, I love Aberdeen. I love all that area. I look forward to it.
Q. What about Hollis, just playing in a championship with her. I know that meant a lot to you.
MARTHA LEACH: Oh, it does. Everybody is wondering on our side bet. We're not betting anything. We're just rooting each other on.
I mean, I don't care if she beats me and she doesn't care if I beat her. We're just going out -- we have 118 other people trying to beat, and so if she does well, perfect.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT