CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
Khalid Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Going back to the season, we talked about the efficiency and everything, and this might be a game where you get heavy usage.  They have a decent defense, as well, and this might be one of those games where you can kind of show your goal line.  How much thought have you put into that kind of going into this week?  
KHALID HILL: You know, just this week I've been thinking about what I can do to help the team win.  It's going to be a tough opponent, one of the top defenses in the country, and I want to be able to help the team win.   
 Q.  How much film have you guys -- how much have you paid attention to DeMarcus Walker?  
KHALID HILL: He's a great player, big, athletic.  Some people compare him to Chris Wormley, the physicalness of Chris Wormley with the speed of Taco Charlton.  But he's a great defender, leads the team in sacks.  They're No. 1 in sacks in the country, so it's a great defense, we're just ready to compete against them.   
 Q.  You see Taco and Chris every day in practice, so does that kind of give maybe not like a sense of relief but kind of make you feel a little bit more prepared?  
KHALID HILL: Yeah, somewhat.  You're going against guys -- our defense is one of the top defenses in the country.  We're going to have a better chance of beating our opponents in games.   
 Q.  How have you guys settled in?  Of course there will be nerves going into the game, but tell me a little bit about getting settled in and what you guys have done so far.  
KHALID HILL: Just preparation.  The more you prepare, the easier it is for you, the more we practice, the better we get used to their defense, looking at blitzes, understanding their schemes and whatnot, so the more we prepare, the easier it will be on us come game time to have more fun and play faster.  We won't have to worry about making checks and calls because we already know what's coming.   
 Q.  As opposed to last year going into the Citrus Bowl against Florida and you guys were a good team last year, this year playoff-caliber kind of team.  Has the mood changed a little bit as far as goal-wise going into this?  Is there any different feeling than last year?  
KHALID HILL: I mean, no, we just kind of take every game the same.  We want to win.  Coach Harbaugh has said we're in it for the win.  We're going to work as hard as we can to make sure we get that win.  We don't look at any team different or any game different.  We look at this might be a bowl game, but we take it just as a regular game in the regular season.   
 Q.  You guys have a potent offense; as a fullback you can kind of appreciate the way they run the ball.  Have you seen much film on those guys?  
KHALID HILL: Oh, we've watched games them guys played in before.  They're great guys.  Cook is a great running back, probably first-round talent, and they have great running backs, as well, also a good fullback, as well.  We're going to see who's the best come this weekend.   
 Q.  What kind of bowl swag have you gotten, what kind of gifts?  
KHALID HILL: Just like jump suits and shirts.   
 Q.  Are they bowl committee or Michigan --  
KHALID HILL: Michigan and bowl committee, just mixed up.   
 Q.  You guys have a gift suite, as well.  How does that work?  
KHALID HILL: So a gift suite is basically a gift setup for the bowl or your school that they give to you that you get like a point system, you get to pick which bowl gifts you want to have.  You get up to like eight points.  Some gifts are eight points total, some gifts are one point.  So you can just go through and see which ones you want, what are best for you basically.   
 Q.  Have you gone in yet and seen it?  
KHALID HILL: Yeah, it ranges from TVs to headphones to generators.  You can find it all.  It's actually cool.  A lot of people use it for like Christmastime for people in your family you can get gifts for, and you kind of use that to your advantage to help with gifts, as well.   
 Q.  What is worth eight points?  
KHALID HILL: Like a TV.   
 Q.  Is it a big TV?  
KHALID HILL: Yeah, like a 50-inch.  You've got Dre Beats, wireless headphones.  I don't remember what else was out there.   
 Q.  How do you get a 50-inch TV back home?  
KHALID HILL: They deliver it to Michigan and they sort it out from there.   
 Q.  Have you picked out what you want yet?  
KHALID HILL: Maybe the TV because my TV is pretty small.  I want to make sure I've got a TV.   
 Q.  Are you going to the beach this afternoon?  
KHALID HILL: No, we're not.  I think the families are going.  We're going to be practicing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT