BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2004
Stuart Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART McDOUGALL:  Stuart Wilson, 3-under par 68.  High up the leaderboard in the championship.  When you started out this morning, did you anticipate you'd have that kind of score today at Royal Troon?
STUART WILSON:  Yeah, I suppose it was on.  It was a nice day.  The course has been in good condition.  I thought I was maybe on.  The key was obviously the front nine.
Q.  What did Mark O'Meara and Michael Campbell say to you at the start of the round?
STUART WILSON:  They were very nice to me.  Mark was saying what he'd been doing about fishing and things.  It was a good, friendly atmosphere and they were tremendous, perfect gentlemen.
Q.  What did you think when you saw your name on the leaderboard?
STUART WILSON:  It was that putt on 7 to be one of three.  I saw my name on the board, so, yeah, it was tremendous.
Q.  Can you just give us a quick synopsis of the changes you've made since the Amateur Championship?  You said you've worked on some things.  You've gained in length?
STUART WILSON:  I've been hitting it further.  Loch Lomond was the first time I've been on the course.  I was hitting a lot of shots at Loch Lomond, just been working on my leg action and getting a bit more dynamic.  I used to get kind of rigid and stuck, so I'm taking the hands out of it and keeping my legs moving better.
Q.  I know you've done it once before, just a couple of things, is it something you would ever consider doing again, and can you go over your reasons why you decided to revert to amateur status?
STUART WILSON:  It was a case of never say never.  Golf, I mean I'm playing quite well, but still I've got a long way to go to improve it.  So I wouldn't rule it out.  And obviously being Amateur champion, there's a lot of opportunities coming my way.  Maybe at the tail end of next year I'll see and reconsider.  I've been playing half a dozen tournaments and just was straight out of school, and decided it was an option to go get an education.  So I went back to uni.
Q.  (Inaudible).
STUART WILSON:  I was obviously drawing on that experience, and been in that situation before, so not a hundred percent, but to be pitching up and playing with the past champion and Michael Campbell, that's a bit more pressure, really.
Q.  Do you prefer links golf to England golf?
STUART WILSON:  As amateurs we play a lot of tournaments on links courses, but I think if you're playing well, it doesn't matter if it's links or parkland, as long as you're playing well.
Q.  How does it feel to be leading Tiger Woods and a former champion?
STUART WILSON:  It's a 72-hole tournament and we've only played 18.  There's a lot of golf, but it's nice to see your name up on the board.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
STUART WILSON:  I came down for one day and watched the rest on television.  But I knew Barclay had done well before, so it's nice to have seen an amateur doing well before, so it gives you a belief, as well.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
STUART WILSON:  It's my birthday on Sunday.
Q.  Can you tell us what you'll be doing on Monday?  What do you go back to?
STUART WILSON:  It just depends.  Back to the shop, really, back to work.  Bright and breezy Monday morning, yeah.  I'm just hoping to make it to the weekend.  I've still got a round to go, so we'll wait and see.
Q.  How many professional events have you played in?
STUART WILSON:  I think this is my fifth.
Q.  And how have you done?
STUART WILSON:  A hundred percent missed cuts.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT