UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 13, 2019
Khalil Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 48, Boston College - 24
Q. Congratulations. Going in, we thought this was a team that ran the football, right. You guys were able to turn the tables and run the football, and also, your biggest run was the one that got called back but still had a huge night. Describe what you were seeing there and the running lanes you were getting?
KHALIL HERBERT: Just a lot of doing a great job up front. Our receivers do a great job of running their guys off and blocking downfield. All together did a good job for us and opened up some holes for me and I was able to make something happen.
Q. Your offensive line, and the tight ends, looked like they were getting those first- and second-level guys kind of cleared out.
KHALIL HERBERT: Definitely, taking out through the middle of this weekend. Definitely going to take them out.
Q. Describe the one-week offensive turnaround, seven points and then putting up 530-plus yards of offense. How do you explain the one-week flip?
KHALIL HERBERT: Just coming into practice, new mindset, just ready to get back to it and get after a new opponent. I think everybody did a really good job of really locking in and figuring out and knowing what we got to do and everybody doing our jobs today, and as you can see in the outcome of the score.
Q. You sat with me after the game other day, obviously you were down. How were you guys able to flush that so quick?
KHALIL HERBERT: I think the shorter week really helped. Just being able to wash that away and get ready for BC definitely helped.
Q. Down 10-0, Carter throws an interception, and then is darned near perfect from that point on. What did you see from your quarterback tonight?
KHALIL HERBERT: Just poise, confidence, swagger. Made a mistake, didn't cry about it. Looked us in the eyes and said, we're going to get one back when we get the chance and played really well after that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT