AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2012
Olivia Rogowska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/O. Rogowska
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   What was the toughest out there?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Everything was coming just twice as harder than what I'm used to, twice as deep.   She cleaned the lines.   She played some really good tennis.   I wasn't used to it.   
But it was a great experience.   
   
 Q.   What do you think you've been able to learn from it in a positive way that shows you what you have to do to step up?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   I thought personally I was just trying to play too good.   I thought I had to hit winners.   I think the best tennis I played in that match is when I just played within myself.   It's only the second time I played such a good player.   
So next time I'll probably just play a bit more solid, not go for too much of those crazy shots.   I'm just going to have to go back in the gym and get that bit faster, stronger.   I was struggling to get in the right position because of how good she was hitting the ball.   
   
 Q.   You were having trouble with the ball toss.   
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   I just wasn't used to the massive stadium.   Yeah, it was a little gusty out there.   Probably a mixture of nerves, as well.   I was trying to get it in the right position.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel you're progressing?   
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah, it's been a rollercoaster.   I've had some really tough times, but I feel like I'm getting back on track.   Working really hard in the off‑season fitness and strength‑wise.   I think that's gotten better.   
I'm in a good mental place at the moment.   I'm not expecting perfection, which I used to.   Just taking things a bit more casually.   It's been helping me.   
So, yeah, it's been going well.   I'm happy with how things are going.  
   
 Q.   She's a Grand Slam winner.   What does she have that you haven't at the moment?   
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Well, the backhand was world class.   She was just dominating.   Just her shot selection was just better than mine today.   Especially in the 30‑All points, when I had my opportunities, she just played that little bit tougher.   That's what I'm going to have to work on.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch her final last year?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah, I did.   She's a great player.   I've seen her play many, many times.   Yeah, I was really excited to be playing her today.   I knew what I was facing.   It was always going to be a tough task, so...   
   
 Q.   Is it possible to put into words to watch someone on the TV and then actually be on the other side of the net playing them?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah, it looks much faster on TV; looks like they hit a bit more harder.   
But, yeah, it's really hard to describe.   It was just the depth and how fast she got to the ball.   It was just that 5% quicker than what I'm used to playing with girls ranked 100, 150.   
Yeah, the standard was just top class.   
   
 Q.   The biggest match of your life so far.   Did you sleep okay last night?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah.   Had a few butterflies falling asleep (smiling).   But, yeah, you know, it's something I'm going to have to get used to if I want to play on the big stage.   Try and switch the mind off.  
   
 Q.   Apart from the result, did you enjoy the experience of being out there?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah.   It was fun.   First time on Rod Laver.   Lots of my family and friends came to watch, which doesn't get to happen often.   I wish it lasted longer than what it did.   It was fun.   Hopefully be out there again.  
   
 Q.   What's ahead for you?   How are you structuring your schedule?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Just trying to do some smart scheduling at the moment.   Just want to next step break the top 100.   A mixture of challengers and WTAs.   Just going to try and suss that out after the tournament.   
I'm pleased I managed to win a round here.   That boosted my ranking up a little bit closer to my goal.   Just going to have to do some smart scheduling with my coach now.  
   
 Q.   Is able to travel with you?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah.   I've been traveling with him and Casey Dellacqua.   We've both been training with Johno, and It's been going really well.   We have a good team, so we're pleased.  
   
 Q.   Staying up to watch her tonight?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Yeah, she's got a tough match as well, Azarenka.   Yeah, poor Chris has a big day today (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Do you have a ranking goal?  
OLIVIA ROGOWSKA:   Definitely break top 100 so I can get some direct acceptances into the Grand Slams, not rely on wild cards anymore.   So, yeah, I'm getting close.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT