U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2009
Olivia Rogowska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SAFINA/O. Rogowska
  6-7, 6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Must have been quite an experience for you.   
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Yeah, it was crazy. It was lots of fun. Every time I won a point, the crowd was really loud. I had thrills down my spine. It was, yeah, crazy.  
  
  Q. How did it feel like after a match like that? Must be disappointed, but also encouraged?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Yeah, like, I'm disappointed that I was in a winning position and I let it go. But, no, it's a great learning experience, and I've -- you know, getting confidence that I can match it up to the No. 1 player in the world today. Just a little bit have to get more mentally tougher, and hopefully not let it slip again next time.  
  
  Q. Did it feel at times as if you were playing the No. 1 player?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: No. I personally didn't think I played great. I thought I could have served much better. I was making quite a few mistakes, so I was surprised that, you know, she was giving me free points.   
 But, you know, I put a lot of pressure on her serve, and it seemed to crumble a bit. But, no, you know, she obviously picked up her game in the third, and that's obviously why she's No. 1.  
  
  Q. At 4-2 in the third, could you see the finish line?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Yeah. Well, you know, I was serving pretty average, and I thought, you know, if I served a bit better it would have been a different result. So, you know, next time I won't let that happen again.  
  
  Q. Have you spoken to your parents back home?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: No, I haven't. I'm not sure what the time is in Melbourne, but I know that they were going to camp out in front of the telly and watch it. So I bet they had a heart attack or two. (laughter.)  
 I haven't spoken to them yet. I'll let them calm down for a bit.  
  
  Q. Many really experienced players who come into this room say it's incredible to go out there on that huge stadium. You're such a young person. Can you describe what it was like out there, what you were feeling inside?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, as I walked onto the court, it's just so big. Like, it's huge.   
 And at first it wasn't packed, but then as the match went on, like I could tell that lots more people came. They were really loud, and I thought they were actually going for me a bit more than they were going for Dinara.   
 And, yeah, I really appreciate all the support I got. It was so much fun, like, I couldn't -- I can't describe, you know, like when they clap for you and cheer for you and scream out your name. It was amazing.  
  
  Q. How did you keep your from mind just racing and going to other thoughts?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Um, well, I was told by my coach to just take one point at a time. I started off a bit shaky, but as I got into it, you know, that really helped me, just, you know, focus on the point I'm playing now and try not to think too much.   
 I thought I did that pretty well in the first set. In the second set I thought she really loosened up and started hitting the ball a bit harder.   
 But in the third, yeah, I guess 4-2-up, I just have to stay more mentally tougher and not let my emotions...   
  
  Q. Deep into the third, what were you trying to tell yourself?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Just to stay calm. My heart was just going crazy, and I was breathing like really fast. So next time I guess, again, I'm just going to have to learn to stay calm, and, you know, not get too excited.  
  
  Q. Were you conscious of the big amount of pressure you were putting on the No. 1?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: I wasn't really. I realized that after the match. I should have thought that during the match. Could've given me a bit more confidence.   
 But yeah, like, you know, I thought I was returning pretty well today. I put pressure on her serve, and that seemed to crumble, especially in the tight situations.  
  
  Q. Do you have a different feeling about where your game is at now, having done so well against the No. 1? Doing this and putting pressure on her, seeing what the quality is of the player, does it tell you that maybe you're farther along, gives you more encouragement?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, I felt like I kept up with her. Like I didn't think she blew me off court, and, you know, I had no chance. But I ran hard and I got to some balls -- I got them back, and, you know, put pressure on her.   
 I thought, you know -- I'm disappointed I lost, and I didn't expect to say that after playing the No. 1 player in the world. It's a bit weird.  
  
  Q. Are you nervous now?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Um, no, just, you know, the emotions are still, you know, disappointment and excitement and everything.   
  
  Q. You talked about putting pressure on her serve and stepping inside the baseline. When you and your coach discussed strategy, was putting pressure on her not only physically but mentally an issue?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Not really. He just told me to just play my game and just have confidence in my game, and that's what I did. I guess it all just ended up...   
  
  Q. You were aware that she's had a record in finals and she hasn't been able to come through mentally. Was that part of your mindset?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, yeah, a few people told me that, you know, the last couple of weeks that she's been struggling a bit mentally. They just said, Stick with her and just put pressure on her.   
 But, you know, no one really expected me to get that close.   
  
  Q. You've done incredibly well in this press conference and for the media here in New York.   
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Will your success here give you more confidence for future press conferences?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, yeah, definitely. Like, you know, this is the biggest media room I've been in, and you know, like I'm starting to get used to it. This is my first year playing all the professional Grand Slams and some of the WTA events, so I'm starting to get used to it and really enjoying it. I love it.  
  
  Q. Your father came from Poland? Your parents came from Poland?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Yeah, both my mom and dad.  
  
  Q. When did they move to Melbourne?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: I was born in Melbourne, but they moved to Melbourne a year before I was born. I was born and grew up in Melbourne.  
  
  Q. Your dad was your coach from how long?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, we hit a lot when I was younger. And, yeah, he sent me off to a professional coach when I was around 10. He coached me for a couple of years. I beat him when I was 13, so he said it was time to move on.   
  
  Q. You talked about being nervous toward the end. Can you sense when your opponent was nervous, and did you sense whether she was?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Um, she didn't look it. Like she looked really pumped up and really, you know, threw in quite big, Come ons. So I guess her attitude just got more fierce and aggressive, and I guess that's why she's No. 1.  
 Like I thought I kind of stepped back and she stepped forward, and that's why it turned around.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest match you've played before today?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Well, this, because -- yeah, I've never played in front of so many people, and television. Pretty much everyone I know is watching on TV. That was a big factor for nerves, so I was really happy that I managed to calm down quickly and play some good tennis.  
  
  Q. Do you think about that during the match when you were actually down a serve that, that people back home are watching you?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Yeah, I pictured my parents sitting on the couch, and that's a lot of pressure.  
  
  Q. Do you have a message for your family and friends back home?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Do I have a message? Well, I haven't been home for five months and I'm going really missing home. I'm going home after this, so I'm so excited. I'm so excited.  
  
  Q. Did you start cramping up at all?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: I did. It was the first time ever. Where was it? Midway through third set, I felt like something happened in my thigh, but it passed quickly. It was weird.  
  
  Q. What were you doing at this time last year?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: I was watching the US Open back home, wishing I was here. Yeah, a step closer. It's good.  
  
  Q. What's your schedule from here until the end of the year?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: Um, back home playing quite a lot of challengers, a bit lower. It's good for ranking points, and my goal is to get into the Grand Slams off my own ranking instead of wild cards.   
 Try and get a few more matches and a few more points and just, you know, get the experience and ranking.  
  
  Q. What about a preferred surface? Do you have a favorite surface?  
 OLIVIA ROGOWSKA: I grew up on clay, so I like sliding. I like the bounce. And hardcourt and then probably grass. Yeah. Yeah. It's good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT