BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2002
Deane Pappas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Great round today of 63, 19-under.  Why don't you just begin with a couple of comments about your round today and how you played and the conditions out there.
DEANE PAPPAS: There was a slight breeze blowing today, but I think just going out the first three holes was into the wind, and it seemed like we had the wind with us most of the day. 
I drove the ball well, and I hit a lot of good iron shots pretty close to the hole, and it was solid all day.  I missed a couple of short putts for birdies, but made a couple, maybe one from 15 feet and one from about 25 feet.  So it kind of all evened out.  And then a good save on No. 17, was the only bad shot I hit all day, and chipped it to about 12 feet and made the putt for par.

Q.  You made a great shot on the first round, and today sounds like you had a pretty good save.  What's more important in a tournament like this, saves like the one you made on 17 or the big shot you made on 18 in the first round?
DEANE PAPPAS: You know, the first round I was playing very well.  I missed a few putts, and to finish off with a double eagle on the last hole to get to 6-under, which I felt is what I should have shot anyway, so that was nice. 
And then yesterday I really putted badly on the front 9.  I think I had 9 putts yesterday and came back with 4-under.  So that kept me going.  And then today was just -- the whole day was solid and then it was just nice to get that save on 17 and then finish with a birdie on the last hole. 

Q.  If you don't get the save on 17, how much does that affect you with your round and mentally?
DEANE PAPPAS: You know, I don't think too much.  I played solid all day and I knew I had a par-5 coming up the next hole.  I almost flew it in the hole the last hole again, and it trickled to the back and it was an easy birdie.  But I just missed it in a tough spot on 17, and hit a good chip to about 10 or 12 feet, and I wasn't really upset with myself, and I faced the fact that I could make bogey there.  But I putted well today so I rolled that one in.  And it was just an extra bonus.

Q.  Kirk Triplett was just in and saying that he figures by the end of Sunday he has to be around 30, he had done the math, and figured he needed to be 65 or 66 every day.  Was that your thinking coming in today or do you worry about what 30-under is going to be?
DEANE PAPPAS: You know, there wasn't any scoreboards out here today, so I didn't see what anybody was doing.  I was pretty much just focused on what I was doing.  And I'm going to PGA West, which I'm not sure how the scores are going, but it seems like it's a little tougher course.  But if you're hitting it good, you can shoot a low number out there, too. 
I don't think -- there's a couple of par-5s a little tougher than the ones we've been playing, and but I think 30-under par, you know, you never know, that could win.  It may not even come close.  So you've just got to try to make every birdie you can.

Q.  This is your second go around on the tour.  Do you feel like you're a different player this time out than you were the first time a couple of years ago?
DEANE PAPPAS: Yeah, I think a little bit.  I really struggled with my putting the first time I was out.  I didn't make any putts the whole year long, and it's just a huge struggle all year long if you're not making any putts at all.  But I think I finished right at the top of the putting last year at the BUY.COM.  And with a little bit of ball-striking and the putter is back, and I'm looking forward to starting this year.

Q.  Did you change anything or do anything to turn the putting around?
DEANE PAPPAS: Yeah, my teacher and myself, when we were in South Africa the beginning of last year had me putting out of the heel of the putter with a bit of a loop of the stroke.  My right elbow was moving over the top, so we found a way for it to move underneath.  And I've been putting pretty good since then.  So we're just sticking with it.

Q.  I wanted to ask you, what club did you use on the double eagle?  I assume it wasn't a wedge?
DEANE PAPPAS: 6-iron.

Q.  6-iron from where, how far?
DEANE PAPPAS: I believe it was probably about 195 yards, slightly downwind up the hill and I pitched on the right side of the green and kicked off that slope and came right around in the hole.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Deane, for joining us.  We appreciate your time and play well over the weekend. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT