ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 13, 2018
Shabnim Ismail
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Africa - 102/3, Sri Lanka - 99/8
THE MODERATOR: We have with us tonight's player of the match award from the South African team.
Q. You and Marizanne Kapp have been called the best new ball bowling combination in the world.  What's your view on that?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Yeah, I always say myself and Marizanne Kapp go hand in hand with the bowling.  I told everyone in the world that we're the best opening partnership and we complement each other very well.  And the way we performed today just displayed our talents.
Q. You're the last team to start your World T20 campaign.  How good was it to get out there today and get some points on the board?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Yeah, definitely, I always speak about getting the momentum, and we have done exactly that.  Though we lost two early wickets up front, I think there was no panic at any stage in the changing room.  We just knew that we were going to get this score.  And I think the way Marizanne and Dane capitalized in the model it just showed a lot of character and it just made it easier for us to get the win.
Q. (Indiscernible) you have four games in seven days.  How do you feel your team is equipped for that challenge?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Like I spoke about earlier, we always want to get the momentum.  And we will take it game by game and just get the points on our side.
Q. Obviously it was quite a comprehensive win in the end.  But there were things to improve on.  You gave away 24 wides -- not wides, 24 extras.  What will you be doing to improve on that for next?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Yeah, definitely, it's not something that - we always speak about the extras in T20, especially, I mean, it's only 120 balls that we gave up.  I think it was 25 extras, but we're definitely going to work on that and maybe if it holds up we can go to the next maybe and just work on our extras.
Q. You're one of the fastest bowlers in the world.  How closely do you track the speeds you bowl at?  Is there some magic number you have in your mind that you're hoping to reach?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Well, the coach always tells me he wants me to reach the 130 mark.  So I think I need to basically go to the gym and pump some iron so I can get up there.
Q. How frustrating has it been to not be able to get a few net practices in in order to prepare?  Do you think that that kind of impacted on the way that South Africa bowled today?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: In our meetings we set and our coach looked at me and he always says that it might be our last preparation so we always need to be on the bat, need to be ready.  Although the weather wasn't on our side throughout we've found it difficult practice so this is basically the first time we came into the middle.  And I think we displayed our talent and got the win was fantastic for us.
Q. After four losses during your build up to the World Cup T20 and your warmup matches, how will this win impact on the way you guys go forward?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Definitely there's a positive mindset within the camp now.  Just for us to portray and just go through the workup and keep getting the points on our side and just play, have fun and play cricket.
Q. How good was it to see the batting come together finally after a few first trailing games in the past?
SHABNIM ISMAIL: Definitely like the four games we played, we lost, the batters always lay it down.  I think the way we capitalized today in the middle showed a lot of character.  And hopefully we can go throughout the tournament and keep backing the batters.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT