VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2014
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Will, 69.   Don't know if it's going to be enough but, man, it was a heck of a back-9 charge.
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah.   I don't think it will be good enough but, you know, it was fun when I went, I think I birdied 3 in a row, 11, 12, 13. 
I was kind of chopping out there but everyone was.   I knew -- you know, make birdies on the downwind holes, kind of make par hopefully on the other ones and you know you're going to make three, four bogies even if you're playing good.   Maybe one or two if you're playing really well.
So, you know, I just wanted to hang in there when I had the 3 in the row I started thinking about it, actually.   "Man, I could still win this golf tournament."   That's awesome.   I wasn't tight with my swing today but my short game was bailing me out and it's done that kind of a lot of the season. 
So, I kind of played -- I've been striking it a little better this season but, you know, it just shows me that I can rely on other things than just my ball striking or if one thing is down, it doesn't mean I have to throw in the towel.

Q.   The wedge on 14, is that the shot that you probably look at the one that got away from you the most today?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah.   It's tough to gauge the wind out there, honestly.   It gets quartering, south and southwest and then there's a little southeast and, you know, then go straight west and, you know, that was a bad play on my part right there. 
At that point I think I just made those birdies and I was wanting to be aggressive.   I knew that was a birdie chance.   I hit that shot a little hard and, you know, I thought the wind was going to be a little more right to left and it kind of like went down on me. 
I don't know.   It was just a bad shot.   Yeah, that's the one that definitely hurt my chances to really contend.
I made pretty decent up and downs on 16, 17.

Q.   11 one-putts.   You scrambled and survived.
WILL MACKENZIE:   That's what it was out there.   I knew it was going to be a day like that.   James was living the nightmare out there.   I felt for him and it was just a tough day for everyone.

Q.   I wouldn't leave the property just yet.   Great round.
WILL MACKENZIE:   Thank you.   I appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT