HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2014
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   General comments about your round today?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah, just drove it well again.   I drove it well the first day and now I'm driving it well.   And if you can drive it well, obviously you're going to have‑‑ even if you have 8‑iron, 7‑iron into the green, you got a perfect lie, no wind, should be able to knock it inside 15, 18 feet. 
Coupled with several wedges and par‑5s you can get, so that's what I did.   I just hit it up and around the green on the par‑5s and I actually butchered 1, but I just gave myself a lot of opportunities.   I'm in the fairway mainly and if you're in the fairway, you are going to have a lot of chances.   And that's what I did, I'm driving it nice.

Q.   A lot of guys say this basically comes down to a putting contest out here.   How are you feeling with your putter through the first two?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Not as good as I need to, if I want to contend, but it's getting better.   I'm working on it every day.   I'm not quite feeling awesome with it and that's what's holding me back, because I could be a little better.   As could plenty of guys. 
But just try to dial in that putter and just pray to keep driving it well.   I think if you're driving it well, then it turns into a putting contest.   But if you're not driving it well, you're not in that putting contest.   So that's what the deal is. 

Q.   6‑under, do you feel that's‑‑ is that satisfactory for you on this course or do you feel like you left some shots out there?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah, I made a couple mistakes on par‑5s, but, yeah, I mean, as long as you're shooting 5‑under a day you're not too far off, but you need a big one.   You got to shoot 5‑, 5‑, 7‑, 9‑, that type of thing.   So I'm praying that‑‑ yeah, I don't know if it could have been today or yesterday that I shot the real deep one, but I'm playing well enough where I could shoot a low one. 

Q.   What's historically been your comfort zone around this tournament?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Never played well.   The only time I finished Top‑20 is when it blew 50 like in 2006 or 2007.   It blew real hard.   Charley Hoffman won.   And Mark Calcavecchia and I teed off basically first and shot 70 and 69 and went from 50 something to like 17th and 12th.   So I've never really contended here. 
But you know what?   I'm ready to.   So we'll see what happens. 

Q.   You're only four shots off.   You have to like your position. 
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah, I'm happy with it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT