WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2011
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing so far, good couple of days.  
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah I made three eagles. It's kind of keeping me in it. I'm making some mistakes. I bogeyed my first two holes. 7:10 tee time starting on the back, I don't want to make excuses but it's a little tougher the first two, three holes, really difficult.   
 I, of course, did exactly what I didn't want to do, got off to a bad start and -- but then, you know, there's so many chances out here so I played pretty well. I played -- eagles help.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you did something like that, that many eagles?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: It's been awhile. I did it at Reno when I won, I made two, three in a day. I don't know if I made three. I don't know. I thought I tied a record or something. But yeah, it's been awhile.   
 It's been -- not a great year but I've been striking it well, making cuts. I just got to shoot a good weekend score. I need to shoot a good weekend score. And all I know, I got to play well coming into the fall whether I'm playing here or wherever.  
  
  Q. You have Cink's caddy for this week?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: I got a little veteran. My caddy and I, we decided to take time off and. I was -- had originally called Kip Henley. He's like, "Man, Boo just called me a day ago." Okay. That's fine.   
 So I didn't know who I was going to get and then my agent, they got me in on a sponsor's invite into here and he's like, "By the way, do you need a caddy?" Worked out perfect. "Frank is available."I said, "Perfect. Done. Let's go."  
  
  Q. Frank Williams?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yes. Stewart is taking the week off before the FedExCup so Frank is going to hook me up here, try to get me through to play well and then I'll go back to whoever will loop for me after that. But I'm excited.   
 I'm hitting it well, playing well enough to keep shooting low scores. That's what I got to do. You got to keep the pedal to the metal out here obviously. You got to hit it in the fairway off the tee. You can get a few lucky breaks in the rough but I've been hitting it in the fairway for the most part and that's key.  
  
  Q. What's your general strategy, what are you trying to achieve here down the stretch?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: For me to get my Tour card back some possible way, threw Nationwide Tour or just have a freak week. Obviously I'm going to have to have a humongous week. I can't be in that Top 25 guy and string it together.  
 I've only got here and maybe another event if I'm lucky so I'm going to have to win or come in 2nd, and then I plan on going Nationwide for the rest of the year.   
 If Matt gets me into an event I'll probably go because I played well at a couple of those Fall Series events. It's hard to do. It's hard not to -- it's hard to, you know, not go to a PGA event even if you know you probably shouldn't go, concentrate down there.   
 This is the Tour I've been on since I've been on Tour -- I mean since 2005. I know these courses better so -- but I'm going to play down there a lot the rest of the year.  
  
  Q. On the Nationwide?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yes, sir.   
  
  Q. How long you been living in Florida?  
 WILL MACKENZIE: 2003.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT