NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today.  Pretty good day for you.
WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, I'm happy with it.  My best round of the week, I felt okay all week, wasn't scoring that well, but I'm happy to shoot a good round.  I wanted to shoot lower, obviously.  I mean I had a 3-putt, missed a real short one on some hole.  Could have been one of those days where I shoot a good one.  64 or something and really move up.  I never threatened, I was never threatening winning the tournament, but I would -- I knew people weren't going to move a lot and if you had a great day you could really move up.  But I think I secured my TOUR card, thank God.
Q. You're predicted 10th right now.
WILL MACKENZIE: So that's good.  That's a huge weight off my shoulders.  If I would have talked to you three weeks ago, I was like in the dungeon, you know.  I lost my job again, I just didn't -- I mean, let's get it together, Will.  And that's when you have to have that talk to your self, I'm good enough to play -- I think -- I think I'm good enough to play out there.  So I kind of slapped myself around, got my golf coach, assembled my team, two people, me and my golf coach -- and well my caddie, too -- and went to work.  I actually practiced twice before I came out here.  And we kind of figured out the golf swing a little bit.  But my putting's got to get better if I want to win one of these things, it's just not good enough.  But I'm striking it pretty well.  So I'm fired up, man, I'm ready to have a job on the PGA TOUR again.  It's the ultimate.
Q. Who is your coach?
WILL MACKENZIE: Jeff Leishman.  He coaches Daniel Berger.  He used to coach me, now he's Daniel Berger's coach.  And I'm just -- he's my man.  He's a great golf coach.  He's so underrated.  I just said, Jeff, I need one thing, bud, one thing, in my golf swing.  So we just worked on my pivot of my left hip, the left hip pivot.  Make sure I don't get out in front of it.  That's all the golf swing is, pretty much, turn behind it and then turn through, but don't get in front of it, don't stay behind it too much, just a good, everything in line from the foot, take the energy out of the ground, from the ground up, so to speak off that left foot and that really, I started hitting it a lot better, started hitting it crisp again.  I threw in some new irons.  That was crazy.  I threw in some new irons like.
Q. Why was that crazy?
WILL MACKENZIE: Well, I used the same irons for a long time and I threw in these big, some cavity backs.  Because I played blades for ages.  And I went cavity back.  I said, it's the finals, man, I need every advantage I can get.  So I threw in these big cavity backs, the Cobras, Cobra, that's my company.  And, man, those things are flush.  I gained like, I gained some yardage and they're easy to hit.  They're tougher to figure out the cute little shots, the half shots and three quarter shots and I got to work on that, but I can flat out flush a 6-iron right now and 5-iron.  So that's pretty cool.  Because these guys hit it so far.  These kids are bombing it out here, it's just crazy.  The guys I played with, I'm like, man, if I had your game I would be killing it out there.
Q. You played on the PGA TOUR a few different times, what are you going to take back with you this time that you learned that you can use Tour advantage?
WILL MACKENZIE: Nothing different, man, I spent 90 percent of my time, 80 percent of my time on the PGA TOUR, I just simplify.  Simplify.  Okay, if you want something, that's what I got to do, I got to simplify it.  Just can't -- you can't, you can't go in circles out there working on your golf swing.  Get something simple.  I'm going to be 42 this week, I should know my golf swing pretty well.  But I don't.  I'm always trying something.  So hopefully I'll just simplify it and stay with that.  Now I just got to make sure I don't have to have hip surgery or something.  My hip kind of hurts.
Q. Is it more of a physical thing with you or mental?
WILL MACKENZIE: Oh, it's both.  I'm aging, I'm -- I mean I see these guys and I want to hit it further.  I played with Trey Mullinax the first week and I'm like, wow, this guy flies me by like 30 yards.  Then I played with Keith Mitchell yesterday, he kills it.  I mean, Cody on his good ones, he hits it way past me.  And there's tons of other guys that they just hit it so far.  Thank God it's golf, you got to do a lot of things.  So my iron game's always been pretty solid so I've always been a high greens in regulation guy, I better keep being that, and I need to tighten my wedge game up and putting to compete on the PGA TOUR.
Q. Are you going to try and play Safeway?
WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah.
Q. So you'll go right from --
WILL MACKENZIE: Is it the following week?  Are you sure?  No.  It's one week in between.
Q. It's TOUR Championship and then Safeway.
WILL MACKENZIE: Well the TOUR Championship --
Q. Next week is Ryder Cup -- I'm talking about this TOUR.
WILL MACKENZIE: So we literally play this and then go to Safeway?  Man, that bites.  I didn't think it was that -- I thought we had a little week off.  Fishing's really good down in Florida right now.  No, I got this week off, that will be good, I'll get to fish and stuff, but, man, I thought there was a week off.  Yeah, of course I'll -- I'm not going to play, most likely I'm not going to play Jacksonville and Vegas because I'm going on a surf trip to Fiji.  I'm already taking those off, so I'm going to have to play that and the other two.  Sea Island and Mexico.  Unless I need knee surgery.  My knee kind of hurts, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT