JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 21, 2010
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 WILL MacKENZIE: I got off to such a great start. Made three in a row to start. They turned that 3rd hole into a par 4. I hit a beautiful 5-iron into six or eight feet and made it. Of course, I started thinking it's about time for me to shoot a real low one.   
 Then I just started struggling, just making pars. Made a bogey in there. 3-putted No. 8. I hit a great 2-iron into No. 9. Missed my eagle putt. Kind of got me back on track.   
 Made actually a real good par on 10 to sort of save my round. Then I hit some good shots. I finally started making another couple putts. It was a good day. I was happy to get 6 or 7 out of it because I was playing well early and I didn't want to get to 4 or 5 and kind of struggle.   
 Guys are going to shoot so low out here. Any day you can get it going, keep it going out here, you need to because you're going to have a day you're going to shoot even to 2-under, even if you're playing well. You need that 6, 8-under day or two.   
  
  Q. Last week, No. 17, they had taken down to a par 4. This week there's another one. Do the players like that? Getting a lot of media attention after Rocco's eagle last week.   
 WILL MacKENZIE: I had two legitimate eagle chances last week on 17. I made it on Saturday. Had a great look from 25 feet on Sunday. I thought it was awesome. I love that. There is a little carnage up there. What is it here, No. 15, I think it's 15, one of my favorite holes out here. I left there with a par today. You just hate it when you leave there with a par.   
 I think last year, years past, I've had a lot of eagle putts there. I think it's wonderful, think they should keep on doing it. The fans want to see birdies anyway.   
  
  Q. What was the strong part of your round today?   
 WILL MacKENZIE: I warmed up awful. I felt terrible. I didn't hit it well at all in the warmup. You know, my putting was pretty solid. That one terrible 3-putt. My speed was pretty good. My wedge game was really nice today. My short-iron.   
 I kept it in play for the most part. I hit a couple squirrelly drivers towards the end. But probably overall the putting.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts, coming down to the wire on your two-year exemption from winning running out, battling your way up the Money List. What are your thoughts on the last two events going into next year?  
 WILL MacKENZIE: No matter what, next year I'm going to start off stronger. I'm getting tired of coming down to the wire and having to play real well.   
 As far as these events, I'm going to be smart, I'm going to play it like whatever the golf course gives me. I am feeling well, feeling good. I have a chance to play great. But a tie for 40th don't do anything for me at all. I got to have a big finish. I got to have two good finishes or either one fantastic one.   
 So, you know, I'm going to try to just make as many birdies as possible. If I have to go to Q School, I'll go to Q School.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT