BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free day, birdie to close.  Gotta feel good about that.
WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, hit a pretty skanky drive off the last, which I call 9, but it's 18.  When I went here, it was opposite.  And then hit a great hybrid in there.  And I was trying to make that putt.  Those five-pointers go a long way.
You need to have one or two or three of those for the week.  I haven't had any yet.  It was a great day.  I actually stroke it a lot better than I did yesterday.  I putted really well yesterday just to get away with what I did.  Hit it better today, putted not quite as well.  But I still had a great day.
Q. Like where you're heading into the weekend?
WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, definitely.  I'm sure I'm going to be quite a bit behind.  But I mean, what, 24's in there.  And I guess somebody could get a little higher.  But, yeah, I'm right in the middle of it.  And you can get a lot of points quick out here if you're playing well, putting well.
Q. Pretty consistent so far; you've got to like the way you've been playing the first two rounds?
WILL MACKENZIE: I putted great, like I said, in the first round, which kept me in it.  But hit it better today and that's always good.  Yeah, I mean, I'm playing pretty well.  I'm thinking pretty well.  And I know the golf course.  I'm always happy here.  I usually play some pretty good rounds on this course.
Q. What do you remember about that weekend in 2006 when you won here?
WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, I remember missing my flight on Monday morning.  (Laughter).  That's about it.  Yeah, I gambled a bunch of money away.  But, yeah, it was just such a great feeling.
I felt really great coming into that week.  I remember I was working with -- at the time I was doing the stack-and-tilt deal with Andy and Mike.  And you know they were like, they're all into shooting video all the time, and they're like you want to shoot video.  No, bro.  I'm striping it.  I know I'm playing well.  Just get me away from that video camera.  I'm just going to go out there and play.  And I just played really well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT