JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2008
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I'll tell you what, that must have been a (indiscernible) sign on this scorecard?
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, you know, I have played so poorly all year, and then I had eight weeks off due to my knee surgery. Man, I'm just trying to take it one shot at a time. I'm working on some good things in my golf swing mentally, and I'm just trying to put the past in the past. I know I can play, I've just got to get back to playing.
 This is a good start. I've got to be patient. I'm still working on a lot of little -- tinkering a little bit out there, but it was a good start.

 Q. What are you most focused on? What are you working on? And you've got to be pleased with a lot of things today. 
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, I mean, obviously I physically played well. I hit the ball pretty much where I wanted to and I putted well. I've been really working on just getting super-committed to the golf shot I'm playing, and working with Gio Valiante has helped me out a little bit lately -- a lot actually, and I'm just trying to put those principles into play, play one shot at a time, the old basics, play one shot at a time and just believe in myself, have great self-confidence.

 Q. I know it's early, round one, but you're one shot off the lead. That's got to feel pretty nice. 
 WILL MACKENZIE: Yeah, I mean, it's so early it doesn't matter now. But for me it's good to shoot a good round of golf and be in control out there. I mean, I had a chance to maybe hiccup a time or two, and I made a save or so. But it's just what I wanted. I'm really excited. 

 Q. You had talked about focus and really being committed to the shot. Two rain delays today. How do you react in rain delay situations? Are you able to maintain your focus, whether it's a nine-minute rain delay or an hour-and-a-half rain delay?
 WILL MACKENZIE: Well, historically probably not for me. I'll go in there and start shooting the breeze with the guys, and I love to talk with the guys and I like to be a little silly sometimes. I'll lose my focus. 
 Now I just try to relax and go with the flow, just -- that's a big thing. The great players, they can just -- I don't have to go sit in a room by myself or anything, but I just need to relax and just go with the flow, just let it -- whatever is going to happen, I don't have control over it, just relax and be ready to play when I come back. That's sort of how I look at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT