THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 26, 2014
Will MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Will, I'm sure you're disappointed right now, but can you talk about the positives this week?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah.   First tournament of the year, somehow wiggle up in a playoff.   I mean it's pretty big.   You know, it was a great week, but you know, it's one of those things.   I just didn't execute right down the stretch. 
I had some great shots.   You know, I had that shot on 17.   That was huge.   And then I had the great putt there, you know, simple putt, straight in, but it's still dead down grain, rolling about like 19 on the stimp, so you gotta hit it solid to get it on line.
And then I just‑‑ I think I just‑‑ I wasn't really that nervous.   I just got a little late, you know.   I was thinking about getting too amped, because a lot of the day I was pretty amped.   I was hitting 3‑wood forever.   And I think I probably should have taken 3‑wood off that tee because I would have hit it a long way, you know, just go ahead and hit it, and instead I was like‑‑ I kind of was like let's make a real smooth driver swing and got up under it a little bit, and then bam on the playoff whole, wham, same thing.   And that's why I was gunning back with the 3‑wood a lot.   I was hitting a lot of shots hard today and I probably should have stuck with my guns and done the same thing right down the stretch because I'd lost my feel a little bit, probably a little nervous.   And you know, that's my tendency, I'm going to leave the face open a little bit, and I hit those shots on the right.
You know, I still had a chance, though.   I had a perfect 5‑iron in right there, but I just didn't stay with it.   I didn't stay with the shot.   I started to do the same thing, a little bit like that, but it's a bummer, but you know, whatever.   I accrued a few points.
Yeah, you always want to win when you get in a playoff, but I did my best, you know.   Whatever.   I'll get over it.   Looks like I'm going to Malaysia now.   I was thinking about not, but I told my agent, Mac Barnhardt, I said if I come in second, we're flying. 

Q.   Can you talk about there was a bogey‑birdie exchange there coming down the stretch.   Did you feel like you had momentum on your side at that point?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah, you know, I hit it‑‑ I did that same thing, came out of it a little bit on 16, which obviously that's the place to hit it, but it is not good over there.   I drew a fantastic lie to even be able to somehow hit it on the green.   And my touch wasn't quite there with the putter. 
I made some‑‑ I was like, you know what, it's going to be one of those days that the putter is going to save me, and it kind of did.   Saved me right here.   Got me in the playoff with a huge two‑putt, and the nice putt on 17. 
But yeah, I mean I felt good going into 18, but then I just‑‑ like I said, I was fired up after that birdie on 17.   I should have just hammered that driver, and I tried to kind of smooth 'em, and oh, you got it, you lose it.

Q.   Willie Mack, leading for most of the day, you gotta be pretty bummed, buddy?
WILL MACKENZIE:   Yeah.   I am.   It was a tough day.   I didn't have my game, but I actually hit a lot of great shots today.   I was hitting it on the right side of the hole playing smart, smart, conservative, solid golf, but then you know, on my misses I was 30, 40 feet on the right‑hand side of the hole, but they were tough putts going up and then away. 
And you know, time was kind of ticking, but when is he going to screw one of these up.   And you know, you gotta take advantage of those 15th hole.   You know, that's a pivotal hole when it's down to the nitty gritty, I believe, I think you have to make birdie there.   And even though I didn't hit the best shots, I gave myself a pretty good look, and I didn't make it. 
So you know, it's just what can you say?   I didn't blow it, but I mean I didn't execute.   I didn't execute to win.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT