THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 30, 2003
Spike McRoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  What were the conditions out there, accessible pin-wise and green-wise?
SPIKE MCROY:  Yeah, it's pretty similar.  The greens seemed a little bit faster today.  I don't know whether that's -- typically, bent grass, with a lot of sunshine, will get faster as the day goes on.  This was 8:30 in the morning.  It was fearless.  There are some cute pins out there.  They are fair, as long as you put it in the right spot, that's what we are out here to do.

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  For the most part my misses were in proper spots, I got up and down a lot.  That's why I'm here. 

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  Yes, I can't complain. I like to hit the driver a little bit better.  I hit a lot of fairways with it, just not as crisp as we would like it, the spoiled brat that I am.  You don't hit a driver a lot out here.  You are fitting it in, that's why it is such a great golf course.

Q.  What about tomorrow, you are going to be down there, one of the last groups?
SPIKE MCROY:  Not towards the bottom, we are at the top.

Q.  Towards the latter part?
SPIKE MCROY:  As I understand.

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  Not at all, especially with this golf course.  It's so much fun setting up there.  This is my first year here.  Before this week, I've never seen it, and I heard people rant and rave about it.  But it's so much fun to be able to put the ball in position, you don't have to hit it 400 yards and putt it well.  The greens are rolling pretty good.  They are rolling a lot better today than they were yesterday, I thought.  I made a lot of putts yesterday and today.  We will see, stay with our game plans.

Q.  The nerves don't change at all?
SPIKE MCROY:  No, no.  Man, if you are not nervous on the first tee on Thursday, something is wrong.  It doesn't get any worse than that.

Q.  Spike, are you like a lot of these (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  Yes, I mean, you know, if they ever invite me back here, I will be here.  I will probably be the first one here because this is not just a golf course.  I mean the golf course is great.  But everything else is just fantastic.  The shakes are real good, too.

Q.  How many consecutive weeks is this for you?
SPIKE MCROY:  I made a mistake earlier in the year, but I started getting in the tournaments, I started playing 4 or 5 in a row.  I started getting in the tournaments, TPC, Bay Hill, I wanted to play those tournaments, I wanted to play 8 in a row. That's just stupid.  There are a lot of tournaments that have been good to me that I don't want to miss as well.  We will see about next week.  We will see the weekend action.  Next week, the Kemper is still on the schedule, my agent lives there, it's just a blast for both of us.  I'm tired.  I can feel it right now.  But hopefully, thank God, you're not hitting a lot of drivers this week.  Hopefully I will be able to survive.

Q.  Is that something where you need to still establish yourself out here as much as you are playing?
SPIKE MCROY:  No, there are probably two weeks I would have taken off if I would have to go back and do it again this year.  But it's just, you know, like I said it may be a different story.  But this year I had some obligations, I wanted to make sure that I patted them on the back and then play tournaments I haven't played before.

Q.  You have to play this course several times to get a feel for it, maybe not the fairways, they are wide.
SPIKE MCROY:  Shows you how wise everybody is.  At least the first two days at least.

Q.  Are you surprised that you are as high on the board considering you having not played here before?
SPIKE MCROY:  I played really well the last three weeks, I'm surprised I haven't been higher.  I'm just playing well and not getting the job done.  Hopefully that will turn around this week.

Q.  You say you are tired from tournaments?
SPIKE MCROY:  This has been great, 4 in a row.  That's not bad at all.  Four or five, 6 in a row, I can handle that.  But the seventh and eighth tournament, I'm just brain dead.

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  Yes, it would, a little weekend run will probably give us a couple of weeks off.

Q.  Was the best you've played this year in the first two rounds?
SPIKE MCROY:  I would have to say so.  I played pretty well in San Diego.  I don't know.  Shoot, there is a lot of golf left today.  They are shooting 8, 7, 6-under, very possible today.

Q.  Is there a story how you got your name Spike?
SPIKE MCROY:  Yes, my dad was born in Detroit and they were Detroit Tigers fans, his family.  And back when Ty Cobb played for the Tigers, the locals had nicknamed him Spike because he used to sharpen his cleats.  I guess he was real mean.  So when I was born, I must have been such a brat that my uncle sent my mom and dad a box with a baby uniform and the box was addressed Robert Spike McRoy on it.

Q.  You are not a Tiger fan now, are you?
SPIKE MCROY:  Absolutely.  Red Wings, Tigers, Braves.  I'm a sports fan though.

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  They don't care, as long as the Braves are winning, they don't care.  The Tigers sure haven't been.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
SPIKE MCROY:  Tuesday is Open qualifier.  I'm going to Woodmont, yes.  Hopefully we will win here, that will take care of a lot of problems.  Give my boy, my awesome caddy, over there a couple of days off.  He needs it. 

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  Baby uniform, yes.

Q.  A cap and all?
SPIKE MCROY:  It probably did.  As a matter of fact, I know it had a cap.  Because I think I still have it.

Q.  It's always stuck, the name has always stuck?
SPIKE MCROY:  Since I was born, my third grade teacher wouldn't call me that because she said it wouldn't be on my checks when I got a checking account, but she was highly mistaken.

Q.  I'm not sure what you meant, if you win here you are not going to try to qualify?
SPIKE MCROY:  If I'm not mistaken, the last day for qualifying multiple winners is June 1st.  Since I won B.C. Open last year, my last week, one week qualifier.  I will not be at Woodmont if we walk off here a champion.  I got a long ways to go.  We're not thinking about that.

Q.  Did you ever do any research on Ty Cobb?
SPIKE MCROY:  I didn't.  I know they made a movie about him.

Q.  Did you see that?
SPIKE MCROY:  I did not.  I sure didn't.

Q.  I guess you know he was mean?
SPIKE MCROY:  I heard he was real mean.

Q.  How are you getting around so well (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  I'm not short, I don't hit them out there with Tiger, but you don't have to here.  It's placement.  Like 18, it's a great finishing hole but it's a 3-wood, 7-iron.  It doesn't do you really much good to hit driver.  Actually, it would probably hurt and you little bit if you got up there too far, you would have a blind shot, but --

Q.  (Inaudible)
SPIKE MCROY:  I'm putting it pretty well.  I had 26 putts yesterday.  I had 10 putts on the front 9 yesterday.  And I shot 2-under.  It wasn't stellar bag striking, it was getting the ball up and down and putting it well.

Q.  How about today?
SPIKE MCROY:  I didn't make any bogeys.  I made some good par putts.

Q.  Did you hit a lot of greens?
SPIKE MCROY:  I did.  I don't know, it's up to this back nine.  I can't hit any greens on the back nine other than the short par-4's and the par-3s.  You know, coming down the stretch, no, good grief, I missed 14.  No, I am including ones that aren't this far along the fringe, but chipping-wise, 14, 15, 16, 17.

Q.  You missed greens on all of those holes?
SPIKE MCROY:  Yes, I missed the second shot on 15.  I bunkered it at 16, and hit it left of the green on 17. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT