CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 2, 1998
Spike McRoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  All right, we have Spike McRoy in here.  Six six, four under par, birdied the last hole.  Why don't we start off by going over your birdies. 

SPIKE McROY:  Okay.  First hole I birdied, was the 14.  Started on 10, hit a good seven iron there, right on the downside actually caught a good break.  It hit on the down slope.  In the middle of the green there's a ridge.  It hit on the down slope.  If it doesn't hit the pin, it's going over, maybe not by par.  If it catches the pin, it almost goes in, stops about two feet.  Tapped that in. 


Q.  On 15? 

SPIKE McROY:  Good wedge, really good shot.  Such a tough pin to get at if you lay-up.  I'm sure there are guys going for the green today.  I don't hit it that far.  The bunkers are definitely in play for my drive.  Lay-up with a five iron, had a good wedge about six feet.  It's a very tricky putt.  Anywhere on that green is tricky.  This place in particular, because it's sloping straight towards the water.  You just -- somehow my ball stays up to the right of the hole, just got it going, made that, about six feet, seven feet.  Great par on the next hole.  Birdies are two.  Sand wedge to about 15 feet.  Good read on that one.  The next hole was really good birdie, had a decent drive and down the right side.  Didn't think I could get to the bunker on the right; 270.  My average is probably not even 260 yards, wet fairway stuff.  I figured I couldn't get there.  It just trickled in the bunker, six iron to about 15 feet behind the hole.  Really good shot, made that one.  


Q.  And then you made pars until nine?  

SPIKE McROY:  Pars until nine.  Eight iron actually out of a divot.  It was a nice, little, small, clean divot.  I think it was 150 to 152 yards to the hole.  A little breeze.  Eight iron to about six feet, made that.  


Q.  Your long bogie of the day was your first hole, number 10?  

SPIKE McROY:  10, hit it out of the fairway.  Not sure after the -- let's see, 10, 10, 12, and the par number two were the only fairways I missed today that I recall.  


Q.  All right.  Any questions for Spike?  

SPIKE McROY:  The greens are just so perfect.  They're receptive, granted it's a long course.  


Q.  You're talking here you're not a long hitter.  You're generally considered long irons, generally a long course.  Was there anything particular today you did well?  

SPIKE McROY:  You know, after starting, real sluggish start, terrible drive on 10, just got off on 12, and then started.  I think sometimes when you get off to a start like that, it puts you in the mind to start focusing a little harder, and that's what we did, hit some good shots.  Actually, I'm not a big range about.  You won't see me spending a lot of time on the range.  I did go yesterday, played in the Pro-Am yesterday off side, and the last couple of shorts I hit were a little shaky.  So I came back to the range, worked on a few things and got it on line today.  There was a lot of long iron shots for my game, a lot of long iron shots that need to be pretty accurate.  


Q.  That's what you were working on?  

SPIKE McROY:  As they always do, this course in particular.  


Q.  What particularly seemed to be off?  

SPIKE McROY:  What particularly seemed to be off?  


Q.  Yeah, yeah, what did you work on? 

SPIKE McROY:  Actually, staying still, getting a little ahead of the shots and fanning them to the right.  If I can just keep from doing that, I'm in good shape.  Not one with a picture perfect swing.  You see 90 percent of the guys have out here.  It's that toothpaste I had this morning.  


Q.  Are you the only guy on the TOUR with that hat, do you think? 

SPIKE McROY:  Yeah.  Definitely.  Michelle Redman on the LPGA and Buckshot Jones on the NASCAR Circuit, or Winston Cup, I don't know.  


Q.  How did you get hooked up with it? 

SPIKE McROY:  Through my agent.  Actually, my agent's Adam Link, and one of his roommates, one of those stories, you know, one of his roommates knew somebody and they hooked him up with the right person.  I think Smith-Klein Beecham is the big cheese, and Aquafresh is a spin-off of that.  


Q.  You take a little ribbing from the guys you play with? 

SPIKE McROY:  Hell, no.  I hand them toothpaste every week, they better not.  Bob, you need anymore toothpaste?  


Q.  What was your reaction when they asked you to wear -- I mean, you know, a lot of guys wear the -- it's not really -- 

SPIKE McROY:  You're right.  


Q.  So what was your -- 

SPIKE McROY:  I don't know.  Whether you're wearing the hat, or it says it on your back or shirt, whatever.  You've got Outback Steakhouse.  There was, I think, there was a Taco Bell back last year.  I don't know, it's interesting.  When they throw money at you, you don't turn it down.  They're great people, though.  We went up and met with them and the one guy, Gary Glew that we're dealing with is fantastic, actually.  


Q.  Do they check out your smile first? 

SPIKE McROY:  No, they tell me to smile more.  


Q.  Goatee hide it? 

SPIKE McROY:  What's that?  


Q.  Goatee hide it or what. 

SPIKE McROY:  I think just not smiling hides it.  I get a little antsy out there.  


Q.  Any questions for Spike?  All right.  Thanks, sir. 

SPIKE McROY:  You got it.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT