MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 2, 2015
Paula Badosa Gibert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. BADOSA GIBERT/L. Davis
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you after that match how do you see yourself physically for the next match, next opponent? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   I wasn't feeling very well because of the cramps.   I was a little bit injured.   As soon as I finished I went directly to the physio and, well, tried to recover myself. 
Let's see how I wake up tomorrow. 

Q.   We've talked already at the end of the match with Xabi Budoa, and he said that this match was the most important for you of the whole year because it's where you have defined yourself.   It wasn't easy to win.   How do you feel about filling up the stadium.   How do you think the crowd supported you?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Yeah, it's been incredible.   You can look and see when I think about it I get goosebumps.   It's been one the of most important matches of this year.   To finish this way nearly injured, I didn't know if I was able to finish the match, and that's been a really incredible moment for me. 

Q.   Today's match, what does it mean to you?   Is it more pressure, or today you don't have more pressure because you managed to make it to the main draw?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   No, I don't feel a lot of pressure.   I just came here to have a nice time.   I made it through qualifying, and being able to play the main draw is something great.   I don't have any pressure. 
I'll play who I have to play and try to do my best and enjoy it. 

Q.   Sara Sorribes says you're doing very good on paper in the tournaments.   How did you think you're doing?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   I have talked with Sara Sorribes also, and I started laughing when she told me.   I think I am doing well on paper.   I made it to the main draw. 
Let's just see who I have to face and try to do my best and try to make it the furthest in the draw. 

Q.   When the match finishes on the court, I saw that you closed your eyes.   What did you feel? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, it's been one of the best moments of my life, if not the best.   As I said before, I just had goosebumps. 
You know, being able to do this this year in Spain, in Madrid, in my home, it means more for me.   It's incredible.

Q.   After doing pretty well in Miami and also here, what are your goals for the season?   Where is the ceiling for you this year?   What are your dreams?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Normally I don't have ranking goals or results.   I just try to focus on myself.   I try to do better and better in my tennis, and also physically talking.
About the ceiling, I don't know.   We'll see what happens.   We'll see the results and how everything figures out.

Q.   Do you think that training with Xabi in Valencia has modified anything in your play?   Are you more confident? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, starting with Xabi in Barcelona, I noticed that I had a lot of confidence in myself, especially mentally.   He's a really good person in that.   He's helping quite a lot.
Tennistically talking he's making me play more aggressively.   I really see a change in my game.   I feel much better. 

Q.   You're 17 years old; what are your dreams? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, I'm dreaming of getting as far as possible in the WTA.   I just want to win Wimbledon.   Those are my dreams.   I would like to win Wimbledon. 

Q.   Talking about the Fed Cup, in what situation do you find yourself?   It seems there has been a little bit of a problem with the last selection in Argentina.   You didn't want to go there.   What can you tell us about that?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, that's something that my manager is dealing with.   I really don't think a lot about that.   I just think of playing my tennis.   I will decide in a couple of years if I'm going to play for the United States or Spain.
I'm just not thinking about that right now. 

Q.   Let's talk a little bit about the calendar.   After Madrid, what do you have on your mind?   And another question:   Talking about doubles, you're playing with Sara Sorribes against the favorites.   How do you see that? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, first of all, I think I'm going to the 25,000, the 50,000s, until I go up in the rankings. 
Then I will try to play junior Roland Garros and junior Wimbledon. 
As for the doubles, I'm going to play with Sara Sorribes, which is my best friend.   It's something really incredible.   We're going to play against seeded players and just give our best.   That's all we're going to do. 

Q.   Yesterday we were talking about Sara and we were talking about rule about the limitation of tournaments because of age.   She didn't like that.   Do you agree with Sara?
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   I agree with Sara, because rules are only done for some players and not for others.   I think the rules should be the same for every single player.   The rules are there, and we just to have play and cope with them.
I have to wait to be 18 to be able to play every single week.   We have to respect the rules.   They are there to follow them. 

Q.   Last year you made it to the quarterfinals in Roland Garros and Wimbledon.   You think you're going to do better this year?   After the match today and how good you're doing, you think you'll do better? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, yeah, I hope that I'm going to do better.   Each year I expect to do better and better. 
Well, it's going to be complicated because the juniors are also playing very well, and playing against girls your same age is also a lot of pressure.
It's going to be different.   I'll try to do better and better every single year. 

Q.   And about the tournament, who do you think will win this tournament?   How do you see them? 
PAULA BADOSA GIBERT:   Well, you know, my preference has always been Sharapova, and I think she's going to be the best one. 
But I also support Carla a lot.   She's playing really well.   Especially here in Madrid she's going to do very well.   Hopefully Carla will do a really great tournament. 
Garbine, too. 
But I think the favorite is Serena or Sharapova. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT