AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v YANKEES
October 4, 2003
Mariano Rivera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel twice in a row going two innings and how often can you do that? 
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   It felt good.  I've been feeling good out there, and, well, I do that as long as I can.  
 
Q.  There's 12 guys up in this series and 12 times out against you, when was the last time you felt this dominant on the mound?
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   I just feel good.  I don't feel like I'm dominating anyone or something like that.  I'm just throwing the ball well and finding the fastball, moving the ball around and making some pitches out there.  It felt good.  
 
Q.  Can you pitch two more tomorrow?
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   If I have to.  This is no time to rest.  We rest after we finish.  There's no tomorrow.  You have to do what you have to do, and if it's up to me to throw two innings to win the game, I will do that.  
 
Q.  You've been in this position in post-season more than anybody in history, any special feeling today knowing you helped assure that Roger pitches another day?
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   This is the feeling you want to be there, when you see Roger Clemens pitching like that, you just follow his step.  He's one of the best guys pitching out there, and gives you an awful lot of innings, you have to follow him.  You have to feel good and go at it. I don't care about the save, I just feel good about winning, that's what it's all about, winning.  We play as a team and we win as a team.  There's no pressure on individual players on this team.  That's why I like to play with the Yankees because you just go there and try to do your job.  
 
Q.  I remember standing at your locker in late July after a couple of blown saves and we all asked you what's wrong with Mariano Rivera and you told us nothing and none of us believed you.  How were you able to stay positive and work through it? 
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   I don't like to think that there is anything wrong with being positive.  There wasn't anything wrong at all, I would be doing something else but not pitching.  That moment, it was tough.  The month of August was tough.  Just keep it going and there's nothing to look back, there's nothing there to learn.  You just learn from that and move on.  That's what I did.  I was throwing the ball good, I just made a little adjustments and moved on.  
 
Q.  Seeing the way Roger pitched today, do you think Roger will change his mind about retiring or do you hope he will? 
 
MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, the way he's pitching  -- I would pitch another year if you would ask me.  But something, also, it's nice when you go out of the game on top.  I respect the feeling of those kind of people.  But if I was in his position, I would love to play on my team again, but that's his position.  I just wish him the best whatever he does.  If he stays or if he goes, just wish him the best.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT