AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 18, 2001
Mariano Rivera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Piniella said you guys will definitely come here next week; that the series will go to Game  6.  What's your reaction to his statement? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, I think he has the right mentality to think like that.  But I can say nothing.  We just have to keep doing whatever we have been doing, and we're going home now, so we have a little advantage there.  Hopefully, we can keep doing what we've been doing. 

Q.  Lou was thinking that maybe there are different rules because he said you threw five or six warm up pitches after you were signalled into the game.  Can you explain what happened?

MARIANO RIVERA:   I don't know what happened.  When they called, I was throwing, so nobody told me that there was a call so I keep throwing.  I don't know if it's different rules for myself.  (Laughs)  But if it is, it's good then to have that, I guess, because you get more throws.  But I did whatever I had to do to get going. 

Q.  I think it's 22 straight post-season saves for you in 22 tries, are you as amazed by that as I am and other people? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, I don't think about it.  I just go there and try to do my best job that I can do that night.  I thank the good Lord for the opportunities that I've been getting, and I've been getting the job done, so I don't think about it.  I just go and do it. 

Q.  You've been the last few times going on, going an inning and a third, two innings, do you think that will take a toll in the post-season if you keep doing that?

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what I do anything to help my team, and it's been working.  So it takes for me to pitch one inning or two innings or whatever it takes to win the games, I will be able to do it and I wanted to do it.   I mean, I want to win, and I want to be there for my teammates.  So I will be willing to do it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT