AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 13, 2000
Mariano Rivera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  When you were entering this post-season, did you think much about the scoreless streak at all? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I didn't think about it at all.  I was thinking about winning, being happy to be in the post-season again.  Just happened.  I wasn't thinking at all. 

Q.  Testing your Yankee history, do you know Whitey Ford?  Have you heard of him?

MARIANO RIVERA:   Yes, I know Whitey Ford since the Yankees in Spring Training in 1993, was in touch with him, and talked a little bit about baseball.  He's a great human being, and he was a great player.  And being a Yankee, that's the most respect that I have for him.  I know he played very well, and I'm just happy to be part of the Yankees, breaking the record as a Yankee, because it was a Yankee that holds it.  So it was good.

Q.  Is the cutter working better now than it worked all year?  What are you doing to the hitters? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, what happened before at the beginning of the year was difficult for me to get ahold of the ball.  The ball was slipping a little bit.  It was tough for me to grab the ball.  But now, you know, I get a little bit more feeling about the grip of the ball, and that makes me throw the ball much better and have more confidence with the ball.

Q.  What did you do with Olerud that inning? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I don't want to walk him.  I just threw a pitch over the inside corner.  I was glad it was a strike.  After that, well, I have nothing to lose.  Just go for it, and I made a good pitch, and he popped it up.

Q.  A few moments ago, most of your team has said that when you come into the game, they feel like it is automatic, one, two, three.  Do you feel the same way? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, I hope that they feel like that. That makes me feel good, because I know that those seven guys behind me, they feel good.  That's what it is all about.  When you feel good out there on the field, you do a lot of things, great things.  That's what they have been doing for me.  They have been making a lot of good plays, and they have been there for me.  And I appreciate that, because they are my team and I love them and they love me, and that's how we work.  We work as a team, we go down as a team, and we win as a team.

Q.  Last year when you pitched to Klesko in the ninth inning, you broke three bats in a row, and guys in the Braves laughed at that.  Do you ever laugh at what hitters do?

MARIANO RIVERA:   I tell you what, I don't want to do that.  I don't want to do that.

Q.  You don't have to show it?

MARIANO RIVERA:   Exactly.  You don't have to show it.  I never laugh, because I don't want the hitters to think about me as a bad guy.  I don't represent that kind of guy.  I just go out there to do my job.  And it was kind of funny seeing those guys laughing at their own player.  But to me, it wasn't funny.  I was trying get the inning over and win the World Series.

Q.  When is the last time you gave up a run? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I believe it was Sandy Alomar's home run. 

Q.  You've forgotten it already? 

MARIANO RIVERA:   I just look forward and keep it going. It is good for me to have, first of all.  And now that I broke it, it is good for me and my family to know that we've been there.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT