MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 27, 1999
Mariano Rivera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I've talked to closers who admit that after stringing together 15, 20 scoreless
innings, somewhere in their head they know, "I'm going to give up a run soon,
eventually." Do you think that or do you expect to never give up another run?

MARIANO RIVERA: I don't even think about it. I go to the mound and just try to do my
job, and don't think about the runs, you know. I'm in a spot. I can't afford to give up
any runs, so I don't think about it and I don't even try to give it up. So I mean if I
give it up, well, I give it up. There's not in my mind.

Q. Can you talk about what John Wetteland's presence did for you early in your career,
what you learned from him?

MARIANO RIVERA: John was my teacher. He was my friend at the time, you know. He was
close, and we sit together and spend time talking about baseball, you know. And I know
that I learn a lot from him, and I know that he learns a lot from me, too. We just, I
mean, talk about baseball. And this guy never give up. You know, he was the kind of guy
that he always inspire to you confidence. Once he was there, you know I know for sure,
most of the time, 90 percent, he would do the job. So I just follow him close and see what
he was doing. I take that approach.

Q. Mariano, Eckersley was motivated by the fear of losing or giving up a run to support
his teammates. Some like the challenge. What is your motivation out there to give what you
give and to succeed time and again?

MARIANO RIVERA: I believe in the challenge. I love the challenge. I love to be in that
situation where, I guess, that's my motivation. I think is once you there, you know, you
have those butterflies in your stomach. You know you there for real. And you just want to
do it.

Q. What's the difference between being a setup man and pitching the seventh and eighth
innings and pitching the ninth, being the closer?

MARIANO RIVERA: The difference is when you are a setup man, you know that somebody's
coming behind you. When you are the closer, nobody's coming behind you. So everything is
in your back, everything is on your shoulders. In innings, seven innings that the guys
play, they hand it to you, I mean it's tough. It's tough. So you know that nobody's coming
behind you, so there you are on the mound with the responsibility of holding the lead and
try to save the game. I think that's the big difference between the closer and the setup
man.

Q. A manager once explained to me, "it's like working the high-wire on a trapeze
with the net underneath you and the closer has no net underneath."

MARIANO RIVERA: Is that correct? The closer has the net -- I mean the setup man has the
net. The closer doesn't have nothing, so he fall, I mean he's dead. (Laughter.) So, yes.
Like I said, there's nobody behind him. So that's the difference.

Q. As one of the premiere Latino players in Major League Baseball, did you have any
feelings when it was announced, when the All-Century Team was announced and there where no
Latino players?

MARIANO RIVERA: I was kind of surprised. I noticed a lot of Latino players in there,
like Clemente. But I mean that's baseball. What you can do? The fans pick all the players,
and they pick not one Latin player. That was okay. I wanted to be a Latin player in me, I
wanted to see a Latin player in there, but there wasn't one.

Q. You were selected to All Latin American Team that was selected today. I want to know
how you feel to be part of the group selected on the All-Century All Latin American Team?

MARIANO RIVERA: I feel good. It's kind of like my own career as a player, as a pitcher.
It's an honor for me to be selected. I mean that kind of team, you know, a Century Team
for Latino players, it's great. It's an honor for me to be there. It feels great.

Q. On the list of the 100 Latino players of the century, Rod Carew is selected as the
second baseman. I would like your commentary regarding that.

MARIANO RIVERA: I mean, to me, Carew is one of my idols. He inspires me as a player, as
a person. I always look for him, I always see what he's doing. When I play against his
team, you know, I was rooting for him. I talk to him and see what things -- what he has to
give me about the pitcher, and teach me little things. I happy that I see Carew and
knowing the kind of player that he was, you know. I mean now, being in that century team,
it's great.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT