WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2006
Daniele Bracciali
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  You pushed each other pretty hard.  Can you talk about the match.  You had your chances.   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  The match, I think we serve very well, both, and we never lost the serve in the three sets.  I know I made 121 points and he made 120 points, and the difference has been two balls in the final tiebreak.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned the tiebreaker and two points.  Which two points were you talking about?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  One points was I think 2-0 for me and serving, and I made a mistake, a forehand mistake.  Was easy balls.   
 And then 5-All, easy volley.  When you make this mistake, then at this level you lose the match.   
  
  Q.  When the third set started did you think you'd be able to break him at all, or did you expect it to go all the way to a tiebreaker?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  No, I had just two breakpoints, one the first set and one in the third.  A lot of came at 30-All, and he made ace, ace.  I was thinking to made it, one break.  I had one chance in the third, 5-All, 30-40, and he made ace, then ace and then ace.  When he serve like this, is tough make break.   
  
  Q.  You're having a pretty good year.  Can you just talk about has anything changed for you training-wise or anything?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  Yeah, just it's been a good year for me.  I won my first title in Casablanca and then I made some good result, quarterfinal in Rotterdam, then third round in Wimbledon.   
 No, I had my best ranking, 49, two months ago.  Now I am 63, but from here to the end of the year I have just 130 points to keep.   
  
  Q.  Are you happy?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  Yeah, yeah, I'm happy (smiling).   
  
  Q.  How is your back?  Was it your back you called the trainer for?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  Yeah.  Yesterday I was practicing with Mirnyi and I completely block my back, and I made something yesterday with the physio.  I take some antiinflammatory.  Today was a little bit better.   
 But in the third set I feel again something was really tight, and I asked for the physio.  I think it's normal, no, when you play the match, long match, this problem.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to look at the scorecard and see that you had 121 points and still lost?   
 DANIELE BRACCIALI:  No, I didn't see the score because I receive SMS from a friend and he told me, Ah, you won, congratulation for the match, bad luck, 121 points and 120, you can play at the same level with the top, because Roddick is a top.  Now is not playing very well, but when he's serving, is always tough for the other player.   
 I lost, but has been a really good match for me.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT