BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 14, 2005
Emily Bastel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Emily Bastel in the interview room.  She's the leader currently.

Can you just go over your scorecard first?
EMILY BASTEL:  Sure.  (Indecipherable) hit my driver in the right rough, had to punch out.  Hit just short and two putted.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 8?
EMILY BASTEL:  I hit a drive down the right side, 7 iron to about 12 feet.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 11?
EMILY BASTEL:  That was an 11 wood to about 25 feet, made a long put.
MODERATOR:  Hole in one on 13.
EMILY BASTEL:  That was a 7 iron, just shot 152    actually kind of like a knockdown 7.  Hit like probably 10 feet short and rolled in.
MODERATOR:  Birdie on 14?
EMILY BASTEL:  I hit driver down the left side, 4 wood, short right, chipped to about 3 feet, made it.
MODERATOR:  And birdie on 15?
EMILY BASTEL:  That was a 7 iron to about 8 feet.
MODERATOR:  All right.  Currently you're the leader.  Do you want to talk a little bit about your round today?
EMILY BASTEL:  It was a little exciting, definitely.  I didn't have the best warmup this morning and I wasn't    kind of not    I don't know if I wasn't expecting it, but I didn't hit the ball that well this morning on the range; felt kind of tired, I've been getting up early the last three days, we lost in our coming here.

So but after I hit the poor shot on 1, I pretty much kept it in play with the driver after that, and then started to hit some better iron shots.  Hit it close, and I missed a few makable putts probably on holes like 4 and 5, and then got one    got a couple to fall.

And then after the hole in one, it was just kind of like momentum, I think, making a couple birdies after that.
MODERATOR:  Tell me about the hole in one.
EMILY BASTEL:  I kind of deliberated over clubs there for a while.  It was between the 8 and the 7 and decided to go with the 7 and just take a little bit off of it.

I actually haven't played the back side until today.  So I didn't know, like, you know, exactly what club to hit or where I wanted to be on the green.  But it's kind of self explanatory because the green (indecipherable) like this you can see so trying to keep it below the hole there.
MODERATOR:  We'll open it up for questions.
Q.  This is the first time you've seen the back nine?
EMILY BASTEL:  Yeah.  I got in on Tuesday and didn't have any golf clubs.  They came Tuesday night at about midnight.  And so I played nine holes Wednesday morning at 6:15, played the front.  And then walked the back yesterday afternoon just to kind of see the holes, but hadn't actually played.
Q.  What are your impressions of the course, how the greens are in particular?
EMILY BASTEL:  Yeah.  I think the course is greet.  It's a really neat design.  The greens are rolling good, but they're very tricky.  You definitely want to try to be on the right sides of the hole to give yourself the looks at birdie.  So I think it's a good challenge this week.
MODERATOR:  Any other questions?
Q.  It's still quite early, but what does it mean for you to shoot 67 in the opening round of this tournament or any tournament?
EMILY BASTEL:  It's really good for me.  I haven't had the best of starts for the year.  This is my rookie year.  And as of lately I've been hitting the ball pretty well, but haven't been making very many putts, and trying to be very patient with my putter.  So I think to have a low number like this is positive for me as far as the putter goes.

And like you said, it's very early.  Tomorrow    today I just tried to really keep in the present and play one shot at a time.  That's definitely going to be the only thing on my agenda for tomorrow as well.
Q.  After the hole in one, some people would say then they would come back and bogey the next hole.  You birdied the next hole, so you were able to keep your emotions in check there?
EMILY BASTEL:  Yeah.  I actually gave some thought to that, made a conscious effort on the tee to kind of breathe and try to calm down a little bit because you do get pretty jacked up after hitting one in the hole.

So, yeah, I was able to just kind of focus and use that kind of to try to, you know, not to be complacent, I mean, was a par 5, trying to make birdie there and just kind of, you know    my dad used the phrase, kind ride in the momentum as long as you can, so that's what I tried to do on the next couple holes.
Q.  I just saw the flag on your collar there.  Do you have any relatives on this side of the boarder is this just something that you were given today?
EMILY BASTEL:  I don't.  I used to go fishing    I'm from Ohio.  We used to go fishing in Canada, in Ontario, when I was little.

Actually the driver this morning in the van that drove me here gave me this little Canadian flag pin and said it would be good luck today.  So I put it on my shirt and lo and behold    so I'll probably be wearing it tomorrow, I have a feeling.
Q.  The green hat and the sweater, is that a Michigan State deal?
EMILY BASTEL:  A little bit, yeah.  This is one of my favorite hats.  And I like to wear green as much as possible.  I still am proud of the Spartans and very proud to be an alumni of Michigan State.  So, yeah, a little bit, yeah.
MODERATOR:  Anything else?  Thank you.
EMILY BASTEL:  Okay.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT