U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2001
Emily Bastel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Your thoughts Emily?

EMILY BASTEL:  I played fairly well today.  I feel like there were only a couple places where I gave her one.  She made a lot of great putts for birdie, you know, to beat me on holes, and she's a great player and I expected that from her and just didn't get the job done.

Q.  What were some of those instances where you thought you gave her too much?

EMILY BASTEL:  Obviously, the first one that comes to mind is the putt on 11, it was about, I want to say 5-footer but probably not even that, I don't know what  -- just missed it to right, and that would have been a good one there to get to back to 1-up, maybe, or even-- I am not sure what that may have been.  That one and then the next hole, it was back-to-back there that she won holes, or tied, I guess, 11 and 1 on 12.  Other than that I played pretty solid.

Q.  On your third shot at 11 are you trying to go for the flag there or if you are going to miss it, it would seem to me you would have missed it on the left side?

EMILY BASTEL:  Yeah, on consecutive shots on the par 3 on 10, I blocked that one out to the right.  That was not meant to be that far right, and the same thing with that one on 11, I have a tendency to turn the ball over and I think in pressure situations I like  -- I am trying not to do that as much-- to control that and I just left it out there.  That was obviously not the plan to aim at the pin there.

Q.  I haven't watched until today, but just an observation, was today your normal pace of play?  Were you a little bit more nervous or tired?  Seemed a little bit deliberate over the balls sometimes?

EMILY BASTEL:  I have probably been all week.  I haven't  -- I have gotten better with my ball-striking but it wasn't as good as it has been at the beginning of the week and I have a tendency, I am pretty deliberate over the ball.  Working on that with my pre-shot routine.  I don't think  -- it might be a little nerves, I don't know, if I want to call it that, though, just  -- some shots feeling uncomfortable over the ball, whether it was club or wind or pin.

Q.  Do you feel that you played as good today as you had other days or not as good?

EMILY BASTEL:  Similar.  Very similar to the way I played the rest of the week.  Meredith just didn't make any mistakes.  She's the type of player that you have to be with birdies and she's not going to  -- she didn't today. 

Q.  When you have time to sit down and think back about the week Emily, what do you think you will take from what you have accomplished?

EMILY BASTEL:  Definitely, you know, a lot of confidence.  They are great players.  This is a premier tournament for women's amateurs and just a lot of, you know, good experiences, very nice experiences, and good memories, met a lot of nice people and just  -- it was an overall great experience.

Q.  Checked out of the hotel this morning?

EMILY BASTEL:  Yes, we did.

Q.  Are you going home?

EMILY BASTEL:  Yes, we are.

Q.  Not going to stop and watch it on TV?

EMILY BASTEL:  We will get home by then. Not today.  I will get to see it tomorrow. 

Q.  What did you and Meredith discuss in the first tees as you walked off and other holes you  --

EMILY BASTEL:  I have played with her before and I would consider us pretty good friends.  We talked a lot about college golf, what tournaments we are playing in, our schools, we talked about what we are doing after school a little bit.  We talked about just the goes on around us, you know, the crowd and things like that, the heat.

Q.  Before you putt you always touch the bottom of your putter, is that just nervous habit?

EMILY BASTEL:  That's a habit.  I guess I do it in case there's anything on the face of my putter.  It is more to touch the face of my putter, make sure there's nothing there.  But, yeah, that's part of my pre-shot putting routine.

Q.  Anything out there happen that was unusual for you today?  Did you strike anything that was particularly good or anything that just didn't really go your way at all that kind of was a discouraging shot?

EMILY BASTEL:  I played pretty solid overall.  There were a couple of places I can think of where I didn't  -- I didn't do anything real exciting, I guess, today I didn't hit it close.  I can't think of any times where I just hit it close or did anything, you know, real exciting like that.  It was just pretty consistent which is what has worked for me all week, just, you know, when you are playing against a player like Meredith, it's probably not good enough.

Q.  Overall following up on previous question in the whole scheme of things you got into the tournament by winning a playoff, so I mean, what were your expectations?  Here you are, final 4.

EMILY BASTEL:  Yeah, I guess that's golf for you.  One day you are good enough to be here but you are in a playoff to get in.  Next day you are in the semis.  That's the way it goes.  I had a great time and this will definitely change my expectations for years to come and for the things that I think that I can accomplish, you know, outside this tournament.  It will give me confidence  for those things, I am sure, and you know, I am proud of myself the way I played this week.  That's about it.

Q.  When you say it is going to change expectations, are you likely to expect more of yourself from this point forward; is that what you are saying?

EMILY BASTEL:  I think that each time you put yourself in a situation like this under pressure, and playing in these types of circumstances it makes you a better player.  You get  -- obviously Meredith has some good experiences in being in Match Play situations in the finals and things, and I am almost certain that that helped her for today and for all her matches this week.  So I think that I learned from today and that that will help me in future golf tournaments.

Q.  This gives you a leg up on the Curtis Cup too.

EMILY BASTEL:  Yes.

Q.  Were you distracted on 17 when that water, that drainage started?  Sounded like some water was bubbling behind you or some kind of noise.

EMILY BASTEL:  I had heard that in the practice round, obviously that was a key putt.  I backed away.  I heard it.  And I would have felt pretty bad had I just said, oh, just go ahead and hit it and -- I wanted to give myself the best shot possible to make that putt.  So, yes, I was distracted and backed off of that one.

Q.  Do you think you have any party at home?

EMILY BASTEL:  We called back last night and there was definitely some excitement in my town and at the golf course.  I know that the KSC league that plays on Thursday nights did not tee off until after ESPN coverage was over.  And so, yeah, there's some proud people back home.

Q.  This mean you won't have to pick up range balls anymore.

EMILY BASTEL:  No, I don't think  --

Q.  I'd just thought I'd ask.

EMILY BASTEL:  That's a good one.  I don't think that gives me exempt status from that.  I will go back  --

Q.  Take your time going home, sprinkler system is still working?

EMILY BASTEL:  It's working.  I don't know, I don't know what we will did.  Maybe stop, maybe take a stop.  I don't know if we will drive all night, whatever, see how we feel.  I bet we will be tired, but we will go as far as we can.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT