ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Overall, it's a good week, but yes, I think it's for sure one too many, and it might be two too many. 

Q.   Birdied 15 to get yourself right in position, did you have a goal for those last three holes?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, absolutely.   I know I needed a very, very strong finish.   That birdie on 15 after a pretty good iron shot, put me still going for it but from far behind. 
16, I was a bit disappointed I didn't get‑‑ I got a really, really bad lie from the rough, and couldn't get it to the green but still managed to make a good up‑and‑down for par and 17, it was a great birdie, long putt.   It's just disappointing not being able to get birdie at the 18th after a good tee shot. 

Q.   What do you think about your finish to this championship? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, it's a good finish.   I just think unfortunately it's going to be one or two shots too many.   But, I mean, overall, pretty happy.   It's been a great week, great start of the year.   My game is in really good shape and looking forward to the next few weeks, and, I don't know, just maybe, fingers crossed hoping for a miracle now.

Q.   It was nice on the third day how you finished with those two birdies to stay in the hunt and you knew how close it was?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, I was trailing a little bit after my bogey at the 9th, but that's what I've been doing.   I just kept patient, hit lots of good shots into the greens on the back nine, gave myself a lot of chances, made a few and that's why I was right up there.   Just one birdie too short. 

Q.   What do you think of 18? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   It's a bit tricky because it's playing crosswind off the tee, and for me, driver would have been a little too much, and I had to hit 3‑wood but just hit it beautifully right down the middle and gave myself a good chance.   Just didn't hit that perfect second shot.   I hit a decent one, just came a little bit over the top with it and didn't cut, which is what I was looking for, just laid down the left‑hand side and let the wind take it.   Then I got a pretty bad lie at the rough and tried to make a guess of how it was going to come out.   I guessed it wrong, and too long of a putt, still tried to make it but it was a very, very tough gamble. 

Q.   Come what may, given that this is the start of 2014, it's a good start? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Oh, yeah, absolutely.   I take any year I start like this, especially playing the way I felt I played ‑‑ and I don't know, I just hopefully next week I can be one or two shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT