ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   11 birdies and two bogeys, 9‑under par for two rounds, what's been the secret to that so far? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   It's 12 birdies and three bogeys.   But I am playing well, putting good, and putting the ball in play, hitting the fairways and so I'm feeling confident.   Pretty much I'm just happy with the way I'm playing with all of the clubs in the bag.   There's nothing that I'm complaining about at the moment.

Q.   How did you spend Christmas?   Did you have a break?   Put the clubs away? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   A little bit of everything, yes.   I had a break, I stopped for three weeks and then I felt that after last year I needed it.   But I always in Christmas get a gap where there's no golf and after that, the last two weeks, I've been practicing hard trying to get back in shape and glad that little bit of practice is paying off so far. 

Q.   Did you like the way the course looked when you came here?   Did you see the way it was set up and think, yeah, that suits me? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, I've always liked this course.   I know it's a driving course.   When we got here, to be fair, I thought the rough was almost brutal, but apparently they have cut it a little bit.   They have tried to make it a little bit easier on us and I think it's been the right decision, because it's still‑‑ don't get me wrong, it still is very tough and it's hard to get it on the green if you miss the fairway.   But this is a course, I've played good here before and I enjoy and I like all about it.   So far, I'm enjoying, too. 

Q.   What are your thoughts then on backing up a terrific first round with another nice score? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Thank you very much, yeah, obviously very proud again with my round today.   I played really solid.   It's always‑‑ I mean, it's a little harder to go and play good again after a really good round, but I don't know, I started off good today with no mistakes.   Just a birdie on the first hole, which was my 10th, and then back it up with another birdie at the 18th. 
So everything was rolling nicely.   The back nine, I still got the birdies.   The wind picked up a little bit more and it got a bit tougher, and dropped a couple shots, but overall, yeah, really pleased with the minus four, yes.

Q.   Is the wind the key difference of an afternoon compared to playing in the morning the first day? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, and also in the morning, it's more humid and the ball doesn't fly as far and everything is a bit more wet, but I do think the wind has made it a little tougher this afternoon.

Q.   Are you looking at the board, thinking top on day one and still on top now? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, that's just a vague thought that I have.     Just excited approaching the weekend in such a good position, but more than that, it's just the fact that I am playing good and I am feeling confident around this course and playing good with all the clubs in the bag and just excited for the competition yet to come. 

Q.   I know this is why you play the game but when you see yourself in the last group, out on the weekend, does that give an added spring to the step and what you really relish on the game?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, on the Sunday a little bit more.   On the Saturday, still many things can happen.   Anything could happen, just enjoy, as you say, we are playing in the last group and every shot is very meaningful.   Just try to enjoy that little extra pressure and perform well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT