ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about that today, again, tricky conditions?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, tricky conditions.   Pretty similar to maybe my first round.   Obviously the wind was up there.   I think it was swirling a bit, especially at the beginning.   It was hard to read it.   And I must say, I felt I played good tee‑to‑green.   I did struggle a lot on the greens.   I was still very happy to be able to finish with a par today, but I felt I've given away a lot of shots. 
I'm glad to still be in contention.   Obviously Peter is playing very good and he's got the first punch, obviously.   But you never know what can happen tomorrow. 

Q.   Score‑wise, didn't look like anything was happening, but the two birdies on the back nine, and you're back into it again.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I missed a short putt at the third hole for birdie, bogeyed the fifth hole, and then missed another‑‑ just 3‑putted really out of nowhere when I was thinking about trying to birdie at the sixth hole. 
After that, I just tried to stay calm.   I really had no confidence today on the greens.   I couldn't find my rhythm.   I was misjudging the pace constantly and it made it very hard.   Luckily was able to hole a few coming the last few holes just to keep myself in it. 
So I'm glad, those are the positives of the round.

Q.   That sounds unlike you, unable to find a rhythm on the greens.   Is it something to do with just how firm they are this year? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I don't know, probably missed a few ones that‑‑ I don't know, I just lost a little bit of confidence, and I'm not going to pay too much attention to it, go now, do my normal putting, after‑round putting routine, forget about it and tomorrow will be a new day.   Hopefully the hole will look like a basket. 

Q.   And a good new day, because despite Peter being somewhat ahead, he's not that far in front?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   We have seen that it's hard to gain shots on this course.   I mean, there are birdie holes, the last few, 15, 18, maybe 9 and 11.   But besides that, it's hard to putt a really, really low round out there.   So I mean, even though it's not a lot, I think it is a feeling of maybe feeling a little bit more than what four shots difference would be on any other course. 
But again, there's also very tricky holes here on the back nine, lots of water, lots of penalties and anything can happen.   It's only him that has taken away a bit, the second guy is on minus four and I'm just going to try to play my game.   I know I did very good, giving myself chances and hopefully the putter will get hot tomorrow again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT