ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, obviously very happy, satisfied with 3‑under today.   I did feel I played pretty good.   I did everything very good.   Maybe the only bad would have been off the tee, I could have hit a few more fairways, but overall, iron play has been very good.   I have been giving myself birdie chances throughout the entire round, and so I think the score really reflects how hard I've played today and I'm happy about it, yes.

Q.   Please elaborate on how difficult it was out there, because perhaps after the windy start yesterday, you would have thought it might be easier this time around. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, we were really hoping to have a similar day like yesterday where it was a really calm morning and you could shoot a low one, but unfortunately it wasn't that way.   It wasn't as tricky as yesterday.   It wasn't as windy, but it was breezy out there.   It was still tough. 
Obviously yesterday the morning draw had an advantage, but, hey, you never know what can happen this afternoon.   Maybe it rains.   Maybe the wind picks up even more.   I just hope that I might be‑‑ after feeling that I played‑‑ after having played good these first two days, I just hope that I can put myself in contention at the end of the round, and just have fun tomorrow. 

Q.   Are you happy that your game is getting back to where it should be, because there's a bit more consistency about things at the moment. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, I do feel that my game is closer to what I know it can be.   Scores are showing it.   It's a little bit of a transition, obviously the beginning of the year, without being bad, it wasn't a great start.   I felt I had decent finishes but not really having any good, good, finishes that would help me move up the rankings. 
But at the moment, it's good.   I've played good the last few weeks and I've been in contention in a couple Majors which was very nice for me, because that was one of my goals this year.   And that confidence is just paying off now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT