JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Ryder Cup, even if I won, I wasn't going to make the team number‑wise. 
So I knew if I won, I would have had a much better chance of getting in obviously, because all captains are aware of who wins the last few events.   But I mean, I couldn't do that unfortunately.   I did play good.   I played good; I played very solid throughout the week.   I just didn't have that little bit of extra luck needed to be at the real top.   But I'm happy with my performance overall, yeah. 

Q.   Where do you think you stand in consideration?   It has to be pretty high. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I don't know.   I think that there's other players, as well, who have played really good this year and I'm sure they are going to be getting consideration, as well.   I would be really, really happy if I got a phone call tomorrow morning, but I don't know if that's going to happen or not.

Q.   You were looking for a miracle this morning; you Tweeted you wanted to head out for a miracle‑‑ did you get that miracle? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I wanted a really, really low round, and I started off as good as I could with birdie on the first and the second, but that was pretty much it.   Then my putter cooled down.   I just couldn't build up as much momentum as I needed.   Played good throughout the day, stayed patient, but things didn't happen exactly my way. 
I still played good.   I 2‑under on a Sunday is always a good score but I think this time it wasn't good enough.   For sure to be at the very, very top, this has still been a good week for me.

Q.   Are you flying home?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I am flying tonight to London and then tomorrow really early in the morning home, so going to be unavailable on the phone.

Q.   Has it bothered you all of the concentration with you and Nicolas up on the points table; have you felt forgotten?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:       No, I haven't felt forgotten at all.   Nicolas has had a great year as well and I'm sure the captain is fully aware of that.   I mean, I haven't felt forgotten.   I haven't felt at all forgotten.

Q.   When did Ollie last speak with you? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:       We had dinner‑‑ I didn't have dinner alone with him, all of the Spanish guys had dinner last night together, and I just saw him this morning before I teed off and he said good luck.

Q.   He was part of the dinner?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   All of the Spanish guys were having dinner together, yeah. 

Q.   Did you by him dinner? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   No‑‑ (laughter)‑‑ no, I don't think he would fall for that cheap. 

Q.   If I was him and you were speaking to the captain, say, why should I pick you. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, I've had a very solid year.   I've played very consistent.   I had a big win.   I did good on a very big match‑play event, as well.   I'm really keen to play.   I like to play match play, and I've just felt that I've been playing solid every, every week, really.   I've always been up there; sometimes not having the weekend I hoped for, but I pretty much consider I've been making noise almost every week I've been playing. 
So I mean, I could almost dare to say that I am very close to being guaranteed of playing good.   But, of course, very humbly I say that.   But that's how I've felt I've played this year really.   I've not excelled, excelled a lot, but I have played very, very good and very consistent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT