JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Reflect on today?  
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Today was a good round and I managed for a round under par.   Obviously I started very strong, I made six birdies on my first nine holes, and it was a pity that I couldn't keep on going.   
But maybe I struggled a little bit on No.2.   I hit two fat shots in a row, maybe that broke up the momentum.   And I had a bad driver on 3 and made bogey over there.   But after that, the truth is, I played pretty solid.   I played as well as I played on the back nine, which was my front nine really.   It's just the putts didn't drop and the No. 8, I just missed a short one that broke, I don't know, very strange.   
That was a pity but I'm happy obviously with the good score, and I feel like I might even have a lower one for the weekend, because that's how I felt.   It's just good to shoot minus four.   Not great to not have been able to post a really, really low one today, but, on the other hand, I feel like I can still go lower, so I want to try to do that on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Come what may, you've put yourself in a nice position and standing under the umbrella with the rain falling, that might be very good come the end of today?  
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, you know, many things can happen.   Obviously the rain is a factor that makes the game tougher.   I think it's going to make even the greens softer and they are going to be a bit bumpier and harder to read.   So I mean, if it stays like this, obviously scoring is going to be a bit tougher.   But on the other hand, yesterday we had the wind, the strong winds, and so really all we can do is just wait and see what happens.     I'm pretty sure that no matter what happens for me, from now on to the end of the day, I'm going to still be in a good position for the weekend and that's all I care about really.  
   
 Q.   Do you care about Ryder Cup?   Are your thoughts still on trying to get into that team somehow?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, I mean, there is‑‑ like I said, I mean, there's nothing I can do anymore.   Even if I win, I still won't make the team.   I'll just be just out.   So doesn't depend on what I can do, only more.   It depends on what the captain considers.   So all I can do is try to play my best and try to show him that I am in good normal and that I am playing good, and obviously if I am a winner here, it would be the best way of proving that.   
   
 Q.   Have you had any conversations with him?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   No, no, not really.   Besides an occasional joke, but I would never ask him anything about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT