WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Miguel is living in Houston, he's working over there‑‑ not in golf, he's working with another company, and Emma does play a little golf, the ladies European Tour.

Q.   She's a pro?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   She turned pro like four or five years, yeah. 

Q.   How do you like it here?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Very much.   The golf course is excellent.   I mean, the greens are pure.   It's a really, really nice course.   Obviously it's also very tough.   You need to drive the ball well, but on the other hand, if you drive it well, you know you'll be able to give yourself some chances, and the greens are‑‑ the ball is rolling excellent on the greens.   Birdies can be made.   Of course you need to play really solid.   I don't think it's a golf course that lets you get away with missing any particular aspect of the game.   I think you need to be sharp on everything, and in my case, that's what I did today.   I played very solid all around the back, so it was good. 

Q.   Would you take three more 66s?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Oh, yeah, I'd take 66 any single day on any single‑‑ many times I'll take 77 after 17 holes (laughing). 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   It's not that bad.   Tuesday was the bad day where, I mean, I obviously had stomach problems, but I was feeling really weak.   I remember I was hitting a few balls, but I hit three balls and had to stop for a breath, really tired, so we just hit 20, 25 balls, and I said, okay, I'm done, and I went back to the hotel and got some good rest. 
And yesterday I woke up perfect.   I mean, I was feeling fit and healthy again, and it was just‑‑ everything went fine.   I had my practice.   I even had a workout session in the afternoon. 
It was just this morning that I woke‑‑ I woke up, I was feeling strong.   I wasn't feeling weak at all.   But I did have the stomach problem.   I just haven't had anything to eat so far in the day.

Q.   You haven't eaten anything?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   No.   I'm not really feeling hungry anyway.   I'm just hydrating with lots of the amino vital stuff.   That's almost like having a lunch without having it, so that's what I've been doing.   Trying to keep hydrated, and today it worked. 

Q.   Do you carry anything in your bag for a snack during the round?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Yeah, I asked my caddie to bring me a sandwich on the course because obviously I had a very, very light breakfast, which I don't want to say it here but it didn't last too long inside me.   Besides that I haven't had anything, just water.   I had a tuna sandwich but I never ate it. 

Q.   What do you eat normally if you're feeling good?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   On the course I normally have almonds or nuts and maybe a chocolate bar, like a Power Bar.

Q.   On Tuesday you felt like‑‑
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   I knew it was never going to happen, I was never going to leave.   This is too big of a tournament to quit, so that was out of my mind.

Q.   When you're playing with someone that's also playing well, do you feed off of each other?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   It's good because things are going good for both of you, so you just get a positive attitude and you start seeing things easier than what they really are and start playing easier golf and not‑‑ you don't get distracted because you're playing fast and everything is going good.   So it's obviously good.   I always prefer it.

Q.   Does it bother you that there's hardly anybody watching?   The gallery is pretty small, even though you guys were torching it and you've got Tiger and that crowd going crazy. 
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Well, it's how golf works.   Tiger definitely has earned his crowd throughout this year.   I'm unknown here.   I'm just a first‑time player here, so I don't expect to be‑‑ I don't get bothered whether the crowd is following me.   If they want to follow, that's great because there's always cheering and it's fun, but if they don't follow, I stick to my job.

Q.   Are you superstitious?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Not really, no.

Q.   What do you use to mark your ball? 
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   It's a poker chip.

Q.   Poker chip from where?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   From Vegas.   My brother brought it to me.

Q.   What's it worth?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   $1.

Q.   And how do you ID your ball?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   I put my initials on top of the Titleist brand. 

Q.   What in particular was working so well for you today? 
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Well, everything was playing good.   I hit my irons good.   I putted good.   I hit my wedges good.   Everything was‑‑

Q.   Were you surprised by how you did?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   No, I mean, I know I can play very good.   I've done it before.   I've proved it to myself on several occasions.   I just haven't been able to, up until now, put a good round on one of these big tournaments.   But I know I can play good.   So it's just a matter of time.   Just to get feeling more comfortable, and maybe that was the‑‑ this was the round that helped me play better on the bigger events.

Q.   You had a stomach virus going?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Well, I don't know what it is, I just had some stomach problems this morning and I haven't eaten throughout the day.

Q.   It's not nerves, right?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   No, it's not nerves.   I do get nervous, but never had a stomach problem because of that.

Q.   From the flight, you always pick up stuff on the flight?
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Probably, chewing on ice or something like that.

Q.   Now you've got to get yourself back to‑‑
RAFAEL CABRERA BELLO:   Well, I don't know.   Just what the doctor tells me to do.   Whatever he recommends, I'll do what he recommends, as well.   I think that's the fastest way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT