THE IRISH OPEN
July 1, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice way to finish your week.
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Absolutely.   66, the week started good.   I shot under par the first day, managed to shoot under par every other day. 
Yesterday I had a good round in really, really tough conditions, which for me was something I value a lot, because I'm not really living in the Canary Islands used to playing in that kind of weather.   I was proud of myself that I could perform that good, and today, it's been another good day.   I mean, I started off strong on other days, pretty much did everything, hit every club in the bag very, very good.   Very happy with my performance.
I would have taken a 2‑under finish on the last four holes for sure.   It's just something that happened.   I hit a really, really good drive on 17.   Just a bit unfortunate that I was right in‑between clubs.   I felt 3‑wood could have been too much and 2‑iron not quite just getting there, so I tried to play a cut with 3‑wood into the green, missed it to the right and didn't have a bad lie to be honest.   But it's just I've been hitting a few of those silly shots, fat ones around the greens this week, and that to be honest was a very bad shot and was lucky in the end not to hit the ball twice. 
Thought that I could walk away with par after hitting my second chip, knocking it four feet to the hole, but just the putt didn't go in, and unfortunately the golf course gave me one back at the 18th. 

Q.   Many players have said how much they enjoyed playing in front the crowds this week.   As a visitor, how much have you enjoyed it, over 130,000 people over the course of the week from Tuesday practise right through until today. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   It's great.   It gives you a feel of major golf. 
So it's really, really nice to be out there and lots of people watching you, cheering you up and when things go good like they did this week for me, it's even a better feel because it's not just a huge claps; you hear a huge roar.   Obviously the crowds, I'm sure they all play golf, and they are good crowds.   They respect us a lot, and they really applaud good shots, and they stand off on the not so good ones (laughter).   It's really nice. 
For myself, I don't get the chance to play in front of so many people that often, and obviously playing with Darren the first two rounds, I had already huge crowds.   I had huge crowds all week long so it's been a nice experience. 

Q.   Enough about the golf; will you watch the football tonight?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I hope I can to be honest.   My flight is tomorrow morning from Dublin, but I will definitely be supporting my national team. 

Q.   Can they make history by winning three major championships in a row?   It would be quite something, wouldn't it?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Italy is playing really good, they are very tough competitors but I think we can do it, yeah.   I think we have got the better team.   I think we are playing really, really good football, and I think that we are saving the best for the final. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT