DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2018
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously at the moment you're looking to secure one of those places on the Ryder Cup team.  How hard was it deciding what to play this week with?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Obviously it was pretty hard.  I love Ryder Cup.  I wasn't sure that I would be exempt for next week here if I didn't play this week.  So that's what I decided.   
 Q.  Obviously you're having a good performance and in a strong field like this it can go a long way to show Thomas how you're playing.  Your form has been good recently.  What do you feel you've got to do this week to catch Thomas's attention?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, I think I've been trying all year, really.  I've been playing good, hitting the ball great and hopefully playing the way I have, under par, red rounds.   
 Q.  There's not that many great scores today, 3-under is a really solid score.  One of the highlights is the putter.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I felt I had lots of opportunities today.  I had a couple of short ones that lipped out, but overall just giving myself lots of chances I felt I have done really all I can to qualify for Ryder Cup.  Unfortunately I haven't been able to do that on my own merits.  Obviously it was pretty hard.  I love the Ryder Cup.  I thought about the possibility of going and maxing out my chance this week in Denmark, but obviously it's not the ideal way to go and I kind of felt that I wasn't secure for next week.  So at the end I decided to stay here, play the best I can, feel that if I have a good week here, it might not count directly in points, but it counts indirectly, because of captain season.  That's my goal.   
 Q.  Did you have a chance to talk with Thomas after last week coming into this week?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: No, I just texted briefly with him, but that was it.  I haven't spoken with him since I told you last time I did.   
 Q.  So you play this week and next week.  Do you have the PGA Tour card secured for next year?  What was the purpose?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I'm here, so the PGA Tour card is secured next year.  I'm trying to qualify into The TOUR Championship.  First step I have to go is to qualify into the third playoff and that's why I'm here.   
 Q.  So you are chasing the playoffs?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I am participating in the playoffs.  I worked hard all year to be here, as well.  And of course I am doing both.  I am playing golf and I am trying to play as best as I can in the playoffs, yes.   
 Q.  Did you have a chance to see the scores this morning?  It seemed this afternoon was a little more difficult.  Did you take something from that?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: No, I don't really watch much golf before I tee off, when I tee off in the afternoon.  I didn't check the scores.  I was surprised that only 4-under was leading, because I feel that there have been lower rounds on this track.  But when I was playing out there I kind of understood why only 4-under was leading.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, I mean I didn't feel I putted great, to be honest.  I missed a couple of short ones.  I holed one or two also that were pretty good.  But overall I felt that I played steady golf.  I hit lots of greens and many of them pretty close, as well.  So proximity to the hole must have been good today.  And just staying away from trouble and almost having a birdie putt all the time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT