VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A fine championship, can you sum it up for us? 
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   It's been a good week.   It's been a hard week, of course.   I mean, I was very pleased to be here at the beginning and it was really good to get the chance to play match play.   I played five rounds of match play, so that was good.   I managed to beat four world‑class players in my first four rounds, and just only lost to one of the world's best at match play on the 18th, so I'm proud of myself and it's been a good week. 
Obviously disappointed not to be able to go through to the final, but I'm happy with my performance.

Q.   Did you play your best?
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   I did.   I gave it my best try.   I went for it as much as I could.   I played really good throughout the week.   Obviously I did make some mistakes, but overall, I played really good and happy with the way I played.   I'm very excited about the tournaments coming up. 
I know from the start that it was going to be hard to beat Graeme.   He's a very good player and very good match‑play player.   He started off very strong, he started birdie, eagle, birdie on 2, 3, 4 and got a head into the lead comfortably.   So I just had to fight back again.   Unfortunately this time it wasn't‑‑ I didn't fight back strong enough.   But I did give myself a chance until the very end, so I'm very proud of that.

Q.   You should be proud of the whole week and the fact that you took that to the 18th, as well?
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, when I was 2‑down and three to play, just said, give yourself a chance to go to the 18th and see what happens.   I just gave it a go, and didn't happen this time.

Q.   What did you do during the lightningbreak?   You came back fired up. 
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   I just had a little bit of food, something to eat and just tried to keep myself focused.   I tried not to feel‑‑ I know I wasn't going to have much time to spare once I got back out on the course.   So I really wanted to stay focused and try hard from the beginning, and hopefully he will make a mistake; he didn't.   He played good.   He played very good today so he deserves to be in the final. 

Q.   Sure you're very disappointed but you must be proud of what you did this week?
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Obviously disappointed not being able to get a chance to play this afternoon, of course, but I played a good tournament.   I played good out there today.   Tried my best.   That's all really I can ask for. 
Graeme played very good today.   He played better, so he's deserves to be in the final. 

Q.   You showed a lot of fighting skills on the back nine a few times this week. 
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   Today Graeme started off very strong.   He got early in the lead, and it was another fight back then.   That's what I had to do and that's what I did.   Unfortunately this time, I couldn't get it back to end up winning, but it's been a good tournament. 

Q.   And you showed this week that you're a great match‑play player, and Ryder Cup obviously is an ambitious of yours. 
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, it's still early.   Lots of big points to come, big tournaments.   I love to play match play.   It's a format I like, and it was nice that this week I had the chance to play many matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT