OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2012
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did day two compare with day one?  
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, to be honest, I played really good today.   Again, I might have played even more solid off the tee.   I struck the ball really good from the tee.   The main difference with yesterday was the scoring game, obviously.   My putting wasn't as fortunate today.   It's not that I felt that I putted bad.   It's just I felt that putts were not dropping in today.   
But I mean nothing to regret really.   I was happy I went out there.   I forgot about yesterday's scores.   I just tried to play my game, play the same way I have been playing in the past few weeks, and I managed to do that.   So I'm really, really happy I did that, and in the end I think it's a good score, 3‑under is still up there.   All of the chances are open for the weekend, so really, really looking forward to it.   A bit more luck on the greens tomorrow, and I think I can be back in the top.  
   
 Q.   And you did start well, and you finished well, which is an excellent bonus.   
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, yeah, of course.   I started good, which always helps.   And then I mean the middle holes I played really good.   That's where I gave myself lots of opportunities.   Really had the one bad hole there where I made bogey, and the rest it was just a few putts the putts were not dropping.   So hopefully tomorrow I can get my putter hot again and try to look for good straight golf of birdies again.   
I'm just happy the way it's going and really confident with my game and that's what I'm going to look for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is this course any different in the afternoon compared to the morning you had?  
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes.   Today was ‑‑ I mean it wasn't windy, but it was a bit more breezy out there.   I mean sometimes it was turning directions, so that made it a bit more tricky, and then of course, the greens were not as good as at the beginning of the day, of course.   But that happens every week, and it's something we are used to, so it's not an excuse or anything.   It's just the way it goes.   
I mean the putts, they could have dropped in.   They decided not to.   Hopefully I'm saving the putts for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Really we've seen you have some scintillating finishes.   You've seemed to come well from off the pace.   Is that something that you particularly like or you'd be very happy with a five‑stroke lead every day, wouldn't you, I think?  
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, of course, yes, I would be happy with a five‑stroke lead every day, but as you know, that doesn't happen very often and for me it has never happened before.   
So I mean I think I'm a good ‑‑ well, I enjoy a lot playing when there's pressure.   I really, really enjoy that moment, so I think maybe that's what helps me finish good.   I think I can get a little extra when there's a little bit of pressure because I can manage to stay focused and concentrate very well.   
   
 Q.   Well, it looks like you just like chasing something, having a target and going for it.   
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   No, to be honest, I enjoy more being leading, but I'm not used to it, so I'm just happy I'm up there this week, and hopefully my goal for tomorrow is to try to keep my feelings on the course, trying to keep them going.  
   
 Q.   Do the names, Kaymer, McIlroy, Westwood, do they add excitement to your weekend?  
RAFAEL CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, absolutely, but in the end it's just a week.   I mean we get to play with them very often.   Obviously they are big names.   They are at the top of the world ranking at the moment, so they are very, very experienced players, and that's all very good.   I mean that means that if I'm playing and competing with them, then my golf is improving.   I mean I'm just excited that I can at least on a few weeks perform as good as they can, so that's obviously very excited, but tomorrow I'm just going to forget who's up there and just focus on myself and my task.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT