PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2011
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: I mean, obviously a little bit disappointing finish, because of course after leading you always want to win. But being the first time I see off in the last round as a leader, finishing in the second spot by myself with all of the troubles I put myself into on the beginning of the back nine.
 I mean, in the end I have to be pleased because I was able to come back, and something that it was starting to look like a catastrophe, I managed to turn out and finish second. On that side I'm proud of myself obviously, but I mean, it's been a good learning experience and hopefully next time I can perform better.

 Q. Was it very different leading on the final day? 
 RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, you feel a little bit different. You feel maybe the added pressure that you try to get out of your system, but it's just harder. It's harder to swing more naturally. It's just -- I mean, I guess that you learn through experience, trial and error. I think first you need to learn how to lose before you learn how to win. 
 In my case, I had one first and I had never finished second. I think it's gotten me back and of course every credit to Lewis because he's played excellent golf today. The conditions out there were tougher than the previous days and he shot an excellent round. I think he's a fair winner. 
 It just proves how good the good amateurs are now. They are coming and they are competing in the highest European level. Rory did the same, almost the same thing when he played. He just got his card on a few invites, Matteo did the same thing and now Tom, also. So it's going to be hopefully a really, really good career for him. Lots of talent. I wish him all the best. But next time we are both -- I hope it turns my side. 

 Q. When you reflect, there's more than enough positives from this week, aren't there, for yourself?
 RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, absolutely. Finishing second, it's always great no matter what week. It's just that you always have the bitter taste of not being able to win. But I mean, even though I got into lots of trouble, I think I almost gave myself a chance. I mean had that eagle putt on 17 dropped in, it would have been an exciting 18th hole for me. 
 I just fought till the end. I didn't care how the score was going. I know like after -- pretty much after the 12th, it was going to be really tough and then after bogeying the 14th, I thought I had lost all my chances obviously, and then with two straight birdies on 15 and 16, they put me back on track. Obviously was aiming to finish second by myself to get lots of World Ranking points and points for the Order of Merit. Overall as we say, lots of positives, but a slightly bitter taste of not winning. But I have to take the good stuff, learn from mistakes I made today and hopefully pull it through next time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT