COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 6, 2011
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: It was a great round today. I was really pleased, started off with two birdies, but I know that today was very, very tough. So bogeys could come very easily. I just tried to stay patient. I mean, I was struggling a bit through the front nine. Wasn't accurate with my irons. 
 I always needed to make up-and-downs to save par. But I know that that's how I need to play today. Just keep putting pars on the scorecard and that was good, just wait for the ending holes, which 16, obviously a short par 4, reachable, drivable.
 And 18 with today's wind is reachable in two and that's exactly what I did. I holed a good putt on 14 and two good, solid birdies on two of the last three holes.

 Q. You've moved in the right direction all week, after the windiness of the first days, especially that second and third day when you really got off to the flying start with all those birdies?
 RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: Exactly, I was bit disappointed the first day. I think it's slightly harder than today. I just wasn't able of staying patient all the way and made a few silly and costly mistakes on the back nine. But I mean, I'm glad I could recover from that and I'm really, really pleased. 

 Q. What were your thoughts at the start of today, knowing Thomas Björn was a fair bit ahead of and you knowing anything could happen?
 RAFAEL CABRERA-BELLO: When I got here, I was like, this is the perfect condition. If it would have been like really, really calm, it would have been very tough for the leading guys to play bad or for me, I would have to play extremely good to try to catch up for so much difference.
 But I mean, this was just the right amount of windy wanted. I was hoping of putting in a performance of 4- or 5-under, maybe the leaders would not perform good, and I could end up winning. But obviously Thomas has been playing very good, and Alvaro, who is also playing really good, so I mean, I'll still pleased. 
 I threw away no shots today, which on a day like this, it's the first time I ever do it, so as I said, again, I'm really happen-and I'm looking forward to next week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT