AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2018
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pebble Beach an iconic golf course, a beautiful sunny day and you've shot 69.  How much fun have you had today?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, yeah, it's always nice to play here.  This is actually my favorite course in the world and when we get the opportunity to play in a day with not a single cloud in the sky it makes it even more spectacular.   
 Q.  Explain why it is your favorite course in the world.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I mean it's, for several reasons, I mean, obviously it's a historic course, it's a Major venue.  I played here my first Major in 2010 as well.  The one thing that I truly like is I think it's a course that you play once and you remember each hole forever, since every single hole is different from the previous one.  So I think it's a very, very complete course, very tricky, and spectacular for sure.   
 Q.  Your first round started at the 10th and your very first hole you make eagle.  You're 4-under after seven.  Today you make an eagle at the second hole, having teed off on the first, 4-under after seven.  What's the secret to the fast starts?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Nothing, just hitting good shots and dropping the putts.  But it's not that I go out thinking about a strong start or anything, it just has happened.  Unfortunately both rounds there's been a few dropped shots in the back nine but overall the game's very good.   
 Q.  Look at the putt at 17.  Just describe this one.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, that was nice.  I had made a few, I missed a few short ones before and this one had a huge break and I was just really trying to roll it in there and when I saw it go in I'm like, okay, that's a bonus.   
 Q.  You played 31 times around the world last year, all over the world as well.  That's a lot of golf to play.  Why do you play as much as you do?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, I like to play, I like to play all over the world as well.  Last year was my first year combining European Tour and PGA TOUR event, so I wanted to play a little bit more over here than what I would have normally done, just to get a feel for the courses and just getting to know just what life over here is.  This year I might play a couple events less, but as a general rule, I tend to play quite a few events a year, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT