OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us your thoughts standing on the 17th tee and then when you walked off the 18th green.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, obviously thins weren't going as I would have liked today.  Nothing really was happening but I didn't feel I was playing that bad or anything.  I was just really focusing on having a strong finish and it happened better than I expected, yes.
Q. Talk us through the eagle on 17.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, 17, it was the right wind to go for it for me, because unless there's a bit of help, I don't think I could reach the green.  I hit a really good drive kind of like on the line that you're pretty much guessing there.  We know more or less where the green is, but you don't see the pin and you don't see anything.
I hit a good drive exactly on the line, and when I walked up there, three balls were good, and one was about ten feet to the hole and the other two were just beside the green.
So I was very happy, fingers crossed it was mine and it happened to be mine.  I hit great putt and made the eagle, which was kind of nice because I had a little bit in my mind trying to get the round back to under par, trying to really shoot something today, not to have played myself out of the tournament.
That eagle definitely helped me.  Then coming up the last, what I was thinking on the tee is just focusing on my line, trying to hit a good tee shot to give myself a chance to go for the green again and I did that.
I hit a perfect drive exactly where I wanted and I had a shot at the green.  I didn't have a perfect club.  I was in between 5-wood and it was probably 5-wood distance but with the wind, if I wouldn't have hit it perfect, perfectly, it would have been in the water and I know it's taken me some time but I actually find that balls don't float too good so I decided to hit a cut 3-wood in there.
I hit a beautiful shot to about four or five feet of the hole and rolled that one in also for eagle.
Q. What yardage did you have, and was that the shot of the round?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, I mean, both shots, the driver on 17.  If I would have to pick one, I would have to pick the second shot on 18 just because there's water short and you come already from kind of like a miracle, so there's always a bit more excitement in there.  The consequences of it not going good, I mean, it would have been worse on 17.
I had about 255 yards I think, between 250 and 255 yards, and the wind was about two o'clock a little hurt off the right.  So just a cut 3-wood for me and yeah, it worked out perfect.  I wouldn't want it take that one back.
Q. And the last?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, I've been all day fighting, not being able to get the ball in the hole for birdie.  First birdie came on 14 and I was plus two at the 14th tee.  So to finish the round on 3-under was a bit unexpected.
Q. Finally, you're the seventh player of the century to finish eagle, eagle.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's good to be on that list, but nothing special, I don't know if it will ever happen again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT