NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 8, 2017
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We haven't seen you much since your win in Scotland, but you came back at HSBC with a great finish there, and the events you have played, you've managed to keep up the good form, so you have in the been affected and the rest seems to have done you good.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, obviously taken a little bit of a break from The European Tour.  That's a must when you're combining both tours.  But I mean, I've had a few weeks off, as well, and just came off from the Asian Swing, finishing at HSBC, where I've been pleased to be playing good golf, yeah.
Q. This event last year was quite up-and-down for you.  I think two good rounds and two not-so-good rounds, so it was a little bit inconsistent last year.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, not so good rounds, to put it in a nice way, yes.  I struggled a bit last year here.  I started off the tournament good, but then just lost it.  I mean, it was the end of the year.  Kind of like this year a little.  I think I run out of patience and this course, you do need patience around.  It's a very tricky course.
Obviously a big number is always in the picture because the fairways are pretty narrow.  But this year, I'm happy to be here.  I'm excited and looking forward to the end of the season, as well.
I'm in a good position in The Race to Dubai, as well.  So hopefully I can have a good couple weeks to finish and finish highest position ever.  I mean, I'm just happy and the game is good, as well.
Q. What do you feel is the biggest challenge around this golf course?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, driving needs to be very important.  There's a little bit of room for error if you hit the rough, but there's not much.  There's not much play outside the fairways in the rough.  You have to hit it straight.
Greens could be very tricky.  There's some deep bunkers that are just very close to the pin, but you'll just have a very difficult up-and-down from there.
So course management here is very crucial.  And like always, you need to putt good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT