DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2017
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great playing.  Just talk about today, knowing you needed to play well to advance to the BMW Championship?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Obviously I knew I needed a good round.  At least a decent one.  I was kind of following a little bit the projection and I saw that I was just in starting the day.  So I figured that if I managed to stay somewhere within the top 35, that that should be good enough.  Of course, you never know what can happen.   
So just stayed patient, made some birdies and really stayed away from trouble and put in a better score than I needed.  But it's good to play good again.  It's been a few weeks struggling a little bit, so happy to post a good, solid round.   
 Q.  What did you find today that maybe you haven't had over the last couple weeks?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, the last few weeks, just concentration hadn't really been there.  I felt a little tired mentally.   
This week, I know I have to step it up, otherwise because I know that it's either play good or go home.  And today was even more, so I was really, really alert and really focused on the course.  I stayed patient and never gave up.   
 Q.  Does having a little bit of pressure heighten that focus?  Did that help you play better?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, absolutely.  It's early September but it's been a long season so far.  Yeah, having this real playoff that you either advance or go back home, that feeling definitely helped me focus a bit more.   
 Q.  Did you have an idea what you needed to finish today?  You were pretty safely in.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: At the end, yes, I figured -- I mean, I know starting the week that I have to be around top 30.  Seemed like the projections were in the top 35 would be good enough.  But I didn't want to gamble with it.  My goal wasn't just to make it to Chicago.  Obviously that's the first step but I want to make it to Atlanta, as well.   
Every shot that I could gain this week, it's a shot less that I need next week.   
 Q.  Anything that you did this week that you hadn't been doing in the past?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I feel the swing is good enough.  Everything's been good enough.  Of course some weeks the putts drop, others don't.  Just been a little mentally tired really since The Open.  I've had a struggle focusing on the course, and this week I had to sharpen it up.  But I did, especially today and I managed to perform better.   
 Q.  How much added pressure is trying to advance in the Playoffs, as opposed to just playing a regular tournament?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, it's a little bit of added pressure but it's not like the end of the world.  We're not really fighting to keep our card or anything like that.  I think that's more pressure than this.  This is just to advance to do more and to do better.  But at the end of the year, if you finish 70th or you finish 71st -- it's only a tournament, so it's not the end of the world.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT