ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 16, 2017
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on shooting of 64 and winning in a playoff?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Obviously extremely happy.  I've won before and I have been up there so many, many times, and things not really working out for myself.  I was starting to feel a little of pressure every time I was up there contending.  So really, really happy how I played today.  I mean, in the playoff, I really gave it a go and extremely pleased it worked out for me.   
 Q.  How satisfied with a shot of that quality on the 18th under that intense pressure?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, those are the moments we practice for.  I enjoy those pressure situations.  I think they really define you.  Like you can really perform under those circumstances, obviously we don't always perform as good as we want in those type of situations, but I do enjoy.  And just the fact of being there, I mean, it's beyond, beyond whether actually doing good or bad.  It's just being there, committing and then I hit a great shot and the birdie was enough to win.   
 Q.  You played a superb round of golf today, and the playoff hole, you must be delighted with the way you played.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, playoff, anything can happen.  I was extremely happy to make the playoff and give myself a chance to win.  Regardless of the outcome on playoffs, which I think at the end of the day, I think they just really go 50/50.  I was happy to be there.  Really, really enjoying that situation, and I hit two great shots and birdie was enough.  So very, very happy to have gotten that third win finally.   
 Q.  It's been a great week for you here, but when you reflect on it, obviously very early straight afterwards, but when you reflect on it, what are you most pleased with the way you performed this week?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I was very happy with the weekend.  Actually even the first round, I thought I played good.  Second round I started good but I really fought hard on my last nine holes just to make the cut.  And then I know yesterday was going to be a very tough day with the weather conditions.  I had a bit of a roller coaster round, but lots of birdies.   
And today, I truly believed that it could be my day.  I just tried to stay one shot at a time, just waiting for things to come to me, and obviously I'm very, very pleased of the entire week, really.  Each day has had its goal, and today was just like the cherry on top of the cake, yeah.   
 Q.  Golf is a funny game, and you look at last season, so consistent, and this season it's been a bit up-and-down, but now you have your hands on silverware again.  How do you sum that up?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I do feel I've played good this year.  It's been a new experience playing in America, going back and forth, and yes, I've missed more cuts.  But I've still overall been pleased with the way I've performed but like I mean, winning again, it's an unbelievable feeling.  I think I was overdue.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT