THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2017
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through the finish.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Obviously pretty spectacular.  I was fighting.  I've been fighting all day.  It didn't quite feel that things were going my way, just having the odd weird bounce and the putts not dropping.  But just obviously kept fighting, something I always try to do, fight until the very end.  You never know what can happen.  Today was proof of it.  I took the risk hitting driver off the tee on 16, hit an enormous drive and just left myself an 8-iron.  Hit a good shot, I saw it kick off the bank of the bunker and I was a bit worried at the beginning because I kind of felt that it shot a little too fast, and I'm like, oh, is that going to go in the water now.  Then I saw it rolling towards the hole like we see many times, like with shots, they just roll, you never expect them to hit or to go in or anything.  Then, I don't know, I saw it bump with the flag and I didn't know what happened; had it gone in or had it just stayed just like a foot away or something like that.  So then I saw the crowd saw that it had gone in and just went crazy and enjoyed it.   
 Q.  Did you throw your club in the water?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, by mistake.  I just wanted to throw it high in the sky, middle of the fairway, and I don't know, I missed the fairway. (Laughter.)  It went in the water.  Luckily I was able it fish it out after.   
 Q.  Was there any doubt in your mind that the 8-iron was the right club to use?  Were you contemplating anything else?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Not really.  My caddie and I, we discussed it and we decided that 8-iron we felt that was the right club.  We weren't really thinking about any other one.   
 Q.  Have you had a double eagle before?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Never.  This is my first albatross.  Yeah, good time to do it.   
 Q.  Your birdie on 17 was pretty good, but your par on the last is impressive, as well.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I was obviously just thinking not to hit it in the water on the tee, just aimed too far right, tried to be a little too cautious with it.  Then I don't know, I was just aiming too far right.  Brain knows it's not where you should really be taking aim at and then just hands overtook the shot, just hit it in the water, silly mistake.   
After that I just wanted to minimize the damage, really, just try to get it on the green and give myself a putt for par.  I didn't do that, but I was fortunate enough that I did see Francesco's similar third shot like the one that I had for four and I really got a good look at what the ball was going to do on the green and just it went in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT