COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2017
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 out there.  It was breezy, but another week and another consistent performance.  What's the key to what you do every single week you come out here?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, thank you very much.  Yeah, I don't know.  I mean, I just work on a daily basis.  I try to do as good as I can each and every single day, and luckily I've been on a good stretch and been up there consistently now for many, many weeks over the past year and a half.   
 Q.  People keep saying:  Rafa, he keeps playing well, but he hasn't won yet.  And every time you talk to the media, it's the same old thing; is it going to be this week.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: You mean, I haven't won yet, again.  I mean, it will happen.  Yes, I agree; sometimes I've messed up and end up not winning because of my fault.  Other times, I've felt that I have done really good; others have outplayed me.  And other times, I've just finished up there by coming from behind, so not really having had the real chance of winning.   
I know if I keep putting myself on that position, I keep playing the golf I'm playing lately, it will happen again.  It's just a matter of time.   
 Q.  Do you get the feeling, though, when you do finally cross that final line, then they are going to come along like busses?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, perhaps.  People are saying that.  I don't know.  I mean, I'll just have to wait and see I guess.   
 Q.  Joint leader; how does that feel?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Very satisfied.  Obviously I teed off earlier this morning and I was aware that I needed a low one to catch up with the leaders and I'm really pleased that the low one came out.  I felt I played really good.  I was in control the entire day.  Rolled some good putts.  Gave myself lots of birdie chances, so in the end, I had a good score but I think I earned it.   
 Q.  And an eagle to start the back nine and birdie to finish, brilliant.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, exactly.  It was very nice.  I've been struggling throughout the entire week to generate momentum, really.  I felt I've played good enough.  Maybe a few putts at the key moments not dropping; that wasn't the case today.   
Obviously that eagle at 10 gave myself a lot of energy and I had a good, strong finish with birdies on 14 and 16 and 18.  So really happy with that.   
 Q.  We shouldn't really be surprised to see you up there in the desert, should we.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No, I like playing here.  For me it's always a good surprise -- it doesn't surprise me.  I don't expect to play good but in a way, I don't expect not to play good, either.  So I just enjoy each day at a time and probably because of that, I also end up playing good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT