UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 9, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How sweet is it to be 11-under par and leading this championship?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, very pleased, for both those things but more importantly for how I played.  I managed to play good again.  Played solid and put myself in very few risky positions.  Felt in control again.  Just managed to keep up the good work as yesterday.   
 Q.  Do you impress yourself when you look at those score cards and see what you've achieved over two days, when others have struggled just a little bit?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No, I mean, I'm not impressed.  I know I can play good.  I've done it before and I will do it again.  I'm doing it now, too.  Jokes aside, there are birdies out there.  It is a tricky course.   
I felt I paid my dues here other years, as well, from not knowing the course and not playing it smart enough.   
I think this year, I'm playing it good and I'm playing it confidently, but I'm playing it very smart, too.  So that's helping.   
 Q.  Sadly, there was a bogey on the card but the way you bounced back, that must make you smile.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, bogeys happen.  It wasn't too big of a catastrophe.  I just missed the green by very little.  Putted, left myself a sneaky five-footer and missed it.  That's golf.  It wasn't too hard to digest, and a few holes later, I managed to make a couple birdies in a row, so that was good.   
 Q.  Thoughts into the weekend, because most will say you're in a commanding position now.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, yes, I'm in a commanding position, but it might even be by the time I tee off tomorrow, I'm not even leading anymore.  Just play the way I am and try to keep managing myself around the course the same way I've been doing it these two days.   
I'm going to try to do nothing different.  Just stick to my game plan and try to keep playing smart and being patient, waiting for my opportunities, and hopefully hitting good shots and creating some birdie chances, too.   
 Q.  Another tournament, another cut made.  Do you just feel sort of invincible with this run you're on?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Not necessarily.  I don't think about it.  I only think about it when I read a Tweet off you guys or someone just mention it out.  I'm just trying to play my best.  It just proves that I've turned into a better player, more consistent, and there's always some part of my game that can help me make the cut.   
But this week, it's more than that.  I'm leading and I've been playing solid, playing very smart around the course, and really pleased to be in the last tournament of the year for me in this position coming into the weekend.   
 Q.  You've had a fantastic season.  You've made your debut in The Ryder Cup.  Almost the only thing that's been missing is a tournament victory.  How determined are you to finish this?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: As determined as I was last tournament I played and the previous one.  I know I will win again.  I've won before.  I just need to keep giving myself chances.  I have been working on some mistakes that maybe I have done on other occasions.  I don't think I'm doing anything wrong not to get the win, so it will happen.  Hopefully it will happen in two days' time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT