UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 8, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. At the end, spectacular way to finish a round, isn't it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, that was nice.  I had perfect distance, hit really good shot and was surprised to see it go in.  But I had never really finished a round like that, and felt nice.
Q. And it was going to be a good day, anyway, can't it, flawless and picking up the birdies when you could?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I played really smart today, made very little mistakes, even though I hit every green, pretty much all of them, didn't give myself in trouble off the tee.  I was in control of the round all day and putted nicely, too, so it was nice work out there.
Q. In the build up to the tournament, you said about how nice it would be to follow the fellow Spaniards into the victory circle; how much of a pleasure was it to play alongside Miguel today?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, it's always a pleasure to play besides him and obviously here where he has had so much success and you see why.  He played good himself, too.  He had a couple dropped shots that kind of broke the momentum for him, but he's playing good and he'll be back in the leaderboard soon.
Q. I take it when you see the two of you together, and not that you necessarily have this appreciation when you're out there, but different styles, but still can work on the same golf course?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I mean, it's nice to play with him.  He's been extremely successful in his career.  He has a very charismatic way of playing golf, very precise, very accurate, and this is a course that demands that.
I am a slightly different player and I consider myself very complete through the entire bag, and always find something that can help me play good and play consistent and I managed to do that today.
Q. And getting strategy right around here?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, it's all about position, position, position, and rolling one or two putts and I did that very good today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT