DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Round of the week, was there any inkling or idea before you started that there was something special out there?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Not really.  Obviously I knew I needed a low one obviously to catch up with the leaders.  I mean, I didn't expect it this low, and I have played other times on this course.  I have posted really low rounds here, as well, so I know how to do it.  I just played great today, and the putts dropped in.  So that was really the difference.   
 Q.  And you've been playing great all year.  It's been a magnificent year for you, missing just one thing.  Have you kept the best till last?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Hopefully yes.  Hopefully yes.  It's been a very good year, as you said, for me.  I pretty much accomplished every single goal, many of my childhood dreams, as well.   
So just trying to get the third win, and really happy to have put myself in a position hopefully to do so tomorrow.   
 Q.  When you finish a round of 63, what do you do?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Exactly the same as when I shoot 75.  I go and have some lunch and just do my cool-down practice, my workout, and enjoy, have a bit of time off.   
 Q.  Please tell me the degree of satisfaction when you come from well back to be right up there with a 63?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, obviously I'm very happy.  I knew I needed a low one today.  Started good and things went good on the course.  The putts were dropping and happy to keep that energy for the entire 18 holes.   
 Q.  Was it purely that on the greens, the putts dropped today and they hasn't from previous days?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I played a little better from tee-to-green, but I had played pretty good tee-to-green.  I haven't missed many greens.   
It's just today I putted from a bit closer and the hole felt bigger.  I read them really good.  And I think obviously a little bit of knock-on effect, not only hitting it a little bitter, hitting the irons a little closer and putting significantly better has made the differences.   
 Q.  You have certainly had some very good days around the Earth Course.  Is this right up there with them or surpassing them?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No, this is best round I've had.  I have an 80 and 7-under here, 6-under, as well, but 9 tops the leaderboard.   
 Q.  And I know things didn't work out on one occasions, so is this that opportunity to really put it right and finish the season in style?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's been a great season for me, regardless of what happens tomorrow.  It's just really nice to go to bed tonight knowing that hopefully I will have a chance of winning this season final event, and I'm just glad to be in that position.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT