THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's been incredible to watch you this week, no Sergio by your side, but what was the level of intensity for you today?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It was very special.  I have a great team, great teammates, and they all tried to explain how it was going to be today.  I felt very positive, very confident, very happy.  I really believed this week and I'm really happy that I got the point for my team.
Q. You look at the top of the board, Stenson, Pieters with points on the board for Europe; how crucial is your point for momentum?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I think from trailing, all points are crucial.  The earlier we get them up there, the better.  Now it's all about supporting the rest of the guys, get momentum going.  Still see a little too much red on the board so hopefully we can turn that around.
Q. Really well-played match on your part to win it on 163 & 2.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, Jimmy is a gentleman and an excellent competitor.  We both played really good.  I just had a little bit more luck on my side.  It was a tough match.
Q. You played very well, your first Ryder Cup experience, it's been wonderful, hasn't it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, ever since I qualified for the team, I was extremely thrilled about it, really excited, and everything this week has been absolutely a life-changing experience, yes.
Q. Another extraordinary Ryder Cup experience for you today, well done.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Thank you very much, yes.  It's been a tough day and I knew it was going to be tough.  Jimmy is an excellent player, but I really had fun out there.  I played my best and fortunately enough, luck was on my side today and I could bring the point for Europe.
Q. You're able to take control early on, weren't you?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I got some early birdies on the first few holes which help a lot.  Jimmy came back strong but I held in there as good as I could and in the end it was 3 & 2.
Q. On 16, you looked like the most relaxed man at Hazeltine?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: When you have two putts under 20 feet to win your match, you can be happy and relaxed.  The truth is that I hit a horrible first putt, but Jimmy struggled on the hole.
Q. What's it been like this week for you, unbeaten in the three matches you've played?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, it's easy when you play with a partner like Sergio.  I felt I played really good.  I've enjoyed the experience.  It's really motivated me and got me going and so really, really proud.
Q. Were you surprised you didn't play yesterday afternoon?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No, I was asked this question before.  I mean, the teams aren't made when all the games have been playing -- when the captain had the information at hand, we were 4-down, so it would have been risky because who knows, if we put up 6-5 instead of having an extraordinary comeback.  At the time, the captain picked the best team, the best players he thought was going to be the best team for Europe.  I was totally happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT