WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe your round today?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I'm pleased.  It's always a little hard.  I was calm.  I played real confident.  I felt I played good for the majority of the round, just the putts didn't want to drop in.   
 Q.  It's been quite the run for you so far this season especially a week ago at the Olympics and coming out we were talking to get kind of get the playing schedule going into next season.  
 What has it been like for you?   
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Obviously been a very good year for me.  Playing my best golf so far this year.  Been chasing that win that has been elusive so far but I mean it's just been exciting to have the opportunity of next year to see what I'm going to decide to do, plan the schedule much earlier and in advance as well and get to pick the better tournaments.  I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Good problems to have and great spot to be in.  You had to battle out there.  You shoot 2-under par and 9-under heading into the weekend.  Your thoughts on how I went today.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I felt I played pretty decent, too.  Putts didn't want to drop in like yesterday but overall the game was good.  Couple sloppy swings with the driver again but I better off the tee as well.  Just lots of positive taken into the weekend.  Good position.  Still many, many holes to play so really anything can happen.   
 Q.  I was going to say, the ball-striking, you had a great look at 13, I think it was a 10-footer, 14 you were in close, couldn't make that.  Coming off that eagle, you made the great eagle at 15 and six feet at 16 couldn't make it.  
 Just tell yourself okay, ball striking has been good, I got to start making the putts again.   
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah.  I'm feeling good over the ball and starting the ball pretty much where I want the ball to start with the pace I want it to start.  I cannot do anymore than that.  Some days we make them, some days the hole shrinks a little.  Overall, I'm not worried about anything.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Good luck on the week.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Thank you.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today as far as the difference from yesterday coming in with three stroke lead and today only being able to get it 2-under.  
 What was the difference between?   
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Three stroke lead?   
 Q.  7-under yes.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I had tied for the lead.  I felt good today.  Ball-striking was I think better than yesterday, just difference has been on the greens.  Putts didn't want to go in today.  I stroked them good.  I misread them or misjudged them but nothing really to worry about.  I mean sometimes they go in, sometimes they don't.  Couple sloppy swings with the driver but the rest has been very good, I think.   
 Q.  What did you think about Kim's score when you guys started up this afternoon him getting --  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I didn't see his score up until I checked on one of the leaderboards halfway through the round.  I mean I don't know what he scored today or anything but he must have played very good, obviously.   
 Q.  Do you feel good about your position going into the weekend?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, definitely.  I'm chasing by three which is not a huge difference so my game is good.  I mean I'm coming from a good year, coming from a good last week as well.  So, I fancy my chances and it's going to be exciting.   
 Q.  Have you thought about what a win might do here for you?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: It's going to ruin my vacation, my holidays.  It will be a good problem to have.  I haven't given it much of a thought.  I don't know if I get into the Playoffs.  I don't know.  I'll worry about that if it happens or when it happens, hopefully.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT