SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rafa, I really thought you were in control of your golf ball here today.  You only missed one green the entire day.  Tell me about the round.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I mean, like you said, I really felt in control of my game today.  I've been playing the best golf of my life throughout this year, early start, and today was just another day really.  I played extremely good, stroked the ball really good.  Gave myself almost on every single hole I was actually putting to subtract and that -- it was a nice feeling, yes.
Q. Tell me about the eagle at the 12th.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah.  They had the tee forward so it was drivable.  It was reachable today.  I had made a move up the leaderboard, so, I mean, I felt it was my day and I wanted to go for it.  Hit a great shot, got the right bounce, and end up 4, 5 feet for eagle.
Q. Probably going to come up a little bit short, but you go to Augusta with great feelings.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes.  I was 6 shots back today.  You never know what can happen.  At the moment, like you say, probably going to come up 1, 2 shots -- 1,2 shots short, but it's still been a great day, great week, and happy to keep playing good going into Augusta, yes.
Q. You didn't make a bogey on the last 4 holes out here.  That's a pretty good accomplishment.  How did you do that?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Thank you.  Yeah.  Just staying out of trouble all the time.  I have played pretty solid today.  Was spectacular golf, really.  Had the putts gone in, I could have gone silly low today, but still a great round, obviously.  Yesterday, same thing, yesterday was just a slow start.  I mean, I made 9 pars on my first 9 holes and then managed to get 4 birdies in a row, which was nice today, better start, and that's why the score has been better.
Q. Had you been planning to play this venue, or did you only add it once you had the Masters?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No.  I kindly got the invite just before I started Doral.  So, I mean, I was going to play this one regardless of me qualifying for the Masters or not.
Q. This probably qualifies you for special temporary membership.  Is that something that you would be looking to take up possibly next season playing more?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's a possibility, yes.  I don't know if I almost had that already after my good finishes in Doral and at the Match Play, but definitely this week will round it up.  I'm really happy playing in Europe.  Europe has gotten my golf to what it is nowadays.  I be happy also playing a little bit more here or complement both schedules like other players, too.  And, yeah, but it's something that I need to give it some thought and I really feel that I need to grow a little bit more as a player to be able to play both Tours comfortably.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT