WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on your round.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Thank you very much.  Very pleased.  Very happy with the way I played.  I had to play really good golf to beat Rory.  He's such a very good player that I still don't know how I managed to beat him.  Really, really, really pleased.  Really honored.  And just happy with the entire week, overall.
Q. Now heading to the Masters?
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, I'm playing Houston next week, as well, and then, yeah, definitely the Masters.  Really looking forward to it.  I'm really going to start embracing playing in the Masters.  Up to now I've just been focused on this week.  But it was the only way you had to play.  It's really the reason I wanted to turn pro, watching Olazabal win the Masters, so it is going to be very special for me.
My family and friends, girlfriend are all with me, supporting me.
Q. Congratulations on a great day.  I thought you played extremely well this afternoon, you have to be very pleased.  From the start to the end, you were really solid.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes.  This morning I didn't quite have my "A" game on the greens, maybe not quite so loose.  A few mistakes.  I had a couple of opportunities to fight back, but I just didn't get the ball in the hole.
But this afternoon it hasn't been like that, I played really solid, really good from tee to green.  And the putter has worked better, as well.  I have rolled some putts in, and I think that's what made the difference.
Q. To beat a player like Rory, that has to be exciting.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I told him, when I finished playing, that it was an honor to have beaten him.  It's definitely something I will tell my kids whenever I have them.  And I just don't know if they're going to actually believe me, how good I beat him.  He's so good.  Such a complete player.  I feel really, really honored and really happy to have had the opportunity to play against him and a chance to beat him.
Q. You have a lot of fans now that you were introduced to this week, will we see you more on the PGA Tour?  Could this possibly mean more playing in the States?
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I'm happy playing in Europe.  Europe has brought my game to what it is.  Right now I still think I need to improve a little bit better.  And I am happy playing over here for the World Ranking events, but it's something I need to consider in the long-term if I'm ever going to make the switch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT