WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think is the reason you got yourself to this point to get into the final match tomorrow?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Obviously because I'm playing really good.  I'm not giving away many holes, especially giving them away easily, which I think is something really important in match play.  Always hanging there or have a chance to tie or just to put pressure on your opponent.   
I prepared this tournament really good.  I enjoy a lot match play and feeling confident this week.  I've had a great start of the year for me so far.  So really proud to be in the semifinal, yes.   
 Q.  One clutch shot after another.  How would you characterize your game today?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Thank you.  The game has been overall pretty good.  I haven't done many mistakes.  A couple of sloppy swings because we were starting to get tired.  That's okay.  But what I really think I did good today was those wedges into the greens.  I hit them really good.  I gave myself lots of chances and putting has been good also.   
 Q.  You are now in the Final Four.  Did you think you would make it this far?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, I never set any limits, at least on how good I can do.  I know that when I play good, I can be beat almost anybody.  I have done it before.  I've done it before in some tournaments, so why not again this week.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you have right now?  Your game looks really good to me.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I'm playing really good.  Every day is adding on the confidence.  I think I've improved and grown as a player.  I consider myself stronger mentally as well.  This week I'm really enjoying myself out here.   
 Q.  You played your way into Augusta now?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, it's the only major I haven't played before.  I was really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Obviously now with two runner-ups on the European Tour, the Ryder Cup comes into play, I would imagine?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I mean, Ryder Cup is definitely a goal.  Hopefully I'm playing good this week is going to impress the captain, as well, as well as giving me a fair amount of points towards the rankings.  So still a long way to go.  Still a lot of very important tournaments.  A lot of golf to play.  So little by little, but it's going in the right way, yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT