WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CANDACE REINHEIMER: Rafa, congratulations on your 2-1 finish.  Tell us a little bit about your round.   
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Thank you very much.  Obviously it was a hard day.  He's a great competitor.  We both played good, I think.  It was tough out there with the wind, also.  On my behalf, I think that the difference was I just holed a few clutch putts and hit really good wedges into the greens, gave myself birdie chances and I made a few of them.   
 Q.  You played very well the last two months to come up the World Rankings.  What's behind that?  Have you improved or --  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Well, yes, I think I put important pieces together.  I think my swing is more solid now.  My confidence also is higher, as well.  I feel I have more experience, as well.   
I addressed this tournament and it's no longer like -- it's no longer a first time for me.  So I know kind of like what to expect.  I know how to prepare for the course, as well.  I just think that overall I'm a better player than last year and I think that the good practice and the good preparation is paying off this year.   
 Q.  Did you think at all about the Masters today?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I did think a little bit about it.  I was aware -- I mean, honestly, before I came to the tournament, I thought that if I got through the round robin, that would be it.  And then I kind of like briefly had a look yesterday and I didn't think it was going to be that -- I thought I still needed to win this morning.  And, yes, of course, that's in the back of your head, but it's something that you don't want to be thinking on the course because that's only going to add more pressure.  So just forget about it, play one shot at a time and hopefully you'll do it good enough to get in the Masters.   
 Q.  How much do you look at the rankings as the season goes along?  Obviously, as you get closer, it seems like it would be more in the front of your mind.  Was it there in the beginning?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: It's always a goal.  I don't look at it on a weekly basis unless I need to.  I mean, I was having a look just to qualify for this tournament also, before Doral.  I was, I think, 61st or 62nd in the world, so kind of like a bit tight.  So then is when I was looking at it.  But normally I only want to look at it after a good week just to see the improvement.  But I won't pay too much attention unless a deadline comes.   
 Q.  With match play is it nice to show and test yourself head-to-head with the setup like that?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I think.  I love this format.  It's really, really a true competition test.  You can win playing not great and you can lose playing great.  So it's still even more uncertain.  And then it's maximum competition that you can have.  If you lose you go home, and if you win you progress.  So it's really exciting for me.   
 Q.  What's your history with Louis, have you ever faced each other Sunday in a European Tour event?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: No, we played together a few times.  Obviously I'm sure we both have good admiration and friendship for each other.  I know he's a fantastic player.  I don't even know if he's going to be whom I'll be playing tomorrow or not.  I'll just go out there, focus on my game, try to play the best I can.  And I believe that if I do it good, I can beat anyone here.  So why not try to do it.   
CANDACE REINHEIMER: Congratulations and good luck tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT