WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your round today, 5-under.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I played really good today.  Biggest difference from yesterday is I drove is better off the tee.  I didn't get myself into so much trouble and from ten to 15 feet, I hit a lot of good shots, gave myself chances and I did make big putts, ten-, 15-footers today were working good.   
On the last, I hit a fantastic drive.  Second shot just stalled a little bit in the wind and then hit a pretty poor first putt, and I'm like, oh, I can't really bogey this one now.  I've been putting good all day and rolled that one nicely for par.   
 Q.  Look forward to tomorrow?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, absolutely.  I think obviously today's round has given me a big jump up the leaderboard, what I was hoping for this morning and still a lot to play for.  Of course many things can happen tomorrow, but I'm going to try to go for another low one, yeah.   
 Q.  In terms of how you've been playing this year, how does this compare, this round?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I've been playing solid this year.  Scores are showing.  This is just one of the -- the toughest course we've played this year so far, so it's kind of like tricky to compare them with The Desert Swing.   
But the game is good, putting was good today.  If anything, it's just driving was a little off yesterday, but today it's been back to kind of like normal standards.  Just feeling good, feeling positive for tomorrow, yeah.   
 Q.  It's a real test out there, isn't it?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, any hole can bite you really.  We've seen many things, just one bad swing and many things can go wrong.  Just have to be patient, be very focused all the time and just hope for the best.   
 Q.  How is the course playing today compared to yesterday?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, a lot of the tees are further back on the greens.  Playing maybe a little longer, slightly different wind to other -- different wind to previous days.  Every time I play this course, I just find it pretty tough.   
Today is really the first time I score a very low round around here.  I mean, this course is all tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT