U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I looked at your scorecard, and I'm surprised you're not a bundle of nerves right now after the roller coaster you had.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, there's been plenty of color there, obviously bogeys, double bogeys, birdies, eagles, a whole bunch of pars in the mix.  That's just the way it turned out today.  Luckily I made many birdies.  Unfortunately I had a few too many drop shots.  But overall, under par, and that's a positive.   
 Q.  What were the dropped shots?  Was there one recurring theme that got you into trouble today?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: No, not really.  Just random.  I don't know, maybe I missed my short putt, and then the one hole, the double, it's just a bad drive.  And then short-sided myself.  And then the other ones, it's just a tough call.  You hit shot onto the green, and it's hard to make up-and-down if you don't hit the green.  So that has -- I mean, those have been the majority of them.   
 Q.  But you did have an eagle.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: That is correct.  A beautiful eagle.   
 Q.  Describe it.  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Perfect driver exactly where I wanted, an even better 3-wood to about, I don't know, three feet, something like that.  And the putt went in.  So that was nice.   
 Q.  And what hole was what?  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: 14.   
 Q.  You can dwell on what might have been, but it's always better to look at what you can do.  You are -1, so --  
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, correct, I mean, it's just -- yeah, like ideally you always want to keep the scorecard clean with not many bogeys.  That's not how it turned out today.  And one way of looking at it is it would have been great; and the other way of looking at it, it could have also been bad had I not made the birdies.   
So I just think about the final score, -1, and that's a positive.  Obviously tomorrow try to make fewer mistakes and hope I still manage to do lots of birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT