OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 6, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 67, 15-under total, what was that like out there for you today?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, first of all I'm very pleased with the score, minus five again.  Really happy to be just one behind the leader.  I mean, it was playing a little easier than yesterday, a little less wind, but I mean, the fairways are getting firmer, the rough is growing a bit and the greens are a bit harder and faster every day.  So overall, it was still very challenging.
Q. Wonderful eagle on the third that kick started your day, didn't it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, absolutely.  I didn't expect it.  I had played the bunker shot perfect.  I was actually just walking out of the bunker thinking, oh, that's got to be close and then I see it disappear, and it was a nice feeling, yeah.
Q. What about 7, did you get caught up with the breeze?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Not really.  I was a little in-between clubs.  Tried to overdo the 6-iron and end up pulling it a little bit and then got into a funky lie there and didn't really know what to play from there.  Tried to play the safest shot I thought it was over there, and just end up with a fair bogey.
Q. Last win was here in 2012; what kind of thinking do you take into tomorrow's round?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, there's still a lot to play for.  I mean, I need to play aggressive, keep playing as good as I am to give myself a chance.  Lots of players are not far off the lead and all of them are going to have a chance tomorrow and they are definitely all as hungry as I am, if not more.  So just play my best, stay positive, try to make lots of birdies and hope the putts keep going in.
Q. A second win here, what would that mean to you?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: That would be very special.  Obviously here it's even extra special, because it would be the first time I win a tournament two times.  I join a pretty elite group of players, Tiger is there, Ernie is there, so that would be pretty special, yeah, Stephen, as well.
Q. When is the last time you've shot consecutive rounds of 67?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I don't remember, I really don't know.  I don't remember being much lower than 15-under after three rounds.
Q. It is pretty special, isn't it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, game is good.  I think it's just a coincidence that it's been 5-under each day.  The important thing is the game is good, and I'm going to have a chance tomorrow and hopefully I can keep that chance alive until the last few holes.
Q. Starting the week on the back of finishing second in Qatar, did you feel this kind of score was a possibility after three rounds?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, I was playing good.  I played good in Abu Dhabi, even though I didn't have as good of a finish.  Played good in Qatar and had a good finish, and playing good here, and hopefully tomorrow I can have a great finish.
Q. At the third, you're standing in the bunker and produced an eagle from there?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, driver missed a little bit to the right.  Ball wasn't too bad in the rough so I decided to hit 5-wood, see if maybe I could chase it up there but I was kind of like playing for the trap.  I thought the trap would be a good place to be.  When I got there, I know the shot I have to play from the trap.  I played it perfectly and the ball just rolled beautiful into the hole.  It was a very nice feeling.
Q. I know this isn't the first time you've been asked this, but how much will you draw on the victory in 2012?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's a long time ago, but still, it's nice to be out here.  I know what to do around here to be able to win, so that will give me extra confidence if the opportunity comes tomorrow; hopefully when the opportunity comes tomorrow.  Just take the positives and try to enjoy out there and play my best golf.
Q. Because there have been some occasions when things haven't gone your way out in this part of the world, but presumably you knock those out of your mind entirely?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's not that I knock them out of my mind at all.  I learn from them.  I try to grow as a player.  People say you learn more from things that don't go good than from things that go good, and that's the way it goes.  Yes, I could have had a few more successful finishes over the last couple years, but the way it's played, it has to the been too bad, either.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT