COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just how much more difficult that is today than yesterday?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, definitely.  Even though the course setup already was a little bit more friendly, pins tend to be more in the middle of the greens, and definitely significantly some tees brought up forward, so it was -- I mean, thanks to that setup, it was still pretty tough out there with the wind.   
 Q.  68, you must be happy with that.  Would it be fair to say you're well-known for your ball-striking; is that one of the skills that leaves you better equipped than most when the challenge is as difficult as it is in this wind?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I think I'm well known for a very consistent player, not having many clubs through the bag.  On a day of a lot of wind, normally you need to use a lot of resources and I think I'm good at that.  I'm used to playing with the wind, plus I like this course.   
 Q.  Can I pick your brain about playing in the wind?  When it's windy, a lot of the pros we know like to hold the ball up against the wind, so use the wind to make the ball stay straight, turn it into it.  Does it get to a strength when it gets quite strong where you have to actually start to try and use it?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I mean, I would say kind of like the opposite.  Normally if I can use the wind, I'll use it.  But sometimes it gets to the point that it's so much, that you just have to play against it, and then that's when it gets really tricky.   
 Q.  68 today.  Are you happy with your position going into the weekend; would you have taken it to start the round?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Of course, it was a tough day.  Lying second after two rounds I would take every tournament of the year and see what happens.   
 Q.  The degree of difficulty -- certainly pretty strong now.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's been picking up throughout the day.  It was already pretty windy when we teed off, but now it's just gone even a notch higher up, and it is, it is difficult.  It gets to the point that it almost starts to be very hard to judge, and then is when weird things start happening.   
 Q.  Weird things?  Some weird things happen for you out there?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: No, I mean, I just missed some shots because of over doing the wind or paying way too much attention to it.  But I don't think many weird things.  I think I was pretty much in control the entire day, which is something that I'm proud of, especially on windy days.  It's hard to feel that you're in control of your round.  I did feel like that at every stage out there today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT