TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 29, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you rate your play today?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I'm satisfied.  I'm very happy.  I think I played pretty good.  I felt good with all parts of the game really.  Drove it nicely and hit some good irons and putting was working, especially on the first nine I played.
Q. This golf course yields a lot of birdies and eagles.  Does it fit your style of play, an aggressive style?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yeah, I've been playing professional golf for ten years now, so I've fortunately done good on all type of courses.  I do tend to get over-aggressive, so I think this course allows you to play that way.  A lot of the best players on The European Tour are here this week, so it's going to be a very packed leaderboard.
Q. What are your thoughts on starting so well at this championship?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Well, I'm satisfied.  I had a week off and the last couple of tournaments I played weren't as good as I would have liked to, so it's nice to come out here and start playing.
Q. And I guess you were thinking, anything's possible, weren't you, when you've got all those birdies on the card on your front nine.
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I wasn't really thinking about the score.  At one stage, I wasn't even aware of what I was scoring.  Just enjoy myself and doing the job as good as I could, and just get through the round and focusing on what is important.
Q. Essentially this is a Mediterranean course; so is it similar to playing at home?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: I mean, it's nice because we are playing in short sleeves, so I'll give you that as a half-yes.  But the course doesn't really resemble for the Canary Islands.  It will resemble to other courses in Spain but not the Canary Islands.
Q. With the nature of it, presumably you've grown you have on similar courses to it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I definitely like to play in good weather, short sleeves and sun on our back, a gentle breeze.  Yeah, it's been nice.
Q. When you come into The Final Series and it's elite events like this, do you change your approach?  Do you say, one last push at the end of the season?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Not really, I don't change my approach.  It's just in the end we know that even though the year has not been great, if you're getting to this stage, anything can happen just in three, four events.  So that's my approach, just stay patient.  You only need one really good week to turn the year around and especially on The Final Series, that will have a huge impact on The Race to Dubai rankings, so that's the mind-set that I particularly come into.
Q. Do you feel that your year needs turning around?  It's been a pretty good year anyway, hasn't it?
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It's been a similar year to last year.  Started slow and had a very good couple months starting at The Irish Open, but yeah, I do think I would be more comfortable if I were a bit higher up in the rankings.
I think I played a little better than what my position is at the moment.  Just I haven't been able to get the score in or get a win under the belt or get a few better finishes when I was really in contention.  But hasn't been a bad year but I am wishing for better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT