ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Please tell me your thoughts on achieving 7-under after two rounds here?  RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Very pleased.  I'm happy with the way I played.  I'm keeping a form on another week.  Just played really solid, had very few mistakes, a lot of opportunities and just happy how pretty much the full part of the game is going.   Q.  You are keeping this form going on so many different styles of course week in and week out.  Does that add to the satisfaction?  RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, of course.  I always like playing links golf.  I think this is a good example.  It's good preparation for next week, so I'm just glad that my game is good enough to play good in different types of courses.   Q.  Good preparation for next week.  We know you are in for definite now.  We thought you were in after Ireland.  You didn't quite think you had done it in France and then others slipped.  Are you looking forward to this?  RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, exactly.  When I finished, I didn't know.  I mean, I just don't like the fact that it's no longer in my hands and I had to sit down and wait.  I was aware that I had a chance.  The finishing holes are pretty tough, but I managed to get a spot. Delighted to be playing the Open.  It's my favorite tournament by far in the world.  The Open is going to be something special for me.   Q.  Elaborate on links play.  Is it the creativity that you enjoy?  Do you enjoy the fact that it's different than what you play most weeks?  RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yes, I enjoy all that you play.  I enjoy that you have to be very creative.  I enjoy that there's not one single way to play the hole, there's not one right shot for each shot.  Really you can play many different ways.  I enjoy the fact that that's how golf was invented.  I enjoy that it tests your skill and patience.  I'm fortunate to be pretty tough, so I do like links golf  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT