BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pleased with how things panned out today? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, another good round, 5‑under 67.   Started off again good.   Played really solid on the back nine, which was my front nine.   A few sloppy swings on the front nine, a couple miss‑read putts, but overall very satisfying.

Q.   Better talk us through 18. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, 18, I hit a perfect driver and actually I had a good distance.   It was just a perfect distance for my 5‑wood.   Hit it, missed it and it went in the water.   Took a drop and then holed from 45 yards off the pin for birdie.   So that was an unexpected birdie. 
I was disappointed to hit it in the water because after that good drive, it felt like really easy to birdie, and then it end up feeling like an eagle almost. 

Q.   I know we've said it often enough, but however well you're playing, you do need a little bit of luck in this game sometimes, don't you, and sort of puff your chest out and think things are going your way. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, competition is very hard and lots of good players.   Everyone can score very low around here, so you need a little bit of luck and I got my fair bit of luck.

Q.   When you followed it up with back‑to‑back birdies, did you think this could be a very good score today?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I didn't want to think on any score.   I just wanted to keep playing, keep playing one shot at a time.   I gave myself a few more chances.   Coming to the next few holes, had a mistake on No. 6 which I 3‑putt and then I end up bogey No. 8.   But I would have taken 5‑under at the start of the day.

Q.   Excited into the weekend, or staying matter of fact? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, yeah, excited because I'm in a good position.   I'm in a place where I want to be.   I feel comfortable.   I've been playing good.   I feel things are going my way.   Hard work is paying off, so looking forward, but just aware that it's only been two days.   There's still a lot of golf to play and we will see what happens. 

Q.   Fantastic score.   Obviously 12‑under par.   You must be pleased, but did you leave a few out there? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, I mean, yes, I'm pleased with the score.   I mean, I do feel like the score could have been a little better especially after being 13‑under and seven holes to play.   I didn't play so good on the last few holes.   Made a few sloppy swings but nothing really to worry about.   Just take it that I got my chances earlier in the round, I made the mistakes in the end and that's the way it works sometimes.

Q.   Tell us how good the greens are out there once you get that ball rolling. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   The greens this morning were rolling really, really good.   The hole looked very big.   I know if I start it on line, it was impossible to leave it short.   The ball will always have enough pace to get to the hole, so it was really fun out there.

Q.   You're a winner on Tour, winner of the Dubai Desert Classic.   You shot 60 in the last round to win in Austria.   You've been knocking on the door.   How come you haven't got over the line of late? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, I mean, I don't know, I think on some occasions, I've been a little unfortunate.   On other occasions, just competition is very hard.   Other people have just out played me and other times I've made some mistakes, which I've learned from them.   Hopefully putting the pieces together, and maybe this week, we'll see.

Q.   Aggressive golf over the weekend, or are you going to play conservative?   What's the plan?   Are you going to stay in front? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   No, I have nothing to be conservative about.   This course is very scorable.   There are tons of great players here and they are all asking as I am to try to take the trophy home.   I'm just going to try to keep playing the same way I've been playing.   If that is aggressive, that is aggressive.   If it comes to the point where I need to play a little bit smarter, I'll try to do that, but at the moment, just keep playing the way I've been doing.

Q.   Your sister is here watching you.   Is she a good luck charm?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, she is.   I finished runner‑up with her last year here, so why not one better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT