BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about that round today?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, very pleased obviously.   A great score anywhere.   I felt I played good.   I've been playing good the last couple weeks and I'm feeling good with my game.   Today I managed to ‑‑ after the week off I had, still play some really good golf. 
Today the difference maybe was I think I putted very good, especially on the back nine, I rolled a lot of putts, really long one, as well.   So I think that made the difference.

Q.   It it's not easy when you take a week off to keep the momentum going.   What did you get up to last week?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, a busy week.   I had five weeks on the road straight for me with just one week off between Switzerland and the Canary Islands.   So not much time to do much of anything but a little bit of everything.

Q.   What was particularly impressive you, got off to a shocking start.   What happened on the first? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I think there's something wrong on the board.   I missed a short one for birdie on the first, lipped‑out for par on the second but then after that, just played good golf. 
Had a good stretch of holes, 5, 6 and 7, which I managed to birdie all of them, and then after that, just solid golf, no real mistakes, not putting myself into much trouble, always putting for birdie and putting good today and some of them dropping.

Q.   13, 14, 15, talk us through that. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   13, I hit a great drive.   Second shot wasn't great but still gave myself a reasonable, about 10‑, 12‑footer, a chance for birdie, which I stroke really good and it went in, and gave me a little bit of confidence. 
14 and 15, they were tough holes.   You always want to hit the fairway.   I hit a really good drive on 14 and then a good second shot, and then maybe about a 15‑, 20‑footer that went in.   I missed the fairway on 15 but managed to, the ball was okay in the rough.   Hit a decent shot to the green and rolled the putt beautifully.   Putting is what really helped me score today.

Q.   The greens are fantastic, aren't they?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, the greens are good.   It's a great surface to roll on.   If they stay hard, then the ball can roll really good and today I managed to see the lines and my stroke was good and I'm confident and took advantage of it. 

Q.   Thoughts on the 65 to start?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Obviously very pleased.   I played good today.   I've been playing good the last couple weeks.   Always a little bit tricky because you want to keep the momentum going, but I had a week off last week, so really pleased to come out here on the course and play good again.

Q.   I appreciate you came mightily close in this tournament last year, though that was a different course.   But essentially the setup seems to favour you, doesn't it? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, I've also played good on this course before.   I think 2011 or 2012, I finished third.   I've had other decent performances here, as well.   Also missed the cut a few times but it's still a course that I like. 
And obviously BMW does a fantastic job every year.   The setup and the atmosphere on this tournament is very, very special and it's only Thursday, and it felt like a weekend almost with really big crowds out there.   It's nice, and it helps you get in the zone and it worked for me today.

Q.   Elaborate on that.   You tend to thrive on that position, don't you, and you're getting very used to it once again. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   At the moment I'm just feeling good in my game.   I don't think there are any major flaws.   Of course I don't do everything perfect every day, absolutely.   But at the moment, I'm very confident.   I'm not struggling with any major things, and just enjoy myself out there, forgetting about the score; just focusing on the shot I need to hit.   I'm really happy that I can be doing it properly.

Q.   And are you proud of yourself that the way that you are keeping going, taking it on the chin, if you like, having had a couple disappointments? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, golf, it's like that.   I've been very close this year two times very recently, and one last year in Dubai which was a bit hard.   I just have to suck it up and just keep trying.   I know if I keep knocking on the door, sooner or later, it will open. 
So I'll just keep trying my best every week.   The game is good and I know I can play really good, and doing that, I know I can do it and I'm going to try to keep doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT