DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We'll put it to you that you are the first man, the only man, to have a bogey‑free round around here.   So how did you manage that?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Okay.   Well, a little bit of luck obviously.   I played pretty good.   I didn't put myself in many bogey positions but I do remember holing two 10, 12‑footers for par a couple times, so that was just the little bit of lucky needed to finish bogey‑free.   But besides those two holes, the rest was pretty steady.   I was obviously most of the times on the green, not getting to any trouble off the tee or anything.   So just really, really pleased of how I managed myself out there, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I take it you feel proud of yourself because it shows control in the application, doesn't it?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I feel proud of myself for the score, not for the bogey‑free, I don't really care so much.   If I got a bogey, that's still a good score.   I'm playing good.   I've enjoyed these past two days despite the weather has been on/off all the time.   But I enjoy coming back to play links golf, so try to hit many, many different type of shots as the course demands and allows for it.   I've been having a bit of fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy the challenge that it offers, the creativity?   It's different to when you play most weeks?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, it's different to what I play most weeks.   Plus I think the change from parkland golf to links golf at the moment my game was throughout the year, has been good.   Struggling a little bit through the year.   Really feeling I'm not playing bad but just not being able to score.   
Last week I had the worst week of the year, so I didn't really‑‑ I think that coming here and play a course that there's not just one way to play it; that every single hole, you can play it ten different ways, it has helped me a little bit.   It has helped me a little bit on the fact that I am not like trying to do one particular thing.   I'm just going out there and seeing many possibilities and many ways, so I'm just enjoying that, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT