COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 21, 2015
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Obviously minus six today, very pleased, happy the way I played, and looking forward to tomorrow and the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Everything working right from the word go.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, I started off all right.   I made my first birdie at the 12th, hit a good shot there.   Just played good.   
Really the only serious bogey chance was on 11 that I holed a long putt for par.   But besides that, it was always trying to subtract instead of saving par.  
Had a good stretch through 16, and all the way through 2, which for me the are birdie holes, 16, 17, 18, 1 and 2 where you can go low, and I managed to do that with three birdies there, and just kept playing solid till I got home.   
   
 Q.   Alejandro said the two of you fed off each other.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Absolutely.   He birdied and I birdied straight back after him.   It was nice to see my colleague going well, and we both helped each other, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I take it you go back some distance through junior golf.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Very long distance.   We met since he was 12 and I was 11 or something like that.   
   
 Q.   I've got to ask about, the last time we saw you was Dubai and it didn't work out.   Did it take a little while to get over that?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   It was obviously a hard finish.   I think I was probably pretty sad, five or ten minutes that I have to live on the course.   It's all part of experience.   I think it was a little cruel; I didn't feel really that I did not much wrong to get penalised that harsh, but golf is like that sometimes.     
I have to take the positives of it:   In a world‑class field I was leading with three holes to go, and I know if I did it once, I can do it again and if I put myself in that position again, hopefully instead of the ball kicking left, it will go the proper way.   
   
 Q.   Did you want to get straight back out and put things right, or were you kind of happy to take that little break and collect your thoughts?  
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, I mean, we were just looking forward to the break after.   That's a big tournament.   It's the culmination of our year for most of us, so we were looking forward to the break.   
But had the calendar been set different, if I had to play in two weeks' time or something like that, it's not the first disappointment‑‑ unfortunately it's not the first disappointment I've had on the golf course.   I wish it were the last but I don't think it's going to be the last, either.   It's part of the way golf is and also part of the beauty; that anything can happen until really the last minute.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT