BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on 12‑under? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I'm pleased with my score but more pleased with the way I played.   I felt I played really solid today.   Was a little unlucky coming down the last few holes but overall pleased with minus four, yes.

Q.   The double? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO: Just a combination of several thins of bad luck.   I hit a really good drive and ended up on a slightly downhill lie and right in between my 3‑iron and 5‑wood distance and tried to hit a low cut 5‑wood and ended up pulling it a little bit. 
When I got there it was a really, really nasty lie.   I was trying to get it to bump out, pitch three or four metres short of green and see if it will trickle on to the green and I ended up hitting it twice and that was a bogey instead of a more likely par, yes.

Q.   Thankfully doesn't happen all that often but when it does, you're aware of it immediately. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, yeah, I was aware of it immediately.   I knew I had hit it twice and I told my teammates that had been the case.   It's just something that you have to put up with.   It's bad luck.   It can happen to anyone at any time.   At least it happened on the second round and not on the final day.   Fingers crossed hopefully it won't happen on the final day.

Q.   Playing alongside Danny Willett you have made it this little nice two‑horse race. 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, it's been nice playing with him.   He obviously definitely likes this course and knows how to play this course, as well, and it's been nice watching him play good.

Q.   Does it help the focus as well, knowing the fellow leader is alongside you jockeying for position?
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, it's still too early.   We had a great game and it's the popularity of this tournament that the leader and the co‑leader were playing together, which on Thursday and Friday, that's very unlikely for it to happen.   It's just more fun. 
We were playing alongside Ross, as well, who is a lovely guy, and he was playing good, too.   So it was definitely a very nice three ball, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT