BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good was it to finish with a birdie, after what had happened just prior to that?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO: Well, it's always good to finish with a birdie.   It puts a smile on your face.   Yeah, today, it's been a little roller coaster round with some great stuff and some things not so good.   
The course was playing much tougher today.   The wind definitely picked up.   It was swirling a lot, and with the bit of rain that we got, it made the rough heavier and the greens, it was harder to read and definitely the ball was skidding.   Overall the playing conditions were much tougher today.   
   
 Q.   Yet that's Wentworth, pretty much what we expect around here?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, absolutely.   If the wind picks up, you want to close your eyes and hopefully get it right because of all the trees, it's going to swirl, and it's just part of the charm and magic of this course, yes.   
   
 Q.   I know things didn't quite work out in Spain last week but essentially do you feel on top of your game, because the results have been so good.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, last week, I started off good.   I just had a horrible weekend, not to mention about Sunday in particular.   But, hey, that was just one round.   It was a tough course.   
The Spanish Open is always a week we push ourselves a little harder because we want to do good in front of our crowds, and in the end, if things are not coming out your way, there is a little extra frustration.   So it's just a round to forget.   
Just come here, do your job.   My game is good.   I have confidence in it.   I trust myself, so just come out here and enjoy.   Yesterday I did it great.   Today I did it okay.   Hopefully tomorrow I can do it great again.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you're good about brushing things to one side like last Sunday and just get on with things.   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yeah, absolutely.   We have all shot great rounds and then horrible rounds after.   Hey, why not do it the other way around, it always feels nicer.   So what happens one day doesn't correlate to it's necessarily going to happen the next day.   That's the way I look at the game, and it works for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT