OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 28, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO: Well, the front nine was a little up‑and‑down.   I played very good.   I just missed a couple tee shots and the rough found‑‑ my ball in the rough was pretty hard so I just had to pretty much chip back out to the fairway.   Because of the water I couldn't attempt to get any closer to the green.  
But the rest I played good, I putted very good.   Lots of chances, on the back nine, I didn't hit it great off the tee but managed to get away with it.   
   
 Q.   What was the distance of 18?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   I had about, I think it was eight‑foot putt for birdie.   But I over‑read it.   I know it was a very fast putt, so I was just going to really dive into the hole and I over read it.   So got a little too quick, was a little anxious to see it go in and didn't hit it good and over read it.   
This is just a bonus, this is just a fun thing that we do and it's been very, very fun.  
   
 Q.   Good confidence leading into Thursday?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, of course, everything adds up, but I've been working on my confidence lately and even before I got here, I'm just playing good and I'm playing a bit better than at the end of last year, even though I felt last year I was also playing good.   I'm just managing to score.   That's something I for got how to do last year, I wasn't able to score good.   But this year, I'm missing in the right spots and my short game is a bit sharper and putting has improved, so I am making fewer mistakes and I'm making more putts for birdies.  
   
 Q.   What is it about the Spanish players doing so well in the gulf swing?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Myself or any of the other Spanish players, we all feel very comfortable here.   We are all from Spain and obviously warm weather over there.   We enjoy playing in short sleeves.   Everyone likes this one, especially here like Seve and Ollie and Miguel and Alvaro and myself have won.   It's a very good atmosphere and we all have good stories going around here so it's a positive surroundings us.   
In The Desert Swing it's been unbelievable, Pablo winning in Abu Dhabi and Sergio last week and myself and other guys playing good.   Hopefully we can make a real Spanish hat trick.   
   
 Q.   What about the course conditions?   
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Course condition is excellent, the greens are very, very pure.   They are hard and really fast and then the rest is set up very fair, very nice, and it's going to be a fantastic, fantastic event.   The course is excellent shape.   It's formally very good, but this year I think it's even‑‑ it's just slightly bit better than what it normally is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT