COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2014
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   It's definitely been tougher today.   The wind has picked up.   It's made everything a bit more difficult. 
Overall, I didn't think I played that bad.   I'm a little bit disappointed for not having to keep a couple shots ahead of the pack like I started the day.   I felt I had a moment that I could have if I maybe would have sunk the putt at the 12th for birdie, but I played didn't.   On the back nine, didn't quite make the birdie putts as I did yesterday, but overall, I couldn't have won it today.   It would have been obviously nicer to be a few shots ahead from everybody tomorrow but it hasn't worked out that way.   I'm still on top of the leaderboard and still people need to try to catch me. 
If tomorrow I manage to do the same thing as today, then at least I'll get into a playoff, so overall I cannot be unsatisfied.

Q.   Were you conscious of being three strokes clear at one stage? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Yes, there's plenty of leaderboards out there, and I did see I was three shots ahead but I know there was still lots of golf to play, and anything could happen.   I know there are some birdies out there at the last few holes.   Maybe 18 was playing a bit tougher with today's pin position, but it was still birdieable with the approach.   I don't know, just gave myself a few chances, just didn't quite manage to make them:
I still felt I played okay.   Just didn't manage to score as good.   I hit a few good shots out there.   It was tougher today with the wind.   Didn't quite make the birdie putts, and then struggled a bit chipping.   But, hey, overall, I got the not so good round out of the way, and I'm still in a fantastic position approaching tomorrow.   So really looking forward to the day. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the leaderboard, a lot of guys right in contention, how do you approach a day like that? 
RAFA CABRERA‑BELLO:   Well, anything can happen.   It doesn't really matter if you're leading or two or three back.   We have seen really low rounds around this course.   I don't know what tomorrow's day is going to look like weather‑wise, might be windy, might not, I have no clue but it's going to be very interesting, because a lot of good players, a lot of them are up there and for myself, I guess they know I need to be aggressive and I need to play good to try to win, and hopefully I can play as good as I did the first two days and hopefully that will be enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT