NEW ENGLAND MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 27, 2017
Jay Heaps
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 2, New England - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. A tough one tonight.  Your thoughts on this one overall, considering those opening 15, 20 minutes, how it unfolded from there.
JAY HEAPS: I thought the first half wasn't pretty, but we were able to bend, not break.  Just really disappointed in how we came out to start the second half.  We did so much to make it hard on them, we gifted them a goal.
A team like the Red Bulls who are fighting, trying, you give them a goal, their energy and their positivity goes up.
I thought after the goal we showed better stuff after it was 1-1.  Finally started to play.  Thought first half we didn't play enough.  Second half we did.  The second goal wasn't the best thing.  I think we could have defended a little bit better on that goal.
To lose 2-1 I think is a bit harsh, but at the same time they made the plays when they needed to.
Q. You had to make a few changes today.  One of the changes you made was to get Koffie (indiscernible) on the field.  What was it they did for you?
JAY HEAPS: I thought last game they really came in and had a good partnership.  I thought they had a great partnership tonight.  Very difficult to break through.  I thought they were, again, really good tonight.  I thought they covered three, four guys, break up plays, read the game, good with the ball.
Unfortunately still bringing Koffie along for fitness.  But I thought Scottie went in and did a great job.  It's good to have those three guys all in contention.
Q. You had to make the two changes on the back line, London and JeVaughn.  Both those guys can play those positions.
JAY HEAPS: London has definitely been a lot more center back for us.  Very comfortable getting him in.  Actually I thought London and (indiscernible) had a really good game together.
I thought with JeVaughn, we wanted to have a little bit more speed moving forward, trying to get on the attack.  Unfortunately, I don't think he was able to get forward as much.
Q. (Question regarding their supporters traveling.)
JAY HEAPS: Look, the crowd was excellent.  I heard our fans the entire game.  You could see them.  Just amazing, amazing tribute to our team that fans would come down here Memorial Day weekend, bus down here, give it all.
Look, I think our guys laid it on the line for our supporters.  Not one guy out there that didn't leave it all on the line, particularly toward the end of that game.  I just thought everyone was blocking shots, laying on the ground, trying to get the next goal to tie.
I know the crowd was disappointed with the result, but hope they could appreciate the effort the players put out.
Q. Unique two-game road trip.  You're staying here in New York.  How does the team prepare for Wednesday?
JAY HEAPS: Too much travel on our legs, so we're going to rest, relax over the next day or two, recover, train in the area, get ourselves reset.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT