CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2014
Yan Bai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/Y. Bai
      6‑3, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What were your thoughts before the game about facing the US Open champion? 
    YAN BAI:   Actually my thoughts are simple.   I like to play my rhythm, my form.   My thoughts was not complicated before the match. 

Q.   Did the fan support help you on the court with everybody cheering you on? 
    YAN BAI:   The support is huge.   When I made the errors, they cheered for me.   I thought I can win. 
    I would like to say thank you to my fans on the court. 

Q.   How were you able to fight off so many breakpoints against Cilic?
    YAN BAI:   Before the match I watched his performance at the US Open, so I know his form and performance.   I played with him during the practice.   So during the match I can think about his form and performance. 
    But what a pity I did not win this match. 

Q.   You started off well.   You went serve for serve with the US Open champ for the first six games.   Then Cilic won the next three.   What changed in that first set? 
    YAN BAI:   I think at the current level my opponent is imposing the pressure on me to play Marin Cilic.   He can make a lot of changes according to my return. 
    I could feel the pressure for a long period of time.   I could not keep focused on the court because the situation on court has changed all the time. 
    After the six games, he changed a lot.   His serve gave me a lot of pressure.   So there are ups and downs in my serve. 

Q.   You almost broke Cilic a few times, but you came up 0‑4.   Why weren't you able to be successful on those breakpoints?
    YAN BAI:   In the end I did not win this match, but I fight my way to the end.   In terms of my serve, it is quite good, especially my second serve.   I can give him a lot of pressure.   So I think it's quite good. 
    In the end it was a little bit pity.   His serve has changed a little bit.   I cannot return those shots because they're close to my body. 

Q.   As for this match, did you play your best? 
    YAN BAI:   I think it is 100% play and performance.   Because of my injuries for a long time I could not compete at this top level.   I tried my best at the lower level. 
    As for this chance, I would like to try to play my best 100% on court.   I think I make it. 

Q.   Several years ago in Shanghai you played Andy Murray.   This time you played Cilic, although you lost.   Compared to that match in Shanghai several years ago, what is the change?
    YAN BAI:   Actually, for these two players, their forms and rhythms are different, so it's hard for me to compare these two players. 
    As for me, I like the style of those professional tennis players.   In Shanghai that year I was quite defensive on court.   I was quite passive.   But right now I'm more aggressive, close to the style of professional tennis players. 
    I hope that I can play better in the near future. 

Q.   Can you tell us about your coach and your plans for the future. 
    YAN BAI:   Right now I do not have a coach. 

Q.   You train yourself?
    YAN BAI:   Yes, I train by myself.   I do not have the coach.   I train by myself. 
    As for this year, I am struggling with the injury.   So for this year I returned to the action at the very beginning of this year.   I focused on the physical training and physical rehabilitation and recovery.   So right now I will not try to find a coach for me. 

Q.   You are seen as a talented tennis player right now.   You are 25 years old.   How about your body condition?   What is your goal and dream?
    YAN BAI:   I think my dream and goal has remained unchanged, just like those from my childhood.   Before the retirement, my goal and my target will remain unchanged. 

Q.   What is your dream? 
    YAN BAI:   In the past I had my dream.   Actually I said before.   Right now I hope that I can play well step by step.   Right now my ranking is about 400.   By the end of this year I hope I can reach top 400, then the next year top 100. 
    In the past I may daydream that I would like to make it into the top 10 in the world.   Right now I would like to have the short‑term goals and objectives.   I would like to reach my final goal step by step, top 100. 

Q.   Yesterday I interviewed Cilic.   He knew you quite well.   Maybe you have some interpersonal relationship. 
    YAN BAI:   Actually we know each other several years ago in Shanghai during the Masters competition.   His coach, Bob, and my boss, Mr. Wong, they know each other very well.   So in private we talked with each other. 
    His coach would actually like to help me.   But what a pity, we did not have this cooperation.   Actually, I knew Marin very early. 

Q.   Do you have any regret in your professional career, maybe you could have done better, because of injuries or... 
    YAN BAI:   Of course I have some regrets.   In the past I was young.   Several years ago I was a little bit lazy.   I may think of a lot of other things apart from tennis. 
    But right now I focus on tennis, the performance on court, and anything related to tennis.   So over the past two years I do not have any regrets.   I'm very happy to get back to the courts, be it a loss or a win.   There's no regret.   In the future, I think I can play better and better with no regret. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT