SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Yan Bai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/Y. Bai
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Could you comment on the game today. 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) For a certain period of time in today's game, I think I gave him some pressure. But he's really very strong. Especially when I have a lot of opportunities, he showed me his aggressiveness. I don't have any chances. 

 Q. Yesterday you said that today is also a good opportunity to learn from highly ranked players. What did you learn? What is the biggest gap between you and Andy?
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) I did learn a lot of things today. I think the gap is fairly obviously in terms of the physical conditioning and the tactics that we use. 
 I think there is big room for me to improve. 

 Q. This is the first time that you played on center court. You said yesterday you felt a little dizzy. Were you feeling dizzy today? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Yes, I did feel a little bit dizzy at the very beginning, but I adjusted myself in the first game. 
 But I think I am a little bit slow getting myself into the game. That's why I am passive. 

 Q. What's the difference between playing with Andy and yesterday playing with Radek? What's the difference between these two players which led to the different performances today? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Well, if you look at the ranking, Andy is a little bit more stronger. I think their tactics are different. I think Andy gave me more pressure. So when I had the ball, I had to think more, otherwise I would be very passive. Therefore, I really felt the pressure which led to me making a lot of unforced errors, so he won the games pretty easily. 

 Q. He had 80% first serves. You had only 50%. Is this the biggest gap technically? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Yes, I think the biggest gap between the two of us is our serves, how I receive the ball. Yes, I can feel that there is a big gap between the two of us technically. 

 Q. Both you and Andy are tall and thin. You said there is also a gap between you and Andy in physical conditioning. He exercised a lot over the past several years to increase muscles. Do you also have that plan? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) I haven't thought about that. But I think I will talk to my physio and trainer. 
 It's not that it's better to always improve the physical condition. Being appropriate or suitable is the most important thing. 

 Q. You said yesterday your game today would be a good learning opportunity. What have you learned and what does your performance over the last two days say about male tennis as it gets better? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Generally speaking, I think the male players in China are getting better. In the game, I learned a lot. For example, how I can control the whole game, how I treat critical points, and how I can have different types of attacks rather than only have one type of attack. 
 Generally speaking, I think this is a very good opportunity for me to learn. I think I will watch the video frequently afterwards. But I think this is a mutual opportunity for both of us to learn from each other.

 Q. I didn't see the technical parameters afterwards. I think in today's match in terms of the place that the ball hits the ground, in terms of the speed of the ball, you're not as inferior. 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Personally, I think there are still gaps. Superficially if you look at the place with the ball hits, maybe you don't think there is a big gap. However, when the ball hits the ground, I can feel the ball is very strong so I have to expend a lot of effort to get the ball back. That consumed a lot of energy. 
 That's why you may think all balls seem similar, but I think that the quality of his balls are much higher than mine. 

 Q. Other Chinese players think they don't have a big gap between themselves and the top players in the world, but you think you have a lot of gaps with those top players. 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Well, maybe our understanding to tennis is different. Actually, I really hope that I can see the difference between myself and top players. I think it's down to a different understanding of tennis. 

 Q. Your ranking is 465, but you had a win yesterday. How high will your ranking be? Next year what ranking do you want to have? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) I haven't thought about that. The ranking has been increasing, but I didn't pay much attention to the numbers. I really hope that I can have a great career in playing tennis, pay attention to how I can play tennis better. 
 Talking about next year, I hope that after the winter training I will have more thoughts about my plans for next year. 

 Q. You talked about your game. Andy is regarded as the master of tactics. After today's match, did you think you have learned something from Andy? 
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) Yeah, definitely there is a gap between the two of us, but I don't think it's a bigger difference. Our rankings, of course, are very different. 
 Generally speaking, his arrangement will make myself a little bit fragmented in my tactics. If I can be given more time, I will try to work harder to be closer to their level. I think that I will try to be able to get closer to their level of tennis. 

 Q. What do you think needs to be changed in the development process for players to make that extra leap?
 YAN BAI: (Through translation.) I think that the tennis, especially male players in China, are still in the beginning stage. We don't have a lot of experiences. None of us have experienced such high levels of matches in tournaments. We don't have a lot of exposure. 
 But I hope that with our own efforts gradually we can know how we can develop better in this sport. Also overseas coaches and players to learn more about how professional tennis is like and hopefully all of us in China will have a great career in the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT