ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2014
Jaume Antoni Munar Clar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RUBLEY/J.Munar Clar
      6‑2, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like you had an a little bit of a slow start in the first set, and then a big fight in the second set.   Do you feel you got started maybe a little late in the match?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   It was difficult.   The opponent was playing really good tennis in the start of the match.   I think I was playing not bad, but some kind of tactics was not so good.  
    Feeling better during the match, and then in the second set I think I had my chances.   He was better and he won.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you learned from the experience of playing in this final at a Grand Slam?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   It's incredible experience, no?   It's incredible experience, no?   It's a different experience as normal matches.   
    I know he's like fighting every day.   I try my best; I didn't did it.   
    Next time hold together.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel you've learned something from this to take to like Wimbledon and other tournaments?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   It's different.   I think this tournament is different.   Because it's a Grand Slam, the crowd ‑‑ not normal for me to be like 1000 people watching me.   It was a really good experience.  
    But really strange when you are playing like the people is clapping his hands and I am like, Where I am?   
   
 Q.   So a thousand, but like when you get to the pros, you're probably going to have 10,000, 15,000.   Do you like the feeling of a big crowd?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   Yeah, I love big crowds.   I love to play important matches like was today.  
    And nothing.   Just hope to be here next year and won.  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish.   
   
 Q.   You already explained this in English, but can you tell us what you learned from this tournament and how this will help you build confidence for the rest of the season?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   Over the last few months my confidence has increased.   I am starting to play my best level.   
    I have improved over the last few years, and I think I have improved continuously.   
    However, today I fell in a trap.   I started very slow at the beginning of this match.   Next time I will try and do better.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday we asked a question to Rafa about you, and he said that maybe you need to start playing futures.   You said the same thing yesterday.   But now you've reached a final, so is this encouraging you to start playing futures?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   Well, I think that this is a perfect practice for me to progress and decide and play professional tournaments.  
    But it's true that these tournaments are far more difficult, much tougher.   But I need to address this question and start playing big tournaments.  
    I'm so happy I can play a Grand Slams as a junior.  
   
 Q.   How do you balance your life as a student and your life as a tennis player?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   I'm 17, so I need to continue my studies at least till I'm 18.   It's very important.   And anyway, at home they wouldn't let me do otherwise.   
    I clearly need to finish my studies.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to study?  
    JAUME ANTONI MUNAR CLAR:   Science.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT