WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Shenay Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  How nervous were you out there? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I was really nervous.  I think it showed in my match.  I've never been in that situation before and, you know, I was pretty nervous.  But, you know, I feel okay right now. 

 Q.  If you played again the match, how would you play differently, if you could do it again? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I mean, hopefully I would go out and not be as nervous.  I would have liked to have served a lot better.  She played really well - very, very well.  She's very experienced and obviously a top player.  I would have liked to have served a lot better and probably hit my forehand a lot better than I did. 

 Q.  How did you handle the last-American-in-the-draw situation? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Uhm, you know, first couple days I didn't really pay attention, or yesterday I didn't really pay attention to it.  I think it got to me a little bit. 
 You know, I didn't handle it as well as I would have liked to.  But, I mean, just taking it... 

 Q.  What could you have done? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Could have I done? 

 Q.  It's there. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Yeah, I mean, not too much I could do about it.  Just go out and play. 

 Q.  When you were sort of acknowledging being nervous earlier, what was the main source of the nerves?  Was it the opponent, the fact that you're in the second week, the only American? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I mean, I think it's a lot of factors. 

 Q.  Yeah, lot of things. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Can't pinpoint one of them. 
 But, I mean, it's natural to be nervous.  It's just another step that I have to get over.  I mean, I've accomplished something good for myself and, you know, I can't take that away from myself.  It's just another hump I'll get over and I'll get over it as soon as I leave here. 

 Q.  Did your family have a chance to come over? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  No, I mean, I talked to my mom and dad.  If I had won this match, they would have come over.  No one's here with me. 

 Q.  What did they tell you, if you don't mind saying, when you spoke to them? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I mean, it was a normal conversation.  My parents, we just talk about normal things.  You know, obviously they're very proud of me.  My entire family as well. 
 It was just normal.  We didn't really talk about tennis, just how they were doing and how I was doing. 

 Q.  Any thoughts on why it is that you were the last American standing, amongst the men and women?  Any thoughts on American tennis as a whole, maybe where the development is? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  No.  I have no comment on that. 

 Q.  Can you talk about how, you know, you hope the success you had here and the French, you can build on it. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I mean, hopefully I have a good summer.  If anyone would have told me I would have had this much success coming into this trip, I probably would have laughed.  But, uhm, I mean, I'm pretty happy with myself.  I accomplished a lot on such a short notice, with me coming over to the French. 
 So, you know, I'm just happy with that.  I mean, I was a little disappointed when I left before I came here.  But now that I'm thinking about it, I'm really happy with myself. 

 Q.  Are you in the doubles draw? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  No, I lost -- we lost Thursday or Friday, first round doubles, yeah. 

 Q.  Was there anything coming into this trip that felt different for you at all in terms of where you felt your game was, that this was gonna happen? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  No.  I mean, I just came over just, you know -- I think everybody comes over expecting to do their best and, you know, I expected to do pretty decent.  I didn't expect to do this well.  I'm pretty happy with my results. 

 Q.  On the plus side, is this your biggest payday? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Yeah, it is. 

 Q.  What are you gonna do with the money? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Save it.  I think you asked me that before.  Just save. 

 Q.  But there's more of it now. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  There's more of it, but there's more to save, so... 

 Q.  When did you actually find out you were the last American?  Did someone tell you that on Saturday? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  After Andy lost. 

 Q.  Somebody came up and told you that, or you figured it out? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I think everyone told me that, yeah. 

 Q.  As an American player, do you feel like you've been well-supported by the USTA and other developmental programs? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Yeah, I do.  I'm working with the USTA now.  So they're supporting me really well.  I love my coach that I'm working with.  And they came out here and they supported me during all of my matches this week.  So I feel pretty supported with USTA right now. 

 Q.  Who are you working with? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Ola Malmqvist.  Swedish guy. 

 Q.  You're one of the few people that dare to come to the net these days.  Does that surprise you, you're one of the few to actually try it? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Well, I make some attempts. 
 But, no, I mean, I think I would like to work on my net game a lot more.  I'm starting to feel more comfortable coming to the net off of serve, and I still feel like my position is not great.  So I think that's something when I go home that I need to work on. 

 Q.  Your usual aggression really wasn't there today, was it?  You weren't playing your aggressive game. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Right. 

 Q.  You weren't playing the kind of calculated, risky tennis you normally play out there.  Why not? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Well, if I could explain to you how nervous I was, I don't think anyone, you know, could, you know, feel how I felt on the court.  I think it's easier looking in saying that I wasn't aggressive. 
 But, me, I mean, I know I can play to my potential.  Today wasn't there.  She played really well.  Not too much I can do about it. 

 Q.  What do you think your potential is?  How high do you see yourself going? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I mean, obviously after this trip I feel like, you know, I can play with some of the top girls.  Obviously, didn't show it today.  But, uhm, in my mind, I really don't care what anybody else thinks.  I feel like, you know, I'm making progress, so that's all that really counts right now. 

 Q.  And have Venus or Serena been helpful in any way or not really? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  I don't know them that -- too well personally.  So can't really answer that for you. 

 Q.  I'm from Washington, DC.  Do you mind just speaking a bit about how you came to play the game in DC. 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Uhm, well, my dad, my parents grew up in DC.  My dad used to play.  I think I started around four.  I can't really remember when I started playing, at four.  And then I guess I just kept playing from there.  So I would just go with him when he would just go play recreationally.  I would pick it up. 

 Q.  Just as far as nerves are concerned, you're going out there against the No. 7 seed with nothing to lose.  Was it the occasion that got to you?  Why were you so nervous? 
 SHENAY PERRY:  Like I said, I can't explain why I was nervous.  It's just -- I mean, I can't explain it.  It's a position I haven't been in before.  I think when anyone's in a position that they're thrown into for the first time, and being the last American, it is a little nerve-wracking.  So, you know, the only thing I can say about it, that I'm glad with what I accomplished.  Looking back on it now, I'm not holding my head down because I was too nervous to play a fourth round Wimbledon match.  So, yeah. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT