THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Paul Jubb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. SOUSA/P. Jubb   
6-0, 6-3, 6-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was that like?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, obviously a great experience.  One to definitely learn from.  Yeah, I think that's the main thing, just learning from the experience, just trying to get better and move on.   
 Q.  Was that sort of nerves in the first set, kind of adjusting to everything?  How proud are you of the way you managed to grow into the match?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I think definitely obviously some nerves.  Yeah, I obviously didn't give myself the best start possible, which then makes it tough to then obviously start playing good tennis.   
But, yeah, I was happy -- proud of the way, like, it was just important to keep working, do what you can, even if you're not feeling great.  You just got to keep fighting, working, competing, seeing if you can get yourself into the match, which I kind of did.   
Yeah, wasn't the best start obviously.   
 Q.  How do you feel having your family, particularly your grandmother, on the sidelines watching and cheering you on at Wimbledon?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I was just more happy for them, getting to watch me play at Wimbledon.  Yeah, it's just a really nice thing.  They've all told me how proud they are and things like that.  Yeah, it's just really nice.   
 Q.  Someone had to leave halfway through to get back up to Hull.  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I saw at one point.  I could see my uncle there.  Yeah, they've left because they told me earlier, obviously they've got to go back at some point, so...   
Yeah, I knew they would be going back at some point.   
 Q.  What was it like having to play a fourth set out there?  I'm guessing most of your tennis so far has been best-of-three sets.  Physically did that take its toll a bit in the fourth?  
PAUL JUBB: A little bit.  I think just more for the fact that I've played, like, five or six weeks straight anyway leading up to this.  The body was tired anyway.   
I think definitely it was good that I played so much before that, because obviously it's been a good buildup.  I definitely don't think it's anything I should struggle with in the future.  Hopefully I'm fresh going into the tournaments.   
But, yeah, the body was already a bit tired going into it.   
 Q.  Any frustration that you won't be able to access the prize money straightaway?  What would you do if you had that sum of money?  
PAUL JUBB: I still haven't, like, fully got by that.  There should be many more opportunities in the future hopefully.  If I keep progressing, hopefully the way I am, I'll hopefully be here and the other Grand Slams without a wild card, on my own ranking.   
Hopefully I can just keep progressing, getting better, then there will be more opportunities to earn money in the future.  Short-term it's obviously not great, but I'm not too worried about that, you know.   
 Q.  What did you know about Sousa?  How did you prepare for this specific match?  What did he tell you in the end?  
PAUL JUBB: I obviously knew he was a really good competitor.  He likes to search for his forehand a lot.  Yeah, I think he uses the inside-out and the forehand line very well.  Moves out into the channel line.   
I think it was just more so trying to bring myself to the table today.  I didn't quite do that.  Definitely far from the level what I wanted to put out there.  I'd have liked to trouble him a bit more.   
At the end, yeah, he just said, obviously a tough match, well done.  Just keep working hard.  Obviously good enough to be with these guys.  So, yeah, he just said keep working hard, which is nice.  I told him, Good luck in the next round.   
 Q.  Back to your family, particularly having your grandmother watching you.  She played an important role in raising you.  Can you sum up how much she has influenced you as a person and tennis player?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, very much so.  Like obviously she's played a huge role in my life, being a rock ever since, yeah, I've been four years old.  She's led me in the right direction from day one, which is everything you can ask for.   
Yeah, she means the world.  Yeah, I love her very much.   
 Q.  How much encouragement have you gained for the future from your performance today?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I mean, a lot.  I think the few weeks before this, as well as this, gave me a lot of confidence going forward.  I definitely feel like I belong at this level, definitely can win at this level.  Now it's just obviously tough to jump from one level to the other straightaway.  It's not going to happen straightaway.   
Yeah, I think just the more I play at this level, the more I'll be able to manage the matches.  Once you give these guys an inch, it's not easy to get back in.  There's very little margin at this level.   
Yeah, definitely gained a lot of confidence from the weeks building up to this.  There's some positives to take from this match, for sure.  Just got to learn, that's the most important thing, get better.   
 Q.  Next, am I right you're going to play some professional tournaments before going back to college, is that right?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I'm not going back to college until January.  I'll be playing pro tennis until December.   
 Q.  Do you know where you'll be next?  
PAUL JUBB: Not fully yet.  Still got to decide where I'm going to travel, if I want to go back to the States and play some tournaments there.  But, yeah, still not fully decided on that.   
 Q.  Did you go to YouTube, your coaches told you how to play him?  
PAUL JUBB: A little bit of both, yeah.  As I said before, my main focus was just trying to bring me to the court, trying to do what I normally do well, then go from there.  I don't feel like I was able to do that, which is the disappointing part.  I competed well.   
Yeah, there's a little bit of video, there's a little bit of talking beforehand, just like any other match probably, yeah.   
 Q.  Was there a part of your game over the past few weeks you thought you needed to improve?  Have you been pleasantly surprised how well you match up?  
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I think overall pleasantly surprised.  For the most part I feel very comfortable.  I feel like I can sustain my level.  I've obviously had a lot of success.  But there's some little areas that obviously need cleaning up.  You can always get better obviously.   
Yeah, I think for the most part, like, I'm very happy with the way my game is matching up right now.  But, yeah, obviously just got to go back and keep working hard, get those little things better.   
 Q.  Do you need some time to digest everything that happened?  Must have been a bit of a whirlwind.  
PAUL JUBB: After this I'm for sure, after doubles, take a week or two off to rest the body because it really needs resting.  Playing five, six weeks in a row is not easy.  Yeah, I'll be taking a little break, getting back to it after a week and a half, two weeks or so.   
 Q.  When is your college due to finish?  
PAUL JUBB: I'm going into my last season in January.  Got to figure out how many more classes I've got to take still.  Obviously I'm taking the fall off, from now till December.  I'm still unsure on the dates, actually what year I would finish.   
 Q.  You could be a pro this time next year?  
PAUL JUBB: I don't know how many more classes I've got to take, so I'm not sure.   
 Q.  If you were to do really well for the rest of the year, might you consider going pro before going back to college?  
PAUL JUBB: Obviously my American coach, if I'm doing really well, maybe there's a possibility.  But I'm certainly not feeling like I'm in a rush to go into the pro tour yet.   
Yeah, me and my coach are always talking.  The people around me all want what's best for me.  They're going to tell me the truth.  Yeah, I certainly don't feel like there's a rush to go out on the pro tour just yet.  Got to see how I do from now to December and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT