NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 24, 2019
Paul Jubb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. FRITZ/P. Jubb
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a tough match.  How would you assess it?  Was it a step up?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, definitely.  Just another good match under the belt for more experience, and that's all I'm trying to gain now, yeah.
Q. Taylor, high ranked, two good wins already, what does he do different or better?
PAUL JUBB: He doesn't give much rhythm.  Obviously he serves really well.  Has a huge forehand.  Yeah, he takes a lot of points away from you so there's not much rhythm there.
Q. Are you physically okay?  You seemed to be hobbling a little bit.
PAUL JUBB: It's just been a tough four weeks or whatever.  Yeah, a bit tough on the body, the grass is.  But, yeah, just recovery is key right now.
Q. Okay for Wimbledon?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, yeah.
Q. You were broken four times.  Is that something you want to work on against the bigger opponents?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, it's something where it's good to keep getting better, and it's something that has been a weak part of my game and something I have been trying to get better.  Yeah, definitely.
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about your plans over the next six months to a year?  Maybe turning pro at some point?
PAUL JUBB: Just getting more experience now on the pro tour, playing more matches at this level hopefully.  Yeah, and then right now I'll be going back to college.  That's still my decision.
Q. Going back shortly?
PAUL JUBB: No, I was taking the fall off anyway, so I wasn't going back till January, yeah.
Q. When would you finish up, do you think?
PAUL JUBB: It depends with classes and stuff.  Not sure how many more I've got to take.  I might end up having to go back another semester to finish classes.
Q. On the shorter term, people imagine professional tennis players with their entourages going on to the next tournament, et cetera.  What practically do the next few days hold for you?
PAUL JUBB: Still yet to discuss that, but, yeah, probably just recovery tomorrow.  Won't be doing anything really.  I'll just be relaxing and hopefully the legs will get fresher.  I'll probably go back to London and train some more and prepare for Wimby.
Q. But in terms of the logistics -- because costs presumably are an issue.  Do you have to cancel hotels?  How do you travel around, things like that?
PAUL JUBB: I have been getting trains and stuff just around and stuff.  Yeah, it's been fine.  You have hospitality and stuff here, so the hotels are not -- you're staying in a hotel for free.
Q. But you'll be back on the train up to Wimbledon?
PAUL JUBB: Tomorrow, yeah.
Q. Do you people tend to recognize you the last few weeks?
PAUL JUBB: A little.  A few more people started to recognize me, which is a bit weird (smiling).  But, yeah.
Q. How many press conferences have you done?
PAUL JUBB: Back in the States, they have good media over there, so you do a bit of media.  But not many like this, yeah.
Q. Must be a bit weird to start with, is it?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, yeah.
Q. Wildcards here at Eastbourne and going to Wimbledon.  How have you felt about those wildcards being awarded to you, and how have the last few weeks felt?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, just really grateful.  Just make the most of those opportunities I have been presented and just compete my hardest and see what happens.  And the more the weeks went on, I managed to do a bit better each week.  Showing potential there.  So, yeah, just very grateful, really.
Q. Have you imagined what it would be like at Wimbledon?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, it's going to be just a great experience and just one that I'm willing to make the most of.
Q. Do you think it has fully sunk in yet?
PAUL JUBB: No, not really (smiling).  Yeah, I think it will probably hit me once I walk out onto the court, yeah.
Q. Are you going to have a lot of friends coming down to support you at Wimbledon?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I've got my coach from America.  He's already booked his flight and one more person from America.  They're coming over.  Yeah, I have already had a lot of people saying they're going to try and make it.  It's nice.
Q. You model your game a bit on Novak?  What do you like about his game?
PAUL JUBB: I just love the way he moves so elegantly and just the way he plays.  Yeah, just the way he can shut down the court.  Yeah, just physically outplay people.  Yeah, I just love his game.
Q. You seem to have a pretty similar return stance.  Is that something you have...
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I have had that for a while.  Like, I have studied Novak's game for so long and just -- that was just, that return stance, I felt comfortable doing that.  Yeah, I have used that stance for a long time.
Q. Is there a particular moment you remember watching him as a kid where, Man, I want to be like that guy?
PAUL JUBB: Not really.  It was a while ago, but, yeah, I mean, it's really like Rublev was another guy.  I played hem yesterday, but he was another guy I was watching on YouTube all the time.  I've watched Fritz lots of times on YouTube.  It's weird sharing the courts with these guys.  Yeah, it's become more of a reality.
Q. Would he be the dream draw at Wimbledon, Novak?
PAUL JUBB: I mean, I probably stand less chance against him, so maybe not (smiling).
Q. Have you met or spoken with Andy or any of the other players?
PAUL JUBB: I haven't actually spoken to Andy.  Never really met him in person.  But all the other British tennis players, yeah, I have been around.
Q. You said earlier people are beginning to recognize you.  Have there been embarrassing moments where they have come up to you?
PAUL JUBB: Not really.  Just really nice moments.  Nice that people recognize me now and stuff.  It's something I'm not used to, but, yeah, it's just a nice thing.
Q. Do you have all your bags on the train with you tomorrow or do you ship them off with someone?
PAUL JUBB: I will have my bags.
Q. That probably makes you stick out a little bit?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, a little bit.
Q. Is there anything scary about Wimbledon for you, or do you like that big stage?
PAUL JUBB: Not really.  I'm ready just to go out there and compete my hardest, really.  It's not something to be scared of, really.  Otherwise could be an opportunity that's wasted.
Q. It doesn't get overwhelming at all because it's happened so quick?
PAUL JUBB: I mean, obviously is a little overwhelming, but, you know, it's something you've got to handle and something I think I can.  So, yeah.
Q. What's the biggest crowd you have played in front of?
PAUL JUBB: Not sure.  This past week and a few college matches have been pretty big, and at the NCAAs, there was a pretty good crowd there.  Yeah, roughly around that.
Q. How good of grounding is U.S. college tennis, then making you jump into the pros?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, like, the top of college tennis, this season I had I was playing good players week in, week out.  It's something that's helped me prepare for this moment.  I had a lot of good wins under my belt in college.  So a lot of the good tennis I'm playing now is because of what I have done this past season, yeah.
Q. Do you think you'd be here now if you hadn't prepared in the U.S.?
PAUL JUBB: Yeah, I definitely wouldn't be here now if I didn't go that route, I don't think.  Yeah.
Q. Will you be staying in this country before you go back to America and have time out at home, or will you get back to the States before you start up your academics in January?
PAUL JUBB: I'm not sure, like, I still haven't figured out schedule and stuff for later in the year and things like that.  Yeah, just gotta figure that stuff out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT