US OPEN
September 4, 2004
Olivier Rochus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Can you describe what you were thinking when you saw the second serve of Moya go into the net. 

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't know.  Was a surprise.  I was ready for the return.  I think he made, I don't know, how many double-fault in the match?  I think he made maybe two or one, so I was really never expecting a double-fault on the match point.  I was so nervous.  Then when I saw the ball in the net, I couldn't believe it.  But, yeah (smiling). 

Q.  How do you explain doing so well in this tournament when in your other appearances in it you did not do so well?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't know.  I think compared to the last year, I came here with much more confidence.  I played a semifinal in a big challenger in Europe, and then in Athens I beat Philippoussis before losing to Moya.  But I was practicing hard and I was feeling good in my game.  I was very confident.  I came here without pressure.  I lost first round last year, so I had nothing to lose, no points to defend.  Yeah, happens in tennis sometimes.  You don't know why you play good. 

Q.  I don't think you had won a set off him before.  Did you do something different?  Why do you think you had more success?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't know.  I think it's good that I play Carlos in Athens because I saw his game.  I knew what I had to improve, what I had to do.  And, yeah, I knew I had to make the game to be aggressive and come to the net as soon as possible.  And, yeah, try my best.  Hopefully it's great. 

Q.  Can you describe the atmosphere, the electricity on that court?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  It was unbelievable.  For me, that was the biggest win in my career.  The atmosphere right there was phenomenal for me.  Yeah, that was the best match ever.  Everything:  my game, the crowd.  Yeah, I think I will never forget this match, that's for sure.

Q.  Did you feel people pulling for you once they saw you had taken a set?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah.  The crowd was great.  They were cheering for me.  Yeah, that was great. 

Q.  You were down a break in the fourth and fifth set.  What were you thinking when you got down those breaks in the sets?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I was not thinking too much.  You know, in the fifth set, he broke me.  Okay, I was there.  We were playing for three hours and a half.  I just tell to myself, "Just keep going, it's only one break.  You never know.  Just fight.  Play point after point."  That's it.

Q.  The men's game is primarily a game of very tall guys.  What is the best part of being 5'5"?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't know.  It's just different.  I don't know.  I have different game.  I have to do with my quality.  For sure, I won't serve all the time like Roddick, 150 miles per hour, but I have other quality, and I have to do with that. 

Q.  What qualities are those?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I think I'm fast.  I see the game pretty well.  I'm fast.  I'm moving well around the court.  I think that's my best thing, yeah. 

Q.  What is the fastest serve you've ever hit?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Me? 

Q.  Yes. 

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I think 112 (laughter). 

Q.  Do you ever have problems proving that you're a tennis player when your credential is not around your neck?

OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, sometimes they ask me if I'm ball-boys or not (smiling).  I have this lots of times.  "Are you junior?  Are you playing the junior tournament?"  Happens very often. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT