WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Olivier Rochus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions in English.  
 
 
Q.  Who were the messages from? 
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  (Phone beeping) (laughter).  So many friends, saw the match on TV, just congratulation.  That's it. 
 
Q.  Is this one of the best wins of your career?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, I don't know.  It's always happen in Wimbledon.  My best before was Magnus Norman also here.  Then here Safin.  So Wimbledon bring me luck.  I don't know.  Should play every week here (smiling).  Yeah, just great.  I was close in the French Open, and just I believe in myself today when I came on the court.  Just try to do my best. 
 
Q.  Was that French Open defeat a factor today for you? 
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Maybe, you know, was confidence.  I didn't say, "Yeah, it's impossible to win."  I knew at the French I was really close.  I think that helps me for the match of today. 
 
Q.  How did you think Safin played?  He looked very frustrated, agitated for long periods. 
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't think he didn't play his best, you know.  The first two set, he was not serving that well.  You know, he was throwing the racquet, missing some easy ball.   Third set and fourth set, he was serving good, playing better, make serve and volley all the time.  I don't know, I serve very good today.  Just in tiebreak I was a little bit lucky  - two, three good points... 
 
Q.  Were you aware the longer  -- that if you could start well, he would become frustrated, you could use that to your advantage?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, I knew that Marat is sometimes getting nervous, so I knew I have to play every point and that maybe some games he will give me because he will get crazy.  So I just stay focused, try to play every ball the same and fight. 
 
Q.  What are your targets now for The Championships?  Have you exceeded them already?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I'm playing Clement now.  He's just playing very well.  He made final last week.  He beat Todd Martin, for me one of the best player on grass, three sets to Love.  I think he's in very good shape.  So I just play, try to do my best, enjoy.  I'm playing third round Wimbledon.  I have nothing to lose, it's great.  We'll see what happens. 
 
Q.  Will you permit yourself a celebration tonight?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  No, I don't think so.  I'm a little bit tired.  I don't think so.  
 
Q.  What did you think coming into the tournament when you saw the draw and what they had done to you?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  When I saw the draw, I said that they kill my tournament, you know.  To play my brother, it was the worst draw ever.  So I was not really happy when I came here.  Now maybe the happiest man on earth.  
 
Q.  I know this is a big win for you.  A question about playing your brother in relation to the Williams sisters.  They don't play very well in their matches together.  Is there any advice that you could give them based on your experience of playing against a brother?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  There is no advice, I think.  To play the brother or the sister like the Williams, just the toughest thing to do.  I mean, we cannot play good tennis.  Also when I play my brother in Palermo, was also the worst match of the week.  You know all the time where your opponent is going to play.  You know, it's tough to fight, to make like this.  You just play like if it was practice.  You cannot do like this to your brother (fist pumping).  You just hit the ball, and that's it. 
 
Q.  Did he stay around for this match or he's gone?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  No, he's gone.  He watch on TV, I think. 
 
Q.  Did any of the text messages come from him?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, one was for him. 
 
Q.  What did it say?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  He say, "You play bad."  No, it was, "It was great.  Just keep going.  Is not finished."  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT