WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2010
Olivier Rochus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/O. Rochus
  4-6, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was it an opportunity lost today?  
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: I don't know. I was close. That's it. He played very well the last two sets. He was more consistent.   
 Yeah, the break in the fifth, but I gave my best, and I don't know. I played great. He's not No. 3 in the world for nothing. He showed it today.   
 Yeah, I was close, but that's the way -- that's the game.  
  
  Q. You had, I think, three breakpoints in the last game of the fourth set.   
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: I think the fourth set was maybe the key of the match. I think I was very close there in few games at breakpoint, one passing shot at 15-30. It was very close. It was one ball there and there, you know, you know.   
 But what can I say? I give my best, and just -- yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you think if you could have broken him in that last game of the fourth set that you could have won the match?  
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: Yeah, I was feeling really good. I was playing great. At 5-All we never know, you know. If I break him back, get to a tiebreak, anything can happen. The match was so close.   
 In one tiebreak, of course, I could have won, but I didn't. Congratulations to him. He played great. Very solid. He fight till the end.  
  
  Q. Your explanation for the fifth set? Because it was so tight in that fourth set and then the fifth set he seemed to get on top of you.   
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: Yeah, I had the break and start to get tired from 2-0 till 4-2, I think I started to feel a little my leg, a little pain everywhere.  
 Novak was playing really good. He was returning great, especially on my second serve. He was always putting a lot of pressure.  
 So I knew when he broke me back that he was gonna be really tough, you know.  
  
  Q. Did you have an eye on the clock, as well, knowing it went to 11:00?   
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: No, no, I was just playing.  
  
  Q. On today's performance, do you think he can win the title?  
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: I don't know. I mean, he's No. 3; he went to the semifinal already. He's a good player. I think he can go -- he can go far. To win, it's really tough, you know.   
 You know, it's tennis. Roger almost lost today. It was really close to lose. Tennis, it's really tough, you know, and between the players it's very tight.  
 Anything can happen, but of course he can go farther.  
  
  Q. What did the response of the crowd mean to you tonight? They gave you such a reception whenever you finished up.   
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: Yeah, I mean, it was wonderful. It was the best atmosphere I ever played. With the roof closed and all the crowd, it was the best atmosphere I ever played in.   
 So it will be a great memory, even if I lost. It was a great match. I gave my best, and I was really close to beat a great player here.  
 It's a match I will never forget, even if I lost.  
  
  Q. How much will that spur you on then in the tournaments you've got coming up?  
 OLIVIER ROCHUS: This year really I think that I'm playing good tennis. I beat some good players, and I feel that I am -- that the game is there. Many, many tough draw in many tough tournaments.   
 I played Gasquet and lost six times in a row, and had a lot of injuries. It's a tough year with all of this, because I think I'm playing great.   
 So far I haven't taken so many points, but I think if I keep playing like this and if I'm healthy, I'm looking forward to play the next tournament.   
 And I know the game is there, so I'm positive and confident. Just need to be healthy. And, anyway, I'm enjoying tennis. Today I had a lot of fun on the court. So that's the most important thing, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT