NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2006
Olivier Rochus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You played a tough match.  Can you talk about your thoughts about the match. 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, it was a great match, and I think we gave everything, both of us.  Just, you know, few points there and I think I could have won in two sets.  Was so close, you know.  It was one set, 6-5, 15-30, one forehand like this out.  I mean, when you are at this level, it's so close. 
 But, you know, I think it was a great match.  The atmosphere out there was unbelievable.  At the end, was just amazing. 
 Just sad I lost, but I'm very close to the best player.  Like last week I lost 7-5 in the third against Federer again, so it's tough loss but I really hope that one day those matches I can win the last point. 
 I think I'm really close, and I just, you know, am improving I think every year so it's great.  I just try to work harder.  And if I can play like this every week, I will bet one week I can go further, yeah, going to the semifinal or something like this. 
 But it was a good match.  I tried my best, and David gave also everything and he's a great player.  He was top 10, he's 11 in the world.  He fight so hard. 
 I think we both deserve to win, but that's what is bad in tennis, you always need to have a winner, and that was for him today.  But that's the game. 
 Q.  Talking to your brother earlier, he said between you two you're more the fighter, have more relentlessness about you.  Do you agree with that statement, comparing you and your brother? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Like fighter between me and my brother, or David? 
 Q.  You and your brother.  Your brother said between you and him, your brother, you're more the fighter between the two brothers.  Do you agree with that? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, yeah.  We have different style of game, and different style of practicing.  Yeah, we are very different.  I mean, we are the best friend, but we are very different, yeah.  Different game.  I'm practicing a little bit more and more.  I'm more giving hundred percent for the tennis as him, but I think he's more talented than me, yeah. 
 Q.  He also spoke to the challenges of most of the time playing players that are much bigger in stature and how he has to be smarter.  How do you approach that, go about that? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Just trying to play my game and just try to focus on me and just to play the ball.  I mean, I don't care if the ball is coming from two meters or one meter sixty like me, I'm just trying to focus on me, on my serve.  Try to improve. 
 Always when I'm losing a match, it's not because of my size.  So I beat already a lot of top 10 players, I know that I'm close to there.  Just the size is really not a problem.  I'm really not thinking about this anymore. 
 Q.  Do you think that other players underestimate you because of your height?  You walk out on a court, maybe a player that has never played you before, thinks you're a shorter player so they have the advantage physically or something? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  No, no.  Before, maybe.  But I'm already for six years in the top hundred.  Now I am 30 in the world.  I will beat almost a lot of top 10 players so you have to ask to the players that. 
 But, no, I think they really respect me more.  That's the feeling I have. 
 Q.  You were up 40-15, I think, in the last set, yes or no? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  40-15? 
 Q.  And he got four straight points at the end. 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  The last game? 
 Q.  I'm sorry, the last game. 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, 40-15, was really close.  I mean, I don't know what I played on 40-15. 
 40-30 was a great point, very long rally.  He put one forehand just on the back of the line and I frame it.  I mean, it's all so close.  His ball could have been out.  He just touched the line, went so fast.  And then matchpoint was really good point.  I mean, I was against the wind.  Just be great.  Came to the net.  I mean, it was a great point. 
 Q.  When did you start getting tired?  It seemed like in the middle of the second set. 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  In the second set I was not feeling so good, especially at the end, 6-5, when I asked the trainer.  I know it's not very nice to call the trainer at 6-5, but I couldn't stand when I was serving so I had no choice. 
 But after, that was really going better and better.  In the end I was feeling pretty good. 
 At the end of second set, yeah, my leg was so tired.  After, I was not sitting anymore, drinking a lot and try to relax.  I think the third set I was really feeling better.  At the end I think David was really struggling, but he's such a fighter, such a good player.  So, you know, that was his day and that's it, you know. 
 Q.  Was it your left leg that was cramping? 
 OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, more the left, yeah.  The one when I push on the serve. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT