US OPEN
September 6, 2004
Olivier Rochus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  You had called out a trainer.  Could you talk about why you called out the trainer?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  It was cramping.  
 
Q.  Was it stomach cramping?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  Was it cramping in your stomach. 
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  No, no, legs.  
 
Q.  How did that affect you?  It was pretty downhill from that point on.  You were getting your legs massaged.  How much of an effect did that have on you?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I couldn't really play.  I was playing like at 20% of my game.  I couldn't run.  Dominik saw me, that I was in bad shape, that I was cramping.  Just make me run.  He was also playing better and better, very fast, on the line all the time.  I couldn't really run.  After one or two run, I was cramping pretty badly.  So, yeah, almost couldn't play.  But I tried till the end, and yeah. 
 
Q.  Is that something you suffer from a lot, cramping in your legs?  Does that happen often?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, it happens sometimes, yeah.  In this tournament it never happened.  But, I don't know, was pretty hard.  Dominik has a tough game.  He makes me run a lot.  Yeah, was maybe a little bit too much for me today. 
 
Q.  Were you telling yourself, "Two more games," trying to get through it that way?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, at 4-1 I was really feeling bad.  But at 3-1 he made a few unforced errors.  So, okay, beat two more games, you can do it.  One or two mistake, try to play in one or two shot, and we never know.  At 4-2, I had point for 5-2.  I missed the volley there.  I think the passing shot was out.  I took the ball.  I think that was the key of the match.  I think at 5-2, it would have been possible.  But now it's too late.  
 
Q.  Is there anything you can do to avoid these kind of problems?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  I don't know.  I try my best.  I'm practicing hard, working on my fitness.  I don't know.  It's hard when you play those players, they make you run.  You play two hours, two hours and a half in the sun, so many rallies.  I mean, with my game, I don't have so many free points with my serve, so I have to fight every point and run a lot.  It can happen, you know.  I'm not a machine, yeah.  
 
Q.  How do you look back on this tournament?  Kind of a breakthrough for you, as well?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, it's great.  I mean, I've never won a match at the US Open.  I lost in the fourth round, beating Moya, No. 4, Ancic, Starace, three very good players.  It was a great tournament for me.  Could have been even better, but...  
 
Q.  How special is it that the public here always chose your side?
 
OLIVIER ROCHUS:  Yeah, it's great.  I don't know, the crowd always for me.  I don't know, maybe because I'm small.  Always cheering for me.  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT