U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
June 28, 2016
Townley Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Townley, what do you remember about that race, because obviously it's back and forth with Jack and Ryan that whole way?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: Not sure.  I remember Ryan's underwaters which have been there in all three of the 200s, but I guess remembering putting my head down at the end, and I think my finish was a little bad.  I felt like it was bad.  It worked out in the end but, yeah, just Lochte's underwater and seeing both of them next to me every 50, really.   
 Q.  After what happened at NCAAs, did you feel fracture to come in and do something big here?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: Not too much.  I tried not to think about that stuff too much.  I was pretty relaxed other than right before it, got a little nervous but not too much pressure.   
 Q.  You said you remember Ryan's kicks.  Did you know where you were during each lap?  Could you tell where you were if you were in first, third, or second?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: Not really.  I knew I was in the mix with those guys, but I know they both have better turns than I do so it's just -- I could see them, and I knew I was up there.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TOWNLEY HAAS: I didn't know until I looked up, even still.  I was still in shock, I guess.  I think I'm still a little in shock.  No, I didn't know until I locked up and saw it.   
 Q.  Now that all the pressure is off, what's the rest of the week look like, the mile and 100 Free tomorrow?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: I got the 100 Free tomorrow. not doing the mile, thankfully, but, yeah, just 100 Free, and I guess I just hang out until the 4th.   
 Q.  Is it going to be hard to get up for the 100 Free because of the pressure, because you've made the team and you don't need it, or will there be pressure off and a free swim?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: I think it's more pressure off.  I made the team tonight, so it would be awesome to make it again in another event, but, you know, at this point just having fun.   
 Q.  Texas had four guys in the final just like you did at Trials 16 years ago.  What does that mean about your program, that you had you, Jack and Clark going to Rio?  
TOWNLEY HAAS: It's incredible.  I mean, you know, you have the two greatest coaches in the world, Eddie and Chris, training us, pushing us, and, you know, I swim next to or behind Clark every day and, you know, it's just -- I guess it's just not that surprising, knowing how hard we work and how great of coaches they are and -- but it's just incredible for me and all three of us to be able to represent our school in the Olympics.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Townley.  Congratulations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT