NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 6, 2018
German Marquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much better are you prepared for a really big game, do-or-die game now, as opposed to maybe even before the All-Star break?  In other words, the experience that you've gained since then, does it make you much more prepared for this big moment?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I have done it many times.  The process, my preparation doesn't change.  I've been doing this, especially after the All-Star break.  I've put a lot of my confidence in my preparation, and that's not changing.  So I know it's a big game, but the process doesn't change.   
 Q.  You faced the Brewers back in May.  It didn't go as well as you would have liked.  How much of that start as far as facing the hitters do you study going into this one, and how much of it do you really kind of put aside because you're pitching a lot better?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: We all know they have a potent lineup, but I'm going to execute my plan, which is executing my pitches, hitting my target, and give our team a chance to win games, stay close in games.  They do have a good lineup.  That's no secret, but we have a good lineup, as well.   
 Q.  German, this will be your first postseason start, but you did pitch in Game 163, the NL West tiebreaker.  Being in that postseason-like environment, how much more prepared do you feel from the end of the season until now, and if so, how?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: Again, my confidence relies on my preparation.  That game was awesome, very exciting, and we've just got to be on point from pitch one.  One pitch at a time, executing my pitches, hitting my target, and that way, I'm going to give the team a chance to win.   
 Q.  Famously on opening day this season, you pitched in some snow.  The weather report seems like there might be some rain, might be cold again tomorrow.  How do you feel about that, and how do you feel in terms of your preparation for that?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I'm not going to let the weather affect me.  I learned from it opening day here.  I let the cold weather affect me, and I learned from that.  That's not going to be anything that is going to hurt me now because I'm ready for it, and it's going to be cold for everybody.   
 Q.  Christian Yelich we all know has had an incredible season, incredibly hot.  With so much at stake, do you approach him any differently in tomorrow's game as you would say in a regular season game, considering what's on the line?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I've got to give him credit.  He's a great hitter.  Everyone knows that.  But again, I've got control.  I've got the ball in my hand, and if I execute my pitches, I like my chances of getting him out.   
 Q.  Tomorrow obviously a potential for an elimination game, a lot of pressure on the team to win tomorrow here in Colorado.  Do you go into this game with any additional preparation, or do you treat this like you would any other start?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I believe in my team.  This is a great team.  We've fought together to get to this point, and there's no really additional pressure.  We prepare.  We get ready to fight, and we're still grateful for being here.  And I'm going to do my best, and I'm sure my teammates are going to do their best to hopefully win this game.   
 Q.  Buddy Black could have gone to Freeland; how did the conversation go when he told you you were getting the ball tomorrow?  And also, can you explain what pitching here means to you?  The numbers look good.  I know we've talked about Freeland also being from here, but this is a pretty special place for you.  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I love Buddy Black.  The confidence, the communication that we have is second to none, the respect.  As far as pitching here, it's a special place.  This is the team that gave me a chance to make it to the Big Leagues, and there's always going to be a special place in my heart for the city of Denver and for this team.  And the fan support has been awesome.  They've embraced me like no other, and I'm grateful for that.   
 Q.  This is probably the most successful and consistent Rockies pitching staff they've ever had.  Can you point to specific things you picked up from some of your colleagues in the rotation or on the pitching staff that have helped your development over the last year or so?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I believe we have a very special group.  The youth that we have in this pitching staff, the way we push each other to become better, we're competing with each other, we're not competing against each other.  And I think that competitiveness has really inspired me to continue to do my very best and has also helped my other teammates, my pitchers, to do their best.   
So it's definitely a blessing that we're all in this together.   
 Q.  There was a day a few years ago in Spring Training where Jeff Bridich got all you guys in the theater, all you young pitchers, and said, hey, you're the guys that we're going to win with.  Do you remember that talk, and did you think, yeah, they don't have to go out and get an older experienced pitcher; I can do this, we can do this, the guys we have?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: He definitely believed in us, and I think that we backed it up.  Right now, the way we believe in ourselves gives us the confidence to continue to perform here and to get deep into the postseason like we have this year and hopefully for many years to come.   
 Q.  Will you still wear the sleeves?  
GERMAN MARQUEZ: I'll use it tomorrow for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT