WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Amy Frazier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  How was the French Open Champion?  You seemed almost giddy after the match. 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Yeah.  Obviously, I was, I mean, very happy.  I'm happy with the way I played.  So it was good (smiling). 
 
Q.  How does that rank with -- you've been to two quarterfinals, but that's a big player at a big time for her. 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Yeah, I mean, I think to play so well at a Grand Slam, I think, I mean, that's always fun and great.  So, obviously, it's up there.  
 
Q.  Is this the highest seed you've beat at a Slam?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I think so, yes.  
 
Q.  Can you talk us through the matchpoints, the ones you missed and then finally getting it.  You served for it once. 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Right.  I mean, maybe I, you know, tricked my own mind.  But, I mean, I didn't think -- I mean, I thought she played -- you know, she hit great shots.  I didn't think -- I mean, I think maybe I went for like a winner maybe a little early on one of them.  But other than that, I mean, I think I got most like first serves in except for one or two.  So, I mean, that's just too good.  I mean, I felt like she just hit too good of shots.  
 
Q.  Coming in, how did you feel coming in to this tournament and going in to this match?  Did you think you might do something like this? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I mean, I really don't think about winning or losing before a match, I mean, or before a tournament or whatever.  You have to go out and play each match.  And my goal is always to hopefully play the best I can.  I mean, sometimes you win and sometimes you lose when that happens.  But I never really, before a tournament, get a feeling like, "Oh, I feel like I'm gonna do it."  Because it just -- there's too many factors - you know, your opponent, the conditions, I mean... 
 
Q.  You said you never expected to be playing tennis like this.  What did you see yourself doing when you were younger by the time you were this age? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I mean, probably teaching school.  I mean, I play tennis because I love to play.  And just kind of worked out that I get to play tennis for a living, which is the luckiest thing ever.  So it just kind of kept progressing. 
 
Q.  Do you have your degree?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  No, I haven't even started school.  Turned pro in high school.  
 
Q.  You were going to go to UCLA? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I was, and I didn't. 
 
Q.  What made you change your mind? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I still wanted to play.  I mean, it's too hard to plan in advance.  So now I just don't plan in advance - really anything (laughing). 
 
Q.  Do you think about going back to college when you retire?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Oh, definitely.  The minute I'm done. 
 
Q.  You are going to go?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Oh, yeah. 
 
Q.  For sure?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  For sure. 
 
Q.  You still want to be that math teacher?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Definitely. 
 
Q.  Will you go to UCLA or are you going to go somewhere else now?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  You know, Michigan is home, so I'll probably stay somewhere there. 
 
Q.  Where did you go to high school?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Rochester Adams (phonetic). 
 
Q.  Have you ever come close to retiring?  Was there a point where you were ready to? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  No, not really.  I mean, again, you know, you think maybe you're going to do other things.  But, again, it's -- I mean, I love playing so... 
 
Q.  So you say you can make a living at it.  You still love it.  When will you know?  How do you know that it's time, or do you just... 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Well, I used to think that when I stopped enjoying it, that I'd know to stop.  But the bottom line is I think I'll always enjoy it.  I can play tennis at home.  I have, you know -- it's great at home.  I think the travel will make me stop.  I just want to be home.  I've travelled a lot of years, so that's probably like the down side of it.  
 
Q.  Do you have a boyfriend?  Are we allowed to ask that?  Do you have anybody at home that you miss? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  You know, I mean, obviously being home is important - my family and friends.  And kind of, you know, building that part of your life.  So, obviously, being home is nice. 
 
Q.  Do you feel it's sort of been on hold?  You're 31, and you're still galavanting around?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  (Laughing)  Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  I think I love what I do, and I feel lucky that I get to do it.  So I try not to think that I'm 31 (laughing). 
 
Q.  How often do you get asked, "How much longer will you play, Amy?"  And do you almost feel like there's a judgment implicit in that question? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I get asked it a lot.  But, no, I mean, I think maybe people are just taking an interest.  I mean, I don't really take offense to it.  And, you know, I think everyone has to live their own life, so I don't really -- I mean, I feel comfortable with what I'm doing. 
 
Q.  Do you think your best match is still in you?  A lot of athletes who have been around a long time say one thing that keeps them going is that their best match, their best race, their best whatever, is still somewhere in there?  Do you feel you haven't played your best, that it's still in there?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I think, I mean, obviously -- I hope I'm improving.  That's kind of the part of fun of playing, is working hard and hopefully improving your game.  So, I mean, I guess -- I mean, hopefully if I keep improving, then maybe I'll play better so... 
 
Q.  Do you have any favorite matches, when you look back over your career now, moments that you will always remember, whether they're at Slams or other tournaments or...? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Sure.  I mean, I think to like put them in order of like what would be the highlight, I think no.  But I think definitely there's certain -- I mean, you know -- like a tournament win is always, I mean, special, because it hasn't happened very often.  And certain matches, definitely, yeah. 
 
Q.  Any in particular that pop up? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  There's like, you know, there's too many to like single one out I think.  
 
Q.  Do you remember your first time at Wimbledon?  I guess you've been to 15 now.  Do you remember your first one?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  You know what, I don't remember who I play.  Like I used to be able to remember everything - every match, the score, what I wore, everything (laughing).  It's starting to... I can't (laughing).  So I don't know if that's a sign that's not good.  But every year I walk in, it's the same.  Like you get like that you can't believe you're at Wimbledon.  It's exactly how you picture it.  It's special. 
 
Q.  Do you remember your first win here?  Do you remember who you beat your first time here? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I don't. 
 
Q.  How about the feeling the first time you got to Wimbledon?  You were 16 or something, walking on the grounds here.
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I mean, oh, definitely.  That's the same every year.  Like I can't believe I get to play.  It's unbelievable.  So, yeah, definitely.  But I think the feeling -- I mean, obviously the first time, it's a little, you know, "Oh, my gosh."  But it's really pretty much the same every year. 
 
Q.  Has your mom been here for most of them?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  She comes, yeah, mostly.  I mean, at the beginning, I think she missed some at the beginning.  But this is, like, she always comes with me here. 
 
Q.  So it's a special day for her today?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I think, yeah.  I mean, hopefully she -- it's good. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the adjustment, when you're younger and playing Juniors, you're probably winning most of the times that you play in these tournaments.  Then even the very best professionals probably lose more matches than they -- well, lose more than they win.  Does that take some adjusting to, to still find the joy in the sport when, I mean, you certainly can't focus on the bottom line every time, or it would drive you nuts, I would imagine? 
 
AMY FRAZIER:  Yeah, I mean, you lose every week.  That's basically everyone.  I mean, there's only one winner. I mean, I lost quite a bit in Juniors, so maybe I was used to it.  But I think -- I don't know.  I mean, I guess it was never really an issue for me because -- I don't know.  Sometimes you lose a match and you're like -- you're hap -- I mean, you feel like you played well and it's okay.  I mean, and I think you learn a lot of things from losses and hopefully take that into the next week. 
 
Q.  Do you allow yourself to look at the draw?  Venus is gone now.  Anastasia is gone.  At the bottom down there, there's...
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I mean, the depth in women's tennis is so good.  I mean, I think that on the day, I mean, you just have to come out and play the best you can.  
 
Q.  Do you bond with some of the older - I hate to use the word "older" - but your contemporaries, shall I say?  Do you find that some of the players that are 30, 32 or something, do you guys know each other?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  I mean, obviously, we've been playing a long time, so... 
 
Q.  Who are you friends with on tour, would you say?
 
AMY FRAZIER:  You know what, there's actually, you know, a nice group of Americans, you know, playing, which is -- it's fun, you know.  So that's great. But I try not to pick my friends by ages, so. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT