U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Amy Frazier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the match, I mean, seemed to be a pretty good one.

AMY FRAZIER: Yeah, I mean, she can do everything and she mixed it up and she never gave
me, like, two balls the game, that is difficult for me. So I just try to stay in the point
the best I could and be patient, but go for my shots when I had them. And it seemed to
work okay.

Q. You didn't show very much emotions after the win. What does it mean to you?

AMY FRAZIER: I am very excited. I mean, I am really happy with the way I played and,
you know, I am very excited. I don't know, I am very happy. I don't know if I didn't show
it, I am happy.

Q. Did you watch Steffi play?

AMY FRAZIER: No.

Q. I mean, is being patient going to be any good playing against her or are you going
to have to come up with -- 

AMY FRAZIER: I am going to have to hit the balls really deep because anything on the
court she is going to take and hit winners off of. So, hopefully, you know, I can hit my
groundstrokes well and get into the points. But it is going to be tough.

Q. We had asked, you know, last time you were here about a couple of years ago the time
that you took off, you said you didn't want to talk about it. But were you actually at
U.C.L.A. or were you entered in classes? I mean, how close were you just chucking, giving
up this sport?

AMY FRAZIER: I was accepted. I was going in the fall. Obviously, I played here that
year so school hadn't started.

Q. This is the fall of '93?

AMY FRAZIER: Yes.

Q. It was U.C.L.A.?

AMY FRAZIER: Yes.

Q. What were you going to be studying?

AMY FRAZIER: I want to be a junior high math teacher -- I am going to be -- I want to
be, some day.

Q. Can you go back to U.C.L.A. afterwards; is it like one of those deals that they have
given you or do you have to --

AMY FRAZIER: Well, I hope so. I left high school with -- I mean, good grades, all my
S.A.T. taken, so I will just apply again and hopefully I will get to go there because that
is where I want to go to school.

Q. I mean, you know, you are this far in the U.S. Open, is this the best thing that has
ever happened in your tennis life, what is going on this week, or can you compare it to
other things in your career?

AMY FRAZIER: Oh, God. You know, obviously I mean, U.S. Open and I am an American, this
is the farthest I have gotten and I am very excited about it, But to say is it the best
thing, I can't -- I don't know. I mean, I love to play matches, so, you know, every match
I get to play is fun, so, you know, I am just happy I get to play another one. I can't --
it is hard to rank what is the best tournament or the second best. I mean, that is too
hard for me.

Q. We got in here late so you may have already answered this, if so, I apologize. Can
you preview the challenge ahead of you the next round and describe what you have to do to
be successful.

AMY FRAZIER: Well, obviously Steffi is such a great player and she is going to be
attacking everything, and hopefully I can just hit my groundstrokes well and deep. I think
I will need to get a lot of first serves in. She will attack my second serve. Hopefully I
can just get into the points and hopefully I won't be that nervous.

Q. Is there ever a feeling when you play her she can do so much no matter what you can
do, she is in control?

AMY FRAZIER: Yeah. I mean, sometimes -- I played her a couple of times before and
sometimes, you know, I go for a winner on her first shot because I do feel that way, and I
think hopefully I can get into the point a little more and see what happens. But it is
going to be a tough match.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT