U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Amy Frazier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you expect that before the match, to win?

AMY FRAZIER: You know, Mary is such a great player, I really wasn't thinking about
winning or losing. I was just hoping I could play a good match, and just play each point.
I really wasn't thinking about the outcome.

Q. What was going through your mind at 6-6 in the tiebreak when you changed sides,
seemed like you really kept your head together?

AMY FRAZIER: I was just trying not to think about the score, and just play each point.
I think we both played a few loose points there in the tiebreaker. We were missing some
balls, and I was just trying to play a good couple of points coming up.

Q. Were you consciously trying to move her around a lot, knowing that maybe she doesn't
move so well?

AMY FRAZIER: Well, I mean, I think that was part of my plan was to move her just
because she hits the ball so well and so hard and deep that if she is set, I mean, she can
hit winners from anywhere. Even when I was running her, she was still hitting winners
just...

Q. Seemed like your return of serve was big for you today. What do you think was the
overall key to the match?

AMY FRAZIER: I guess, I thought I played -- really played from my ground, and I got
good first serves in. I mean, she was taking my second serves, doing whatever, I mean, she
wanted -- hitting winners, anything, so that was the key, I think.

Q. Who are you working with now and how long have you been with them coachingwise?

AMY FRAZIER: I am working with John Austin, and he is here and I also work with John
Cook in Cincinnati.

Q. How long have you been with John Austin and, what is he working on with you?

AMY FRAZIER: Well, probably about a year and a half. But he lives in Palm Springs, so I
go out there whenever I get breaks. And just, everything. I mean, I think -- it is fun
because I need to improve everything. My serve needs a lot of work, I think. Hopefully, I
can start coming in a little more taking advantage of my groundstrokes, but everything.

Q. Amy, a long while back you left the Tour for a while. Could you elaborate on why,
and had you considered retiring at any point?

AMY FRAZIER: It was just for personal reasons, and I am happy to be playing and
enjoying myself, so...

Q. Can you elaborate at all?

AMY FRAZIER: I mean, it was a long time ago, and it was just personal reasons. I never
-- no. That is about it.

Q. What brought you back to the game then?

AMY FRAZIER: You know, I really love to play. I love to play matches, and as long as it
is fun and I feel like I am competing well, I want to play.

Q. Do you have any goals, I mean, where you want to get to with your game?

AMY FRAZIER: I don't set any ranking goals. All my goals are to improve my game and,
hopefully, if I do that, then the rankings will come. So, everything in my game.

Q. Do you dream about winning the U.S. Open? Is that part of your --

AMY FRAZIER: No. I mean, I don't think about it. I mean, obviously, everyone here
would. Everyone would love to win the tournament, but it is not something that I think
about because I don't think about going into a tournament thinking how many matches I want
to win or what round I want to get to. Because I mean, everyone is so good now on the
Tour. I can go out and play a really good match and feel like I did the things that I have
been working on and still lose because everyone is so good. So I don't want then to feel
that, that was a bad tournament or bad match. Because I might have played well.

Q. You played the stadium before?

AMY FRAZIER: A doubles match.

Q. When was that?

AMY FRAZIER: '89, maybe. Somewhere -- I am not sure.

Q. People don't get these chances often to play a player like this in the stadium,
someone who is highly favored. It is a really nice setup for you. Does that encourage you
and make you tougher, or were you quite nervous about it?

AMY FRAZIER: Well, I was nervous. But I just tried to concentrate on the tennis. I
mean, it would have been, I mean, I was excited to get to play the match. I don't care
where I played it. It is just fun to go out and play, getting to play in the stadium at
the U.S. Open, being American that is something special.

Q. You were the M.V.P. in the Team Tennis this year. Did that give you more confidence
than you have had in other summers coming into the U.S. Open?

AMY FRAZIER: Yeah, the summer was great, Team Tennis and being around my teammates, I
mean, I think, you know, I feel like I improved a lot over the summer, and I think, you
know, the format of it, I think I got to work on a lot of things. So I felt good coming
out of the summer.

Q. Amy, given that a couple of years ago you were planning to register at U.C.L.A. that
is where your mind was at that point. Can you put into words this feeling that -- here you
are at center court having beaten the No. 6 player in the world?

AMY FRAZIER: Gosh. Well, it is exciting, I mean, I guess -- I mean, I never would have
thought when I was getting ready to go to school that a few years later this is where I
would be. So I mean, this is great, and I know I look forward to going back to school. So
I can't really explain it. I mean, it is just exciting.

Q. Mary was questioning a lot of calls at the end of the second set. Did she seem
frustrated or distracted to you towards the end of the match?

AMY FRAZIER: You know, I try not to think about what my opponent is doing or what is
going on, on the other side of the court. I think, you know, it was a little tight at the
end and maybe we both were a little tight missing some balls and balls none of us usually
miss. Maybe we were both a little on edge.

Q. Was she the same player when she won earlier this year; when she won in Australia?
Can you comment at all on her game?

AMY FRAZIER: Gosh, I mean, she is such a great player. She can do everything. I think
she made more errors today than she usually does. But I think everyone on the Tour is
playing so good now, I mean, I think -- I guess I don't know because I didn't play her in
January, but to me, she is a great player. And, you know, she can do everything.

Q. The circumstances make this the best win of your career?

AMY FRAZIER: That is hard to say. I mean, this definitely is very exciting, but I can't
really put a number on it.

Q. Is part of your strategy or keys to beating Pierce sort of letting her make a lot of
mistakes; waiting her out?

AMY FRAZIER: Yeah, I mean, that is part of it, but, I mean, she goes for all her shots
so I mean, she is going to make some errors, just because she hits the ball so hard. I
think, maybe I was a little lucky today. She missed some balls at some key times there in
the second, but I mean, I went out and just tried to move her around, see what would
happen.

Q. Was there one thing about playing on Center Court that was particularly special; did
you ever pause and just look around or was there one thing that surprised you?

AMY FRAZIER: No, I didn't have time to pause. I was thinking about the match. But I
don't know if anything surprised me. But it was a great feeling. It was very special. I
will always remember it, really.

Q. You have said a couple of times she is such a great player; there is so much into
it. You just beat her. So what does that make you? Great plus.

AMY FRAZIER: I mean, I think there is a reason why she is, you know, five. I am not
sure of her ranking. I mean, she -- consistently all year she can go out and beat anyone
on any day, I think that is what makes the top 10 so special. They are so consistent
week-in and week-out. And, you know, I mean, it is hard, I mean, she is a great player
because she improves herself week-in and week-out.

Q. I am asking what you are.

AMY FRAZIER: I don't know. That is hard. I can't -- it is hard to describe yourself. I
don't know.

Q. Are you still getting better; do you see yourself getting better everyone talks
about Rubin and Hingis as the up and coming players. You have been here a while. Are you
still up and coming? Are you progressing?

AMY FRAZIER: I think that what what makes it fun for me, I feel like I am improving. I
think that is what makes it fun to go out and work on things that I feel I need to work
on. So I mean, maybe they are not huge strides that everyone else can see, but I
definitely can feel them.

Q. Do you like going to press conferences?

AMY FRAZIER: I don't know.

Q. Amy, will you be surprised when they look in the paper and they see "wow, Amy
Frazier beat Mary Pierce"? Is it surprising to you or I mean, are you even surprised
yourself that you just won this match on stadium court?

AMY FRAZIER: I don't know. I mean, because I didn't think about winning or losing
before the match, I honestly didn't. I obviously don't go out on the court, you know,
wanting to lose or thinking I am going to lose, so I don't know if surprised is the right
word, because I mean, I think if you go out and you play well and you play your game,
anyone on the Tour has a chance to beat anybody, so...

Q. You mentioned what Mary and the other players at the top do in terms of consistency.
Do you think now, you are at the point that you will break into that group?

AMY FRAZIER: Oh, I mean, I think that is going to take a lot of work. I mean, one
match, it's a long year, and there is a lot of tournaments, I mean, obviously I like to be
a little more consistent week-in and week-out, and hopefully I can get to that point, but
I mean, we will see.

Q. Amy, you have beaten Mary twice now. What is it about your game that gives you the
edge?

AMY FRAZIER: You know, I am not sure. I mean, I like -- she hits with a lot of pace,
and I am comfortable on the baseline. So I like that and I can use her pace and move the
ball around. So -- I mean, both matches were so close, you know, could have gone either --
you know, I don't know if there is anything in particular that, you know, my game matches
up other than I like her pace, but I mean, the next time, something else could happen -
you never know.

Q. Judging only off your scores, you are the hottest woman coming into the tournament;
you won your first set Love and Love. Right?

AMY FRAZIER: Yes.

Q. Did you feel like you had everything going coming in?

AMY FRAZIER: I felt like I have been playing well and each match I feel I have been
playing consistent and hitting the ball well. So, you know, I feel good coming in, yes.

Q. Do you look back at this match now as if you accomplished an upset; does that word
mean anything to you "upset?" Do you think this was an upset?

AMY FRAZIER: Well, I mean, yeah, I guess, I mean, she was seeded and she was supposed
to win, I mean, if that is what you are saying. 

Q. How about to you in your mind?

AMY FRAZIER: You know, I guess I have so much respect for all the players on the Tour
that, you know, I feel that anyone out here playing can beat anyone. I think that women's
tennis is that good, and so I don't know. I mean, -- that is hard to say because I don't
-- I think anyone can win any match, so I mean, obviously on paper this is an upset, so...

Q. Are you still planning to be a math teacher?

AMY FRAZIER: Yes, definitely.

Q. If everybody can win on any given day, how come so seldom that these things happen?

AMY FRAZIER: Well, I mean, like I said, I think the top 10 are consistent and obviously
they are the best players on the Tour and week-in and week-out they prove themselves. But
women's tennis is so good and the depth is incredible, I am not sure that everyone
understands that, that anyone can beat anyone, and I mean, it doesn't happen because the
top 10 are the top 10, and that is the reason why there is a 1 ranking, 2 ranking, 3
ranking, but I mean, --

Q. Did Jeff Tarango send you flowers or candy or anything for standing you up at
Wimbledon?

AMY FRAZIER: No, but...

Q. Or apologize? 

AMY FRAZIER: Apology, yes.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT