U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Steve Gotsche
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We have Steve Gotsche, 5 over at 75.

Q.   Steve, how did the round go for you? 
STEVE GOTSCHE:   I struggled a little.   I hit it all over the lot, basically, but I saved a few pars.   I just need to get my tempo down a little bit.   The greens are a little slower than I expected, but we adjusted later in the day. 
Bottom line is USGA event, you've got to be in the fairway.

Q.   Talk a little bit about the fan base and the numbers that showed up here today?
STEVE GOTSCHE:   I knew we'd have a pretty good crowd just because, you know, local guy, former Husker, that kind of thing.   I was excited to see the people.   I was hoping to put on a better show, but it didn't quite work out today. 
Hopefully, we'll get out and make some birdies in the morning.

Q.   What kind of feelings did you have going through when you heard your name being called on the 1st tee? 
STEVE GOTSCHE:   Nerves.   You know, I go from the pro shop to the 1st tee, you know, at the U.S. Open.   So it's a little different.   But I've been out here before.   It's just been a while.

Q.   This course, anything kind of maybe stick out to you, whether it was the rough or a lot of guys have been saying maybe the greens were softer than they thought they were going to be? 
STEVE GOTSCHE:   I played nine regular U.S. Opens, and I'm always used to watching the ball bounce, and all of a sudden they're stopping. 
I loved the setup.   I thought it was very fair.   If you hit a bad shot, it was penal.   Unfortunately, I hit too many drives in the rough, thus equaled a few bogeys.

Q.   Do you think that‑‑ I didn't watch everybody, every round, every swing.   But do you think a lot of guys maybe will go away from using driver the rest of the weekend because of that run? 
STEVE GOTSCHE:   There's two ways to look at it.   If you can get it further up and have a shorter iron, whether you're in the rough or not, you still have a chance to stop it if you catch a good line. 
But you're right, there's a few holes you can hit 3 wood.   I think you'll see some guys try to do that. 

Q.   Thanks, Steve. 
STEVE GOTSCHE:   Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT