U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2019
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us what you did right.  You said it was driving, but did you make more putts?  You weren't getting it in the hole --
SCOTT McCARRON: If I just made one putt, I would have made more putts than I made the first three days.  I putted -- you know, it was funny, I didn't feel like I hit bad putts all week, but I never made a thing.  I didn't make a putt over four feet.  I went back-to-back with 15-footers yesterday, one for par and one for birdie, and that was the only two putts I made in the first three days.  Didn't make anything over four feet besides those two putts.
It was just one of those I was very frustrated on the greens.  I couldn't figure them out.  I couldn't figure out speed.  Long putts I was short three feet and then I was long by five feet.  Just never got it going all week, and I'm averaging two putts per hole.  You can't compete out here averaging two putts.  And I shot even yesterday averaging two.
So today I actually started making a few more putts, which was good.  I had a little bit better speed today.  Missed one four-footer on 5, I missed the same putt yesterday on 5 almost, but other than that, I started rolling it a little bit better.  I still missed a couple that I felt like I should have made, but I had better speed today.
Q. Talk about playing with Tom Watson and how well he was playing.
SCOTT McCARRON: It was great.  You know, he still plays really good.  He was driving the ball right down the middle of the fairway.  Started out birdieing the first three holes, and I'm like, holy cow, look out.  I just tried to get in his way, could follow him.  He had a little hiccup there with the triple, and that was unfortunate, but then he came right back and birdied the next hole on 5.  He just played so solid today all the way through.
I mean, he was literally hitting it right at every single flag.  It was one of the most impressive ball-striking rounds I've seen of anybody, and Tom Watson just really impressed me today.  It was such a treat to way play with him.  It's an honor.
Q. 6-under for the day; what does that say about what the guys in the league can do?
SCOTT McCARRON: I'll tell you what, I was trying to play aggressive.  I needed to have a really good low round to get somewhere back in the top 20 or maybe top 15 or whatever.  I thought in I could shoot 8 or 9, maybe in the top 10.  So I was taking chances.  I mean, like 16, that par-3, I flew it right back there.  Two steps farther and that thing goes over the back of the green.  There were a lot of holes I was taking some chances today firing at, and that's what Jerry Kelly and David Toms are going to have to do.
Now, unless they're spot on, it could backfire.  You've got to be absolutely firing and absolutely spot-on with it and landing it within a yard or two of where you're trying to hit it or else you're going to make some big numbers bouncing over these greens.
Stricker is going to have to hit fairways, he's going to hit middle of the green.  Guy is a great putter.  I don't see him backing up.  If he just shoots even par or 1-over, it's going to make it very difficult for those guys behind him to catch him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT