KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2018
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN DEVER: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for being with us again here on Saturday at the 79th KitchenAid Senior PGA Championship.  Pleased to be joined by Scott McCarron.  Scott put up a third round 66, three day total of 200 even.  Six birdies, one bogey today.  So let's get, let's start with what went really well today, your driver, I think you've hit 20 or 25 straight fairways.  You're really booming them out there.   
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well I'm not counting the fairways, but thanks for letting me know.  Now I'll problems miss the first one tomorrow.  I'm driving the ball pretty good.  That's always been kind of my advantage, I drive the ball fairly far, fairly straight and when you can do that you come into some of these greens with a little less club, so that really helps.  I can reach some of the par-5s, well pretty much all the par-5s, and try to take advantage of them.   
JOHN DEVER: The key for victory for Scott on Sunday will be?   
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well doing the same things I've been doing.  I got to putt a little bit better tomorrow, I missed a couple putts today coming in, but all in all it was a good, solid day, hit the ball right where I was looking most of the time, but I had a lot of putts today over some of these big mounds, had four or five of them that were very difficult 2-putts and I was able to 2-putt most of those.  So all in all it was a good day.   
JOHN DEVER: Let's hit the floor here with some questions.   
 Q.  Earlier in the week you talked about all of the travails that you've gone through with new equipment, I was just wondering, do you, even though they're obviously bill to the same specs as what you had before, do you tell yourself, these are what I'm used to or can you inherently sense that there's something different?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: It's different.  It's actually a different putter.  So it's different.  It's got a little different weight, it's a different putter.  It's the same style, but it's a little bit different.   
 Q.  And what does the difference do for you or why is it different in that?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: I don't know what it does for me but it's a different putter, so, I mean, I have to try to get used to something that's not the same.   
 Q.  It's not the same.  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Nope, it's not the same.  Doesn't feel the same, doesn't come off the same, it's different.   
 Q.  This will be tomorrow will be the sixth time you play in the final group --  
SCOTT MCCARRON: 7th actually, but that's okay.   
 Q.  7th.  Correcting me, I like that.  How has your comfort level evolved starting with the first one to where you are now?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, I certainly feel comfortable being in the hunt, being in the last groups.  I've learned a lot over the last couple years playing with Bernhard Langer a lot.  I've been fortunate enough to play with him in a lot of final groups and second to last groups and battled it out with him and watch him.  The way he conducts himself around the golf course, doesn't let too many things bother him.  So I learned a lot from him, just being really patient, so I don't really let that kind of big moment really get to me too much, just kind of control your emotions going through the day, and that's the biggest key for me.   
 Q.  After the last two rounds you've played just how much momentum do you feel you have going into the final round?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well I feel like I got a little momentum in that I like this golf course.  As far as momentum we're going to go home and sleep and eat and get back out and try to do the same thing, but I like the golf course, I like the way the holes setup, I like the way it shapes for my shots and so tomorrow I got to go out there and really do the same thing, hit the ball well, make some putts and give myself an opportunity with three or four holes to go.   
 Q.  How different is Sunday when you're in the last group, I mean how, the feeling, the emotion, whatever.  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Yeah, I think Sundays are a little different.  It's a little different when you have a chance with about three or four -- three, four, five holes to play.  Up until that point it's not that much different than Saturday playing the final group.  You'll have some more people out there, we'll be battling it out.  You watch the leaderboard a little bit with three, four, five holes to play and you're in the hunt, especially in a major championship, it's different, kind of gets your adrenaline going, you got to make sure you take a lot of deep breaths, like I said, control your emotions, this is a big deal.  And have fun.  That's one of the things.  To be able to, at my age, at 52, be able to play the sport you love for a living in front of people, I got to pinch myself.  This is really kind of a dream come true.   
 Q.  Not to go totally negative here but at 18 --  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Really?  Now you're going to go negative?  I like that, "not to go negative," but I'm going to.   
 Q.  At 18 did you catch a bad lie for the chip?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: It was actually a pretty good lie.  I was trying to make it.  But there was a lot of grass in between my ball and the club face and it just caught the grass a little more than the ball so it came out a little soft.  But still it wasn't that bad a chip, I had three feet whatever left and it was just a left edge putt and I just pushed it a tad and then it broke a little more than I thought.  So, unfortunately, I don't like finishing that way, but all in all it was a pretty solid day.   
JOHN DEVER: There's only four players within a realistic realm of the top, the reach of the top there.  Does that change your strategy at all or is this to beat three other guys or are you just going out there to play your best golf?   
SCOTT MCCARRON: I guess Paul played pretty well today, shot 7-under.  Tim Petrovic played really solid all day.  And he's a beautiful putter, he really rolls the ball well.  So I feel I'm going to have to go out there and shoot another low number.  You can't go around this golf course shooting even par and thinking you're going to win.  I'm going to have to go have another round like I did today or better to have a chance in this championship.   
JOHN DEVER: Okay, Scott, thank you, best of luck Sunday.   
SCOTT MCCARRON: Thank you, appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT