KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free round today, tied for the lead with a few others, just talk through what went right for you today.  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well I drove the ball really well today.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I had a lot of opportunities to reach the par-5s and just didn't take advantage of them.  Made a couple pars where I felt I should have made some birdies.  Then I had it about five feet for eagle on the first par-5 on the front side and missed that.   
So I had a lot of opportunities today, just kept putting myself in good positions.  The weather was just absolutely perfect.  The golf course is still just a little bit soft from all the rain we had, but it's in great shape.   
 Q.  Do you think the course is going to play tougher?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: I hope the course hopefully will firm up.  We had a lot of rain here over the last month or so I guess they said and so it's a little wet right now, but with a little bit of breeze and some warm temperatures it should be perfect.   
 Q.  You had some success in 2016 here, are you drawing on any of that?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well I like the golf course.  Tee to green I thought it set up really well for my game.  I like the big greens, if you hit it in the right quadrant you're going to have a lot of opportunities for birdie.  If you miss your quadrants you're going to be struggling to make par and 2-putt.   
So I thought if I could drive the ball well and have some short irons coming into some of these holes I would take advantage of my length.  I like this golf course.   
 Q.  A few weeks ago you played in THE PLAYERS and you didn't make the cut, but do you feel like the preparation for that tournament put you in the right mindset going into these back-to-back majors?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: It was a lot of fun being on that stage, of course being at THE PLAYERS, the best players in the world playing one of the best golf courses in the world, it was a lot of fun.  I didn't play that well the first day.  I played a little better the second day, kind of held my own.  But I think the preparation there and just being on that stage helped me going into last week in Alabama and certainly this week.   
 Q.  Surprised by the bottle neck at all at the top?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: I haven't even looked at what the leaderboard is.  I have no idea what it is.  Not surprised, a lot of good players here.  I thought with the conditions today guys were going to shoot some low numbers.  So I was fortunate I was one of them.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in mind when you started the day?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Never have a number in mind, just go out there and just try to hit the first fairway go from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT