KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The obvious question is, you're adapting to changing weather and the wind, how would you assess keeping your round together?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, it was like continuous golf.  I think we finished, I got in the car about 8:35, 8:45 last night and to be out teeing off at 6:45 was I think my shortest turn around ever.   
Conditions were very difficult yesterday when I teed off.  We played two and a half holes and it was gusting 40 to 50 miles an hour at times, blowing balls.  Then we had a nice wait there for 41 minutes.  Then back out and played.  It was still blowing pretty good, we were trying to rush in, get as many holes as we could last night, made a couple mistakes coming down.   
But made a nice eagle yesterday on number 3.  Then 3-putted number 4.  But all in all it's been pretty good first couple days.   
 Q.  Tell me about the eagle, please.  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Yeah, hit a great drive and a 3-wood from 261 to about 12 feet and made a little 12-footer for eagle.  So it was one of those 3-woods that comes off right in the center of the face and it felt great.   
 Q.  How about the holes you had to play this morning?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: I came back and I had to make about a 3-footer for par on 5.  Nice par on 6.  Then I had it for about 25 feet for eagle on 7, made a nice birdie there.  Lipped out for birdie on 8.  Then 9, drove it just off the green to the left there with a 3-wood, 2-putted from off the green for birdie.  10 was a very difficult hole location, being that back hole location, so we played to the middle of the green, had 30-something feet coming up the hill and 2-putted for par.   
 Q.  You're in good position out here and the word is patience out here?  
SCOTT MCCARRON: Absolutely.  That's been my word for a long time.  Just be real patient out here when you're playing.  If you can do that and stay within yourself, things usually pay off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT