THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 24, 2016
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thanks for taking the time.  First and foremost, take us through the key stretch of the back nine, 16 and 18 coming in.  
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, that wasn't key for me.  My birdies early in the round were key.  Unfortunately the bogeys on 16, 18, cost me the tournament.  Didn't hit a good shot on 16.  A little back into the wind, just kind of cut it up into the breeze.  Got a bad break getting in the bunker and I was in a footprint in the bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot to about 18 feet and missed it.   
18, I hit a good 4-iron and just came up in a very awkward stance, I'm standing kind of halfway in the bunker and the ball -- the putter was just so far back, it just shot right and I had a good putt and I hit a great putt, the second one didn't go in, so it was unfortunate.   
 Q.  From your perspective, it just feels like a couple breaks, if they'd have just gone your way.  
SCOTT McCARRON: Yeah, I didn't really have everything this week.  I had a bad neck all week and was kind of playing around that a little bit.  I just didn't putt all that well all week long but I kind of hung in there.  I had a chance with a couple holes to go, so that's all you can ask for.   
 Q.  Sounds like a pretty positive attitude.  Great outlook considering you weren't 100 per cent.  
SCOTT McCARRON: I think so.  I couldn't even play on Sunday when I got here and on Monday I could barely play.  I'm happy.  I played well all week.  I'm obviously disappointed bogeying 16 and 18.  But that's the way it goes.  I love being over here.  Carnoustie is one of my favorite golf courses and to be able to play over here is really a great experience and I feel very fortunate.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead, what are you going to take most from this week?  
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, you know, that I was able to kind of hang in there with not having my A Game, I guess you could say.  I was able to just kind of really massage my way around the golf course.  Staying out of a lot of the pot bunkers off the tees.  I 2-putted a lot from 50 feet a lot.  I had that a lot, just trying to play the smart shots, and unfortunately we're going to come up a little short.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT