THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 13, 2011
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Let's talk about it, eight birdies, a couple of bogeys. All in all a very good day. 
 SCOTT McCARRON: It was a very solid day. I hit it pretty well off the tee, hit a lot of good iron shots but I putted really well. I love these greens. They're rolling fantastic. I'm very happy to be here. I got a sponsor's invite on Friday last week when I was at the Fry's tournament from Scott Reed, so it's a great opportunity. I'm very thankful to Davis and Robin Love and Mark Love for thinking of me and inviting me to play in the McGladrey.

 Q. You're the one guy who can relate to what Davis is going through because you've been involved with being a tournament host, and he's doing all that stuff and playing golf. That's hard, isn't it?
 SCOTT McCARRON: I certainly have empathy for him. There's a lot going on when you're hosting a tournament, and Davis does a wonderful job. He did a great job last year. I know he's busy. He already had a couple parties at his house and doing corporate tents, and he's got another party tonight with the player party. I know how busy it can be, and my hat's off to them. They do a wonderful job here at this tournament.

 Q. You've been around a long time, but you are playing well. You missed one fairway, 15 of 18 greens. It seems like you're playing well. 
 SCOTT McCARRON: Well, it was a good start to the week. I put in a new set of Ping irons when I missed the cut at Fry's. My other set, the grooves were pretty much so gone and worn, and I've just been so reluctant to change, and I went ahead and said, nothing is working right now, let's go ahead and change it up, so that gave me some confidence to hit some shots and hold some greens and hit the right distance. So very happy with the way I played today. I putted beautifully. I just love this golf course, and I've got a great opportunity in front of me.

 Q. You like those Bermuda greens then?
 SCOTT McCARRON: I like any greens when the ball is going in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT