TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2010
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You went off early this morning. One off the course record. Can you talk about the conditions?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, this golf course is probably one of the best-conditioned golf courses we play all year long. The greens are just absolutely fantastic. There's hardly any divots in the fairway, and it was just spectacular. We woke up this morning, and it was just a perfect day.  
 I got off to a nice start, birdied a couple holes early and, you know, kind of kept it going. So I'm very happy with kind of getting back in the mix a little bit. I'm sure the guys will probably go low in the afternoon, but I'm just happy that I'm here playing on Saturday.  
  
  Q. What got you going? Putting, your driving?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, I started hitting some good iron shots. I've had a real bad neck problem. I didn't play Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday because I wasn't able to hit a golf ball, and just slowly getting better and better.   
 The guys in our physio trailer here have really helped me a lot, Jason Toms; and because of them I was able to play on Thursday, and really struggled through it. I only hit a few fairways both days. I couldn't hit the driver -- as a matter of fact, I couldn't even see the golf ball on my back swing, my head wouldn't turn.   
 But today I feel a little better, still feel pain on every shot, but I was able to manage it and at least field the ball a little bit better to give myself an opportunity to hit some irons.  
  
  Q. If the wind comes up like it did yesterday, do you think your score is going to be within striking distance?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Well, I think it's a good score. You know, you never know. If we get some wind, obviously then I'll be a little better off. The golf course is in great shape. The leaders are playing well, so I'm sure they'll probably play well this afternoon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT