JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2010
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Not too bad there on the leaderboard.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: No, I played solid, didn't make any bogeys, so I played really well. It was interesting to see Paul Goydos go out and shoot 59. That's a great score, and it's nice to see some of the older guys playing well.  
  
  Q. I say, too, is it a frustration to be six back and knowing you shot so well?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, not yet. It's only the first round, so there's three more days, and anybody can go low; but I was really happy to see Paul go low today, and kind of gives us a little new lease on life that maybe we can go low.   
  
  Q. What was working so well for you today? What were you happy with?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Well, I got a new driver, new TaylorMade Superfast, and I drove it really well today. I don't think I missed a fairway, so that made the course play a little bit easier. And made some good putts today, so felt good.  
  
  Q. Clean and place help a lot, too?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, it didn't help at all because I didn't miss any fairways. It wasn't like you were going to get bad lies anyway, so I think it helped with some of the mud that was maybe on the ball.   
 I'm glad they went ahead and did lift, clean and place because you never know what kind of weather we're going to get.  
  
  Q. Do you think scores could be different tomorrow if this thing dries out a little bit?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I think the scores will be a little bit different, but not much. This golf course, it's not playing short. It's playing pretty long right now because you're not getting any roll right now, and it's also difficult to get the ball close because the ball is spinning back so much. I'd like to see it firm up a little bit so the ball stays where it lands. So that score 59 is unbelievable.  
  
  Q. How do you approach the next day?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Same as I'm doing every day, go out and hit that first fairway.  
  
  Q. That 59 you mentioned, does that get into people's heads, anything can happen out here on any day for anyone?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Well, I think so. I mean you see somebody shoot 59, you know, you feel like you can go out and do that.   
 That's a great round. Paul made some good birdies coming down the stretch to do it, so I'm really happy for him. This is a sunshine 59.  
  
  Q. Did you see it on the board?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I did. I was on 13, just finished 13 when I saw him post 59, and actually our whole group like high-fived each other.  
  
  Q. Really?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: When a player shoots 59, it's kind of a big deal.  
  
  Q. Is it strange to be watching the scoreboard so closely on day one?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, I didn't watch it that closely, but I did watch it when he got to like 9-under and 10-under; and then definitely we were watching, oh, he made another birdie. So it's cool.   
 Any time that happens, it's like pitching a no-hitter or something like that; even though you're on the team, you're kind of rooting for that guy to play well.  
  
  Q. Thanks.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT