TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2010
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under 66 and no bogeys today. Very well done. 
   SCOTT McCARRON: Yeah. No bogeys. I played really solid today, hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, had a lot of real good looks at birdies. Made a few of them and missed a few I would like to have back, but all in all, real solid round.

   Q. They've talked a lot about the golf course being receptive to scoring as the weekend's progressed. Did you find it to be so again today, I take it?
   SCOTT McCARRON: I think it's played about the same all week. I mean you gotta drive the ball pretty well and you gotta hit the greens, and we've got some very interesting holes coming down the stretch where you can make birdies and bogeys and bobbles real quick. So today I was able to make a few birdies coming down the stretch.

   Q. Well done. Good luck tomorrow. 
   SCOTT McCARRON: Thanks. 

   Q. Justin Rose hit a bogey, so he did back up a little bit. But you know, if you're chasing somebody, that's good; it's not bad. It just means you have to go out and shoot 64 tomorrow. 
   SCOTT McCARRON: I'm doing pretty good in the B flight so far. Justin Rose, after his win at Memorial I think we all thought that he was going to go on a little run here. 
   He's been such a good player for a long time, he just needed to get that win under his belt. He's playing great this week. He'll be awful tough to catch.

   Q. What's going on with you? I was just looking it's like five out of the last six starts you missed the cut. The other time you --
   SCOTT McCARRON: Yeah.

   Q. So now here you are again, so all or nothing with you, I guess?
   SCOTT McCARRON: You know, it's kind of been a difficult year for me this year. I've missed like nine cuts by a shot this year, which I've hardly ever done, and even Mayakoba when I finished 7th, I made the cut on the number and then played well on the weekend. So that would have made a few more cuts I'd have had a better year. 
   But it's just been a tough year for me, but I'm starting to play really well. The second half of the year I usually finish strong.

   Q. Excellent. I like that. 
   SCOTT McCARRON: I feel good. I like this golf course a lot. The crowds are great. We should have some good weather, so I'm playing solid. Justin Rose is playing really well, so I'm doing pretty well in the B flight so far, and if I can just make a lot of birdies tomorrow and see what happens.

   Q. And what are you going to try to change up to try to catch him?
   SCOTT McCARRON: You know, I'm not going to change anything. Just keep doing what I'm doing. I'm hitting fairways, hitting greens, give myself a lot of looks at birdies and we'll see what happens.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT