HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2009
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Final round 62. When did you know you were in store for something special?
 SCOTT McCARRON: You know, when I made that putt on the last hole. I felt really loose today. Joking with the fans on the first tee, and I just felt really good. I've been feeling good all week, hitting the ball solid. I think I tied for first in driving accuracy, which you need to do here at this golf course, fifth in greens in reg, so I felt very confident in my game, trusting my swings, and I just needed to make some putts, and I was able to do that today.

 Q. Obviously you hope your day is not over. 
 SCOTT McCARRON: I hope my day is not over. I'd like to see something happen where at least I get a chance. He's got a couple-shot lead. He's got some holes that will test you coming down the stretch, so you never know.

 Q. When you get to 17 and you see where he is, I mean, you really risked everything right there?
 SCOTT McCARRON: Well, I really did. At that point I had to fire at the flag, and I knew a couple more birdies would get me right up there close, so it was a perfect 8-iron for me and I aimed just left of the flag and hit it right where I was looking. Very proud of the fact that I got up there and hit a good shot. 

 Q. Are you more relaxed when you're chasing down like that?
 SCOTT McCARRON: No, I'm more relaxed when I'm ten shots clear of everybody (laughter). But there was some pressure out there certainly. For me coming back, my job wasn't guaranteed until the end of the year last year, so I've got off to a pretty good start this year, made a lot of cuts but haven't made a lot of money. You know, there's a lot of pressure for me to do well. I still want to win, and I wanted to give myself the best opportunity today, and I felt I did that.

 Q. Talk a little bit about what happened at 11. 
 SCOTT McCARRON: Yeah, I had 292 to the front, and I hit driver, and I just hit a little bit off the heel and a little thin and it went in the water. For me I feel like I can put that ball either on the green or in that right bunker eight out of ten times, and I just didn't hit the shot. Maybe a little bit of doubt creeped in there. I felt like I was aimed a little left with my feet and I didn't stop myself, and unfortunately I hit it in the water. And then I got right back up there and hit driver in the bunker and got up-and-down. So I would do the same thing again. That was the play for me. I've been driving the ball so good, so straight, it's the best club in my bag. I just didn't hit the shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT