SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2009
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You looked like you trimmed down. Scott, a solid 4-under par, 68 start. You played five holes on the first day and came out even, kept the momentum going.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I came out and doubled my first hole this morning, 55 degrees and blowing about ten in my face on 6. Hit it in the bunker and caught it fat and in the water and made double. I did a lot of good work yesterday in five holes to get 2-under and gave it back.  
  
  Q. Talk about the conditions versus yesterday and today and also the speed of the greens.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Yesterday was -- I mean, it was completely a joke. The balls were rolling on the greens. You know, it was gusting up to 40, 45 miles an hour and with these kinds of greens, it's almost impossible to play. I'm surprised we didn't play that many holes. I was very fortunate to be 2-under after five holes. Today, conditions were a little windy this morning, little cold, and then right now they're perfect. I think the afternoon guys will have a huge advantage over us.  
  
  Q. What are you doing best out there? You obviously came back from the double bogey today with some birdies.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I hit a lot of good iron shots and drove the ball well. Hit some good wedges today to get close to make some birdies. I've been working hard on my wedge game.  
  
  Q. How firm are the greens as compared to yesterday?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: They're a little softer. Yesterday it was difficult to tell whether they were firm or not, depending on which way the wind was blowing. You hit 7-iron to the green, it stopped pretty good. I think you're going to see some low scores this afternoon.  
  
  Q. You come out of the chute double bogey after playing so well in the morning. How did you kind of --  
 SCOTT McCARRON: It was sill playing tough this morning. No. 6 I think is one of the hardest holes especially this morning that we had to start on. The wind was blowing in our face and about 50-something degree. Pretty cold. Hit the drive in the bunker and 4-iron in the water. I came back strong and birdied the next hole and played some good golf after that. Really was only one bad swing that lead to the double. That didn't bother me too much.  
  
  Q. Texas, you're playing well.  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Yeah, I like Texas. I like California, I like Florida. I like all the states we play in.  
  
  Q. Are you running for office?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: You're going to -- you're interviewing Freddie and myself right now and a few other guys are 4-under. We're not going to be anywhere near the lead after today. The guys are really going to tear it up this afternoon as long as the wind doesn't blow. The greens are receptive right now. They're rolling perfect so I think you'll see a lot of low scores this afternoon.  
  
  Q. Are you going to catch another break tomorrow morning coming out early instead of playing -- unlike at 1:00, you're playing at --  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I think, you know, our wave is certainly at a huge disadvantage depending on how many holes you had to play yesterday. Some guys had to play 10 or 11 holes. Then coming out this morning it being pretty cold and a little breezy. I think this wave unfortunately is going to go at a huge disadvantage.  
  
  Q. You're not going to catch a break tomorrow morning?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: Just depends on what the wind does this afternoon.  
  
  Q. How hard -- some weeks it's not much -- it's not -- how hard is it to keep a decent attitude about it when you're one of those people where you know we're really getting --  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I put myself in position, shot 4-under. That will probably be a good score for this wave and probably be just an okay score for the afternoon wave. But, again, I got to go back out tomorrow morning and play well. So maybe you get a break there. They all even out at the end. We really don't let it bother us too much. For this week so far, this wave is going to be little behind. But we might catch up. You never know.  
  
  Q. Did you come here this week feeling like your game was in pretty good shape?  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I feel every week it's in good shape. If not, I don't come.  
  
  Q. Is the course holding up pretty well? They had to do a little bit of watering on the greens yesterday because it was --  
 SCOTT McCARRON: I think it is. Yesterday even if the greens were ten and a half or ten, I don't know if we could have played yesterday. It was gusting that strong. So, this golf course is in probably -- certainly the best shape we've played all year. It could be the best shape that we'll play all year. They did a fantastic job of getting it ready to have a great championship.   
 They say they want to get it ready to kind of be like the next week, Augusta, so be it but this golf course is fantastic right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT