KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2019
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT McCARRON: You know, its was a pretty good day.  I didn't have any 5s on the card.  What that was good.  I drove the ball fairly well.  Hit a lot of greens.  Made a few putts early in the round.  Made a few putts kind of the middle of the round.  And then made one bogey on 15, the par-3, just a little three-putt for about 36 feet.
But other than that, I played pretty good.  3-under today for two, so just kind of keeping pace with Broadhurst.  We'll see what happens when he comes in.  But he's obviously playing really well.  Retief Goosen is playing well.  Kenny Tanigawa played right in front of me, obviously played very well.
So we'll certainly have some sort of chance tomorrow.  So that's good.
Q. What's your mindset for tomorrow?
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, tomorrow I'm going to have to go low.  You got to shoot 4-, 5-, 6-under, probably, depending on what Paul does.  Paul did that to me last year when I had the lead last year, and he came from back behind and played a tremendous round to win.  So maybe it's payback.
Q. Do you think the number's gettable tomorrow?  5-, 6-under?
SCOTT McCARRON: Why not?  I mean, I felt I should have done that today.
Q. Corey Pavin talks about that today was the easiest, quote/unquote, easiest golf, the weather and conditions, but did the course seem more gettable today?
SCOTT McCARRON: I thought the hole locations were tough today.  You look at some of these hole locations, like 18 and 17, we had a lot of back hole locations, and then they would putt them right on the fronts in the corner.  So I thought it was tough to get at a lot of the hole locations today.
So even though we didn't have much wind, the course softened up just a little bit because of the rain that we had throughout the day.  It still was tough to get the ball close.
I don't know if it was a the easiest day.  The first day I thought with no wind when I played in the morning, I mean, I got the good half of the draw.  That was fairly lucky.  I felt really sorry for those guys that got the bad end.  We've all had it happen.  It's just one of those things.
Q. Obviously you're used to playing (indiscernible) how much does that affect momentum?
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, you know, both delays weren't that long.  So it wasn't too bad.  Especially the second one was like 30-minute delay or whatever.
But, you know, it certainly can affect momentum.  But, you know, we've done this.  This is what we do.  You got to go in and just relax.  I went in the fitness trailer, got my neck worked on a little bit, and then all of a sudden, boom, you're back out.  The first one I had a little lunch and -- or my third breakfast and then lunch and then went back out.  You just got to stay loose.  We're used to it.  We do it all the time.
Q. What's yours history here at Oak Hill?
SCOTT McCARRON: I finished 14th in 2003.  So I like the golf course.  It's a tough, tough track.  It fits my eye.  I like it.
Q. What do you take from your experiences last year in this championship, trying to use it as a positive tomorrow?
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, my experience was I was laden by a few going the final round and didn't get the job done.  So I kind of feel like it's unfinished business.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
SCOTT McCARRON: He was.  Yeah.  He was a couple years behind me.  Yeah, great.  Kenny Tanigawa, one of the nicest guys you ever want to meet.  And a great player.  He's a great college player.  Played a little bit in Japan and then kind of hung up and did some other things.
So Kenny is a real bright guy.  When he told us that he was going to come back and go to Q-School, I thought if he can get out here, he's going to do well.  I mean, this guy still hits it far.  Great short game.  We play golf just about every Tuesday in our group.  And it's great to have him out here.  I mean, he's a great asset to the Tour.  Super nice guy.
You know, his win at Pebble Beach was huge.  I mean, a guy like him, he's got to come out here and win, he's got to finish in the top 36 every year.  But I feel he's probably one of the top 10 players out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT