WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2008
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'd like to welcome Scott McCarron to the Media Center here at the Wyndham Championship.
 Not the ideal finish but the next to best ideal finish. With the runner-up finish you jump to 77th on the FedExCup points list and it wasn't the ideal finish but you got a job for next mere. More immediately you got a job for the next few weeks.
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I'm going on vacation now.
 DOUG MILNE: Just take us through what's going through your mind.
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, one, I'm obviously disappointed. I certainly played well enough I thought I had a have a chance to win. Carl played really well coming down the stretch. 
 I thought I kind of let it go at about 12 when he made that great up and down and I missed that short putt and three-putted. So that was a little disappointing there. 
 Then he went ahead and birdied the next hole and birdied the par 5 and par 3. It was kind of a run away.
 Again, second place is obviously tough to swallow right now but I'll probably be pretty happen here when I realize I've got a job for the rest year, I don't have to write Tournament Directors or sponsors for exemptions and I've got a job for next year. 
 That was my goal coming back from my rehab and I've now done so that so that's -- feels really good to be able to accomplish. That will probably sink in later tonight.
 DOUG MILNE: Take a few questions.

 Q. Just like to know your feelings, a few years ago at this venue, Ken Still always said when he died he wanted some Sedgefield turf in his casket.
 Do you leave here with any kind of different feelings about this golf course and community?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, I really enjoyed the golf course. I thought it was fantastic. You had to really work the ball off the tee, put the ball on the right spot in the greens.
 If you missed a fairway it was very difficult to hit greens. I really enjoyed Sedgefield. I look forward to coming back here for many, many years.
 The fans were great. They're rooting hard for Carl as they should be, went to high school here and had a couple of them root for me once in a while so that was alright. But Carl is a great champion and he'll be a great champion for the Wyndham Championship.

 Q. Scott, with you not being in this kind of position, you know, to win a tournament in a while, did that at all affect you, you think?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I was in this position just about four weeks ago in Canada. No. I've won three times out there. I know how to win. I just didn't get it done today.
 Carl played well but I certainly had chances today and this will hopefully build on the next few weeks coming up in the playoffs. 
 Anytime you're in that position, obviously, you want to win. My first three wins, every time I got leading going into the last round I won so it came really easy to me. Since then I finished second six times now with two playoff losses.
 I'm ready to get back in the winner's circle sooner or later. If not, I got to play some really small tournaments somewhere.

 Q. With your schedule, your future schedule having been up in the air somewhat before this week, are you just going to stay on the East Coast here with the playoffs coming up?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I am, yeah. You know, it's funny, seven years ago my wife and I moved from Sacramento to Reno and the week that we moved I won in Atlanta. 
 Seven years later we're moving this week to Palm Springs from Reno. So it's interesting, my family is making a huge sacrifice for me because my wife's he family is from Reno but we realize that dad needs to be home more. I can't practice and play in Reno during the winters with snow on the ground in five months. We all made the big sacrifice for dad to be in an area where I can play and practice.
 I got to thank my family for believing in me after coming back after this injury not knowing if I would be able to play again and I think selling the house and moving down to Palm Springs kind of gave me some freedom and piece of mind that I was in this for the long haul. Lot has to do with my family making that decision.

 Q. So you won't be able to attend the closing on the Houston?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: No, we closed two months ago. We've been renting back for two months after the Reno Tahoe Open. We've been moving boxes out. Saturday night when I was there before I came here was the last night I was going to spend in the house, which was sad and happy. Selling a house in this market, I was pretty happy about.

 Q. What clicked over the last month that you played so well?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: It was couple things have clicked. Working with Jim Hardy in Dallas. I was struggling up to that point and I had about 30 questions for him on the range and just started pounding him with questions. "Why do this, why this, how come my shots go this way?"
Really sat down and explained it. I kind of took upon myself through a couple questions like with Steve Elkington to really find out what does is my golf swing look like, what is my golf swing supposed to be when I'm swinging well? 
 I've been kind of a feel player and always felt like my game would come back. I really took it upon myself to learn more about what I was doing and what I was doing right and what I was doing wrong and to fix those things.
 We kind of hammered out on the driving range in Dallas and I hit the ball beautifully all week in Dallas. Ever since I've really hit the ball well. 
 I haven't put the scores together all the time but I finished -- I've had a couple really good finishes. That had a lot to do with it and the fact that once I started swinging well, started believing in myself again playing with a lot of confidence.
 I've been righting every good shot I've hit everyday for the last month, even on the driving range just to kind of get my subconscience mind to really believe that I can do it. 
 There's that little man in your head that sometimes when you take the club back, "You can't quite do that." I've been working really hard on the mental part of the game as well as the physical. It's just all starting to click.

 Q. Have you been working with him before or --
SCOTT MCCARRON: I've been with Jim Hardy for eight years.

 Q. When was that session?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Dallas, Byron Nelson.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Have we gone through your card?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Let's talk about my birdie on the last hole.

 Q. What did that --
SCOTT MCCARRON: That was big. I'm four shots back going into the last hole. Rich Beem shot 63. I looked at the board to see where he was. 
 After bogeying 17 I had to make par on the last hole to finish 2nd. Being in my position that's a lot of money and whether I would probably keep my card for the rest of the year or not, I'm guessing. 
 So it was a big hole. I hit driver off the tee and just caught that little slope and went down the rough and I finally got a decent lie in the rough, first time all day. I really just didn't get any good lies set-up all day.
 I had 209 to the hole. I hit a flying 7-iron just absolutely perfect in there about three feet and made it for birdie. I was just trying to lag the putt. Fell it.

 Q. You got on the 18th tee and you've been hoping, thinking you could win and got to the point you realize you're not going to win. 
 How do you keep your concentration and focus in on the fact that, oh, yes, this does matter, a birdie, in fact, makes a huge difference?
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I'll tell you what. As I stood up on the tee I told my caddy Bradley, we've got to make par here. He said, "No, you've got to hit the fairway here." He did a great job all week of keeping me in that moment right this shot right now.
 I was already trying to get ahead of myself trying to think about par and he says, "No, you have to fit this fairway."
So he kind of brought me back into what I needed to do, which was great. He's a great caddy. I'm very happy to have him on the bag and I'm happy we both have a job the rest of this year and next year.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Well, thank you for coming.
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Thanks. Appreciate it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT