RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2008
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good round of golf out there for you?  
 SCOTT MCCARRON: It was pretty good. I started off with two bogies. Then we had birdied 3. I had a six-footer for par on 4, and then we had the rain delay. I had a nice little lunch in there. Came back, missed my putt and made another bogey. I made like 10, 11 birdies after that or something.   
  
  Q. What brought it on? Where did it come from?   
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I don't know. I've been playing pretty well all week. The first day I was playing really well. I could have shot lower. But even the second day when I shot lower, I thought I shot pretty good.   
 Made a lot of good putts today, hit a lot of iron shots coming down the stretch. It was a lot of fun. These rounds are so much fun.  
  
  Q. This course seems to be well-suited for your kind of game?  
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Yeah, I've always enjoyed playing Glen Abbey. It's been one of my favorite golf courses playing on Tour. This is like my fifth Open because my mom's Canadian.  
  
  Q. Where's she from?   
 SCOTT MCCARRON: A little place called Kaslow, about 45 minutes north of Nelson in British Columbia.   
  
  Q. So how tough has it been for you since your elbow surgery?   
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, it's been difficult. All the rehab that I did. You know, a year and a half of not being able to play on Tour, and then coming back and not playing that well to start off.   
 But I really wasn't too worried about it because I was playing without pain. That was the biggest thing. I knew my game would eventually come around, but it took a long time.   
 It's been slowly progressing. I've been very patient with it. So, you know, rounds like this make all that hard work worthwhile.  
  
  Q. You threw the fist up when you made the birdie?  
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Yeah, it was fun. I had a great iron shot on 17 to about 4 feet. Had a great shot on 6, a 4-iron to 8 feet, missed that one and misread it. I think I birdied all those today.  
  
  Q. You've got yourself right in contention. So what's that mean for tomorrow?   
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Well, you know, I'll just try to keep the same mindset. I really stayed today thinking one shot at a time. We talk about that, but really every hole I just said okay, hit it in the fairway. You have to hit it in the fairway. Once you get to the fairway, okay, let's hit it on the green.   
 And I kept doing that all day long. Didn't think ahead about how many birdies. I didn't even know how many birdies I made. It was just like hit the next tee, hit the fairway. That is the only thing I could control at least try to.  
  
  Q. Did you ever come up here when you were an own ore?   
 SCOTT MCCARRON: Not to Toronto. But all the time. Used to go fishing on the lake.  
  
  Q. So you were up in B.C. every year?  
 SCOTT MCCARRON: I know, yeah. I used to play well at the old Air Canada Championship in Vancouver. Got a lot of friends and family up there. I've got one cousin that lives here, so had dinner with him last night.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT