BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 2, 2005
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Scott, for joining us for a few minutes.  I know it's cold out there.
SCOTT McCARRON:  It's cold in here.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  It's cold in here, too.  We'll get you out of here so you can get warm and an opportunity to rest a little bit.

You're the Open talk about the afternoon wave.
SCOTT McCARRON:  Being on the afternoon wave was kind of helpful.  We were able to sleep in every day.  We didn't have to wake up at 5:00 the last three mornings, so I think that was a little bit helpful.  It was blowing pretty good out there.  It was blowing good this morning, too, so those guys played some extremely cold weather.  Anything around par or 1- or 2-over was a great round today.  So I'm very fortunate and very thankful that I was able to get 3-under.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SCOTT McCARRON:  My third win, my second win here, overall, we played 36 on a Sunday and conditions very similar to this.  So the wind was kind of the same actually and so it kind of felt like we were playing that 36-holer, 2001.
Q.  What were you thinking this morning?
SCOTT McCARRON:  Stay warm.  When you're on the range, one of the higher points on the golf course it was absolutely freezing.  I hit an 8-iron full that went like 50 yards, it was coming backwards.  You're facing that first hole, knowing it's going to be a very difficult golf hole, and you have to struggle all day.  Being on the driving range and hitting balls, it's a little humbling.
Q.  A day like this, course like this, conditions the way they are, do you have to put your head down mentally?
SCOTT McCARRON:  I think that old saying, "one shot at a time," it really keeps that you way, because all you're thinking about is staying warm.  Hit that shot, put on some more clothes, put a ski cap on, gloves on, walk down the fairway, take it all off, hit that shot.  So it really keeps you Point A to Point B and hit that shot from Point to Point B.  I play my best when I'm doing that, so that was kind of nice today.
Q.  Because you didn't finish today, maybe we put away this walk of 36 on Monday, because physically it's probably not possible to do?
SCOTT McCARRON:  You'll have to ask the rules officials that question; I don't know.
Q.  It sounds a little more realistic, can you imagine doing this in this kind of weather, it would not be like this on Monday, but it would be a pretty tough go?
SCOTT McCARRON:  It might be.  It might be difficult for us to finish tomorrow and then play 36.  I don't think we'll be able to do that, whether we go 54 or however we're going to do it.  We have a little bit more sunlight going, so you never know.
Q.  The best example of worst downwind or into the wind situation and the reverse, the downwind of what kind of yardages you had out there?
SCOTT McCARRON:  On 15, I had like 144 to the pin and ripped a 6-iron, and normally a 6-iron is about 180, 185, so that was pretty good.

On No. 7, I had 132 and I hit sand wedge, I really didn't even hit it that hard and it flew past the pin about 36 feet or  so.

So, there was a lot -- there's not a lot of into the wind and downwind holes, there's a lot of crosswind holes, which makes it very difficult.  You're hitting shots 30, 40, 50 feet out to the right and having the wind bring them back in.  Here though, if you can keep it down a little bit in the tree line, below the trees, you can avoid some of that win when you get above those tree lines, it really affects the golf ball.
Q.  Kind of like TPC last week, if you didn't have receptive greens, you'd have been unplayable out there.
SCOTT McCARRON:  I think so.  Today's round was similar to 2001, except for 2001 it played faster and firmer, which made it even more difficult.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your card.
SCOTT McCARRON:  Bogey 1, hit a driver on the left side, caught a tree.  I hit 3-wood in for my second shot and then had to hit 9-iron in for my third shot.  So that hole played extremely long for me.

Then I birdied No. 3.  Hit 2-iron off the tee and went all the day down the hill, it's about 270, carried that bunker and I only had 60 yards to the pin there with a 2-iron, so that's kind of an unusual shot there.  Hit had a to about six or eight feet and made that for birdie.

Then I birdied 5 which played really difficult.  Hit a great drive there and a 6-iron behind the hole about ten feet or so.  It was one of those Augusta-like putts, you try to hit it one inch and let the wind take it down there and was able to curl that in.

8, had a good 5-iron there about 216, 218 I think it played, 5-iron to about a foot and a half, two feet.  Tees were up, thank goodness.

Made a bunch of pars and birdied 17 with a real good drive and a 7-iron in there about five or six feet and made that.

I had a chance on last hole to go for it.  I had maybe 243 on 18, but just with the gust of the wind, stuff like that, I felt it was probably smarter just to play out to the right and make birdie with a wedge.
Q.  Any gusts?
SCOTT McCARRON:  I had one on 12, actually, I missed the green left, chipped it down there about ten feet or so and hit a putt and I missed it two inches left of where I wanted to hit it, and started walking, and the wind caught it and pushed it out to the right and it kind of curled to the left side.  That's one of those, fortune is going your way when it the wind blows it in the hole.
Q.  Can you remember playing this difficult, where it was?
SCOTT McCARRON:  You probably have to go back to 2001 here are, or you have to go to the British Open at Muirfield, except that was raining sideways, that was probably the toughest conditions I've ever played in.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Reno was pretty Reno windy last year.
SCOTT McCARRON:  Reno was pretty windy that last round, the Sunday round was extremely windy, also altitude, wind, the whole bit.
Q.  Your last hail on the golf course, when was that?
SCOTT McCARRON:  The last time it snowed, I think I remember Tucson quite a few years ago, they actually got called because of snow.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You had hail in Phoenix.
SCOTT McCARRON:  We had hail in Phoenix.  We had hail at The INTERNATIONAL last year, big-time hail.  I've got a picture of that on my cell phone, as a matter of fact.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT