WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2002
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK: We're here with Scott McCarron, new course record, 8 under 64 today.  No bogeys.  Scott, I heard you saying earlier the course is wonderful.
SCOTT McCARRON:   It really is an absolutely great golf course and these greens are possibly the best greens I've ever played.  I can't think of any other greens, maybe Bethpage this year, but these greens are absolutely fantastic, perfect speed.  They roll so true.  10 feet and it putts out, whether it's going in or out.  It makes it a lot of fun.
TODD BUDNICK:  Obviously the putter has to be working well.
SCOTT McCARRON:   Yes.  I've got things clicking today, which was fun.  I got off to a bad start on Thursday, and since then, played some pretty good golf.

Q.  The sand shot on 16, you seemed to know that was in at 10 feet?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Again, it's going, you know, it's going in 10 feet from the hole.  The ball is just rolling tracking in there, and you pretty much know whether it's going or not, chips, putts, the whole bit.  It was nice.  I hit a lot of good bunker shots the last couple of days.  Holed one out on 17 yesterday, as a matter of fact.  And almost holed out a couple today, and then holed out that one on 16.

Q.  Did you come over here with Tiger?
Tiger, Mark and I came over here the day after my birthday, July 11th.  We played and the three of us played two hours and three minutes in carts.  Had a great time.

Q.  How fast will you play tomorrow?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Only as quick as the group in front of us.

Q.  Is it only coincidence a lot of the U.S. players who almost made the Ryder Cup and didn't (inaudible)?
SCOTT McCARRON:   I think it's a coincidence.  Lucky for us, we were all playing good when the Ryder Cup teams were picked, and we didn't get the nod.  Guys like Chris DiMarco, he was right there and could have been picked.  It's nice to see some of them are still playing pretty decent.  Golf has your ups and downs.  You have to weather the storm when it's not going to great, and when it is, start to take advantage of it, all these guys are great players so I'm not surprised to see them.

Q.  I think what he was trying to get at, do you think there is extra motivation this week because next week is the Ryder Cup and you guys aren't there?
SCOTT McCARRON:   I don't know if there's extra motivation.  I don't think so.  The team was picked a long time ago.  I don't think there is any extra motivation.  Guys want to win this tournament regardless of whether the Ryder Cup is next week or not.  Guys that were playing really well aren't playing the same.  It doesn't mean they won't be playing well next week.  That's the way golf is.

Q.  You're a big fan of Links golf, but obviously you love this course this week.  How do you feel about coming to Ireland and playing American-style golf?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Well, I think a lot of us would look forward to playing Links-style golf.  I so look forward to playing the British Open, and every night after the British Open I played North Berwick with three or four clubs.  I really kind of rejuvenated my love for the game being at the British Open, but this Mount Juliet was one of the finest resorts I've been to; the food, they have a great fly-fishing stream right out of my hotel room, and this golf course is magnificent.  If you're coming to Ireland, definitely play Links golf, but you have to stop here at Mount Juliet.

Q.  How many did you catch this week?
SCOTT McCARRON:   I don't know.  I probably caught three or four a night.  Last night I only caught one small one.

Q.  Can you catch the leader?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Can I catch the leader?  The leader of the fly-fishing or the tournament?

Q.  The tournament.
SCOTT McCARRON:   It depends who's leading.  You have to go out there and play a great round tomorrow.  If I go out and do what I'm capable of doing, you never know.  I think I have a chance to catch anybody up there.  It doesn't matter who it is; you're out there playing the golf course and if you play well, you should.

Q.  Did you play a game here?
SCOTT McCARRON:   We played a little game here.  I was at a disadvantage because it was the day after my birthday, and I was out a little late.

Q.  Excuses aside, how did it turn out?
SCOTT McCARRON:   I think he actually beat me that day.  I'm pretty sure.  I don't remember a lot that next day.  I think he did get us that day.  Mark and I both.  And then David and I took Mark and Tiger the next day at the European Club.  We came out about even, but he might have won a few bucks from me. 

Q.  You've done okay in the World Golf Championships this year.
SCOTT McCARRON:   I did, obviously, well at the match-play.  I didn't do worth a darn at Sahalee.  I think I finished second-to-last there.  It's fun getting here and getting the best golfers in the world and it's been great playing twosomes all week, from the first tee.  We've been playing very quickly.  It's been fantastic.  For me it's a lot of fun.

Q.  How did you turn it around from Thursday to the last two days, did you make any changes or anything?
SCOTT McCARRON:   I was struggling a little bit.  I actually saw my teacher right before I left for Philadelphia, and I was actually swinging really well.  He gave me a few little things, I was starting to think too mechanical and thinking about my swing.  I just do not play well when I'm thinking mechanical.  So I came here and -- I hit it a pretty good in Philadelphia just didn't score that well.  And came here and really hit it bad the first couple of days.  And Sluman actually helped me a little bit before I played Thursday. 
What Jeff was telling me, I was trying to think on the golf course and I wasn't quite able to do it yet.  You know I hit it double three and double four, so I said that's not working let's go do something else.  The next little swing feel started working.  I can't work on swing keys or swing thoughts.  It's more of a swing feel for me.  It seems to work pretty good.

Q.  Haven't you succumbed to getting too mechanical in the past?
SCOTT McCARRON: Yes, I think so.  It's a funny game.  When you're not playing well, you start searching a little bit.  It wasn't like I was playing poorly, I just felt I could get a little bit better and any time I start thinking mechanics, I can do it on the range but you have to trust it.  There are certain times to think about swing mechanics.  That's on the driving range.  And you have to be able to practice, hit balls, and trust it on the range before you take it to the golf course.  I wasn't trusting it just yet.

Q.  Were you surprised by the conditions this week?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Not really.  It was a little cold and rainy last time I was there.  But I heard this time of year, it's kind of like Indian summer.  I'm not that surprised.

Q.  How would you rate the course?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Right up there.  I love this golf course.  It's one of the best golf courses we play.  And definitely, the greens are I think the best I've ever played.

Q.  How about the Irish golfing fans?  They're acknowledged as very knowledgeable?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Very knowledgeable about golf.  It's like the Masters a little bit, very knowledgeable fans.  They've been fantastic all week.  I'm looking forward to getting out here tomorrow and having them hooting and hollering.

Q.  Have you sampled a pint of Guiness?
SCOTT McCARRON:   One or two.  I play golf, get a massage, go fishing, have a pint of Guiness and dinner.  It's been fantastic.
TODD BUDNICK:  Scott, walk us through your birdies. 
SCOTT McCARRON:   Birdied No. 3, par 3, hit 7-iron in there about eight, 10 feet past the hole, made that one.
Birdied the par  5, two good shots in front of the bunker, made that for birdie.
Eight, hit a big drive there.  238 to the front and fanned a 5-wood and chipped it down to about 5 feet and made that. 
10, hit a good drive down there and hit 5-wood just over the back right of the green and had to hit it kind of up over a slope, really tough chip and chipped it to about 5 feet and made that.
13, hit a good drive, pitching wedge to about 3 feet.
14, a hit I 6-iron in there to about 15 feet, made that for birdie.
16, hit a drive in the right rough and then kind of played it to the right bunker.  I didn't have a chance with a line like that.  If I landed on the green it would have gone over the back, I holed that bunker shot.
17, just murdered a drive there, down the left side, hit a 6-iron into that green, on 17, the par  5.  And just carried over the bunker and just missed the green to the left there, just to maybe a foot off the green, and chipped up there to about a foot and made that for birdie.  It wasn't like I made a lot of big putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far was that out of the sand on 16?
SCOTT McCARRON:   Probably maybe 15 yards.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Scott. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT