WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2002
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk a little about your match today?
SCOTT McCARRON:  Well, I played pretty solid all day long until probably the last few holes.  I had my only bogey there.  Just missed a up-and-downs that I should have, but I got to play all 18 holes today; so that's a bonus. 

Q.  Talk about playing against your opponent today.
SCOTT McCARRON:  You know, Mike played pretty well today.  Just the wind was really swirling around quite a bit and made for very difficult club choice and he just miss-clubbed a few times when the wind would switch. 
Other than that, he played pretty solid golf all day long.  He's a great competitor.  We've been playing against each other since the Canadian Tour qualifying up in Canada, Morning Star.  A long time ago, we played together in the last group battling it out.  He's a great guy and a great competitor.

Q.  Who won that match?
SCOTT McCARRON:  I did.  I won by 5.  That was my first big deal.  I won the qualifying by 5.  The year before I missed the cut there.  I was up at Morning Star Country Club on Vancouver Island.  Way out in the middle of nowhere.  Beautiful spot, though. 
You know, I've been playing really well, and I expected to play well today and I did.  I played really solid all day long for the last few holes, trying to close out the match.  I've got to do that by making birdies, not by trying to make par.  I haven't played a lot of match-play , so I'm learning as we go.
This is the first time since I was 25 years old, playing the U.S. Mid-Am.

Q.  That was like 15 years ago.
SCOTT McCARRON:  I'm not as old as you, there.  (Laughs).
I'm really on my game.  I drove it well.  I hit a lot of good iron shots.  Only loose shots were when I was trying to close out the match; I was thinking about distance on the greens instead of what I normally do is go at the pins.  I'm learning as we go, the last couple days, and have got a good match tomorrow.  So keep on learning and playing well. 

Q.  Talk about some of the key holes.
SCOTT McCARRON:  I got off to a good start.  I made a really good par on 2 after having a chance to get there.  And I remember hearing Andy North saying 11 out of 14 matches won an 2  -- whoever won that hole would win the match.  So that was
a big, pivotal hole for me; I made par. 
But then I birdied 3 and 4, and just getting off to a good start like that, getting 2-up I think was pretty key. 
Then I think the par 5, No. 12, I hit a beautiful drive there and hit another driver into the wind right to the middle of the green to go 3-up, 4-up, whatever it was. 

Q.  How do you like this tournament?
SCOTT McCARRON:  I'm liking it, a lot.  This is a lot of fun.  I'm playing match-play against, sometimes, your good buddies.  This is what it's all about, mano-a-mano.

Q.  Were you planning on going to Tucson?
SCOTT McCARRON:  I've played Tucson the last few years, actually, and I like Tucson.  But I am very happy to be here. 

Q.  What do you think about all of these top seeds going down?
SCOTT McCARRON:  Top seed doesn't mean anything here.  Guys are losing, whether they are top seeds or not.  To us, it's just another player, and it doesn't really matter if your ranking is 1 through 10 or 50 through 64. 

Q.  Are you glad you're able to play this week after last week?
SCOTT McCARRON:  No question.  I'm playing really well.  And it was really good to tee off yesterday, to get my mind back on golf and forget about what I did last week, losing the Nissan Open. 

Q.  You got a couple of bad breaks  --?
SCOTT McCARRON: Couple of breaks that didn't go my way.  I hit good shots coming in.  I wish I could have made a couple of putts, but I played solid all week long.  Just one of those things, I 3-putt, and I guess it's his week.  I'd like to have some of those shots over again.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT