THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2018
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Happy with that today, round of 68?  
SCOTT McCARRON: No. I'm going to come up short. So I'm not happy with that. I played solid. You know, a lot of putts just burning the edges. I hit a lot of good putts with good speeds are just like the last hole and they either just didn't break or broke too much.   
I gave myself a lot of chances but I bogeyed 7 with a sand wedge, and you can't ever do that. I mean, I gave away two shots there, I feel, and you know, right now, I'm two shots behind.   
So a little disappointing. But I birdied 17, so that was kind of cool. I've never done that before. It was a tough day to start out, a lot of wind early on, a lot of rain. Now it's nice out. So coming down the stretch it wasn't as hard as it's been over the last few days, you know, from 12 on in.   
I hit a lot of good shots. Just needed to make a couple more birdies.   
 Q.  Overall, a top five in St. Andrews is good?  
SCOTT McCARRON: Well, it is but when you're trying to win, you're trying to win. You know, I'm going to look back on a lot of shots and putts that didn't go in or shots that I missed that kept me from winning this championship, and you know, I've been in the top 5 on just every major this year except for the U.S. Senior Open and it just seems like there's one little thing during the four days that kind of stopped me from winning these things.   
But I'll get there. I mean, I'll figure it out. I'm close, which is good, and I had a blast here. I mean, this is one of my favourite places on earth, St. Andrews, and to be able to play here at the British Senior Open was really special.   
 Q.  I believe it's your first time playing at St. Andrews, it's been a special week for you?  
SCOTT McCARRON: I played the Dunhill Links here in 2007 but this has been a special week staying in the town and walking to work. It really is one of the greatest places I've ever been.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT