FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2001
Scott McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   Yeah, I played pretty solid today.  The winds were swirling a little bit more than they have been the last couple days.  It made club selection pretty difficult out there quite a few times.  I thought the pins were pretty tough, too.  A couple of the par  3s, the pins were tucked way in the corners, with left-to-right winds, which is difficult for me to get to because I like to cut the ball.  I'm happy with the position I'm in.  One shot back, I'll be playing in the second-to-last group, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Just the way you finished, does that make you feel pretty good?  You go, you slip on the two par 3s on the back, but then come back on 18, especially to birdie that.
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   I don't know if you call it slipping on the par  3s.  Those are tough.  I watched the group in front of me knock a couple balls in the water there on 11.  I was happy to get out of there with a bogey.   And the next hole, the pin is tucked too far left with the left-to-right wind.  It's just a difficult shot for me.  Missed the green and had a difficult up-and-down.  Two bogeys there, not that much of a slip.  Probably in the field, probably scoring average was over par there, I'm sure.  But good finish.   I birdied 16 and birdied 18, which is good. Only one shot back on the last day  -- I'd obviously rather be in the lead or leading, because I've won every time I've been in the lead going into Sunday.  But being one shot back is a great position. 
 

Q.  Was it better for you to be playing with Bob Estes, even though you were four back today, versus playing against the field or the course? 
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   Well, I really enjoy playing with Bob Estes.  So I'm not going out there thinking about playing against someone.  I'm just playing against the golf course and doing the best I can do.  It doesn't matter who I am playing with.   But Bob and I get along really well and we've had some good golf when we've played together, so it doesn't matter whether I'm playing with Bob Estes John Daly or Brent Schwarzrock. 
 
SCOTT McCARRON:  Yeah, I started off, birdied 1.  Hit a good drive down there.  Little pitching wedge in there about three and a half feet. Bogeyed No.  2.  Missed an easy up-and-down.  A little disappointing.  Birdied No. 3.  A really good drive and 2-iron in the left bunker there.  Knocked it out about two and a half feet. Birdied No. 5.  Drive and a 5-iron on the par  5 there just to the right of the green.   Got up-and-down there.  Birdied No.  6.  Hit a really good drive and a 7-iron to about three and a half feet. Then birdied No.  9 with a driver and a 5-iron to about two feet.  So I hit it pretty close on the front.  That was nice. 10, good drive and a 7-iron about 12 feet and made that for birdie. Bogeyed 11, which I already talked about.  Bogeyed 14, the par  3.  And then came back and birdied 16 with a drive and 3-wood just on the right side of the green and 2-putt.   Then 18, hit a good drive and a 6-iron to about 18 feet and made that for birdie.  Great way to finish.  
 

Q.  Tomorrow, what do you think it is going to take tomorrow?  Do you have any idea what  -- are you going to be going out there looking for a number that you think will get it done?  What's going to be your approach?
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   I'm just going to approach tomorrow as going out there and really taking it one shot at a time and really being aggressive.  This is a golf course where you have to be aggressive.  You can't go out and shoot 2- or 3-under tomorrow and thinking you are going to win this golf tournament.  You're going to have to probably shoot, oh, I don't know, 23-under, 24-under.  I think that might do it.  But, you never know.  Anybody can go low.  John shot 8-under today.  Another 8-under would be 24( -under).  I'm just going to go out there and do the best I can do over each shot and see what happens. 
 

Q.  Can you go over what you said about your success rate going into Sundays in this position? 
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   Yeah, I've led three times going into Sunday and won all three.  So I like being in the lead. (Smiles).   
 

Q.  Were you guys aware of all of what Daly was doing?  He was a couple groups ahead of you, but could you hear the crowd and the roars? 
 
SCOTT McCARRON:   We could hear a few roars.  You don't know if it is Daly or not.  It could be anybody.  But we did see John climbing the board.  I watched the board a little bit today.  I'm happy for John.  It's fantastic.  He seems to be back playing pretty well.  I don't think he has to win this tournament to be fully back, if you know what I mean.  I think he's already back.  (Smiling). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT