MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 28, 2001
Matt Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You're the first player in history to hit home runs with three different teams in the World Series is that kind of significant? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, I guess to me, it just means that I played on some very good teams, that's all.  Fortunate to be on the teams that have made it this far. 


Q.  Can you just talk about your home run, what you feel like it did for your team, the pitch you hit, your thoughts? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, I believe it was a cut fastball.  Andy had thrown me one in the previous pitch on the inside corner, and he just left that one out over the plate a little bit.  It didn't do anything for us; as it turned out, we did not need it, Randy pitched great.


Q.  Can you talk about the fickle nature of this game, two weeks ago you were getting booed on the same field and now you are being cheered? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, as I told you guys two weeks ago, it's nothing that a couple of hits won't take care of.  I'm glad to contribute.  I've played well these last two games, but we are going to have to continue to do so as we go on the road.


Q.  You've done this now Matt for three teams, does it get any better than this, though?  Do you feel like a little boy inside? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   I guess as you get  -- the first one, I was 22-years-old, so, yeah, as you go along in your career, you get a chance to go back to the World Series, it becomes more special.  So, I don't know if I was a little boy, I am glad to contribute to a win for our team, and, like I said, we'll have to play well in New York if we hope to win there. 


Q.  Can you talk about your defense, which you've always taken a lot of pride in, how big that was tonight, probably just as big as your home run? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, we know that when Randy Johnson pitches he throws that slider down and in to right-handers and a lot of times it is swung on and missed but if they do make contact or hit it hard, it is generally at me so I have to be prepared when he pitches to get a lot of action.  Randy Johnson has a tendency to put you to sleep out there because you don't expect the opposing team to hit the ball but when they generally do, it is generally in my direction and I have to be prepared for that. That's my job, to catch it and throw it to whoever I am supposed to throw it to. 


Q.  Can you talk about the depth on the bench and the role Bautista played tonight?

MATT WILLIAMS:   I was watching it on TV in there and Bob, when Bob gave his comments on Danny, he has not won a Gold Glove but he's capable on the outfield.  When he does, he gives you right-handed power, he can hit the ball to all fields and speed as well.  If there's a situation, if there's a tough left-hander and Steve is not playing, Danny is fantastic out there.  He showed it tonight.  He's been kind of a bench player for us, our guy that comes off the bench and pinch hits, but when he gets a chance to play, he's ready to go.


Q.  With the injuries of the last couple of years, how frustrating has it been for you? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, you have some things that happen in baseball; I never thought I would break my back foot on a foul pitch once, let alone twice.  Those things happen and there's nothing you can do about it.   Makes you really appreciate somebody like Cal Ripken.  Yeah, it's frustrating when you cannot get out there and play, because that's what I do.  That's what I know how to do, it's what I love to do.  All I know is I'm happy to be where I'm at, and it's nice to get these first two games and we'll go on from there. 


Q.  When the Diamondbacks started up, you said it was not a great baseball town yet but it will be some day?

MATT WILLIAMS:   Did I say that? 


Q.  When they first started four years ago.  Can you talk about what it has taken, is the town keeping up with the team, being a great baseball town and also comment on getting back to the World Series? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, here is how it works.  You have a good team first of all and you get to the playoffs; you build that great thing, just like that team in the other locker room has done.  That's what it takes to be a great baseball town because you have a winning club.  This is one of the pieces of the puzzle, you make it to the World Series, hopefully win it and that will start this all on it's way.  I don't know if I ever said that, though.  (Laughter.) You're going to get me in trouble. 


Q.  Because so many of your teammates have not played in New York, especially in a World Series, you've been in New York, especially with Cleveland, how can you help your team personally from your point of view to maybe make that transition and not be so in awe of that place? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   Well, I said at the end of the day and this is really how I feel, everybody thinks I'm full of bull, but Yankee Stadium is like a cathedral to me.  Not in awe, per se, but to be able to step on the same field that all of those great players stepped on, and to know that they played on that same field that you are getting a chance to play on; that's the way I look at it.  Not necessarily in awe, but privileged to be able to play there, and that's  -- I think that's the way we are all going to look at it.   Once again, we'll have it play well.  But I, for one am honored to go there and play. 


Q.  How big of an emotional advantage does it give you going into New York up 2-0? 

MATT WILLIAMS:   This game and last night's game are forgotten at this point.  It does not get any easier from here.  We have got Roger on Tuesday.  So they play well at home, we know that.  We have seen them down 2-0 before.  We'll have to continue to do what we are doing, which is pitching well, playing good defense, scratching runs across when we get a chance to, doing little things.  So, that's the plan.  Now it does not the matter if it is here or there.  If we do those things we have a chance to win and that's what we are going to concentrate on doing on Tuesday.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT