AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 2, 1997
Matt Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the blast.

MATT WILLIAMS: I don't know. Just left the curve ball up in the zone, that's it, just
tried to hit it, that's all.

Q. Is this stuff maybe not quite as good as you're used to tonight?

MATT WILLIAMS: I'm not used to any, period. This is the second time -- I've had two
at-bats against him. So I really don't know. He works both sides of the plate, he's got a
very good cutter, and that's difficult to hit, he mixes in his off-speed pitches and
fastball, so I don't have an answer for you there, he's a good pitcher.

Q. Could you talk about your homerun real briefly?

MATT WILLIAMS: Just -- there's not much to talk about. It was the first pitch and he
threw me a breaking ball that he left up in the strike zone a little bit and I tried to
put a good wood on it and I happened to, that's all.

Q. What does it do for the Indians' momentum coming back and going home to play three
games?

MATT WILLIAMS: Well, I don't know about momentum, I think we've had games like this
with the Yankees all year. It certainly helps us to come out with a split. We don't want
to go home in two and have to have our backs against the wall and have to win three at
home. So it's nice to come out of here, especially with what happened a couple of days
ago, how they came back, to have a split and go home to our home park and see what we can
do there.

Q. How much of a boost is it to get five runs on four two out hits?

MATT WILLIAMS: It's a boost to hit with guys in any score position. A big hit from
David, from Sandy, from Jimmy, in that inning, all in scoring position. I think we have
that capability as an offense, but it really doesn't matter how many outs there are, it
just happened that there were two in that inning.

Q. Matt, Andy Pettitte said yesterday he'd be surprised if a guy this young could
handle all this stuff and get out and survive, were you surprised he could do it?

MATT WILLIAMS: No, I'm not surprised with anything Jaret does. I think in the first
inning he was a little pumped up with all the hype and given the off days and all the
talk, and him being in the interview room and all that stuff, it's pretty natural to be a
little pumped up. And once he settled down and once he started throwing the ball to Sandy
and letting his stuff work for him he was just fine. After that first inning he pitched
great.

Q. In terms of that first inning were you out there, knowing how good his stuff is,
were you thinking if you can just hold on here?

MATT WILLIAMS: I'm certainly not a pitcher, but I've seen Jaret pitch all year, and I
know that he's got as good of stuff as anybody in my opinion, so if he simply gets the
ball and uses his pitches and throws the ball to Sandy or to Pat or whoever is catching,
he'll do just fine, but that's very understandable, I think, 21 years old and be a little
pumped up in the first inning, he did great.

Q. Matt, did you say anything to him in the dugout after, like don't worry about it,
kid, you'll be all right?

MATT WILLIAMS: No, I went to the mound in the first inning and just tried to remind
him, hey, make sure you pick up the glove and throw the ball to the glove. Tino hit the
ball down the left field line, it was just -- it was simply good hitting, and you're going
to get in that situation where you have bases loaded like that, he's looking for a pitch
up in the zone to hit and he did a nice job of hitting in that situation, and Jaret
settled down after that and pitched real well for us.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT