SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2005
John Chillas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How difficult a day was it?
JOHN CHILLAS:  Very difficult day.  I was trying to hang in there.  And I just kept going from there.
Q.  You played the course more than anyone here.  Have you ever seen it play like this?
JOHN CHILLAS:  I never seen the course play so much in a cross wind all the time.  I don't honestly remember having to play 17 down wind.  It usually plays right to left.  Or into it if you like.  And then you got 18 coming the other way.  But not    that northwest wind was an unusual one for me.  With all the new tees and all the new balls, it was just mystical.
Q.  So your knowledge wasn't as helpful today as it normally would be?
JOHN CHILLAS:  No, my knowledge is 20 years old and the course is, you know, it's changed quite dramatically in the last couple years.  There's different angles and a couple of new holes.  So it's not particularly helpful.  It's difficult to hole putts with the wind on the greens.  So it's a hang in day.  You see by a lot of the scoring how difficult it's been all day.
Q.  When you see scores ranging from 1 over to 19 over, that's got to be upsetting.  Nobody is even par.  What do you think it's going to take to win this?
JOHN CHILLAS:  Depends what happens with this weather.  This weather is going to dictate an awful lot.  The course is fairly fair when the ball lands, but you really don't know where you're going to finish up off the tee.  The wind is gusting today.  It's not been so bad the last few holes, but even coming up 18 I got the wind totally wrong.  I thought it was coming in down and then down from the right.  But I almost knocked it in the estuary.  So I need to guess again.
Q.  I think the forecast is for it to be similar like this.
JOHN CHILLAS:  Well, thanks very much.

(Laughter.)
Q.  Looking at the forecast, that's what it says each day.  So from that point of view can you see an over par score that would win it, do you think?
JOHN CHILLAS:  Depends on the strength of the wind.
Q.  Do you want it to blow?
JOHN CHILLAS:  I think you need it to blow.  It's a difficult call really at the end of the day.  It's not a lot of fun playing in it.

It's so, so very difficult to play in.  You really, you're not honestly in control of the golf ball.  Craig Stadler hit his wedge 180 yards.  You know, that's just not right.
Q.  So do you think it's fair, but hard?
JOHN CHILLAS:  It's fair.  Anything is fair.  Anything goes there.  Anything goes by the seaside.  It's the purest form of golf.  It's a test you're given for the day and you have to make the best of it.
Q.  How did Des play today?
JOHN CHILLAS:  Des played really good.  Doubled the last unfortunately.  He played really solidly.  He doubled three as well.  He started bogey, bogey, double.  He was 4 over after three holes and he played really solid after that.  And then unfortunately he doubled the last.
Q.  Do you feel like you yourself had a solid start?
JOHN CHILLAS:  Yeah, I did okay.  A couple of breaks one way or the other and it might have been better.
Q.  Could have probably been a lot worse as well, right?


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT