RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2015
Amy Boulden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You must be pretty pleased with how the week's gone. 
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, it's my best finish in the British Open by far. Just had to stay patient out there today and just enjoyed it. I enjoyed the last round.

Q. Putts just weren't rolling in for you today?
AMY BOULDEN: I got off to quite a good start, dropped a couple and then yeah, left a few on the back nine. I hit some good putts but just didn't quite drop. 

Q. What did you think, is it one of the best courses you've played?
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, definitely. I've really enjoyed playing here. I think it's a great test out here. It's a nice finish. The wind dropped a little on that back nine, so it's nice.

Q. Coming up now, Solheim Cup, you're not quite there, maybe we'll see after, but you're in a good place going into that Solheim Cup now maybe to make the team?
AMY BOULDEN: We'll see. My goal is‑‑ and just to keep working at it and just keep putting good performances in.

Q. This year, the best year ever? Not quite finished obviously but been a good year. 
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, so far, it's going well. Just trying to keep building off last year and keep putting good performances in. We still have half the year left. 
It was a pretty steady round. Got off to quite a good start. Was 1‑under through three, and dropped a couple, just a loose tee shot. Nothing really dropped on that back nine today. I gave myself a lot of chances and very happy with the way I played.

Q. Such is golf, the difference between birdies and bogeys. On 6 you were so close but walked away with a dropped shot?
AMY BOULDEN: I think that's just golf, though, isn't it. Some days they go in. Some days they don't. I was rolling it nicely. Hopefully they will drop next week.

Q. Steady on the back nine and then a good birdie on 14. 
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, I hit it quite close actually. I just missed my eagle putt which would have been a nice one to have gone in at that point. I just hit driver, 4‑iron, and it's a good yardage for me.

Q. Putter a bit cold on the back nine?
AMY BOULDEN: I was rolling it. Just wasn't dropping. The greens were great out there. They are very nice. So, yeah, unfortunately just didn't go in today.

Q. Your best finish by a mile. You're going to have a Top‑10 finish. Sum up the week for me. 
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, obviously my best British Open finish. It's a great golf course. I've loved being here. I've been staying at the hotel, so it's been a nice week having all my family here, as well.

Q. Does it prove that you can live with the best? 
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, I think it's been great playing with So Yeon today and Lexi yesterday. It's great playing with them girls and seeing what I have to compete against.
I like the course next week, so, yeah, after a good finish‑‑ I finished third there last year so looking forward to getting there and having a good week.

Q. Solheim, in your thoughts?
AMY BOULDEN: It's just a long shot really. I'm just trying to play the best for me now and we'll see. 

Q. What's the next step for you? 
AMY BOULDEN: I think it's been a good couple of weeks. It's been links golf in tough weather which obviously does suit me. The course next week I think plays good to my game. It's quite tight off the tee. I'm just looking forward to building on the season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT