RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2015
Amy Boulden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon. We have Amy Boulden this afternoon, shot a 6, 4‑under par for a 3‑under par total of 213. Congratulations. Good playing. You must be pleased with that.  
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, yeah, I'm pleased, and it was a good day out there. It was tough conditions and yeah, just have to grind out a score.  
   
 Q. How do the conditions compare to yesterday?   
AMY BOULDEN: They were a bit tougher today. I would say the wind was slightly different and along the coastline, going out on that front nine, it's just a straight right‑to‑left wind, so picking your target off the tee was a big thing.   
   
 Q. At the Media Day a few months ago, you saidyour caddie ‑‑  
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, definitely, Neil's got a lot of experience, he's been a caddie now for[ ]28 years. Worked with him in Dubai last year and Morocco this year. And he decided‑‑ I gave him a choice but he knew I was waiting for him. So, yeah, he stopped working for Diana and came on my bag, I think it was maybe the Dutch the first week he worked for me. It's a great partnership and definitely keeping me relaxed out there and staying patient.   
   
 Q. You've grown up with links golf.   
AMY BOULDEN: Growing up at Conwy, definitely you get used to the wind and links golf. Especially playing as an amateur, we grew up playing links golf. Remember playing in the Helen Holm, I remember playing there at Troon and it was always bad weather. So definitely helping me this week.  
   
 Q. Is your dad your coach?   
AMY BOULDEN: My dad coached me from quite a young age. And I'm with Robert Rock. He plays on the men's tour. Dad, he'll still have a look now and again.  
COLIN CALLANDER: How long have you been working with Robert?   
AMY BOULDEN: Must be about three years now, yeah.   
   
 Q. What was your dad's reaction towards the lousy weather? Did your family go out in bad weather when you were little to play golf or not?   
AMY BOULDEN: Definitely, me and Neil were coming off the 17th and it started raining again, and he said, "Does this remind you of when your dad was making you practice in the rain?"   
"Yeah, definitely."  
As a youngster, you don't mind practicing and going out in whatever conditions.  
   
 Q. Could you just expand a bit on your relationship with Robert? What has he done for you, where he's taken you‑‑  
AMY BOULDEN: Yeah, I met Rob, it was a new years ago now. It was the year he won the Abu Dhabi Championship. My sister was working out there, so I got to meet him. Yeah, he's always been very interested in my golf. He's a very good coach and he's very interested in coaching. He's been really good for me and really enjoyed working with him.   
   
 Q. How many people do you have with you?   
AMY BOULDEN: I have my mum and dad, both sisters, their boyfriends, my boyfriend. We have the dogs but they are obviously not allowed here. They are back at the cottage. I have a few members from my golf club here. I'm not really sure. I know there's definitely six of them here.   
   
 Q. Can you give one of the good tips that Robert has given you that would apply to anybody?   
AMY BOULDEN: I mean, Rob's quite technical. I mean, it's always the setup. He always‑‑ that's the first thing we look at is my setup, my stance, my ball position, my grip. Just making sure the basics are right.  
   
 Q. You did well in Scotland last week. Can you talk about how good preparation that's been for this week?  
AMY BOULDEN: Dundonald is a great golf course. It was a really good test last week. You look at the leaderboard of who was in the Top‑10, and there are some very good players, obviously Pettersen finishing second.   
The weather was quite kind to us last week. It blew a little bit, but yeah, it was very fair and I think coming off the back of last week, I had probably a bit of confidence coming into this week.  
COLIN CALLANDER: Can we have the highlights of the round, birdies and bogeys?   
AMY BOULDEN: The second, didn't hit a great tee shot. It was downwind and pitched it just short of the green and rolled up literally two feet.   
Third hole, it was strong into the wind, that hole. Didn't quite get up today. Had about 45 yards into the green. Chipped it to four feet and holed the putt.   
7, had to lay up on that hole a little bit because I hit it into the rough up off the tee. Had again 45 yards to the green and hit it to a foot.   
8, dropped shot. It's always I think the toughest hole out there, especially with the strong left‑to‑right wind. Hit a great tee shot actually. Had to take a 1 into the green‑‑ club is smaller because I didn't want to go long to that green. I didn't quite commit to it and came up short, 3‑putt.   
Birdie at 10. Good drive, good second shot to about ten foot, holed the putt.   
11, it was a nice wind there. We played that off the left every day and with the pin off the left, the wind was off the right so you could just feed it in around that bunker. Hit it to about 12 feet and holed the putt.   
THE MODERATOR: Did you have anymore chances coming in.  
AMY BOULDEN: 14 I had a chance but it was a big break. Big swingier of a putt and didn't want to quite go for that one. And the par5, 14, that's always a good thing, but ended up in the bunker, short left, tough up‑and‑down.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT