OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2014
Amy Boulden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  AMY BOULDEN:   Got off to a bit of a slow start.   Had a bit of‑‑ had a run of three bogeys in the middle of my round but managed to hang on in there and not like get too far ahead.   I just hung on in there and managed to putt a score together kind of.

Q.   Did you think you had maybe the rookie sewn up at the very end on the last green?   I know there's a couple of permutations. 
AMY BOULDEN:   Not really.   Haven't thought about that all day.   Just trying to play this tournament.   And that was my goal for this week was try to get 4‑under par, and obviously today shooting 2‑over, hasn't happened but hopefully tomorrow I can go out there and post a low number.

Q.   Despite me asking about it everybody annoying you about it, how difficult is it to keep that out of your head? 
AMY BOULDEN:   Obviously people talking about it, it is in the back of your mind.   But it's an exciting thing.   Sally played great today, as well, so it's going to be a good weekend.

Q.   What about your start to the day?   A bit of a strange one, as well. 
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, it was amazing.   It was the best start to the day. 

Q.   Can you describe what it was like?
AMY BOULDEN:   The views were unbelievable.   I didn't actually expect it to be as good as it was but get to go fly over the whole of Dubai before your tee time was unbelievable.

Q.   Not many people have done that?
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, no.   My caddie goes, "How are you going to arrive tomorrow to the course." 

Q.   If Sally had missed, she wouldn't have made the cut.   That shot just there for birdie if she'd have missed, she wouldn't have made the cut.   I imagine that's not how you want to win the Rookie of the Year. 
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, I want to win it.   I don't want it to be handed to me.   Sally played fantastic golf today and I hope she carries on playing well over the next two days as hopefully I do, too. 

Q.   Can you get the bit between your teeth?
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, I think today I had to grind my teeth a little bit and hang on in there.   It was a tough day today for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT