OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2014
Amy Boulden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   2‑under today, great start.
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, I really enjoyed it out there.   Had a great game playing with Minjee and Sally and we had good fun, yeah.   Played well.

Q.   Obviously you're going for Rookie of the Year, and playing alongside Sally Watson who is your rival for it.   All the more pleasing because Sally didn't quite have the best day out there?
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, she still played great.   She just didn't hole anything today.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to the next few days and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Was there any psychology between the two of you out there, any mind games, or was it all smiles?
AMY BOULDEN:   No, definitely.   We're friends off the course as well as on, so no, nothing like that.

Q.   Is that your main aim this week to win that title or are you looking for the actual title of the tournament, as well? 
AMY BOULDEN:   Trying not to think too much about the Rookie of the Year.   I'm just trying to play each round as it comes and see where it leaves me at the end of the tournament.   Obviously I want to win the tournament so that's first on my list.

Q.   How is the course playing?   I hear the greens are running nicely?
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, it's in fantastic condition, and the greens are the best I've seen them week.   They putted faster from yesterday and the day before, so they are in great condition. 
I was walking down the fairway with my caddie and I was like, there's no better place to be right now. 

Q.   What were you happy with your round? 
AMY BOULDEN:   Yeah, I got off to quite a quick start.   I was 3‑under through about six holes, so I got off to a quick start and then I dropped two on the first and second, which are my 10th and 11th.   I hit good putts and they just didn't drop.   Yeah, I'm happy with my round. 

Q.   When you reached the turn for home and it doesn't quite go well for you, occasionally you can get frustrated with that, and it can affect the rest of your round but you still kept it steady. 
AMY BOULDEN:   I just tried to stay patient today.   The greens are so fast, you are going to miss a couple of putts and have a few lipouts.   Just keep trying to stroke them well and not get too far ahead of myself.

Q.   A lot is made of the head‑to‑head with Sally but there are other contenders in the mix for Rookie of the Year who are playing here.   So you can't focus on the head‑to‑head, can you?
AMY BOULDEN:   I think Nicole is not too far behind Sally, any ways.   Just trying not to think too much about the Rookie of the Year and more about the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT