MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 22, 2011
Jason Clark
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We're going to start with Georgetown first.   We're going to have Coach Thompson and No. 21, Jason Clark. 
If you'd just like to start us off.
COACH THOMPSON:   No, just questions. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Anybody have any questions? 

Q.   Can you just talk about the way that the boys came out today after yesterday's really tough game?
COACH THOMPSON:   Yeah, you know, I think you hate to say it, but I do think we felt the effects, if that's the accurate way to express it, from yesterday. 
Just such as you said in your question postgame yesterday, such an intense game.   An emotional game for 40 minutes yesterday, the end last night, and then you have such a quick turnaround.   Such a quick turnaround as it relates to preparation and emotionally particularly with a young group.
I tried to express to them, I said it before the game, you only have a finite number of games and every game is special.   You can't dwell on‑‑ you can't neglect or not appreciate and love the one you're about to play or playing because you're thinking about those that you've already played or those that you play in the future.
But I do think just having such a disappointing loss late last night followed by early morning‑‑ and we did feel the effects early.   I think we settled down a little bit.   I think we settled down a little bit and now we gotta move on. 

Q.   Jason, can you speak to the same thing, just the turnaround from the tough game yesterday to getting back on the court 18 hours later?
JASON CLARK:   It's always tough to have a late game and turn around and play early in the morning, especially, like Coach said, it was a very intense game, very emotional game.   We played‑‑ I think we fought well last night. 
So guys‑‑ some guys are tired, some guys are hurting.   But I think that's something that we just gotta play through. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT