NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 8, 1998
Peter Bondra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETER BONDRA:  We will see.  I guess we have to play hard and play same old way we did early in the season and we will see what happens.  It is a good team.  But I like our chances. 
 

Q.  What is going to be different in this series compared to the Buffalo series when you had a young team, a lot of fast guys, smaller guys, what is the difference playing Detroit now from that series?
 
PETER BONDRA:  Well, this is a veteran team.  They have been through a lot of -- they won -- they are the defending Stanley Cup Champion and they have a solid "D" and blue line and good goalie - Hasek was there, too, but overall it is a well balanced team, full lines, and look at their lineup, any line can put a puck in the net so, we have to be ready for them. 
 

Q.  Do you feel your team is not getting the credit that it deserves by getting here?
 
PETER BONDRA:  Sure, if you watch TV it is all about ratings, but we are right now very confident team and we are a veteran team we don't have a lot of young players in the lineup so a lot of guys, they know what to do to get ready for the big games. 
 

Q.  A lot was made locally (inaudible) have you guys taken notice of that and --
 
PETER BONDRA:  For sure, you know this.  You see the highlights on TV.  You can't concentrate on the long shot, but the long shot, you -- never is bad shot; especially in overtime and Hasek is a good goalie.  You have got to shoot from everywhere.  It is a big game, so you never know. 
 

Q.  Scotty was talking before saying that the Capitals are no longer a team that have to rely on Peter Bondra.  Do you agree with were that?
 
PETER BONDRA:  For sure, start of this year like we have a lot of heroes in our locker room; not just one or two guys are winning the games.  Different nights, different people step up and get the job done like look at Todd Krygier, Brian Bellows.  We have a lot of confidence, like I said, and we believe in ourselves that we have a good team. 
 

Q.  Do you feel less pressure that you don't have to go out and do it?
 
PETER BONDRA:  It is always pressure, but not much. You don't let yourself get the pressure; don't put yourself in that position where you have to score every night which is good, but you go out there and have fun and play as a team. It is very important. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
PETER BONDRA:  For sure something improved, especially myself, especially this year.  Before that I have  never been that far and people said: Wow, he is good in the regular season, but if he can do it in the Playoffs and score big goals for a team - well, I try to do that and I mean, hopefully my name will be recognized more and not in just Washington, but everybody in the U.S. and Canada. 
 

Q.  Do you think that is the key to --
 
PETER BONDRA:  For sure, that is how we get success and the people know you:  Hey, this is a guy that scored overtime goal or, you know, was a guy who really scored a lot of goals, not just the regular season, but Playoffs too. 
 

Q.  What makes you such a good goal scorer?
 
PETER BONDRA:  My strength is probably speed and shot, but you can't do -- you have to give a lot of credit to your teammates and if you have a decent center like I have, it is easy -- not easy but your chances are greater to put the puck in the net. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT