PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 27, 2016
Mike Weber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEBER: They're really fast on the back end.  They have really good, athletic corners and safeties.  And their "D" lineman are really tough and gritty down there in the trenches.  And it's going to be a tough game.
You expect to play against really good competition at this level.  And we just -- the most prepared team will win this game.  That's what we're focusing on.
Q. (Indiscernible) what's it like to be a part of this?
MIKE WEBER: It's an honor.  There's a lot of great running backs that came through here -- from Archie Griffin to Zeke.  It's good to be a part of that and to say I played for Ohio State.  And to play in that category of guys, it's a blessing.  I thank God for it every day.
Q. You have to throw the ball to compete in this game?
MIKE WEBER: We don't know right now.  But I feel like if we run the ball really good, we can win this game.  I feel like we've been running the ball all year, and if we run the ball this game and possibly the next game, I think we can win it all.
Q. This year has been your first -- first start, first touchdown.  What are you expecting in your first playoff game to be like?
MIKE WEBER: To play the best game I can play.  Block the best block, blocking, and run the ball the best way I can, catch the ball the best way I can.
And I just really expect to be a really big impact in these playoffs and hopefully I will.
Q. Question about J.T.
MIKE WEBER: When defenses key on different guys they open up different ways for other guys.  And I feel like J.T. being a threat and Curtis being a threat to our offense, it opens up things for me, and I open up things for Curtis, and I open up things for J.T., and J.T. open up things for Curtis.  We all work together.  And I feel like us three together is really hard to stop.
Q. Can you describe J.T.'s leadership style?
MIKE WEBER: J.T. is probably one of the best leaders on the team.  He's so poised when it comes to like tough situations.  And he knows how to handle tough situations.  And I feel like when things are not going well, he's really calm and just knows how to handle different things.
And that rubs off on different guys on the team and I feel like it helped us a lot this year.
Q. So much history of Ohio State football and the national championships.  What would it mean to join this group, make a run at the national championship, to actually join a group of national champions?
MIKE WEBER: It's an honor, like I said.  A lot of people didn't really think we was going to be that good, be here this year, because of how young we were.  And I knew it the whole time what we were, and all we had to do was work hard and listen to the coaches and follow the game plan.  And we did it this year and now we have a lot of work to do still.  And if we continue to do that and continue to be the team we need to be good things will happen.
Q. Is it kind of a special group of guys being so young and making a run at it?  Or are those things overrated in college football?  What's your perspective on it?
MIKE WEBER: I feel like it's a special group.  We've been through a lot of things, especially not playing last year and going through a lot of tough times.  And I feel like we all came through the adversity as young players.  And we had a hard time and it's paying off right now.
Q. Can you talk about how it's been for you coming from Michigan, coming to Ohio State?  Do you get a lot of haters back home or how is that?
MIKE WEBER: You know, it's a lot of -- like you said, haters back home.  I wouldn't say haters.  I would say more of supporters, but don't like the team I'm at.  That makes sense.  But I picked Ohio State because I feel like it was the best fit for me at the time.
I mean, I think it still is because I have had a lot of success here and playing for the College Football Playoff.  And it's a great university.  I'm surrounded by really good teammates and coaches.  It's a good feeling.
Q. Does being here validate you being at Ohio State over Michigan?
MIKE WEBER: It does at some point.  I came here to win a national championship, and I have a chance right now and I'm trying to do everything I can to make that happen.
Q. Is experience overrated?
MIKE WEBER: No, I wouldn't say that.  I feel like me playing against Bowling Green my first game and me playing against Michigan is totally different, just because of experience.
I'm more poised and I know what to expect on a college level now than Bowling Green.  I didn't really know what to expect.  I was just out there just running around.
And I think experience is really a big factor of maturity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT