TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: TENNESSEE v NEBRASKA
January 2, 2000
Phillip Fulmer
Tee Martin
Donte' Stallworth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH FULMER: First of all, I sure don't feel as good sitting here as I did last year
about this time. Have to congratulate Nebraska. They're a very, very fine football team.
It's hard to spot a very, very fine football team 14 points and win. We made enough
mistakes tonight on both sides of the ball to, you know, lose the football game, lose two
football games. Even at that, if a team can take you 99 and 96 yards on you when you're
close to 17, 14, obviously they're something special. We had a lot of opportunities,
particularly field position in both halves actually, but first half. Didn't take advantage
of that. I was proud of our kids. I don't think we quit. I felt they fought right to the
end. Went for those fourth downs, those kinds of things, to try to stay in the football
game. We ran into a good team. Obviously, Tee did well, Donte' Stallworth and other kids.
Just wasn't to be. 

Q. Have you ever had a drive of that magnitude, 99 or 97 yards against you since you've
been at Tennessee? 

COACH FULMER: Not that I can remember, no. I'm sure somebody has taken it 99 yards, but
maybe not quite like that. Very impressive drive, both of them were. You know, we had them
-- on one of them we had them third and I think 13 and something like that, they converted
it. 

Q. I was just wondering if you could talk about Tee Martin's four years, how it is to
have coached him for a final time tonight? 

COACH FULMER: We're certainly going to miss him. I've talked about it a hundred times,
you know. Tee's athletic ability and ability to throw the ball and manage a game, be a
quarterback, is obvious. His numbers of wins, statistically, you know, you can just watch
him play and you know he's a great player. The thing that's special about Tee Martin is
Tee Martin the person, how he goes about his business to lead by example. He's a good
person. We have a favorite saying, You can tell a lot more about a person on what he does
when the coach isn't around. Tee is one of those guys. You know he's always going to be
doing the right things whether the coach is around or his parents are around, anybody is
around, he's going to do the right thing. He's a great young man. He's been a great leader
for us, and we're going to miss him a lot. 

Q. Tee, on a couple of those plays, it looked like you were one step from getting out
into the open. Can you talk about that, Nebraska's ability to contain you tonight? 

TEE MARTIN: I knew it was big in their game plan to keep me in the pocket, not allow me
to get outside of the pocket. It was good on their part for a game plan. It didn't happen
that way a few times. I was about to scramble, get out of the pocket. I got tripped a
couple times, grabbed a couple more times. Their guys just play hard, crawling,
scratching, whatever they have to do to get to the quarterback. This is a game of inches.
Coach Fulmer always says it's a game of inches. Inch here and inch there, it would have
been a different football game. It was unfortunate. 

Q. Tee, you had a lot of passes that were in the receiver's hands that didn't end up
getting caught. Was that frustrating? 

TEE MARTIN: That's just the game, you know. Take the bitter with the sweet. Last year,
threw the same type balls and they were caught, and we were national champions. I was up
here with a different feeling last season. This year, different. Different outcome of the
football game. You have to take your ups and your downs with the same attitude. As a
quarterback, I can't show my frustration. Obviously you want guys to catch the ball.
Sometimes I don't get the ball the way it's supposed to be. I'm sure they feel the same
way, too. I'm not complaining, saying I'm frustrated about that. 

Q. To follow up on that, what are your emotions right now knowing you're taking the
jersey off for the last time? 

TEE MARTIN: Right. It's a bad feeling, you know, to actually lose the last football
game. Lost two games this season. Obviously we bounced back from football games. Felt like
we played our best two football games at the end of our season and came into this game
with a good attitude and good feeling for it. We lost. It's the last football game, the
last few minutes I'm going to be in this uniform. You know, I'm just recollecting on all
my career, the guys I've met, the great experiences I've had here. It's going to be hard
to say good-bye. 

Q. Last year at this time it was a big National Championship celebration. Can you talk
about how the year went? You guys had an X on your back all year long. 

COACH FULMER: We did. I think we took the approach at the beginning of the year that we
could repeat. We really felt like we could. Our kids worked that way, I think in the
summer, the off-season. We've had an X on our back for a while, not with just last year,
but it got big and red this year, magnified. After the disappointing loss at Florida,
basically the 15 penalties in the ballgame, we still had a chance with three or four
minutes left to win that one, our kids I think were real disappointed. But they showed the
character to be the right type of team to fight back. We had a great run. We moved as high
as two in the BCS, then got upset at Arkansas. All of a sudden, the National Championship
was out, the SEC Championship was out. I think a lot of people thought this team would
just kind of cruise, try to cruise through, maybe get beat. Actually what Tee said is
true. We played our two best ballgames at the end of the year, and really had good
preparation for this ballgame. It's disappointing, I guess, when you look at the overall
picture. But it's hard to be disappointed in these kids and what they've done, how they've
fought, all that they've overcome. Two years ago, we took the lessons from Nebraska, came
back and had an awful fine year the following year. Maybe we can do the same thing.
There's always a positive in most negatives if you have the right type of character. I
believe we have the right type character in this program. 

Q. Coach, how concerned were you with the (inaudible) battle in this game? Nebraska was
able to score quick in the first half. Second half, back to the old-style offense. 

COACH FULMER: It was a concern. We talked about it as a team from the time we started.
We knew they were going to make some plays and we were going to make some plays. I really
felt like we would run the ball a little bit better than we did. I knew we could make some
plays in the passing game. Although I didn't know we'd be throwing it as much as we ended
up doing. We wanted to run 80 plays, then run 60. I don't even know if we got 60 in this
ballgame. I haven't seen any statistics. That's the thing that they do, and they do it
well. I will say this: We've been on that side, too. We've had people on their heels, they
couldn't get up, couldn't recover. We've kept it. You know, now we know what it feels
like. 

Q. Two years ago against Nebraska, it's well documented that everybody said that you
learned something from Nebraska about playing physical football. 320 yards rushing to 44
tonight. Do you feel like you learned something again? 

COACH FULMER: No. I'd say we got another good lesson tonight, you know. I think you
guys said that mostly. I think the fact that we have been a better running football team
since then, tonight is not a very good example of that. 

Q. Coach, can you talk about the play, the sneak where Cedrick throws it deep to
Donte'? 

COACH FULMER: Probably should have run it a long time ago, I guess, if it was going to
work like that. We've worked on it, I don't know, since mid-season, I guess. Needed
something to happen. They executed it well. 

Q. Could you describe that play? 

DONTE' STALLWORTH: Cedrick played quarterback in high school. All the coaches knew he
could play quarterback and throw the ball well. Nebraska seen the (inaudible) pass three
or four times in the game. They weren't worried about the game. Cedrick made a great
throw. I just ran under it and made a catch. 

Q. What is it going to be like next year without Tee, Donte'? 

DONTE' STALLWORTH: Tee is a great guy, great leader. He's out there making everybody do
their jobs a little harder. It's going to be different. He's moving on, so we'll have to
move on also. I love him. He's my cousin. I'm going to talk to him, keep in touch with
him. He's going to move on, and we're going to have to move on without him. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT