NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Muggsy Bogues
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MUGGSY BOGUES:   That's the offense.   That's what he does, he comes in and scores.   Jamal is the type of player you allow him to do what he does.   He's one‑on‑one.   But he does it so well with his teams that he's on.   And that's why the Clippers are in the situation they are in.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MUGGSY BOGUES:   I'm loving it.   It's absolutely remarkable for the guys with 18 years, that's done it and able to stay on top and considered one of the elite in the world.   That's something remarkable.  
   
 Q.   When you look at Grant's career‑‑  
MUGGSY BOGUES:   This young man did it the way he needed to do it.   He had some injuries, but at the same time he was able to go out and live up to a class act, in the locker room, on the floor, off the floor.   
   
 Q.   People talk about special players, how do you see where you fit in on that?  
MUGGSY BOGUES:   I don't think about it.   I'm just thankful and blessed that I had an opportunity to reach my goals.   But I didn't let anybody derail me from my dreams.  
   
 Q.   Were you ever caught up in it?  
MUGGSY BOGUES:   No, I never got caught up in it.   That's probably one of the reasons I'm in talking to you today.   I always believed in me.   I just kept going to the court.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever resent that being the focus, your height?  
MUGGSY BOGUES:   No, I understood what was happening.   I understand today what was happening.   So we had that understanding.   
   
 Q.   What was the secret?   Obviously you have to make adjustments, you have to find your own way.   
MUGGSY BOGUES:   My adjustment was that I knew what I brought to the table against my opponents, and I understood the game of basketball.   I knew what the responsibilities were.   And I understood it.   And defensively I knew, again, what the tendencies were with my opponents and their strengths as well as their liabilities.   And I used that to my advantage.   So I used that as homework.   And fortunate enough for me, it gave me a 14‑year career.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT