BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2009
Tyra Grant
Coquese Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from Coach Washington and then take questions for the student-athletes. 
 COACH WASHINGTON: I'll just take questions. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions then for Tyra Grant. 

 Q. Can you talk about the team just never giving up, play for the seniors.
 TYRA GRANT: We always want to play for our seniors and try to put 'em out on a good note. But today we couldn't do that. But we still tried to play hard and tried to fight hard to the end. 
 We did some couple things in the first half that, you know, we don't usually do. We try to come out and, you know, come out better. 

 Q. The difference in your mind from this game and the two games you played against them in the regular season? 
 TYRA GRANT: The difference was I guess we just didn't stick to our game plan. You know, inside out, get it to the post. If they kick it back out, then have a shot or drive it to the hole. I felt like we didn't stick to what we were supposed to do. We did other things. And that just didn't work out for us. 

 Q. You'll be back next year. You're kind of still part of the future. Can you look forward. I realize it's hard to do now. You have new players coming in. 
 TYRA GRANT: We have a great recruiting class coming in. I'm sure that they can help us do a lot as far as take us far in non-conference, conference, and even the Big-Ten. 
 I'm hoping -- I'm not hoping, I know that we'll be able to do better things next year. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. You can go back to the locker room. We'll continue with questions for Coach Washington. 

 Q. Same question. The difference between this game compared to the two in the regular season? 
 COACH WASHINGTON: Well, I didn't think we defended very well this game. Lacey Simpson and Jenna Smith pretty much had their way. I didn't think we did a strong job defensively on Illinois as a whole as we had the first two games. We allowed them to get their confidence, get a rhythm. 
 I thought they out-hustled us, I thought they out-toughed us and kind of put us back on our heels, especially in the second half. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT