BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2008
Tyra Grant
Coquese Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We'll open with questions for the players.   
  
  Q.  Tyra, what did you see during the big run of theirs in the second half; were they doing something defensively to you guys, or was it their offense?   
 TYRA GRANT:  I wouldn't say they were doing anything different.  They're a good team.  Like they were getting their open shots and they were driving to the hoop a lot more.  Like they were getting open and like weren't rotating so much with help shots.  But they didn't really do anything differently.   
 It was just like their cuts were a little bit harder.  Everything was working a little bit in their favor.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Any other questions for Kamela or Tyra?   
 Questions for Coach Washington.   
  
  Q.  Seemed like you guys had -- you were up five points.  Seemed like you were on the verge of taking control, then it went the other way.  What did you notice with either your team or their team at that point?   
 COACH COQUESE WASHINGTON: Couple things.  I think we weren't attacking the basket.  We started settling for jump shots and weren't connecting on those.  I mean defensively it was more a situation where our defensive intensity just kind of let go.  They were able to penetrate, get into the lane and cause us problems there.   
 And I don't recall how many offensive rebounds they got, but in the key stretch they got three or four offensive rebounds that were kind of killers for us.   
  
  Q.  Obviously some of us don't see you all year long and we're used to Penn State, what they've done in the past.  How tough is it coming over, and this losing streak has been tough to swallow; what have you said to them about this?   
 COACH COQUESE WASHINGTON: About the losing streak?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 COACH COQUESE WASHINGTON: We really take it one game at a time, so we haven't focused on however many it's been in a row.  We have that approach whether we're winning or losing.  We take it one game at a time and try to get better night in and night out.  Nobody on this team is pleased that we kind of finished the season on a down note.  But they're a resilient bunch, and I have all the faith that they'll get into the gym this summer and get better.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT