BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2017
Coquese Washington
Teniya Page
Sierra Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Minnesota - 70, Penn State - 64   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, you just want to take questions?   
 Q.  You guys were able to fight back tonight (indiscernible).  What does that say about this group?  
COACH WASHINGTON: Well, I think we really tried to rally back.  Minnesota got off to a good start in the first quarter.  And then I thought the second quarter our defense locked in pretty well and made it a game.  And then we just competed down the stretch.   
 Q.  You guys, after that first quarter, seemed to kind of tighten things up defensively and then offensively as well with the turnovers.  Was there any kind of change in philosophy there?  
COACH WASHINGTON: You know, I think it just took us a quarter to kind of feel them out.  And once we kind of figured out the game and the way the game was being called and things of that nature, we just kind of settled in.   
 Q.  You had players on both sides, you had Teniya, and Sierra with a double-double.  Can you talk about their performances?  
COACH WASHINGTON: They've been key players for us all season long.  And they're the barometer.  You know coming into every game that they're going to compete, they're going to fight.  And they did the same thing.   
I thought Sierra got some big offensive rebounds and made some big plays for us in the fourth quarter.  And Teniya was fantastic all night.  So those two certainly came with a lot of energy, a lot of effort and made a lot of big plays for us.   
 Q.  You guys obviously were hoping to play more basketball here.  Is that the kind of thought process and mindset?  I know it's tough right now.  
COACH WASHINGTON: Yeah, it's something we've got to talk about as a team.  We're competitors and the opportunity to continue to play is something that we'll look forward to.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything for the students?  Okay.  Thank you, ladies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT