NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: PORTLAND
March 21, 2015
D'Vauntes Smith-Rivera
John Thompson III
Jabril Trawick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







UTAH - 75
  GEORGETOWN - 64

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Georgetown head coach and student-athletes. Coach, we'll begin with you with an opening statement, then open it up to questions for the student-athletes.COACH THOMPSON: Just congratulate them.  Wish them luck as they move on. You know, it was disappointing when your season comes to an end, it's like everything, it's sudden, it's fast.  You know, we have five or six seniors in that locker room that have played their last game wearing this uniform.  It's difficult. Questions.
Q. Jabril, what coach was talking about there, how sudden it feels, has that hit you yet?  What is the emotion you have right now?JABRIL TRAWICK: I'm disappointed.  But I still got my head high.  Surprisingly I didn't cry or anything like that. I had a great time.  It's been a great experience for me.  I think that the group that they got, the guys coming back, it's going to be a special team next year. I mean, I got my head high, so...
Q. D'Vauntes, what was working so well for you guys at the start?  What, if anything, changed?D'VAUNTES SMITH-RIVERA: I mean, we moved the ball well.  Guards were getting open, cutting.  Got us open a lot of the time.  Yeah, they started to adjust their defense a little bit.  We could have executed a little bit better. But, you know, they got the job done.THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thank you very much. Floor is now open for questions for Coach Thompson.
Q. What do you think you guys overall accomplished this season?  Is it maybe too early to ask that?COACH THOMPSON: I think so.  I mean, we just lost.  It's hard to digest and analyze the whole season right at this point.  I'm not sure.
Q. What happened in the final five minutes of the game that they were just able to surge a little bit?COACH THOMPSON: You know, they had down at the end there -- we had some untimely mix-ups on defense, and they had some guys, some tough basketball players that made tough plays. You know, they had key baskets when they needed them, and we didn't get key stops.  And then down at the other end we got some looks; the ball didn't go in.
Q. What adjustments did they make on defense after you started?COACH THOMPSON: You know, you got to ask them that. You know, I think early on we hit shots.  You know, Jabril hit a couple, Isaac hit a couple.  Then we went through a phase towards the end of the first half where we fell in love with shooting those jump shots and didn't attack the rim enough and didn't get the ball inside enough. At time I remember saying, We have to go inside.  We have to go inside.  Even with the jump shots we were getting, we were getting the shots regardless if we wanted to get shots, and they were open looks.
Q. What was the message to your team in the locker room after the game?COACH THOMPSON: After the game?
Q. Yes.COACH THOMPSON: Just that I love 'em.  You know, you lose a game that, you know, I don't think anyone in there planned on going home for good tomorrow, tonight.  And so at this point right now, there's no need to beat them up or go analyze or critique the game. It's one of the few last times that that group is going to be together.  And so, you know, just have to thank those guys, in particular our seniors.  They've worked hard.  They've given of themselves for the program.  So I just wanted the group, as disappointed as we all are, and we all can go back and critique, and we will, critique and analyze this game.  I just think the important message was to thank them for the work they put in this year because it was a hard-working group that cared for each other, played for each other.  Just let them know you love them, I love 'em.THE MODERATOR: Coach Thompson, thank you very much.COACH THOMPSON: Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT