MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2007
Jodi Bolerjack
Joe Legerski
Dominique Sisk
Hanna Zavecz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We're joined by University of Wyoming head coach Joe Legerski, and student-athletes Jodi Bolerjack, Hanna Zavecz and Dominique Sisk.    
Coach, if you want to begin with some general comments on the game.   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  It was a first-round ballgame.  There was nervousness on our side.  We had to try to find a comfort zone where offensively we ended up getting a little more focused.   
 But, more importantly, we had to make some shots just to be able to get back and be able to defend in a halfcourt game as well as possibly just relax our shooters, and I thought we were able to do that in the second half.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for the student-athletes.   
  
  Q.  Was it nerves?  Seemed like that first half, 16% shooting, I know you're much better shooters.  Something defensively from San Diego State?  What was happening there?   
 HANNA ZAVECZ:  I think it was a mixture of both.  San Diego State are really intense on defense.  There were some nerves on our part.   
 A mixture of the both led to our poor shooting.  They were getting us out of our game.  But we turned things around in the second half and were more relaxed.   
  
  Q.  Any of the players, it looked like a pretty physical first half.  Did you make some adjustments in the second half to sort of be the aggressor?  Jodi, on one drive I saw you getting hounded.  You went to the lane, made a layup.  Did you make a decision at the half to be more aggressive?   
 JODI BOLERJACK:  Yeah, coach told us we needed to keep going strong, just take a little more time on our shots, make sure that we put a little extra umph on it because we were getting pressured all the way down.   
  
  Q.  You finally caught them, and then had to play with a lead.  They made a run at the end.  What did you have to do to hold off that run?   
 DOMINIQUE SISK:  We just had to keep our composure.  We knew they were going to make a run because they're a very intense ballclub.  No one's ever going to back down, you know.   
 All we had to do was keep our composure, be strong, keep the ball in our possession, have as many possessions as we could, stay strong with the ball.   
  
  Q.  Hanna, at one point in the game you were crying, visibly upset or hurt.  How do you keep your head in the game?  How did you pull yourself through?   
 HANNA ZAVECZ:  I don't know.  I just have to refocus.  Yeah, it is a mental thing.  I just have to pull myself together, realize that lots of people play with pain, I know that.  So it's really just a mental thing.  Just stay in it for the sake of my team, for everyone.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Ladies, we'll let you go.  Thank you.   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  Thank you, ladies.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Coach Legerski.   
  
  Q.  What was the key at halftime?  I know you're guys are only scoring 14 points.  You can't be please with that.  Did you tell them anything?  Was there anything you said or did to calm them down, to get out of that funk?   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  I think one of the difficult things for a team, we've gone through a very difficult season, and to be able to, on the last Saturday, end up getting a second seed was a remarkable effort.  You have to turn right back around and try to refocus for a tournament where the first game is always the most difficult from the standpoint of nerves and being focused.   
 We talked at halftime about just hanging in there, shots are going to start falling.  But you have to shoot with the conviction to make a shot.  Try not to let the pressure bother you.  I thought we started doing that in the second half.  We also talked about having to go strong to the basket so you can get to the free-throw line.  That's where you can pick up some easy points.   
 You know, I think San Diego State had a great deal to do with us scoring 14 points in the first half.  Then we ended up getting on a roll in the second half.  Once we got up to a seven-point lead you could see the team relax a great deal, and we did very well in attacking the zone full court press.  Elisabeth Dissen came through with three big shots.   
  
  Q.  You've said all season your team needs to shoot the ball well from the perimeter, take care of the basketball to win.  They didn't do either very well, but you're still moving on.  Is that something positive to take away from today?   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  I tell you what, winning's positive.  That's the bottom line in this game:  you win, you advance.  That's what we were able to do.   
 The big thing that stays with the Wyoming program is defense.  In the second half, we were able to shoot 50% from the field.  But defensively we got San Diego State down around 27%.  Once again, to hold a team to 44 points is a big defensive effort.  I knew we could get enough baskets to be able to get the lead and then to hang on to the lead.   
  
  Q.  Talk about what's next.  Now you have a day to prepare.  Is that a good or bad thing?  Do you need to catch your breath a little bit?   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  Right now what's next is we enjoy this victory.  One of the things we've always talked about all season long for this team is to learn to enjoy a win.  We'll wait and watch the games today.  We'll get to work tonight as a coaching staff.  We'll have something in place for tomorrow to be able to play on Friday.   
 But it's nice to be able to win and stay around in the tournament.   
  
  Q.  I know you just talked about enjoying the victory.  There's a possibility you could be playing New Mexico.  Could you talk about the last encounter you had, so physical?  Talk about what it's like going up against them?   
 COACH LEGERSKI:  I tell you what, it's a challenge, because this league is very talented.  When you end up taking a look at how many 20-win ball clubs we have, it really speaks volumes of what this league's been about.   
 New Mexico is a quality ballclub.  They are used to winning at this level, and that's going to be a big challenge for this young group.  We're still a team that does not put a senior on the floor.  We're still learning how to win.  When I take a look at New Mexico, with Montgomery, Briody, they've been around.  I'll be anxious to watch the next game and see if it's New Mexico or UNLV.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT