UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Wei-Chi Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Good to see your name on the leaderboard after the first round.
WEI-CHI LU: Today, the first three holes, I was not feeling very focused on the golf course.  And then after the third hole bogey, I just told myself that I can't do this because if I don't try to get back to my form, it might not be a good round.
Fortunately, starting on No. 4, I birdied 4,5 and 6, and I started feeling much better and getting into the flow.  Then the back nine, I feel very comfortable.  Today is a really good round for me.
Q. Are you satisfied now, after going through personal struggles the last few years?
WEI-CHI LU: After the surgery, for the first six months after the surgery, I pretty much gave up all my confidence and trust because I have no power and I didn't think I can play golf anymore.
So I had to rest over six months, and then finally, I started playing a little bit of the Taiwan Tour.  But for the next several months, I played in Taipei and the rest of Taiwan.
If I played 18 holes, I can barely play until 14 or 15 and then the last three holes, I don't think I can even walk through all 18 holes.  I just lost all my physical ability, and also, because of the surgery, my weight went up to 93 kilograms.  Lost a lot of metabolism and lost a lot of power.  But about a year after my surgery, I started talking to the Asian Tour and they gave me the opportunity to get back on the Tour and play some events.  And finally, I started coming back mentally and physically.
Q. Can you talk about what into the physical and mental treatment since the operation, and how you've gotten yourself back into competitive form?
WEI-CHI LU: The doctor said after the surgery, there's no quick fix; no pill that can really make the recovery much quicker.  It all depends on the exercise and nutrition, and it's going to take a long time to recover physically.  Just have to be patient.
Q. Did you ever think you would be leading the Hong Kong Open?
WEI-CHI LU: When I was playing every week two years ago, at that moment, I wasn't quite sure how much longer I will last.  But the doctor, working on exercise, but mainly, it's all the support and encouragement from parents and my wife and especially from my kids.  They keep supporting me, and I just have to tell myself that I want to be a real golfer again and compete on the Tour.
Q. How old are the children?
WEI-CHI LU: One is ten years old, a boy, and my daughter is five.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT