NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 3, 2003
Mark Prior
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Mark, could you talk about the rain delay, all the players get introduced, and what Kenny Lofton was saying is you didn't get into the full warmup.  Was that difficult?
 
MARK PRIOR: Well, yeah, it was difficult a little bit and I was warming up good.  I felt good.  It started sprinkling.  I asked Larry what was going on.  Next thing you know it's pouring down rain.  You go in, and you try to keep your mind focused, and your mind starts wandering, and, you know, I was  -- the Giants game was on, and things started happening, and you kind of lose what your ultimate goal is or your focus.  Things come up.  It's tough to go back out and not do your full routine again.  
 
Q.  Mark, both you and Greg pitched very, very well.  Can you tell me how big a play that was in the very first inning, the slip, as a pitcher how big a play was that for you?
 
MARK PRIOR: It was huge.  It was something I was worried about myself.  It was something Ramirez and I had been talking about all game.  We both had our sides just with that situation.  It's not  -- you saw the guys slipping all night.  It was tough, and it was a huge play for us.  It gave us some momentum.  It gave us some confidence that we could hopefully bust something open.  Greg's never going to allow that to happen.  Two runs, I knew that was what I was going to have all night pretty much. 
 
Q.  Tell me what it was like differently if anything pitching in the postseason as opposed to regular season.
 
MARK PRIOR: Obviously there is 40,000 fans here screaming with a little more intensity than they did two or three weeks ago.  That's the first thing, and I know we're not experienced when it comes to starting rotation, but there is a lot of experience on the bullpen. Larry's been in these situations before, and he's really go at conveying his message on what he thinks we need to do to be successful.  Obviously it's working with Damian and Paul and Larry on the game plan and keeping me on that game plan and not letting things get out of hand. 
 
Q.  All the starters have had the mind-set of finishing what you started.  Did you have to talk Dusty into anything to finish the game and how strong were you?
 
MARK PRIOR: I didn't think there was a question of whether or not I was going to finish the game.  There was never an argument or discussion about whether I'm staying in or not.  It was kind of assumed.  And, hey, 130 pitches, that's my average.  I should be used to it right now.  If that's the way it is and that's what it takes to go deep into these playoffs, so be it.  I feel great.  I was a little erratic in the first inning.  And then the next two walks, they're patient hitters.  I wasn't upset with those walks.  I didn't feel like I was erratic.  The 5th inning, that curve ball kind of got me into the groove.  Instead of going harder, I kind of realized I needed to go softer.  I slowed the curve balls down and wasn't trying to throw the fast ball hard, and I was able to do that. 
 
Q.  With the Prior/Maddux matchup, how does it feel to be the one on top?
 
MARK PRIOR: It feels good we won the game.  I've watched Maddux since I was a kid.  It was kind of surreal to be in the dugout and watching the guy I watched my whole life growing up.  I watched the way he was handling things, and I was maybe lucky he was out there opposing me.  I knew it was going to be a pitching battle.  I knew two runs might be all I had.  Ramirez fortunately had that big hit in the 8th inning.  Win or lose, I knew it was going to be a lot of fun and a learning experience and something I would never forget. 
 
Q.  Players a lot older than you have talked about butterflies or tension first time in a playoff.  What did you do to overcome that or did you overcome that?
 
MARK PRIOR: I don't know if I've overcome it all the way.  Obviously, there is nerves. There is a little anxiety.  You wouldn't be human if you weren't anxious in this situation.  It's the playoffs.  If you lose, you go home.  Nobody wants to go home.  Yeah, you're anxious, but you've got a lot of confidence and you know what your job is.  I felt like I did my job.  Things worked out in our favor, and the stars lined. 
 
Q.  I don't know if you had a chance to look outside.  They're going crazy in the streets.  It's like you won Game 7 of the World Series.  As a player, is it hard for you guys to keep your emotions in check a little bit when the fans are going this crazy?
 
MARK PRIOR: It's tough, but I felt in the first inning, I was kind of letting my emotions get away from me.  I think I said earlier by watching Maddux slow the game down, and he knew he was in control, I think that kind of helped me.  These fans have been great to us all year.  They have been by us through thick and thin, up and down.  We had some rough times and good times.  They've always been here.  Obviously, they have been here through the course of the last 20 years.  I mean, they just are great fans, and they deserve to go out and party.  This is something they haven't experienced.  Hopefully they get to experience it more in years to come.  It's something they haven't had in a long time.  In '98 and '99 they got swept through.  They should enjoy ourselves.  We're enjoying ourselves.  We also know what you're job it. 
 
Q.  So much has been said about your poise and confidence at a young age.  How much have you drawn were from the success you had at other levels in baseball to prepare you for your first playoff appearance?
 
MARK PRIOR: Well, there is nothing that will really ever prepare you for what this was like or what my next start hopefully in the playoffs will be like.  It's something I've never experienced.  I have pitched at different levels of my life.  College, I was at the College World Series.  At that age, that's pretty big.  I pitched in international baseball against Cuba and Japan.  At the time I didn't realize it but those type of situations kind of prepared me at least to have some sense of having a clue on the mound how to control myself.  And physically you train and you kind of let that take care of itself, but as long as you can keep yourself calm and focused on what you've got to do on the mental side of it, that helps you carry through the rest of the game.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT