BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2004
Gary Waters
Marquis Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH GARY WATERS:  Before I speak anyplace, I always give my honor to God.  That's the reason why I'm here and probably will remain.  That was a game that was a tale of two different games, in essence.  First half, I thought our guys did enough to take control of the game, and in the second half, we allowed them to get back in it and control us.  We went through a period, which I call, in our program, it's called "kick ball," when nothing goes right.  You're just kicking the ball all over the place.  We did that for a period of time. But when you look at the stats, literally, you see that for this to be a three-point game, it is amazing to me, primarily to me because we turned the ball over 23 times and missed 11 free throws, a team that shoots 70 percent from the free throw line.  That tells you that we have to do just  -- I'm sorry, we shot 74 percent.  I'm sorry, I looked at the wrong thing.  But I thought we missed some key free throws to move us forward.  This team is not seasoned enough or good enough to play without one of your players, and that was Herve Lamizana.  I mean, we didn't have him for a large portion of the game, either when he was on the floor or off the floor.  It was a rough, rough way for us to go, in that regards.  I thought our guards did a good job on Matthews.  Our goal was to shut him down.  I thought we did a good job.  However, we let some others step up and do some things that we didn't think they could do and they did it.  We're going to just move on and see what the future brings.  Any questions, please?  
 
 
Q.  Last possession, Gary, was that a shot you wanted? 
 
COACH GARY WATERS:  Well, we put four guys that are perimeter guys, we wanted to throw it up to Herve.  Herve kicked, he did exactly what happened.  Had a wide-open guy in the corner.  Wide-open guy in the corner, we just missed the shot.  Can't complain, we got the shot we wanted.  But that wasn't the game.  The game happened way before then.  It relates to turnovers.  
 
Q.  Can you get your guys back up again for the next round, when you find out where you're going after this? 
 
COACH GARY WATERS:  We're going to have to.  It's not something you can sit back.  We have a lot of young players in the program, so I want them to experience things for the future.  This is all about future.  The young man I have with me right now, Marquis Webb, this is a big step in his future.  That's what we're going to do.  Eventually, you're going to be sitting up at this podium and we're going to be on top of something.  Right now it's those growing pains you go through with a young program.  
 
 
Q.  Tell us about your two threes back-to-back?  Did they drop off? 
 
MARQUIS WEBB:  I definitely was confident taking those shots.  I knew that we had open looks and I just had to take the shots.  Today, I knocked them down.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT