PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2019
Jake Pinegar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Curious about what you have seen from this program in the last 48 hours? We saw some very emotional guys in post game media sessions. Have you seen people digest things a bit more? How are you all carrying it forward?
JAKE PINEGAR: Yeah, I think right after the game, there was a lot of raw emotion and stuff like and then I think the next day, Sunday practice, everybody moved on, shifted to Indiana, kind of using that as fuel, really determined and stuff like that.
So what happened then is in the past and we're kind of just moving forward right now.
Q. I know you're kind of sequestered into your own positional groups early in the week. But Clifford as a guy that is going to help drive teams forward, how has he specifically picked things up? And we heard Coach Franklin pointed out Sean after the game to try to take some of the load off his shoulders. How is he handling it and why do you think that was important for Franklin to do after the game?
JAKE PINEGAR: Yeah, I think Sean, just like everyone else, has moved on from it. One loss is on everybody on the team. It's not just one person. Everybody picks everybody up in the locker room and stuff like that, and I think Sean's determined and he's hungry to get back out there on the practice field today.
Q. In terms of special teams, Coach Franklin today pointed out -- it's not necessarily your field, but he said penalties are an issue. How has Joe Lorig over the course of these first nine games, week-to-week, tried to tighten you guys up and how would you evaluate the entire unit through those nine games?
JAKE PINEGAR: Yeah, we have two goals on the ball no, penalties. So those penalties are a huge emphasis. But you know, when we do that, good things happen. That's just a consistent emphasis that he puts on us is to own the ball and have no penalties. We try to be the best we can each week and clean it up.
Q. So the weather's changed. Colder balls. Can you describe what might be some of the difficulties that go into that whole operation when things get colder?
JAKE PINEGAR: Yeah, obviously the ball doesn't fly as much and it doesn't jump off your foot as much but really it's not a huge deal and for me, Blake, Chris, we try not to -- we try not to think about it that much. Just go out there and take it like any other kick. It's not a huge deal.
Q. So you in the few weeks before the Minnesota game didn't have too much repetitions when it comes to in-game field goals. Was it any sort of, I guess, adjustment or was it tough at all, stepping right back?
JAKE PINEGAR: I was excited to get back out there and do that, but we do it each and every day in practice and stuff like that, so you know, I've just got to be ready when my number's called.
Q. We had Blake Gillikin on the practice field last week and spoke about basically being a leader and also being someone who is very studious and all that stuff. What does he do for this locker room in terms of who he is on the field, off the field, being a fourth-year player? Can you describe his presence, not just in the special teams unit, but kind of across the roster?
JAKE PINEGAR: Yeah, you know, he's a huge leader on our team and on special teams, of course, and he's a great role model for younger guys on and off the field. I think he's been a huge part of our success. He's been a huge part of that, pinning people deep, making it so that they have to go 90, '95 yards on our defense, which is hard. So he's been a huge part to our success and off the field he's helping everybody with anything they need to do, so he's a great leader and a role model.
Q. Unrelated. Do you listen or watch the Pat McAfee Show at all?
JAKE PINEGAR: I follow him on Twitter, but I don't really watch his shows that much. Bits and pieces. Not really, though.
Q. All right. So you have a guy who has created a career for himself who was a college kicker, NFL punter. Do you feel like -- and he's always talking about special teams operations and kind of giving a voice to maybe a segment of football that really hasn't had too many people speak up for them. What is that total experience like being in college, a kicker, hearing someone talk about stuff you have to go through?
JAKE PINEGAR: I think he's really funny and entertaining, and people like that and buy into him. Stuff with punting and kicking is not as glamorous as other positions but he brings a funnier side of things and kind of puts a highlight on it in a funny and different way, which kind of gives light to it, which has been awesome. So I think that's awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT