BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2007
Christian Cevaer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  Yeah, I'm happy especially to come back and birdie 18 after the delay because I had a good rhythm going, a nice round going before the rhythm -- before the stop.  So nice to finish almost to three actually on the last.   
  
  Q.  And to improve on the first round, as well, is always a good thing.   
 CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  It's nice because I really played solid that first round.  I had 11 fairways, 14 greens and the putter wasn't hot to be honest.  I had a very good 70.  So, nice, nice to be in this position now.   
  
  Q.  Am I right to assume you're over the jet-lag now?   
 CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  Yeah, you could assume that.  I wanted to come back here.  I debated after the run of three tournaments and qualifying at Walton Heath and then going to the U.S. Open, whether considering the French Open and The K Club and Loch Lomond whether to take this off.   
 After I missed the cut and all that, it was blunt to me that I wanted to get back to normality, like, you know, normal tour golf.  So done that, so that's nice.   
  
  Q.  I know it didn't quite work out as you hoped at Oakmont but how do you reflect on your experience there?   
 CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  All positives and I learned something about, you know, if you've not had the day you wanted like on the first round, I did almost, you know, sometime a youthful mistake, but I still feel young, so that's okay.  But I wanted to try to hit more fairways the second round and made some adjustment, and it didn't work out for me at all and it got even worse.   
 So I think you should prepare for a tournament and then go from first hole to last hole with the same intentions, you know, because what happens is this monster sort of got to me and got me doubting or -- not doubting, but, you know, wanting to find a solution when really maybe there wasn't so much.  Just play, just play it.   
 So anyways, good experience.  I enjoyed that.  At least once in my life, I'm witnessing what it is, what the hardest golf course conditions are in the world before, so it's nice.   
  
  Q.  And it's whetted your appetite for more, has it, because you've only had two majors I think.   
 CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  Definitely.  Definitely.  I said even before the to all of the French reporters once I qualified, I said, you know, it's been already two or three years, knowing that age is advancing unfortunately, but for the rest of the career after; I experienced Royal Troon in 2004.  It's delightful to play in a major and the crowd support is so great.  The atmosphere is so great.  And the challenge is great.    
So definitely a big appetite for some more, yeah.   
  
  Q.  And Carnoustie later in the summer?   
 CHRISTIAN CÉVAËR:  That would be wonderful but we're not even there yet.  I'm not even thinking about that yet.  I'm going to play at Sunningdale and take it from there.  We'll see what happens there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT