U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Tommy Morrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So let's talk about that match.  It was a little bit of everything.  Tell me about the bunker save at 17 really.
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah, 17 was great.  Had a little bit of an awkward lie there, one foot in, one foot out.  Just hit a big chunk-and-run and ended up getting up there two, three feet and making the putt.
Definitely big momentum saver going into 18.
Q. Then you obviously found a left rough and you were up on that bank.  What kind of shot did you have up there?
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah, it was a little awkward.  Just ball below my feet, sitting down a little.  All I wanted to do was just miss it left the green, which is what I ended up doing.
Right of that green is pretty difficult up and down.  I hit a good bunker shot to about five feet and great birdie.
Q. Then here on this hole here, got a little unlucky with where the drive landed.  What kind of a lie was that?
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah, it was a little awkward.  I quite honestly don't know how the ball ended up there.  It was about four, five yards over the bunker, straight downhill lie.  Just wanted to advance it kind o fright up to the front and give myself a chance at an up and down and just kind of see what happened.
Q. Then the bunker shot there, kind of toward the face.
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah.  It was an uphill lie.  Bunker has a little bit more sand in them, and just going uphill the whole way didn't help.
But just caught a little heavy and ended up rolling it to about a foot and gave it to me.  Once again, Mikey, he made a great par, so...
Q. Yeah.
TOMMY MORRISON: Played good golf all week.  Just ended up getting beat.
Q. What do you take from this experience?  What was it like?
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah, it was great playing in my first year's Junior Am, it was awesome.  It was everything you can imagine just from the volunteers to the golf course to the hospitality with the food.  I can go on and on.  It was unbelievable.
Just to take from it, I would just say obviously I played pretty solidly the first two days.  Pretty amazing golf course.  Just made a lot of pars all week and that was kind of my goal.  Happy with where the game is going into the rest of the summer.
Thank you all for everything.
Q. Does this whet your appetite to play more at this level?
TOMMY MORRISON: Yeah, for sure.  I love it.  Being able to play in the most competitive junior golf event in the world at 14 is awesome.  I think it's just all around an awesome week.  Happy to make it to match play, and played great today.
Q. I hear you're going to caddie in the U.S. Amateur.  Who are you going to caddie for?
TOMMY MORRISON: I think for John Pak.  We kind of got linked up and he's an awesome player and we've been texting a little, so looking forward to that.  I played high school matches on those two golf courses in Pinehurst, so I like our chances.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT