US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Justin.

Q. You were able to take at least a set off him at Wimbledon. Is he playing much
better?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, he played much better tonight. I don't think I played quite as
well, he was definitely a little injured at Wimbledon. He played well. He was out there
ready to play and I got off to a decent start but he was just playing too good. I couldn't
-- I didn't hang with him, and he just played much too good for me tonight.

Q. I guess there are always variables, Justin, in plays like that, when you're coming
off -- is he the favorite in your mind?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think so. The court's playing really fast. The court's playing
really fast, I think it suits his style. He seems eager and ready to play. I think he's
had just enough matches this year, this summer, not too many, not too little, I think he's
pretty eager. Good conditions for him.

Q. Did he seem more relaxed to you now that he has that record out of the way?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, he's always pretty relaxed. He seems even more relaxed now. I
think he's pretty secure with his place in history. I think now he's actually playing for
fun.

Q. Seems dangerous, the idea of him playing for fun. He was coming up with some
beautiful shots?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, he's seeing the ball well. He's obviously serving well. He puts
a lot of pressure on you with his athleticism. As I said, I couldn't hang with him
tonight.

Q. You seemed to try to work up the crowd. Were you trying to up their energy?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I was just trying
to -- yeah. I was just trying to hang in there and have some chances. I mean I had
double break point in the first game and actually for him, he hit a bad serve. I didn't
take advantage of it. I think I shanked it into the third row. Only have a few chances
like that. I wasn't serving well, he was on my serve, I wasn't putting the ball close
enough to the lines and he was on me, all over me.

Q. What did you think of his way of closing the match, little dramatic?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I mean four aces. You know, he was putting the ball -- even
when I felt like I was on the ball, it was just a little bit out of my reach. It was --
even when I was guessing right and I felt like I was there, it would just skid away a
little bit or he just has great movement on the ball. He was moving the ball around well
and placing it well and obviously hitting it hard. It was pretty impressive. You guys
don't have anything else? I mean come on.

Q. Did you see the ad for New Balls Please, then you see Pete play like that. Does it
make you think, "Not so fast, this guy's going to be around for a while."

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I guess they're trying to position themselves so when Pete decides to
become a recluse in his place in LA, they have something to fall back on. I think if
everyone knows he's eager to play, it's going to be Old Balls Please, or His Balls Please.
(Laughter.) 

Q. Disappointed at all the way you performed?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I am disappointed. You know, I have to be fair to myself; I
didn't have much preparation here. I hurt my back for the 1600th time, had to take ten
days off after I started to play pretty well in LA. That's disappointing. I didn't have
the preparation I felt like I needed. Not that it would have mattered tonight. But I felt
like I was proud of myself I fought out a tough first round match and put myself in a
position tonight to at least try and compete. The preparation wasn't there and he was just
too good.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT