WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Justin Gimelstob. 

Q. If you had not known or read the papers and knew that Pete Sampras had an injury,
you walked out there to play him, would you have any idea that he was injured when you
played him?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. 

Q. He was moving that good?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think I'd rather play him injured than not injured. Do you ever
remember him losing injured? What's his record injured? Have you ever seen him lose when
he stepped on the court? If you have to think about it, that's pretty good. Doesn't really
matter. He's a great player. As I said, he seems to thrive on playing injured; doesn't
matter if you hit serves on the side of the line every time. 

Q. What did it feel like after the first set?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I was pretty relaxed, I was hanging in there, playing good
service games. I was on the ball on the return. You know, he comes up with -- he has
intangibles that come up with certain shots on the run, certain returns that might be by
other guys. I started missing some first serves. He started getting on my second serve a
little bit. You know, I think I returned well the whole match. It's just a matter of how
well he could hit his serves. He went for a period where he didn't miss any of my first
serves. I went through a period where my percentages went down. I think that was the
difference. 

Q. How did you feel when you got up to 4-4 in the second set?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I thought I was doing a pretty good job of staying in the
present. I hit a great return shot at 4-3. I don't think I sniffed another second serve.
First point I hit a winner on a first serve. Just a matter of taking advantage of the
opportunities you have. I didn't have too many. As I said, I think the difference was I
started giving him a little more openings, and he took them. I didn't really get openings.
I felt I did a good job - when I did - of taking them. Even the fourth set there, three
straight games I had breakpoint. I put good wood on the ball almost every time. You know,
he's a great player. That's what happens. I felt like if I had been able to stay on --
kept playing better service games, I think I would have -- maybe we'd still be out there.

Q. A lot of guys serve big these days. Clearly his serve almost seems to be at another
level from other people. What is it for you that makes his serve particularly devastating?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, probably when he came out of his mother's womb, God spent a
little extra time on his right shoulder, just kind of went (indicating), touched it, so
that helps. He's got a beautifully smooth action. He could go to every spot with the same
toss. He's confident, so he goes for big second serves. And he backs it up well. It's a
good combination.

Q. The BBC a couple years ago speculated that his forearm was longer than any other
player's relative to the body. Do you think that could also be true?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: If the BBC -- they have so few TV channels here, they're forced to
entertain with the four or five they have. 

Q. Were you nervous today?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, just normal. I mean, I think, a little bit. I think I was proud
of myself the way I hung in there. I stayed in the moment for the most part, focused. But,
you know, for me especially, I always have to keep working on relaxing and staying relaxed
out there. Might not come as natural to me as some others, but I blame that pretty much
solely on genes at this point.

Q. You were unusually calm that first set and a half. Was there anything you were
telling yourself or did before the match?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. I think, you know, I think I have a bit of a reputation now of
being very aggressive. For the past couple years, I think I've done a much better job
controlling my energy and my overexpending of energy. It's been a gradual process of doing
that. I think I still have a way to go. I don't think I'm the same guy three or four years
ago played at the US Open, was freaking out after every point. I think I've improved on
that area. I've worked on it. I think I will continue to do so. Inwardly, it feels closer
and closer to what it looks outwardly. 

Q. You've had a nice run here. Might have been even better if you didn't draw Pete
Sampras in this round. Are you going to come out of here thinking you did well because
your game is great for grass or is it going to translate into the US hard court season
when you go back?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: At the US Open and here, I thought I was very well prepared. I felt I
played well. Now being off the court, I lost to two of the best players in two of the best
situations. I think even now, even more, I feel I'm a little bit more disappointed now
because I felt like I really -- I felt like I have opportunities. If I play well, I'm good
enough to win those matches. Maybe before it wasn't as much like that. I think if I keep
working, I think it will keep moving the bar higher and higher. You know, there's a big
difference between going out there and really believing that you could win and just, you
know, hoping you win or hoping you play well. I think I'm really starting to believe more
and more that I really could do some great things in tennis. 

Q. Your generation, completely understandably, suffers by comparison to Pete, Andre and
Jim. Do you think maybe you guys are still going to have yet to come into your own, or are
now getting also more of a sense that maybe you can reach more than you thought you could?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I can't speak for my whole generation, as much as people think I can
speak to everyone. I don't know what they feel. I know that, you know, we had a
tremendous, tremendous group of guys before us that were great players. They've
accomplished great things. I've actually recently just started to try and stay out of the
prognostication business. You know, as time will tell, I think some guys are starting to
do a little bit better now. As I said, it kind of feeds off itself. Just like that
generation, the more guys did well, the more they practise together, see each other, know
each other well. If they start thinking, "If that guy can do it, why can't I?"
You practise every day, feel similar in ability, known each other since you were ten. I
think that's what's happening a little bit probably. We're getting bigger, stronger,
working on our games. We all work really hard. Hopefully good things happen that way. But
in terms of knowing if we'll work out like the other generation, I mean, I don't know any
generation in tennis or country or anything will ever sniff what that generation did. I
don't think that's anything to be ashamed of. I think that's just a credit to them. I
think, as I said, I guess maybe God had a little extra time in those couple years. I don't
know what His social calendar was, but He was busy touching a lot of right arms. 

Q. Did you feel you were playing well enough today to have beaten a lot of players out
there, except for a guy like Sampras?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I feel like I could have beaten anyone out there. It's just a matter
of me sticking with it, a couple things going my way. I felt out there I had potential to
beat -- I wasn't thinking about it that way, but I don't see why I wouldn't or couldn't.

Q. Were you aware that players like Bjorn Borg and Rod Laver were watching?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: My eye contact was so good, I did not see one person until the last
game. I happened to look up and I saw Laver sitting right behind the court. I thought,
"Okay, I have to power a few here. The Rocket is sitting right behind the court. I
can't just fade into the sunset in that last game." So that was the only guy I saw,
was Laver. Actually, that's not true. In the warm-up, I saw Borg with a really hot girl in
the front row. I was looking at her. I thought, "Okay, if I play here, maybe I have a
shot." Then I saw Borg. I'm like, "Probably not going to happen." At the
end I saw Laver. That was it: the hot girl, Borg, then Laver. 

Q. Do you think you would have had a better shot with the hot girl if you left on the
goatee from the other day?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I don't know. I usually leave things on. I left that on long enough
to realise that it wasn't really working. The last couple weeks haven't been too socially
rewarding. Give me a couple days and I'll tell you.

Q. You've played him a few times now. Aside from the serve, what would you consider his
second most intimidating weapon?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: He's the best athlete on tour in terms of, you know, the jumping and
running, intangibles. I think that's the thing that goes unnoticed. He puts a lot of
pressure on you athletically - do a little bit more with the volley, do a little bit more
with the approach. Even on the return, which sometimes he doesn't do so well, he has a way
of just athletisizing balls into the corners or in an uncomfortable position, which is not
too difficult to get me in an uncomfortable position. Other guys, he's really, really good
with that. His ability to hit the spots on his serve and second serves on big points, stay
relaxed, you know, those are his best attributes.

Q. You were looking to get someone removed from the court. Was that a lines person?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, I wasn't. I don't even want to go over this. I was having trouble
-- just me being anal. One of the ball kids was really struggling to throw the ball
straight to me. If I'm only serving with one ball, you know, a couple second's delay
between first and second serves, it might seem like a small thing. It was kind of a little
thing. Nothing major. I'd really not like to make a big deal of it. I don't want to get
her self-conscious. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT