US OPEN
September 4, 1999
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USTA:  Questions for Justin. 


Q.  Talk about what went on in your mind when you did those deep knee bends after losing that first set 6-1 and came back in the next. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I just wanted to regroup.  You know, I knew it was important to assert myself early in the second set.  Andre with momentum equals getting butt kicked really quickly.  I knew it was important for me to try and take a deep breath, reassess what I needed to do out there, try and make some sort of go at him.

Q.  What did you do to adjust?  What did you do differently in the second set?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I was going to need to take control of the points earlier, need to make more first serves.

Q.  What is wrong with your hand or wrist?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I'm not sure.  Actually, went to ice it before I went to see the doctor.  I had to come see you guys because I know where my priorities are.  I'll come check it out after.

Q.  Do you think it could be serious?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, it's probably just a routine break.  I don't know.  I was really pumped, obviously.  I went to sit down.  Right before I got up to play, I was like, "Boy, that probably shouldn't be sticking out there."  I went out and touched it a little bit.  That didn't feel too good.  I figured I might as well have Doug come out.  He iced it.  When it's numb, you can't really tell.

Q.  Can you talk about the blimp bothering you?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  How did you know that? 

Q.  It was on TV. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I was just joking.  I mean, I was just joking.  I'm not used to playing on a court that has this big blimp up there, plus I was just trying to ease the tension a little bit.  I figured I'd walk up there.  Sometimes I do things just to regroup, make jokes to relax a little bit.  I thought it was pretty funny actually.  They didn't think I was actually serious, did they? 

Q.  Lendl once said it bothered him.  You were looking up between your first and second serve. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  It wasn't like it was there the whole match.  If it comes one game, you toss up, see a huge green spot in the middle of the sky, a little distracting.  Once I stopped looking at it, no big deal.

Q.  What did he answer you?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I asked him, I walked up to the chair, "Chances of us getting that blimp to move?"  I think he said something to the effect of, "Not too good." 

Q.  Did the crying children upset you? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Not really.  I mean, I just was commenting.  I think you guys have seen me play enough that if it really bothered me, I really would have freaked out.  I walked up to the umpire saying, "That was kind of a bummer having that baby scream out when I went for my second serve on breakpoint."  That's me doing a good job of going with the flow.

Q.  How was the experience in general?  Was the anticipation pretty rough?  Were you okay?  Was that part of the problem in the first set?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  No, I think part of the problem in the first set was when he plays like that  -- first of all, it takes a little bit of time to get used to his pace.  Factor that into me being a little uneasy, even though I wasn't very, but a little bit.  Didn't get my feet into the court.  The court is very big.  It's not easy to get your bearings.  As I said, with the pace that he hits, it just kind of hits you.  It took me a little while to feel comfortable out there.  When you play on the same court all the time, he's probably played all his matches on that court, it's a lot easier.  That's why he won, because he plays there all the time (laughter). 

Q.  Have you not played on Arthur Ashe before?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I did, I played on stadium a couple years ago.

Q.  This is the biggest crowd you've ever played before, this sort of situation.  Can you assess how you felt?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I felt good.  In the beginning, every once in a while I may hit a bad shot.  "Gee, a lot of people just saw me mess that one up."  If I'm thinking that way, that shows my mind is not really focusing on the right things.  After the beginning, my concentration was very good.  Felt like I was playing on my court at home, except my dad usually is yelling at me when I'm at the court at home.  Here, you couldn't hear him (laughter).

Q.  (Inaudible) had a little more crowd support behind you or were you not surprised?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I was.  But now I'm not surprised.  Max told me about the 100 ticket requests we had that couldn't be fulfilled.  I'm not too surprised now that I hear that.  You know, it's tough.  He's such a crowd favorite, he has so much more momentum.  Rightfully so with his resurgence.  It's great.  I would have to say against almost anyone else, it would be even more partisan.  Against him, I could understand it.  I got very good support.  We both did.  That's all you could ask for.

Q.  Proud of yourself that you were able to keep him on the court that long in comparison to his first two matches?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I'm disappointed that I lost.  I feel like I deserved the fact to be disappointed because I feel like I'm playing well and I think I had a chance to win the match.  I am proud the way I competed.  I felt I did some good things.  I also think I did some things out there I could do better, things that I could learn from.  As I said to Elliott after the match, and Max, my friend, I said, "I really believe I'm a few things getting better away from being very good."  If I could get a little bit better in a few things, I think I could really improve.  I think I'm improving.  But I think I could get better in a few things.  I know the next question will be, "What things?"  I think just obviously a few technical things on my backhand, making more returns.  Obviously, my footwork could always  -- I'm going to be here the day before I retire saying, "If my footwork gets a little bit better, I'll be better."  Things like that.

Q.  Was the strategy to have short points and get to the net?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah.  Not because I didn't want to play long points, but because that plays into his strength.  I felt like I needed to get to the net, attack his serve.  His serve is big.  Look to come in, not cramp. 

Q.  Why did you hit the ball back into the stands?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Because that kid was bumming out that he didn't get to keep the ball.  Just to joke around.  I just felt like he deserved the ball.  It was new balls that game, I think.  I knew we were just going to throw in a new ball.  It wasn't that big a deal.

Q.  Is Andre beatable at this tournament, do you think?  If so, what would it take for him to lose?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I think everyone's beatable, I feel.  I mean, he's certainly playing great tennis.  I would love to see him win the tournament.  I think he's obviously unbelievably capable of winning the tournament.  He seems like he's having fun and playing well.  But I'd like to see him win it.  Like I said, I consider myself relatively smart, but I can't predict what's going to happen.  I think he's a strong favorite and I'd love to see it happen.

Q.  Were you surprised that he came over and asked you to leave the court with him?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, that was nice.  You know, I know Andre well.  He's been very good to me.  We had a little bit of a situation last year.  Before that, we were great.  That was obviously a tense time.  After that, it's been great.  You know, he's practiced with me.  He's given me advice.  Stayed at his house.  He's a classy guy.  The way he carries himself, the way he enjoys his life, the way he's made these comebacks and stuff.  I think he deserves a lot of credit and a lot of respect.  He certainly has mine.

Q.  I know some coaches in the past have suggested not to dive too much on hard courts. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Brad Gilbert being one of them.

Q.  Does that go back to being the son of a basketball coach, kind of learning tennis in a hard-scrabble way?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah.  I think, you know, I feel like I try and compete hard out there.  Sometimes my emotions get the best of me.  I just want to do everything I can out there.  The ironic part of it, when Doug Spreen came out on the court, I'm looking at my hand, bumming out.  I say to Doug, "The scary thing is, looking at my hand, knowing what just what happened, I would probably do the same thing again."  That's just me.  I think I play tennis  -- one of the reasons I play tennis is for the memories that I get from it and the experiences.  You know, that shot felt really good.  I think if it takes five months sitting on my couch to enjoy it, that will be all right (laughter).

Q.  Andre said he didn't really see an American from your age group approaching the level of success that his age group had.  Do you agree with that?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  This is what got us in trouble the last time.  I mean, as I said, I'm not  -- I know I got good grades in school, but I didn't master in prognostication.  I just don't know.  I don't think anyone knows.  I think some of us have good potential.  We'll see what intangibles fall into place and what happens. I mean, their group was exceptional.  I mean, it's like a lost treasure you find in the sea.  You open this up, there's six diamonds in there.  What are the chances of getting Sampras, Agassi, Courier, Chang, Martin, Washington?  Yeah, I would have to agree, it doesn't look like it's going to be coming from my generation.  But who knows?  I don't know.  I know I'm going to bust my butt to see how good I can be.  I know some of the other guys are, too.

Q.  Do you think that's a fair standard to be measured against?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I think you  -- they set a bar.  The bar is always what's established as the best.  I think it's very fair to compare.  I think once the level of greatness is set, everything is compared to that.  I think that's fair.  It's just you don't know until it's done. 

Q.  If your hand is fit for play tonight, how do you go about regrouping and sort of preparing yourself to shift from singles to doubles?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I mean, as far as I know, my hand is fit to play.  Regardless, I'm going to play, regardless if it's all right or not.  Not really.  Tennis is tennis.  Doubles is often a little different.  We do it all the time, play singles and then doubles.  It's shorter points.  Just go out there and rip a few returns.  I usually just let Richey tell me what to do anyway.  He's been on the Tour 20 more years than me.

Q.  Is it worth the trade-off of maybe getting a lesser player this round and moving further in the tournament and the experience of playing Agassi in the big house?  If you go back knowing you're going to lose anyway, still playing him in that situation?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  As opposed to playing someone in this round that I have a chance of beating? 

Q.  Out yonder. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Eventually, in this sport, you're always going to eventually end up there if you keep winning.  I'd rather it have been in the fourth round than the third round.  I'd rather always get as far as I can.  But eventually you're going to face a test that challenges you.  That's what Andre did today. 

Q.  Surprised that Andre was able to lift his serving so high in that final set?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  No, because I've practiced with him.  His serve has really changed.  I've played him twice.  His serve was primarily a kick serve.  Now his serve has completely changed.  He's a big server now.  That's why he's been doing so much better because he gets free points on his serve and he challenges you on his return.  That's the biggest difference I'd say in his game now, that and his quickness and fitness. 

Q.  When you get so emotional out there, you give all the crowd the demonstration that he enjoy so much, does that help you?  Andre suggested perhaps that energy could be directed somewhere that would help your game more. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I think I'm actually doing better.  I don't know if you were around two years ago.  I was an absolute freak out there.  I think I've done better.  You know, I think I am harnessing it better.  I can do it better, and I will.  It's a process. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT