US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Justin, can you tell us what happened on the court for the first actual you started
to feel something and then take us through the match.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, 2-0 in the third set I just-- I started feeling fatigued and it
just came on really quick. I just -- I just my muscles just started locking up everywhere.
I mean, I have cramped before, but it just came on so quickly everywhere, my legs, my
arms, my back, my hands, everywhere, I just -- I couldn't fight it off. I mean, I have
cramped before, but very rarely came on that quickly and I couldn't fight it off. It was
-- it was everywhere.

Q. Is this the worst type of pain you felt on a court before?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I have never had to default ever. Never defaulted in a match in
my life. I just felt no hope, with there being that much longer in the match, it being
everywhere, I mean, sometimes it is one part of my body I could fight it off, but it was
everywhere. I couldn't do anything. It was definitely the worst I have felt because I have
never had to default before.

Q. Did the doctors have any idea what happened?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Couple of weeks ago I was diagnosed as being anemic, my iron count is
really low and I have been really fatigued. I have just, yeah, I have just been fatigued
and, you know, my muscles have just -- just been giving out and I haven't been able to
fight it. I know some people think it is because of nerves, but it is not. I was really
relaxed out there. For me I wasn't hyping out and yelling and screaming and getting overly
exuberant. I am -- I think my body is going through some stuff and I don't know what it
is.

Q. Did you go see the doctor because you were feeling fatigued or was it just a routine
physical? Why were you there?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I mean, I had been feeling fatigued. Considering as hard as I
am working, I have been working really hard and feeling worse. I have been working hard
and getting tired quicker. So we just ran some routine checks and I still think we are
trying to figure out what it is. But one of the reasons is my iron count is definitely low
and you know that is it. We are still trying to figure it out.

Q. Any blood sugar tests?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: They just ran my blood; that is what they came out with. It probably
wasn't -- we have been on it. I have been taking everything. I have been taking everything
to try and get going and it just -- nothing has worked. I think after this I will have to
sit down and really run a really comprehensive test on the physical aspect of, you know,
everything.

Q. Are you alarmed?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I am really alarmed. I work hard. I go -- I try and put my body
through a lot to train in order to be prepared to play in situations like this and I can't
even express how disappointing it is because I am training hard and I am getting more
tired, and if I don't train I get tired because I am not prepared, I don't put my body
through the work. So it is really disappointing. It is really disappointing.

Q. Had you considered not playing here and what made your decision to try and play?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Not really. I wanted to play and I felt like -- it is weird, I
wouldn't have been -- I mean, I can't say in the back of my mind this scenario wasn't
played out, but I wouldn't have been surprised if I could play and keep going and have a
great tournament because -- I didn't really know what to expect. I felt like I was playing
well and capable of having a great tournament or I wouldn't have played. But I can't say
that this scenario wasn't in the back of my mind somewhere.

Q. At 2-0 in the third set and before the cramping began, were you feeling pretty
comfortable that you could win the match?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, it always depends on physically if -- I mean, I never doubted
that I was -- if I played well I was capable of winning the match and if I got on a roll I
was capable of winning the way I played. I am capable of winning a lot of points quickly,
but I just -- physically I just couldn't do it. I just wasn't up to it. When I went to sit
down at 3-2, I mean, everything was -- my whole body was locked up and I just -- you know
me, I would have never stopped playing if I didn't think it was impossible to continue and
I couldn't -- I just -- I couldn't go.

Q. What were you trying to do serving the ball at that point?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I was just trying to hang in there and see if anything came through.
Nothing, I was just -- I hit pretty good under-hand serve at Love-15, but I couldn't move.
I couldn't hit. It was -- I was done.

Q. Will you play anymore tennis the next 13 days?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Oh, yeah, I will play. I will give it a go for sure. I will keep
trying to play for sure.

Q. Who are you playing doubles with?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Jon Stark.

Q. Do you think you will enter the mix?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I think we will enter the mixed, I would think two out of
three-set doubles match is a big difference between a three-out-of-five set singles match.

Q. Did you think you will pack a little bit away from tennis for a while or --

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think I have got to figure out what is going on with my body. That
is the most important thing. I am training hard. I am eating right. I am drinking right. I
am sleeping. I can't really explain how disappointing this is because it -- I mean, I
feel, you know, despite being, you know, not being able to train exactly the way I'd like
to the last couple of weeks, I don't really know what else I could do. I am not -- I am
working. I am working on my game. I am working on my conditioning. I am doing everything I
can to be prepared and to be -- to have to default in the third set because of cramps at
the US Open, I mean, I don't -- it is either a laugh or cry and, you know, I have done
both in the last hour, so, I am sweating -- I can't --

Q. Did you have in mind that possibly things were going right, you had a shot to play
in the Davis Cup that you might be selected to play?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, for sure.

Q. That is -- something like this may toss it all aside; you wouldn't be available?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, I mean, that is again, that is an indoor situation and I don't
think -- I think this is curable. Obviously I can turn it around, I just need to figure it
out. Look, I am going to have a lot of great U.S. Open and a lot of great tournaments. I
have no doubt about that. I just have to figure out what is going on here. I think this is
just a temporary setback in my career and my physique and this is something that is going
to change.

Q. Your thinking about Andre Agassi making a few unkind quotes. What started all that
with this feud?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I am just -- he is one -- I have got nothing but respect for Andre. I
haven't read any of the quotes lately.

Q. He said like you are about a 30th ranked player --

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: What I am ranked now, I would actually take that now after cramping
in the third set of the first round of US Open. But he -- Andre is -- he has his opinions
and look, I respect him for what he has accomplished in tennis, for what he has done with
his charities and done for Davis Cup. I have always looked up to him and thought he is --
you know, he is the man, in my mind. So I have nothing -- I have got nothing bad to say
about him. He is great. If he has his opinions, that is the way he is. He is opinionated.
He voices what he feels if that is what he feels, that is -- I have no problem with that.

Q. Have you and Harold Solomon parted ways and, if so, why?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, we have. I think a couple of days ago we decided to stop
working together. He just -- we just -- we have struggled. I am far from being the most
coachable person on Tour and, you know, we just -- it just wasn't working out. He is a
great guy and a great coach and I am a great guy and a great player. (Laughs). It just
didn't work out.

Q. Why do you think -- was it a personality -- personality thing or was it more of a
what-direction-you-wanted-your-game-to-go-thing?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, it was just -- I don't really understand it. It just didn't work
out. It just didn't go -- it just didn't work out. There was no particular reason. As I
said, he is a great coach and I just -- we just struggled.

Q. Why do you think you are difficult to coach?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I just think I am difficult. Have you ever been around me for a long
period of time?

Q. You are talking your personality then as opposed to your game?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I am not -- I am very stubborn and I think I have to work on
some things myself because I think I have to work on some of my -- my ability to be
coached, my ability to accept criticism, my ability to let people in and help me. I don't
always let people help me unless I am completely cramping and unable to help myself.
Unfortunately that is what it takes sometimes.

Q. How are the studies going at UCLA?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: They are struggling. I haven't -- you know, I have -- I haven't been
doing much work for UCLA.

Q. Who is coaching you now or who are you working with?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I mean, Nick Saviano has always helped me out. I has always
worked with me and he probably always will. Elliot, I mean, I have had a zillion people
help me so this is a bunch of people -- there are always people around and Nick has tried
to help me out since Harold is not here, but I think the best thing for me to do is maybe
use Nick because I am down there in Miami and just start becoming more a little bit more
self reliant.

Q. You'd travel by yourself?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Probably, yeah.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT