US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel to get to the third round of a Grand Slam?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: It is not so much round or with a win, specifically. It is just nice
to come through in situations like that. It is not -- it is tough to get caught up in
rounds and results and scores. It is just nice to get through. It is nice to play a great
fifth set there, start to finish.

Q. Is this your first five-setter, Justin?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: 3 and 0 five sets, lifetime. You should be on that.

Q. Any explanation for your undefeated streak in five sets?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I just seem to get into a nice comfort zone, nice level of focus and
I just compete hard and I am in good shape.

Q. How much did it help you playing in front of basically a hometown crowd? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Probably, significantly. I mean, I wouldn't want to play that match
in Sweden.

Q. You have never won three consecutive ATP Tour matches, but you could, if you beat
Wayne Ferreira.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Okay.

Q. What about Wayne? You have played him twice.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Played him twice, yes, and I know he is a good player; plays a lot
like Gustafsson, actually. He is a great player. I am going to have to recover from this
match and, you know, keep the chains going forward as Andre and Brad would say. I am just
-- there is nothing -- it is not science, it is not rocket science, just going to play my
game, execute, and things will take care of itself.

Q. Do you get the sense of anything special going on here this week the way the crowd
has taken to you; the way you are playing, anything?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I would kind of expect the crowd to be like that. I mean, I am their
hometown boy. I have a lot of ardent strong supporters. They don't really get a chance to
see me play. They just have to rely on papers and internet and stuff. This is one of their
only opportunities to really come out and see how I am developing and it is great. I would
anticipate, expect, and appreciate the support.

Q. Is your confidence growing now that you have had so many good wins this summer?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: My confidence is improving. My confidence is definitely getting
stronger and that is a big part of it. I mean, to play these matches and to be put in
these situations and to come through, that is a tremendous confidence booster and what you
learn at this level, it is a very slim margin and confidence is a huge boost.

Q. Even though you played so well in the fifth set, what were you feeling when you lost
the fourth?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I mean, I played a great serve and great volley on set point down and
he hit like a great forehand down-the-line. I mean, I didn't play a bad game. He broke me.
He played some great shots. Fifth set-- I love fifth sets, so, just get it going.

Q. What happened in the second set? In the last game of the first set there was that
questionable call after you kind of did a forward roll; then you wound up winning that
set, seemed like you had a lot of momentum, and the second set, your shots kind of went
kind of wild; you missed a lot of balls. Did you kind of get too excited, or too fired up?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, maybe. That is just experience. I have to maintain a high level
of intensity, but still remain calm. Maybe in the second set, yeah, my priorities changed
a little bit and I backed away from my game plan a little bit. 

Q. Working with only Nick now?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Nick, sure since I was 15 years old.

Q. Are you only with Nick or is Bobby--

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yes, I haven't been working Bobby, but I have been travelling with
Elliot Teltscher. Nick is always going to be someone that is involved in my tennis both
professionally and personally. He is a great fend of mine.

Q. You say it is not so much the round or the result, but the emotion afterwards, for
the match, the five sets, is that why you seemed pretty --

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Just being able to perform at the top of my game when I needed to at
the end of the match in a very dramatic situation, it is a good experience.

Q. Justin you seemed to expend a lot of energy. Even between points, you are doing
squats, running back to return serve. Do you ever worry in a five-setter that all that
energy is going to kind of tinker you out at the end?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No.

Q. Have you always done that, that many squats before you return serve?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: My legs are so long I have got to teach them how to go down, so, that
is to the extreme. But, if I go in between there and how upright I usually stand, then
maybe I will be all right. 

Q. Is Elliot breaking down your matches; is that what happens? Is that his job on the
road with you?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, I mean, I always -- Elliot has been working with me hard. He
incorporated a lot of things in my game. He has been coaching me basically.

Q. What is your reaction to all the talk that you are the next great or potentially
great American player that is on the men's side?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: You know, it is great. It is a nice compliment, but it doesn't give
me any extra points when I start out there. And, you know, it is just a nice compliment. I
just have to deal with it in my own way, put it aside and work on my game because nobody
gives you anything out there. As a matter of fact, when you seem to have a label like
that, people seem to shoot for you more to try and chop you down, chop you down. So, I am
just look at it as a motivating factor and, you know, I am just here to see how good I can
be, basically.

Q. Were you playing with someone in particular?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: If I was going to point to one person in particular -- there was a
million people I wanted to hug at that point -- probably just the first person I made eye
contact with or maybe the best looking girl in the stands maybe.

Q. USTA gets criticism for not developing young players. Do you feel some pressure,
anything for carrying the banner for young Americans?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. I mean, I am not a -- the USTA, I think, has done a good job with
me. They have always been supportive. They have always provided a lot for me. And, I can't
really comment on how they have done or what kind of job they have done. I just know,
personally, they have done a good job. And I think, you know, I think they will maybe it
is a little bit cyclical, the process, that is going on now. We will be fine. We have the
two top players in the world. We have some good players coming up. I think we are fine.

Q. Any idea how many supporters you might have had out there?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I would pretty much say, you know, 85% of that crowd, I mean, I
probably had to get 30 tickets and probably I could have given out, I mean, it is tough to
say, that crowd was awesome.

Q. You knew a lot of people?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Every time I looked around, I could make eye contact with a new
person that I have known for a long time.

Q. Were you trying awfully hard on your serves that forced you sometimes to double
fault more frequently?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I actually didn't have a good rhythm on my serve for maybe about a
set and a half. Last three sets I served great. I think I was trying to maybe serve a
little bit more to his forehand than I normally do because -- to try and open up the
backhand. But, I started serving some heat. I started hitting some locations. I was really
happy with the way I served.

Q. In either miles or time how far away do you live from here or did you live?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: If you know this area, it is a big window depending on traffic. But,
ideally, I live about an hour and 15 as long as the Yankees and Mets aren't playing -
anywhere from hour 15 to two hours, 1:15 clean.

Q. Is your dad here?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: What do you think? (Laughter.)

Q. At Wimbledon he wasn't. He was --

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: This is an hour from my house.

Q. But he very candidly said from Wimbledon that: "I have got to step back a
little bit. I think I am hurting Justin by being there sometimes?"

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: That is all said, good and great. But, if I am an hour and 15 minutes
away, he will be there, don't worry. He is not a real travel fan. He doesn't incorporate
that. But, if I am in the area, he is going to there be. And, it is nice. It is great for
him to be able to share these kind of moments.

Q. Do you feel more comfortable with him at your matches? Did you ever not?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I mean, at this point I am 20 years old. I am almost -- I am on the
brink of being an adult even though I don't act like say it some times. And, you know, we
are both individuals. He has done a great job raising me. He deserves to be there. It is a
positive influence as long as he is, you know, it is great having him there.

Q. Justin, of all the guys you grew up with on the national team, other than yourself,
who has top 20 potential?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I don't want to answer that question. You know, questions like that,
it is -- you can't really predict because you never know how people are going to develop.
You can't see what is inside of someone. You know, people look at things and say, well,
"He is not fast enough, he is not big enough, he is not strong enough, he doesn't
have --" you can't predict, really. I mean, it is tough to stay. You just have to
look at everyone. I think the group has some potential and it is tough to say top 20, top
25. So, if a guy is 25, then if I think he can be 25, or you can always think that -- if
you are capable of making it, you can't put a number on it because who is to say you can't
have a great tournament and then move the ranks. If you are good enough to compete with
the pros, and be a top player, it is tough to put a number on with your can go
ranking-wise because there is such a window of opportunity every week that so many things
can't control. I would prefer to say if I think guys are making it at the professional
level, and I think there are some guys out there that can.

Q. What kind of feelings are you having in this tournament? You mentioned feeling like
hugging everybody, excitement, being crazed with nervousness, what kind of stuff is --

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I haven't been crazed and nervous at all. I have been actually very
relaxed. I am an emotional person and emotional guy. It is nice to experience this with my
friends and family, but, I have been very relaxed. It has been enjoyable.

Q. How is Woodruff/Gimelstob working out as a doubles team?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: We struggled in the beginning; saved about three matches points and
we got through, so, it is a good start.

Q. Feel like there might be some chemistry there in the future?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I mean, he looks nice in shorts. I am a pretty good looking
guy. (laughter). I mean, it is tough to say. Doubles counts a lot on timing and scheduling
and -- but, I think we can play. We play well together, yeah.

Q. Are you staying at home during the tournament or staying in the city?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I am staying in the city. I am donating a lot of my prize money to
the UN Plaza.

Q. Before you mentioned your record in 3 five-setters. Are you particularly proud of --
do you have a lot of mental toughness, do you think, and are you particularly proud about
that?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I think that is a great indicator. You know, I think it is a
great indicator of my fitness and my mental strength.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT