US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much family have you got here today?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Not too much family. I mean, my mom and dad, my brother. Not too much
family. But just friends, friends of friends, just kids I went to high school with, a few
I went to college with. So a lot. This is as close as I ever get to play at home. A lot of
people follow me. It's an opportunity for them to come watch. It works out well for all
involved.

Q. How many tickets were you required in a sense to procure?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: How many did I get? How many do they allot me?

Q. How many did you procure for your friends and family?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Procure, that's a very good word. Procured, how do you say it?

Q. You went to UCLA.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: That wasn't one of the words on my list. I procured probably about
the high 20s, mid 20s.

Q. What did it cost you?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Just a lot of favors. I mean, I worked up to a lot of favors. I don't
think I had to dish out too much cash today. Some people did me favors. Early on in the
tournament, a lot of guys don't play. I'm so unbelievably friendly, it's tough to say no.

Q. Speaking of saying no, in Montreal, you said after your first round win there, that
now some of the girls who would say no to you are saying yes.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, I didn't. At UCLA how was it? Great, in front of my family,
friends and all the girls at UCLA that dogged me there. And they still dog me. No, I do
all right. My ability to be social and my personality far outweigh my looks.

Q. You and Woodruff have a little talk about who is going to go farther in this
tournament?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No.

Q. You play doubles, don't you?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think we play doubles tomorrow. That didn't really dawn on us.

Q. Justin, can you talk about the feeling on the court with the crowd, knowing that
there were a lot of friends and family all-around, how you felt during the match,
especially when you were behind in the third set? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I mean, it was a good feeling. They definitely give you energy when
you're tired, they give you a little bit more speed. They give you a little more energy.
They stick with you. The support really helps. I mean, the support really helps, to have
that many people behind you. You just kind of feed off it.

Q. Can you talk about how the match went a little bit, like how the second-set
tiebreaker differed from the first?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I mean, I had a good lob to break at 7-6, 6-5. Then I didn't
play that bad of a game. He had a couple good shots. Probably a little down in the
beginning of the tiebreaker. He got ahead of me. Never really caught up. He just wasn't
missing any first serves for a while until the beginning to the middle part of the third.
I think he got tired, started missing a lot of first serves. For two sets, two sets in the
beginning of the third; he just didn't miss any first serves. I'd love to see his
statistics in the beginning, first serve, how it trailed off. I think that was the biggest
thing.

Q. Justin, it's well-known that people, fans up here, can be very loud. They let you
know how they're feeling about how a sporting event is unfolding. The buddies that you
brought here, are they the kind of guys that are going to make a lot of noise at a match? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: You were out there. You tell me.

Q. And can you hear them?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Oh, yeah, you could hear them. Sometimes it all kind of blends
together. You don't hear individuals. They're very loud and boisterous. That's why this
tournament is an advantage to me. If the crowd is very supportive of me. If I played in
Canada, it would be very supportive of Danny. If I played in Brazil, you play Kuerten, or
those guys in Brazil, they're going to be going nuts. It's actually something I don't
think America does enough. I mean, they do it for me here because it's my hometown. But
you go out to any court, you go watch Joyce he is Escude on stadium court, and there is no
way they're going nuts out there for Joyce. I think they should be. Not to the point where
it's disrespectful, but they should be going pretty favorably for Joyce. If Joyce played
Escude in France, they'd be going for Escude. It happens to me that I get the advantage
because I'm really local. I should be able to play in San Antonio, Texas, play a European
and have strong fan support. We don't.

Q. Were you like that as a kid, yelling at baseball games or football games?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I just think you should support your team. People really get
involved. It's kind of like they live vicariously through your accomplishments. It's like,
you know, when the New York Mets won the '86 World Series, even though I was ten years
old, I was the happiest guy ever.

Q. Were you at the game?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. I was watching at home. When the Giants won the Super Bowl, you
know, I was watching the game with the San Francisco 49er fans. Semifinals, NFC
Championship game, I almost got in a fistfight we were so much into it. That's the way I
am. That's the way you should be with sports. It's an attachment emotionally. You should
be attached to your team, your player, your country, that kind of thing.

Q. Did you ever get into it with any SC fans?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I know that's a rhetorical question. Sure. That's the classic. In
college, a lot of times in college, that's where you really see it. When UCLA plays SC,
it's brutal. You're called the ugliest, stupidest, slowest, funniest looking, clothes
wearing, gangly. You name it, I was called it with the worst language. You grow immune to
it. You enjoy when it's for you kind of thing.

Q. Do you feel pressure on you to do well as one of the upcoming American players? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. As I've said before, yeah, there's definitely pressure for me
to do well. There aren't that many young guys. Also, you know, in sports, in anything,
anything you're trying to be great at, better than the norm, exceptional at, you're going
to experience pressure. There's nothing that's hard, the rewards are great, that isn't
going to be tough, or everyone would do it. Everyone would love to be a professional
tennis player. That's why it's difficult and there's pressure and there's expectations. I
have to learn to deal with that stuff. When you learn to deal with it, you become a better
player. So there's always going to be pressure; always going to be expectations. I think
it's a great experience for me to have this at this young of an age. The more you're
thrown into that situation, the easier it is to deal with that.

Q. All this talk about, " There's no new Americans. The pipeline, sports is going
to go south."

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: There's no new what?

Q. No new young players in the pipeline, once Sampras, Chang, Agassi, Courier are gone,
we're dead meat. Does that ever get under your skin, number one? In any way, does it
stimulate you to do even better?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think it's premature. I've said that all along. Doesn't seem to be
the numbers like there were. We're writing these guys off like they're done with tennis.
We still have the No. 1 player in the world. They're going to be playing for years more,
hopefully, God willing. It's going to give us time to develop and match them. We'll just
be doing well. It's just going to give us time to keep improving. I wouldn't be surprised
if people develop and improve and -- I just think it's premature.

Q. Those guys all pretty much came up together in like a class or generation through
the Juniors, emerging onto The Tour. Is that something you would like, that you miss, or
are you fine being more or less on your own?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. I mean, I have guys -- there aren't that many guys my age. I find
other people to be competitive with, you know. I'm just competitive. Age doesn't really
play into it. You have great players internationally, great American guys. You know, I
always shoot high. I'll be competitive with guys that are ranked much higher than me, like
try and look for Woodruff or Courier, Sampras, any of those guys. There's so much room to
shoot for, so many people -- so much room to improve until you hit the ceiling. You know,
I just keep pushing myself. Doesn't really matter if the kid is my age or what. 

Q. The last couple -- do you feel like you're playing well enough for this to be a
breakthrough tournament for you? You've had impressive wins over the summer, but you go
out in the next round. Do you feel like your game is clicking where you can put things
together now?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I think that's part of the experience factor that I have to
deal with wins and recover, deal with losses and recover, back-to-back weeks together,
physically be strong enough to put matches together. That's all part of it.

Q. But what's going right that you feel?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I'm serving better; I'm moving better; I'm getting more experience.

Q. Justin, in the last couple of years, Boris Becker has taken one of the German
players under his wing, he's passing it on. He's taken what he's got, which is quite a
lot, and he's passing it onto the next generation. Have any of the US players done
anything really tangible in that sense?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Not as tangibly as Becker with Kiefer and that group. They've been
helpful in their own way. I mean, I'm very friendly with Jim Courier, I practice with him
all the time. We live close to each other in Florida. Todd Martin has always been nothing
but a gentleman and a great role model. Even Pete has been supportive. All those guys have
been supportive, maybe not quite in the manner that Becker has with Kiefer, really taking
him under his wing. But they've been supportive in their own way.

Q. Do you think it's still a sense that, "I'm still out there competing, and I'm
going to give you some help, but I still have to compete against you out there for money,
ranking, points"?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Sure. Sure.

Q. Becker obviously doesn't feel quite the same way about it.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I mean, it's nice. It would be nice. It would be nice for one of
those guys to really take an extended interest. But this is an individualistic sport; this
is a very individual sport. That's why we have coaches. That's why you don't rely and
depend on other people. You become self -- you rely on yourself and your core group of
friends to support you. That's how you get better. You can't depend or rely on other
people.

Q. Follow-up on college questions. You gave us your thoughts on SC. In tennis, Stanford
is even arguably a greater rival with UCLA.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: SC is a greater rival. In my years, Stanford had a better program.
When we played Stanford, it was serious, you know, intensity. It was great. It prepared me
for other situations where you want to win really badly, there are things against you. You
know, it's been good.

Q. What were your thoughts about Stanford? Did you get charged up playing those guys?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Oh, sure. I mean, we were always battling for the top spot. You know,
it was great. It was great to play such -- as I said, it's why college was a great
experience for me, to play that many matches in those kinds of circumstances. There was a
different pressure than playing out here for money and points. It's the pressure of, you
know, not wanting to look bad in front of your girlfriend or having the fraternity
brothers, your fraternity friends come down and watch you play, they think you should
never lose, or the pressure of not wanting to let your teammates down, something you very
rarely experience in tennis. Different kind of pressure, good experience.

Q. You talked about beating Agassi in LA as being like a big personal boost for you.
What type of win here would kind of equal that?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, it's tough to say. When you beat one of the best players of all
time, it's different, that's the kind of win it was. When you beat one of the best players
of all time in a big arena at home, I mean, one of my homes, I got a lot of times, at
night in a big circumstance, that's something you build on. I don't know that you could
really compare it to other situations.

Q. Have you dreamed about like how you'd like this week to unfold?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I mean, Andre is wearing a pink shirt. Yeah, I dream. I always
dream. You dream for the pinnacle. That's what I dream about, trying to play well, feel
great out there, win tournaments, play in great arenas, big circumstances. That's what you
dream about.

Q. Would your greatest dream be winning here?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: My greatest dream is winning the US Open, yeah, because in front of
all my friends and family. My greatest dream has always been to win here. I've been coming
here since I was eight years old. I was saying to my friend the other day how bizarre it
was. We would come here when we were so young. We'd be trying to sneak in. I see kids
trying to sneak in here and get close to the players. It's like, okay, I don't have to do
that now. I'm on the other side of it.

Q. Your most interesting incident here when you were here as a young kid or favorite
memory?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: My little brother and I used to buy and sell, scalp tickets out there
when we were young, just to mess around. Me and my friends, if we were short tickets, one
would go in and get stamped, run out, rub the stamp on, look, we were in. Try to get us
in. Just great memories of the I remember seeing Brad Gilbert come back from two sets to
love down and beat Becker on the grandstand. I was down there going nuts rooting for
Gilbert. Now I practice with Gilbert and those guys. I remember getting out of school,
first day of grade school, Lendl played Wilander in the Finals. I remember going to the
Finals. So many memories here.

Q. Justin, do you love the new place or do you miss the old atmosphere because you grew
up in it?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. This is great. The changes they've done are phenomenal. I was
practicing with Krajicek the other day, walking out, we were astounded how from the
facilities went from the worst to the best in one year. I don't know if that's true or
not, but it's pretty darn close.

Q. How much would you buy and scalp the tickets for, do you remember?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No. Inflation and everything. Who knows. But I was always trying to
turn a profit. 

Q. Another critical question. Two things. One, did the stamp ploy work and did Gilbert
used to scalp tickets at the Raider games? Did he give you advice?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Brad and I never discussed techniques. Sure, it worked sometimes. We
were pretty creative young fellows.

Q. What happened to the Gimelstob fortune? Why would you have to scalp tickets?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: It's not about the money. It's it was never about the money. I don't
play tennis for the money. It's a different topic. We didn't sell for the money. We sold
it for the rush, to try and turn a profit, trying to do something that wasn't allowed.

Q. Do you play tennis for a rush?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I don't play tennis really for anything other than a feeling of
being out there and competing, trying to overcome your emotions, trying to play as well as
you can. The other stuff is great. I mean, to be famous or try and be famous, try and make
money, just travel and all that stuff is great. It doesn't compare to the rush of
competing.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT