GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1997
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: First question for Justin.

Q. How do you feel you competed out there tonight?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I thought I competed pretty well, I mean, considering. I think he was
at the top of his game. I think I could have done a little bit better, maybe held serve a
couple games I was up. I made 30-All, had a chance. He gave me an easy volley, I missed a
pass. I mean, too good. I think we saw one of the best players ever playing on top of his
game. He wasn't missing any first serves. He was playing unbelievable.

Q. You two have worked out together, practiced together?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, many times, which I think kills me. He comes out -- sometimes
he's a little bit more mellow. I think when he comes to play me, he tries too hard. It's
frustrating.

Q. Can you talk about the difference between practicing with him and what he's like in
a match situation?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Like night and day. I mean, in practice he's probably the easiest
practice hit on Tour, relatively. I mean, he tries -- I mean, not that he doesn't try. He
just does his things, he's relaxed, he kind of conserves energy, does a little of this and
that. You know, it's not really the most intense practice session. But in a match, he
turns the switch on. You know, he just gets a surge of energy. When I was brought up, I
was always told you can't turn it on and off like that. But he's unbelievable. He kind of
breaks the rule, breaks the mold, I guess.

Q. Does he give you any tips when you practice?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. He's actually been very positive. I mean, he's set on his
stuff. Obviously he has to be. But he's always been helpful and positive, nice to me. You
know, he's never really told me things to work on, but I talked to Paul and stuff, I know
he works with Paul Annacone, he's always positive in the press. He's always been a
gentleman. You know, that's why he's a classic champion.

Q. Have you improved in the six months?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I think I played much better this time. I played much better
this time, I think. I mean, I was serving -- I still didn't serve well for me, but I
served better than I did last time. I returned pretty darn well. I mean, whenever I
touched it, I returned it pretty well. I played pretty well. You know, he's just too good.
I definitely played better this time. I definitely improved. I'll definitely keep
improving. I mean, that's all I can do.

Q. You said he's at the top of his game.

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yes.

Q. Was there a glimmer of hope going in that he might not be?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I mean, maybe. He hasn't played for a while. He hasn't played since
Wimbledon. You never know what his mental state is going to be, physically how he's going
to be, a little match rusty. I think he took care of that early. He came out blazing;
nothing I could do except try as hard as I could, which I did.

Q. When you play the player that is No. 1, do you feel pressure or do you think you can
play at your peak? Can you play 100 percent?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I think you feel more pressure because if you don't play as well,
then he's on you. It's kind of like you feel like, you know, you have to maximize the way
you play, it puts more pressure on you to play better. But then again, you don't have much
expectations. You know, you always want to win. Either way it's difficult, because he's so
good that you have to play at such a high level just to be competitive. You know, you just
got to try to keep it close, and hopefully things will work out. Didn't happen tonight.

Q. Other than the things that everybody knows about, is there anything that you noticed
that just makes him so good, makes the little bit of difference?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, the little things. You guys can't realize the location on his
serve, not just the speed. He doesn't serve as fast as Philippoussis or those guys, but he
serves in the high 120s. You know, the location of his serve, if he misses it, it's always
right on the lines, near the lines. Second serve, athleticism, those are the things that
people can't tell. On TV, you know, his athleticism is a joke. That's probably his best
asset. He's so fast and he's so athletic. The location of his serve, the disguise on his
serve.

Q. Is that why he doesn't get credit for it, because he makes it look too easy?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Probably. But anyone that's really involved with tennis knows. I
mean, he just makes it look so easy. But, I mean, there are only a few people like that
ever. He's like Michael Jordan in basketball. That's the only way I can makes an analysis
or analogy. He makes it look so easy because he's one of those few God-gifted players that
is just above all the rest, I think.

Q. Can you talk about that slam-dunk overhead? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: That's a classic example. He's just a great athlete, that's the way
he gets to showcase it. That's his way of saying, you know, "I'm a great athlete, the
ball up there is mine." That's a showcase for him of his athleticism.

Q. You really climbed in the rankings this year. Are you happy with the way you're
playing right now?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I'm playing better, I'm improving. Things are going in the
right direction.

Q. Even the best players have some kind of weakness. Does he have any kind of weakness?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, sure. I mean, everyone has weaknesses. There's ways to beat
him. You just have to maximize what you do and hope that he's not on the top of his game.
If he's on the top of his game, I don't really see anyone beating him. But are times when
he's not. He's susceptible on clay, obviously. Throughout his career he's shown that.
Sometimes it's really hot, long matches, he's shown vulnerability. If he maximizes his
game, he's playing up to his potential, I mean, I'd like to see him play God (laughter).

Q. Hope for a little better draw next week?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah. I mean, I played a good player first round. Good experience for
me to play Sampras in this scenario on TV at night. I mean, hopefully. You never want to
lose. If you're going to lose, it might as well be to the best player ever. It's a good
experience for me. I'm young enough, I'm going to have plenty of tournaments in my future.
I don't have to worry if I lose second round to a great player at this point. It was a
good experience.

Q. You've had some big wins of late. Just a matter now of stringing a couple in a row?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I think so. Just putting a bunch of matches together, getting
more consistent, playing at a higher level of consistency.

Q. (Inaudible) draw like what Chris did last week?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, exactly. Even Kuerten, look how he came on at the French.
Before the French, he was probably, I don't remember, 70, 80, 60 in the world. He just
strung it together. Now he's on a roll. Woodruff the same. I think a lot of guys are
capable of doing that; it's just a matter of doing it.

Q. Were you able to take away anything from this match that you could use the next
time?

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, sure. I think that I need to keep working on my serve, hitting
locations better, more aggressive on my second serve. Just little things like, you know, I
should have volleyed behind him a little more. I needed to cover the line on passing shots
a couple of times. Pretty much, I just got beaten by a better player today.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT