THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1996
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  No, I didn't play Memphis.  This is my third in the last month. 


Q.  How long did it take you to get used to that service out there? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  It took me a couple of games.  He was really serving hard, you know, being lefty, it adds to it. I practiced with Sampras yesterday trying to get used to the pace, being a lefty, it comes off differently, so he served well.  He has a great serve. 


Q.  Getting the groove out there; is that the main problem out there, getting rhythm? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I actually thought I started -- he came up with some good shots, but, yeah, it takes time to get used to the pace and the action of it. 


Q.  How much did the ankle affect you? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I mean, it's bothering me a little bit, but I wouldn't say it affected me.  I mean, I never move that well anyway, so.... 


Q.  Speaking of your movement? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah. 


Q.  What's the training program to get those feet a little smoother and -- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Well, I work pretty hard at it.  I work with Pat Etcheberry.  He set up a whole program for me and he faxes me work to do every week, but it is tough because I've been growing so quickly, it is going to take a little time for me to keep my feet underneath me.  I am working hard. 


Q.  Can you elaborate a little on what you do? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yes.  I have a program that basically consists of two days a week, I lift weights; two days I run and two days a week I do foot drills, so that's basically it, so I keep pretty busy.  The only thing when you are playing so much, it is hard to keep it up because obviously you can't do the stuff too hard too close to the matches. 


Q.  Do you notice, for example, let's say you are at the net and you have to cross over to take a backhand volley, now you have to immediately get back into the middle of the court, do you notice any more quickness? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I didn't -- I think I am definitely getting quicker.  I have a long way to go, but I definitely think I am getting quicker.  You didn't see my a few years ago, Al might have.  I am definitely moving much better. 


Q.  The point that you got hurt on, can you describe what happened and also describe afterwards your thoughts of which you felt -- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  He hit a passing shot and he kind of had me dead on.  I really had to kind of guess, so I gave him, you know, I gave him a lot in terms of, you know, the court to hit into and then he hit behind me.  I tried to recover and I just went over on my ankle pretty hard. 


Q.  And your thoughts at the time of how serious it might be? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I thought it was pretty bad, but, you know, only time will tell.  It hurts a little bit now, but I don't think it is that severe. 


Q.  Was it a lot of pain? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, it hurt pretty good. 


Q.  Were you close to packing it in? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  No.  I have never defaulted in a match in my life and I venture to say I never will unless I have to get dragged off the court. 


Q.  Playing doubles -- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yes, I have a wild card with Pat Cash. 


Q.  The two walking wounded-- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, thanks, so hopefully we will have a good match tomorrow. 


Q.  You can talk about your injuries. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, exactly. 


Q.  Your thoughts on the final point? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I mean, I thought I got -- I got pretty unlucky, I thought.  I'm down 5-3; I hit an ace and I hit a good point to break him, mini break him at 5-All and I hit a good return and he hit a great half volley at 5-All.  He went up 6-5; I mean, I hit a good serve, then he got a let cord.  I hit it back; he got a let cord.  That is pretty unlucky, you know, he hit a -- played a great match.  He is a great player.  What are you going to do?  Just play better next week. 


Q.  What is next week going to be? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  For me it is college.  For them it is the Davis Cup. 


Q.  What is next -- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I will probably not play many ATP events until the summer because my commitment is to college.  I might try and play a Challenger or something; might play qualifier in Atlanta, or something, but I am pretty far and few between right now because I have a commitment to college and I will see that through. 


Q.  Do you have any confidence by playing these three Tours? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yes, I mean, I do have confidence. I think I still have a long way to go and I think there is really a big up-side for myself, but as I said, there is still a lot of work to do.  I just have to work hard and hopefully things will turn out well. 


Q.  What have these three tournaments told you at this time where you stand with these players? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Well, I mean, I have to learn there are so many good players out there.  I think I am capable of being one of them.  I just have to, you know, over the long hall if I can keep working hard and stay sane, it is not too easy to stay sane out here, so I definitely think I have established that I have a shot at a good career, but, you know, there are no guarantees.  I will just keep working hard and hopefully this summer I will have some good results and I will have a good career. 


Q.  He beat Nicholas Pereira in the first round at San Jose after winning three qualifying matches then at Scottsdale reached the quarters, beat Jonas Bjorkman 7-5 in the third to Wayne Ferreira. 


Q.  Why is it tough to stay sane out there? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I don't know, it is not tough for me, I am only out there once in a while.  It seems there are so many weeks and so much tennis and, I mean, maybe it isn't.  I don't know, I'll tell you after a couple of years.  It seems that's one of the challenges keeping it all in perspective. You know, I am used to playing in Juniors.  In my junior career I'd lose like a couple of times a year, and now, I mean, basically, you know, if I have a phenomenal year I am going to lose 28 times.  So, I mean, that's -- that takes adjustment and the same with all the players because during their junior careers, everyone pretty much dominated their respective division, or country, or state, or whatever, so it takes -- it is an adjustment process to get used to, you know, losing and dealing with it; winning and dealing with it. 


Q.  Definitely turning pro after this schooling? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  June 1st I'll sign on the dotted line, so to speak. 


Q.  I sense that you wanted to turn pro when we talked at the U.S. Open, but you decided to go back to UCLA? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  It was decided for me.  Well, yeah, I mean, it was, it turned out to be a great decision, but I was very eager to get playing it turned out to be a great decision.  My dad really felt strongly that I should go back to school, and my mom, you know.  Sometimes you have to listen to your parents.  I don't often, but, you know, that one time I did. 


Q.  What did the year do for you by going back, do you feel a little more mature? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I mean, I've had a chance -- first of all, some of these guys, no offense to them, aren't really well-rounded because all they do is play tennis.  So for one more year of my life I had the opportunity to, you know, have a social life, not that you can't have a social life on the tour, do normal things, you know, go to college basketball and football games, hang out with my friends more.  You guys all went to college, I'm assuming.  You had a good time.  It is important to, you know, fulfill your potential in other areas, too.  I think me being in college, even though I won't graduate this year or I am not going to go straight through four years has, you know, made me a better player because it's made me more well-rounded. 


Q.  Do you spend a lot of time at the Santa Monica beach? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I used to live in Redondo Beach, so I spend a lot of time there, yes. 


Q.  Do you miss that? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I will miss it.  I will miss the time I hang out with my friends and the team.  I will miss that.  I will miss that a lot. 


Q.  But tennis-wise during those months, didn't something happen to your game too, Martin and the others help you -- 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, Nick Saviano, he was here with me this week and he did a great job, you know, I've had -- I have a lot of coaches, but they've all -- I've really worked hard and made some big improvements in my game.  I think in the last couple of months since the Sunshine Cup, before that, obviously, because I play well at the Sunshine Cup.  Since then I think I've made some real improvements in my game, but, you know, there is obviously along way to go. 


Q.  Do you feel the serve is finally coming around? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I think I'm serving better. I still think I have other things to work on, but I think it's coming along. 


Q.  Do you think you're done growing, do you ever talk to the doctors about that? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I think I'm pretty much done.  If I grow any more it is probably going to be very little, so hopefully I will have a chance to put on some more weight and work on my movement and stuff. 


Q.  How tall are you? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Six five. 


Q.  Do you time in UCLA to get on a regular weight training program? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yes.  As I said, that's -- as I described my program before that's my regular program, so if I am home for a week, that's what I do. 


Q.  The second set when you got back to 1-1 gave out a big yell and then, of course, getting to the tiebreaker, what was your feeling getting even in this, you know, one set? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I thought my intensity level wasn't high enough.  I was trying to, you know, get some energy going and then, as I said, I thought I played a good breaker.  I just got a little unlucky, he hit that great forehand passing shot. He played well, you know, more power to him.  I hope he has a good tournament. 


Q.  The cramping problems behind you? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yes, behind me, hopefully.  Now that I said that next week I'm sure I will be in a ball on the side of the court. 

JOE LYNCH:  Anything else for Justin?  You will find out on the ATP -- 


Q.  What kind of classes are you taking? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  This quarter I am taking biology, folk lore and the history of jazz. 


Q.  Folk lore? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Folk lore, like mythology.  I just took my exam yesterday. 


Q.  Did you pass? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Did I pass?  I don't know.  It's possible. 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Yeah, I slipped down to a three eight this quarter, sorry, guys. 


Q.  What kind of course is folk lore, it sounds like a basket weaving course? 

JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  No my jazz class is like basket weaving.  Folk lore is legitimate.  I will show you a copy of my final, if you want.  See you guys.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT