U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your first Grand Slam win ever?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yes, true. 
 
Q. To bad you can't put it in a frame someplace and hang it up on the wall.
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, it is a great feeling. I really am proud of myself. I
persevered and hopefully it is one of many. Hopefully, I will have a long career, if I am
fortunate, and it is just a great feeling to get through today. 
 
Q. Before you said your legs cramped up. When was that?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yeah, I think in the middle of the fourth set, I was up -- I think
about 4-1, but even before that, you know, my legs started getting little bit tired and
not really tired, actually they just started getting the twinges a little bit. I needed to
-- I couldn't really play the normal points. I needed to try and shorten the points a
little bit. I knew if I just tried to relax myself; if I tried to fight it, it was just
going to get worse. I knew if I stayed within myself, try and stay relaxed; keep my
breathing and everything that I might have -- obviously have a better chance to persevere. 
 
Q. Justin, you have talked about how you have come to the tournaments since you were 8.
This is a two-part question. What was the feeling that you had when you first walked on
the court, hit the first few balls, I mean, here you are; then after the last point --
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: As I was speaking to Nick last night, I said on the way over here, I
said, I played a doubles match, unfortunately, we lost. I got in the car; we were driving
back to the hotel, I said,"Geez, Nick, it is such a rush to play out there."
Nick's reply was,"Yeah, it's the U.S. Open. People dream about that. People dream
about the opportunity to play in the U.S. Open for their whole lives." I am just
happy that my dreams are starting to come to fruition. 
 
Q. What about after the last point?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: After the last point, I was just -- I just tossed the ball up and
tried to hit a good serve into his -- jam him to his right hip. I saw it go to the net. I
kind of lost it a little bit. I guess, that is what happens when you are 18 and you are
playing in a -- you are not playing in Grand Slams every week. 
 
Q. In the fifth set, 2-2, and you are down a 15-40, starting to worry?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: No, that is when you got to kick in to another gear. I was fortunate
I hit two good first serves; hit a great ace on one of the breakpoints, sliding one on the
tee; kind of slid away from him. I knew if I focus on one point at a time I would give
myself a chance in the later stages of the match to come through and luckily that is what
happened. 
 
Q. Is there anyway you would turn pro before the start of the school term?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Well, I don't know. I mean, I don't know. That is a tough question.
My dream always has been to be a pro and when I am good enough I think I will turn pro.
Right now, I don't know if I am or I might be, but who knows. 
 
Q. Sounds like a question in your mind that you are going to have to resolve some time
after you have left the U.S. Open.
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Yes. 
 
Q. Is that fair? 
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I will leave it at that, yeah. 
 
Q. You were talking to yourself during the match. What were you saying most of the
time?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: You know, I was trying to just keep telling myself to stay relaxed
and to focus on one point at a time and to hit my shots and try and dictate play and, you
know, at the end I was just trying to, you know, talk myself into relaxing my legs, and
trying to dictate the points because I knew the longer the points, the more trouble I was
going to be in. 
 
Q. A lot of people see you -- first of all, a lot of people never even heard of you,
but those who follow tennis are probably thinking of you as the leader of the next
generation of players that --
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Generation X.? 
 
Q. Generation X. Y. or whatever, that comes in after Sampras and Agassi and Chang. I am
sure you are probably aware of that and is that a weight on your shoulders?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: I have got a long way to go. This was one day out of -- you know,
this is one day. I have a lot of improvements to do and I need to work on a lot of things
in my game a lot of work still needs to be done. I think that is a long way off. If I just
take it in smaller goals and smaller strides; then I think that will be better off for me. 
 
Q. $8,500 sounds like a lot of money to you?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: $8,500 is a lot of money, yeah. But it is not enough to make me
decide whether I am ready to turn pro or not. You know, the money needs to be -- as
important as it is, it needs to be put in the background. You need to evaluate the more --
some of the more important issues, but the money is nice. 
 
Q. What are you studying at U.C.L.A.?
 
 JUSTIN GIMELSTOB: Girls. They don't want to study me, so that I spend the rest of my
time studying basic classes, English, history, you know, the basic classes. I haven't
really declared a major yet, so I still have a ways to go there too. 
 
End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT