US OPEN
August 29, 2002
Justin Gimelstob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Is that as demoralizing a loss as you've ever had in your career?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Pretty much, in terms of getting outplayed.  I mean, yeah, that's a tough situation to deal with.  I've had probably more demoralizing losses the other end, how close they were.  But in terms of getting beaten so handily in such a big situation, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do what do you attribute it to?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Well, I mean, he was obviously playing a high level of tennis, I thought.  I mean, there are a lot of things that contribute to it.  Obviously, the major factor is that he played so well, he's such a good player.  That's the staple of it.  The probably smaller reasons why it was so easy, I had such a tough time the other night, I was probably a little slow, a little tired.  None of that is very secondary to the fact that he played such a good match, is such a good player, put so much pressure on me from the start. 
 
Q.  Did he surprise you at how good he was?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  It's tough to say that.  I mean, certainly how many times I've played him, how many times I've practiced with him, spent a lot of time practicing.  I've seen that a lot.  No, I mean, the guy is one of the best players of all time for a reason, and I'm not.  I don't have really the right to say that's unrealistic for him to beat me that easily.  I've played him a bunch of times.  That's obviously by the far the least competitive it's been.  It was a struggle out there for me today.  Like I said, he was way obviously too good for me. 
 
Q.  Given the rains almost canceled play for the day, do you kind of wish it hadn't stopped?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Did we even play out there?  It went so quickly, I don't even remember.  It didn't rain?  We didn't get rained out?  Yeah, I mean, it's tough.  Obviously, I could have used another day.  The whole day is a tough situation.  You don't know if you're going to play, definitely not going to play, you might play, you might not play.  Like I said, that's probably one of the other reasons why it was so brutal but not way secondary to the fact that he was playing so well and put so much pressure on me. 
 
Q.  What part of your game do you feel you really fell apart on?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  First of all, the conditions couldn't have possibly been worse for me.  It was so slow and so heavy out there, I mean, I couldn't penetrate through the court.  Basically every point looked the same:  me running around like a yo-yo, him standing in the middle of the court.  I couldn't get enough pace on the ball because the conditions were so heavy.  He was so on the ball.  Those two things.  I couldn't do any of my patterns; he could dictate all his patterns.  There wasn't much I could do.  I tried to hang in there, tried to compete, tried to do a few different things.  
 
Q.  Did you ever imagine when he dropped all the way down like he did, did you ever think he was going to be a major factor again someday or had you dismissed him?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Never been in a position to judge Andre.  I don't really remember at that point.  I'm sure there weren't a lot of guys that could foresee this type of comeback.  All I could say is that I'm glad he did.  It's good for the game.  I've gotten to know him well.  I'm really happy for him and the game that he did. 
 
Q.  Was the highlight of the day earlier?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I think my TV commentating debut went better than my tennis today.  
 
Q.  You were great on TV. 
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Thank you. 
 
Q.  You turned Brad into a verb.  What is Gilberting a shot, to Gilbert a shot down the line. 
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  He had  -- one of his best shots was that short forehand down the line approach shot.  That was pretty much the staple of his game.  Any player would know what that meant if they saw it.  He had a really good forehand approach down the line. 
 
Q.  What's the good stuff that the Spanish guys get?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  I didn't mean anything by that.  It was just a joke.  
 
Q.  You said anything that goes bad, you manage to blame on your parents. 
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  You were listening carefully.  
 
Q.  What is your way to blame this evening's occurrences on your parents?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  This is Andre being too good for me basically, me not playing well enough, him playing great.  
 
Q.  To go back to the fact that you do play a lot with him, you played against him in tournaments, and you play with him a lot, is this as good as you've seen him play?  Is he a guy that could go all the way here?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  There's no doubt that he's playing at a really high level.  Definitely, I mean, off the top of your head, you wouldn't think there are too many guys he would be an underdog against.  It's helped that he's had two routine matches.  The longer you get through the draw without being really pushed helps.  For sure, I would think he's one of the favorites.  
 
Q.  You're playing doubles with Jeff Tarango.  I watched you two the other night.  Tell me about what it's like to play with him, your strategy as a team?
 
JUSTIN GIMELSTOB:  Antagonize the other teams to death, I guess.  We're just trying to do well, like everyone else.  It just happens that we probably have both pretty aggressive personalities.  But, you know, we're just competing hard, trying to win doubles matches.  No big secret.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT