WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL D: SAN JUAN
March 9, 2009
Johnny Cueto
Julio Manon
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You as a pitcher saw the Dominican team with all the flies and bats in the diamond. There are some that do not have the talent to do so. 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: That is part of the game. The flies come out, you have to stay positive and not give up. This is not over yet. 

 Q. What do you think happened yesterday?
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Different schedules. And it all happened so quickly. I believe it surprised us a little. The Netherland team started to play with a very slow ball. We expected a little bit more aggressiveness and you have to give them a little credit too. 

 Q. What does it mean for Pedro Martinez, a man with experience, to represent his country? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: To me it is a dream come true because the more prizes that they gave you, representing your country is something different. You can play in a World Series where you have a lot of fellow players of different countries and it doesn't feel the same. It's a family matter, a feeling of mine, a very intimate feeling. A feeling that you can only feel when you're born, grow, and develop and expect to die in your land. 

 Q. You know that with so many changes the Dominicans started to feel down. What do you have to say? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I believe that yesterday still after having lost yesterday we can still be the favorite in this and other World Series. I believe that this team has, not just with this team, one of the best teams of this World Series, and I believe that the Dominicans have to keep faith and people of faith that we are in the Dominican Republic. In a couple of hours we're going to win and from there we go forward. And I hope that we don't even lose one. 

 Q. How is the work thing going? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: The work is good. There's quite a bit of work in the Classic. As to the big leagues, I'm going to take some time here in the Classic and try to come out healthy and at the same time try to help this team of the Dominican Republic to win the World Series. After that it's time to see, adjust, see the team that is more convenient for you and that is more convenient for the family. We are a country that prays and the country that prays never loses its faith. Keep on praying. 
 Thank God, nothing out of the normal in the health. The market is there. I'm not going to have any demand, nor am I going to talk about that yet. I believe that that's what the attorneys are for there. We pay them very well for them to break their heads trying to figure out what market is appropriate for Pedro Martinez. 

 Q. Your attorney will set the price? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: No, it's the market. I have my market and at my age, at my record, for what I did last year, that market was stabilized. And thank God I did not have to stabilize the market. 

 Q. Is your market low? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Of course it is. When you are not a completely fit player you don't pitch as well as when you are in normal condition. It's like a car, you crash it and it devaluates a little bit more. And unfortunately I have a year that was a low. I don't want to make the same thing that I made last year, but I'm not going to humiliate myself to what's ridiculous. I am not going to do that. 

 Q. Are you going to go to the American League or National? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I have not yet decided that, but definitely I would like to win in the National League. I would like to win in the National League because I already won in the American League. I would like to win here so there can be achievement, as you say individually, personal. A personal satisfaction. 

 Q. At the time that we thought that we would be seeing you opening for Dominican Republic, because of the fact that you were a free agent? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, I don't decide that, Felipe is the one who decides. 

 Q. How did you feel yesterday when you saw the Dominican fans were in the stadium and others that were not Dominican and also received you in the way that they received you? 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I felt really happy of knowing that they still respect me and that I am acknowledged in international waters with that same respect and they have that admiration. For me it is a pleasure to be able to keep on serving. 

 Q. What does it mean for you to be here? 
 JULIO MANON: For me this has been really pretty and I thank all of my country and the fans that are so beautiful that are here. To me this is like being in a World Series.

 Q. How did you see the team of Dominican Republic in spite of losing its first game? 
 JOHNNY CUETO: I'm not going to tell you fine, because we lost. But I believe that that's going to pass because winning the game is the most important. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT