TORONTO FC MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 19, 2017
Greg Vanney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 1, Toronto FC - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. (No microphone.)
GREG VANNEY: Probably given some of the circumstances, I would say two points dropped.  I thought in the second half we really pushed the tempo.  He we had a couple great chances, PK, one brought back.  That's unfortunate.
I'm proud of the effort.  I thought we really bounced back and sort of brought the intensity and the pace back in the second half.  I thought the first half everything was way too slow.  Because of it, we couldn't break them down the way I was suspecting we could.
The game, like I said, the speed, intensity, tempo, everything picked up in the second half.  More opportunities presented themselves for us.
Q. Did you get a good look at the goal that was called back?
GREG VANNEY: I had a very good angle on the initial shot.  I don't remember who hit it off the top of my head.  Ben.  Hit it, Raheem was in the path of the ball to the goal.  Depending on how they ruled Raheem, the determination of it was off-sides or not.  I thought Raheem was trying to get out of the way.
On the deflection, I didn't see the linesman lift the flag.  I'm not really sure who made the call.  After discussing with them after, they must have called Raheem off on his positioning after the initial shot.
Yeah, I'm not really sure.  I don't understand the off-sides rule anymore.  I don't know if I have a strong opinion.  It's up-tempo because we were scrapping at that point.  I thought we were going to get it.
Q. (Question regarding picking up a point.)
GREG VANNEY: The win streak was going to come to an end at some point.  We knew this was a tough place to play.  We got down a goal, but continued to battle, got the equalizer.  Continued to battle for the goal that would have won it.
Again, I'm proud of the effort.  I think I was happy with our second half performance.  Still some things that can tighten up.  I will probably always say that.  But we came into a difficult place to play.  We very much could have taken three points out of this.
Q. (No microphone.)
GREG VANNEY: No, I mean, I thought it was more back to their 4-2-2-2, if you will, that they've used in the past, with the two forwards, two wide midfielders tucked up underneath.  Sacha is not a holding player, but I think today it was to set up attacks.  I don't think it was totally unique for them.
Our worst enemy in the first half was the speed at which we were moving the ball was too slow, too many backwards passes.  We weren't exploiting some of the spaces that were there.  Everything was a little too slow.
It was warm.  You could tell in the first half both teams weren't moving as intensely as they could.  In the second half, I thought the game picked up in terms of the speed.
Again, happy overall with our play.  I think it's another step forward as a group.  We've dropped one result this year really in the grand scheme of things, some very difficult places to play.  We keep building on that.
Q. You have been leaving it till late in the last couple games.  Were you convinced you were going to pull off the second goal?
GREG VANNEY: I was because I thought we were getting into some good spots.  I thought at times with them pushing so many numbers high, the speed, the combination of players we had on the other side of things, plus the delivery of Victor and Benoit, Michael, meant that we were going to get some things forward with the introduction of Raheem, who is a guy that can quickly get into attacks, get things into the box.
I thought we would create chances and problems for them.  We did.  I was optimistic that we would get the goal.  I thought we would get some chances.  We were able to, but couldn't put them away.
Q. (Question regarding the PK.)
GREG VANNEY: I think it's good goal keeping.  He hit it with conviction.  I don't know exactly where in terms of the goal that the ball actually went.  But the goalkeeper went hard, went to a side.  He chose his direction.  He picked the right direction, he got there.  It's a good save by Luis.
You know, unfortunate for Jozy that he didn't get it.  I know he will take it to heart that he missed it, an opportunity for us to get three points.  I know he'll feel it.  I want him to step up next time and hit it again, right?  It's the nature of being a striker.  You have to forget about that, move on to the next one, do it again.  Good on Luis for making the safe.
Q. (No microphone.)
GREG VANNEY: I think he's played well enough now to not talk about the Atlanta game anymore.  I think he's put together three or four what I thought have been really solid and professional performances.
Today, again, another fantastic performance.  He showed his intelligence as a defender, he showed his athleticism as a defender, his ability to cover tough forwards out in open space.  He has shown his experience.  It's great for us, just again, that switch.  He just lit a switch after that first game.  Now you can tell he's an outstanding defender.
Q. What did you think of Drew coming back?
GREG VANNEY: I thought Drew was good.  I thought solid and good at his ability to lead the line, sharp, especially considering it's probably been a few weeks since he got in the game.  I thought he was pretty solid.  He kept the group organized through much of the first half.  We didn't get a lot of chances, but they didn't have too many.  I thought his play was good.
We made a little bit of a tactical adjustment, then went back.  That was the reason Drew came out.  We knew at some points he was going to start to feel it a little bit because it was hot and because it was getting into the latter stages of the game.  We made the sub.  But I thought he was fine.  It's great to have him back.
Q. Raheem came in and caused him trouble.  What was the decision to not start him today?  Tired legs?  Tactical?
GREG VANNEY: No, I mean, we were on the road.  Justin is a little more experienced coming on the road in a place like this.  A little bit more defensively aware.  We knew they would be pressing us at times early on.  It was just the decision that I wanted Chris to be on the field, left center back.  It was just a decision that Justin would get the start here.
I like a lot when both of them are on the field.  Sometimes there's not always spaces for everybody, but I knew Raheem would come onto this game, would make a difference.  It was a matter of time and opportunity.  He did.  We just have a lot of guys to choose from and everybody is playing well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT