ROLAND GARROS
October 7, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/P. Carreno Busta
4-6, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A lot going on in that match, physically dealing with some stuff.  Give me a rundown of how the match went for you.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I definitely didn't feel great coming into the court today.  Few things happened in the warmup.  I had to deal with those physical issues coming onto the court.  As the match went on, I felt better, didn't feel as much pain.
But, you know, I don't want to take away anything from his good performance.  Especially for set and a half he was the better player, dictating the play.  I was very neutral.  I didn't have much of energy really happening in my legs or movement or game itself.  It took me about set and a half to really get comfortable and start really playing the way I should.
I had about seven, I think, games in a row.  Was a break up in the third.  Match turned around quickly.  Few points here and there.  I saved some breakpoints mid third set that was crucial, obviously going two sets to one up.
It was really anybody's game.  It was so close.  He had his chances.  I had my chances.  It was a very even match even though it was three sets to one.
Q. Can you detail exactly what your physical ailments were?  What were you eating in the transparent container in the changeover?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Dates.  Dates.  Dates.  I've been eating dates for a long time on the court.
Look, I had some neck issues and some shoulder issues.  I'll just say that.  I mean, I don't want to get really too much into it.  Obviously I'm still in the tournament, so I don't want to reveal too much.
I'm feeling okay.  I think, as I said, as the match progressed, I warmed up by body, and the pain kind of faded away.  It allowed me to play better and better and feel better.
Q. Next up, Stefanos.  What are your thoughts going into that?  He had a very solid result today against Andrey Rublev.  What is your thinking going into that semifinal?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I mean, he's one of the best players in the world.  I mean, deservedly where he is in rankings.  He's been playing the tennis of his life really in the last 12 months, winning World Tour Finals, just being very consistent on all surfaces with his results.
He has an all-around game.  He's a big guy, big serve.  He has weapons, obviously serve and forehand, his backhand.  He produces a lot of spin.  He comes into the net.  He can play aggressively.  He can defend well because he moves well.
He's really a complete, all-around player.  I think he's one of the hardest-working guys out there.  He has a great team, obviously his father, Patrick Mouratoglou in his corner as well.  Growing up in his academy, one of the best academies in the world.  I know Patrick very well.  Incredible professional.
I expect a really tough, tough match, tough challenge for both of us.  Semifinals of Grand Slam, I mean, this is what you expect.  You expect to play a top-five, top-10 player.  This is what I get.
I'm hopefully going to be able to feel my best and play my best.
Q. When did you start thinking that Diego would be able to arrive to the top 10 according to his tennis and his height?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I saw him today in the locker room.  I had a brief chat.  I told him that I was so impressed with his win yesterday against Thiem.
He deserves to be top 10 and deserves to win that kind of match more than many players because he works hard, he's super nice person, very friendly guy.  Everybody loves Diego.
I'm very happy for him.  I'm proud of him.  I wish him all the best.  Definitely he deserves to be where he is.  He's had plenty of success on clay courts, but I think over the years he also improved his game on hard court, as well.  Now he's an all-around player.
Chela, who is his coach, who I know also very well, I played with Chela for many years, also has hard-working ethics.  They are great team.  He has the really nice physiotherapist that we get along very well.
I love Diego and all his team.  I wish him all the best.
Q. Boris Becker, your former coach, said on Eurosport during the first set that he thought you had some problems mentally to deal with because of what happened in New York.  Was this the case?  Did you think about that or just go into this match like any other?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, no, it wasn't that at all.  It was something else.  I actually just mentioned what was the issue.  I had to deal with that.
I told you guys many times I'm over it.  I'm not thinking about it at all.  I mean, zero percent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT