ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  We are trying to inspire young people about Roland Garros and people getting into tennis.  You inspired a lot of young people because you have overcome a lot of challenges and achieved so much.  What does it mean for you?  What did it mean to you growing up about Roland Garros, and what does it mean for you now you have achieved so much to be here?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I didn't have any tennis tradition in my family, so, you know, I had to really strongly fall in love with the sport.  That's what happened.  I was four, five years old back in Serbia, and difficult times of war and, you know, economical crisis.   
Tennis was not really one of the popular sports, so, you know, I obviously watched a lot of tennis on the TV and tried to play at tennis camps and different tennis clubs and programs.   
But, you know, the vision, so to say, the big vision and the dream was always there.  I think that's what kept me going.  I think playing in Grand Slams, and Roland Garros being one of them, you know, I grew up on clay, so obviously that was always one of the tournaments that I wanted to play on and win.  You know, I admired and I watched all the greats at that time.  You know, I idolized a lot of players, especially Pete Sampras, and one day imagined myself I can actually be there.   
So when that became a reality, obviously there is a feeling of accomplishment and fulfillment is quite special.  I think it's very important for a young tennis player who has aspirations to play the biggest tournaments in sport is never to give up on that dream.  Whatever the dream is, always stay close to it, nurture it, because dreams are your own reality, and dreams are something that is serving as a guiding star.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your relationship with Rafa?  And how much of a blow was that Italian Open defeat to your confidence and form coming into Roland Garros?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: In which way?   
 Q.  Well, just in terms of on clay and the fact that he is the king of this tournament and you're the World No. 1.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Of course, I mean, I said it in Italy, that he's the main favorite to win the title.  I think it wouldn't be fair to pick anybody else but him as the main favorite, because he has won this tournament so many times.  He has lost, what, two times in his career on Parisian clay?   
So lots of respect for him, obviously, as always.  We had a good match in Rome.  He was a better player.  Was just too strong.  I felt like I had a fantastic couple weeks in Madrid and Rome, and I probably ran out of gas a little bit in the finals with a couple of long matches and late-night finishes and quarterfinals and semifinals.   
Overall, you know, very positive weeks, and it's a great lead-up to what's coming up here.  This is the tournament that I was preparing for, so to say, for last couple of months I wanted to peak in this tournament and this is where I want to play my best tennis.  I'm sure I'm not the only one, but, you know, for me, there is an extra motivation and incentive to win Roland Garros because of the opportunity to hold all four slams, something I did three years ago in my career, and that gives me obviously enough reason to believe I can do it again.   
I love playing in Roland Garros always throughout my career, and especially in the last four or five years I received a lot of support from the French crowd and also international crowd that comes here.  And I think because of that support, I also managed to win this title in 2016.   
12 months ago, the situation was quite different.  Obviously recovering from an elbow surgery, dropping out of top 20, and everything that I had to face on the court only 12 months ago.  12 months later I hold three slams and being No. 1 of the world, obviously it's quite a different feeling approaching the tournament, with more confidence, and hopefully I can have a good two weeks.   
 Q.  What do you make of Lajovic's run on clay of late?  But also how he's been able to play his best tennis later on in his career?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Fantastic.  He hasn't surprised me with the level of tennis on clay, because I knew that he has the ability to play at a really high level.   
But to do it day after day on such a big tournament and to win against big players like Dominic Thiem is phenomenal, and I congratulate him for the great success.  I wish him to have a great Roland Garros.  I think it's great for Serbian tennis.   
I think it's important that other players from Serbia are also doing really well in big tournaments.  That inspires obviously many more younger tennis players to dream big.   
 Q.  I make a portrait of Dustin Brown.  You played him once.  Can you tell me what you think about him and his game?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Very unorthodox in every way, but I think he's very important player for tennis.  I think it's phenomenal to have a guy and a character like him who enjoys, you know, every single moment and who is so unpredictable on the court.   
He actually has a lot of talent.  I think his quality of tennis is maybe underrated because of everything that he does and the way he jokes around and everything, and the way he looks, and, you know, stuff like this.   
I think he actually possesses a lot of strengths in his game, especially on grass.  I mean, he showed that.  He won against Rafa I think in Wimbledon.   
You know, he's got the game, but at the same time, what makes him special is exactly who he is.  I think actually he brings a lot of new fans, I think different fans, to tennis, as well.   
 Q.  You just say you prepare much better now the Grand Slam tournament.  What do you do differently in your preparation?  Did you put much pressure on you?  Did you work differently?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Nothing really in particular days before Roland Garros.  I don't do anything that is completely different from anything that I do in the different periods of the year.   
I do set up a strategy with my team to peak at the Grand Slams, because at this stage of my career, those are the ones that matter the most for me.  Those are the tournaments where I want to play my best.   
So we try to obviously set up a training schedule that would allow me to reach so to say the top of my potential physically emotionally mentally for the Grand Slam.   
That doesn't mean that I take away the importance from other 1000 events or other events I take part on.  They are very important for my confidence building, and of course I really want to win on every tournament that I participate, but of course Grand Slams just have a special place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT