MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/T. Fritz
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. It was quite hot there.  You notice that?  You controlled quite well in any case the game of Taylor?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I didn't think it was really hot.  I mean, it was a really pleasant temperature.  Nice day to play tennis.  Center court is played differently from other courts for sure.  I mean, practice courts are quicker and the ball travels faster through the air I feel like on the practice courts rather than the center court.
So, for my game style, it's quite suitable to play on the center.  I like it.  It's easier to return the ball and I thought my serve was very efficient today.  I had over 70 percent of first serves in and seven aces and if you serve well in this kind of conditions, it's a big advantage over your opponent.
Obviously, I have played against the guy who serves well and plays really quick.  But the beginning of the match was kind of close and then I think 3-All, when I managed to make the break, and saved a breakpoint in the next game, I thought that was the turnaround, the turning point in the match.
I thought the second set I read his serve better and just managed to put an extra ball in to the court and he made a lot of unforced errors.  And I don't think he was playing at his best today.  But I think it was a solid opening match for me in the tournament.
Q. I know you practiced with Stan before the tournament and I'm sure you read the letter that he wrote.  I'm wondering what are your thoughts on what he said in that letter and do you agree with any of the stuff he said in there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We practiced and then we spoke as well about the general politics in tennis.  From one side, I do like the fact that he wants to get involved, he wants to express his opinion.  I encourage that in every player.  I think from a players' standpoint, players need to get informed, need to understand what the situation is because every player that is added to that group is a positive contribution to evolution of the sport.
But I did not agree that he went out in the media, posting a letter before speaking out to the guys from the council.  And I've told him that and I understand his views, of course.  There are a lot of fair points that he makes.  From the other side, I think there is maybe a different way that that could be done in terms of communication.
But Stan and I always had a very honest and open relationship where we said what we think about each other or situation without any problems and that's what I respect about our relationship.  That is why we have always been very good friends off the court as well and as much as we are rivals on the court.  And we made a photo after that, a selfie smiling so it's all good (laughing).
Q. One part of that letter was 'silence is complicity' and a lot of people from outside of the sport have really kind of looked into this story saying why is no-one from tennis making a big stand?  Why are there no statements?  Why has it got to the stage where a week later Gimelstob is stepping down?  Rather than someone saying no, you have been convicted of this, this is a high-profile role and you need to act better than that.  Do you agree with that notion that 'silence is complicity' and maybe a better stance should have been taken or a stance sooner?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Not in this particular situation because I've been involved in the whole process.  I understand what is going on behind the stage and behind the curtains.  So there is just a lack of information.  And I think that that can be dangerous at times and, in a way, that, you know, people make stands and statements and express their opinions publicly and that can create just more damage than we should have and we should deal with.
I think that, as I said a few days ago in my press conference, Justin made a good move under the circumstances.  But I feel like there has been so much speculation that has taken this story to a place which then no-one has a control of and then anything that you say about this particular matter can be taken, you know, in a different way.
So, from the council's standpoint, you know, we try to understand the ramifications and understand every single detail before going out with any kind of statement.  Thankfully, we didn't need to make any kind of moves or decisions because Justin understood the consequences and he stepped down and that's all there is to it.
Right now, we have I think ten, 15 candidates for his replacement and actually today was closing deadline for five candidates and they will present in Rome and then we will have a new player board representative for Americas very soon.  And we have to move on.
The tennis world has to go on and that is how it is.  And I think all of us need to be stronger after the whole situation with Justin and everything that was going on in the last four or five months.  There's been a lot of pressure on the council and just a lot of may be people stepping out in the media and just speculating and expressing their opinions without really checking first with us.  And that's the part which I personally don't like.
I just feel like that is where things get out of hand and that is all there is to it.
Q. After the match, you said you were very happy to stay here again and start winning.  And you say too that you like to stay here to improve your level of the Spanish.  I'm going to ask you if you can say something in Spanish to all the people who supports you here in Madrid?  And the other question is about your feelings here on the clay court of Madrid.  Thanks.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (In Spanish) Thank you very much for your support.  My feelings are very positive here in Madrid.  Not bad.
Q. Not too bad.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (Laughing) And Madrid is one of the most important biggest tournaments we have in sport.  With Roger being back on clay and playing this tournament, all the biggest and best players in the world are here.  So that makes the competition even stronger.  And I look forward to it.
I look forward to having, hopefully, a long and successful week.
Q. You have been coming with your brother as a coach several times since a couple of years maybe.  I wonder what the relationship looks like with him having to tell you what be to do.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (Smiling) It's really nice to have a family member with me on the tour, especially my brother that I love very much and that I care about and he cares about me.  And he stayed in tennis after he kind of ended his professional career.  He's now coaching.  So, he is working in Marbella where he lives.
And when I reunited with Marian obviously Marian spent quite a few weeks with me from April to end of last year and he was committed, but also he has family and it's hard for him to do, to travel full-time.  So I needed to have someone else and I found that at this point in my career and this time I'm the most comfortable with my brother next to Marian.  So that is kind of an agreement that we have between each other.  And it's very interesting because, you know, we know each other very well.  Marco has been practicing with me so many times in our lives and playing doubles with me and then coaching me (laughing).  It's a different feeling to be honest.  But right now I'm used to it.
At the beginning, it was kind of strange because I didn't know how I should behave towards him, you know.  Sometimes I'm not so easy on the court (laughing).  But he is tolerating that and he's really amazing.  He is very patient and he puts his heart into it.
Q. You have an opportunity for a second time to win four Slams in a row which is something no-one in this era has done.  I am wondering in light of what happened last time after you achieved that, how are you approaching the French Open and the lessons learned that you perhaps don't want to do again?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, having achieved that in 2016 was maybe the ultimate achievement that I had in my career holding all four Slams at the same time.
And after that, I was talking about it before that.  I never thought that I will reach the phase where I will be emotionally drained and really kind of put in a position where I have to find a new drive, that I have to find new motivation and that's what I felt.
Aside of the obvious thrill and joy of achieving that, after a little while I just found myself in a strange emotional situation where I just felt quite empty and it took me a while to really reinvent so to say and redefine what I want to get out of my career, how I want to keep on playing tennis and where is the motivation coming from.
So, that was one of the biggest turning points in my life, in my career, to be honest.
And when I look back at it right now, I'm grateful because at the time it wasn't easy, of course, because I was reluctant, as we all are, to a change sometimes.  It had to be done in order for me to evolve and just keep on growing.  And right now, it's quite phenomenal, I'm in the same position again, if I would win the French Open, to achieve this historic achievement again.
I think I'm approaching it with more experience now.  I'm approaching it with less additional pressure.  I say 'additional' because the pressure is already there.  I mean, it's normal in a way.  I had additional pressure from my side because of anticipation, you know, to win in Roland Garros in 2015 and '16.  So, it's in God's hands.
If it happens, I think I will be dealing with it definitely much differently than I have three years ago.  But there's still a long way to it.  I have Madrid and Rome.  They are big tournaments and I need to up my game on clay for sure if I want to get a chance to win Roland Garros.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT