MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. AGUT/N. Djokovic
1-6, 7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It felt like it was almost two different matches.  You got off so strong, and then after the rain delay he came back strong.  What happened in the end?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, he's solid player.  Congratulations to him definitely for a great comeback.  But this kind of match I should not have lost.  So many opportunities.  Just way too many wasted opportunities.  This is what happens when you don't capitalize on time.
Q. There have been a lot of other things going on in your tennis life off court this month.  I'm curious if that at all has had an effect on your focus or on your...
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: There is always a lot happening in my life.
Q. What do you feel didn't work for you in Indian Wells and Miami?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I just lost two matches.  Those two days didn't work.
Q. Anything in particular in your game you didn't feel was right?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  I mean, I thought I played well today and throughout this entire tournament.  I just -- yeah.  One, two, three sluggish games, and that's what happened.
Q. Players don't like to change their priorities.  They want to win all the time every time they're on the court.  Yet as age goes on and success happens or failure happens, priorities almost inevitably must shift.  Is there any sense of a shift of priorities in your...
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I mean, the slams are the ones that count the most, I mean, without a doubt.  So of course I prioritize those.
But that hasn't changed much.  I mean, I have been having this kind of schedule for many years.  But, you know, look, as I said, that's sport.  You have to deal with it.
It's not the first time I lose early in both tournaments.  I have done that last couple of years.  So, yeah, definitely have to rethink, you know, how I prepare for Indian Wells/Miami next year.
Q. Do you think it's a good thing for you that next stop the tournament is on to a new surface, clay, something fresh for you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I hope so.  Let's see.  You know, I grew up on clay, so I like playing on clay.  Although, you know, statistically hard court was always my most successful surface.
We'll see.  I definitely have to play better than I have these couple tournaments.
Q. When you say you may have to rethink how you prepare for these two tournaments, did you prepare differently this year than other years?  And how did you prepare?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I mean, just had, you know, way too many things off the court.  I guess that affected me a little bit on the court.
I didn't feel my best health-wise, as well, in Indian Wells and here.  You know, still rusty, but, hey, look, you learn that's life.
Q. Federer, Nadal, you took tennis to a higher level.  The next guys out there, do you have any idea who he is?  And if you do, would you say it?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, you already know the names of a couple names like Felix and Denis, as well.  I mean, a couple of Canadian young stars that are really bold and courageous on the court and playing some great tennis.
You know, we're gonna have a shift.  Obviously Zverev leads the way of young guys.  Don't know who else.  I mean, there are a couple of young guys like Hurkacz, the Polish guy.  It's great.  We need that.  We need new faces in tennis.  I think the tennis future is bright.
Q. You seemed to be rolling 28 minutes, 5-love in the first set, everything seemed to be going right.  And then I don't know if the rain delay or just something in the change to the new set, but what happened there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's not the rain delay.  Look, rain delay came at 5-4.  I was break up right away in the second.  I lost the momentum, I lost the rhythm in the second set.
I gave him, you know, a little room to step in and he did.  A little hope that he can come back, and he made a great comeback.
But fault is on me, for sure.  I had way too many opportunities that I wasted.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT