AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is disappointing for I think everyone in the room, certainly for Kei disappointing.  Knowing you like we know you, I know you like to battle and compete.  This is not the way you wanted to get through to the semifinals, I'm sure.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, for sure.  I had a lot to battle, especially against Kei.  We have played so many matches throughout our careers.  We played here a couple of times in quarterfinals, semifinals I think years ago.   
You know, I hope he can recover.  I hope it's not something that is very serious, that it's going to take too long.  Wish him speedy recovery.  I'm sorry for everybody for not having a full match tonight, but thank you for showing up.   
 Q.  Two nights ago we spoke in this spot, and you played a very physical match against Daniil Medvedev, and you were tired.  In press afterwards, you expressed concerns, you had some aches and pains.  How did your body pull up in the last 48 hours?  How was your body performing tonight?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, obviously good (smiling).  As they say, this is exactly what doctor ordered, you know, for me after a match two nights ago, you know, not to spend too much time on the court.   
I have had plenty of matches so far this year.  I'm in another semifinals, and I will do everything to get ready for that one.   
 Q.  This has been your most successful major, where it all started for you.  You won your first Grand Slam title here, you've won 13 since, and five more here.  Why has this been your most successful major so far in your career?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't know, Mate.  (Laughter.)  Good on ya.  What else?  Fair dinkum.   
That's all.  (Laughter.)   
I think it's combination of things.  First of all, you know, being one of the four biggest events in our sport, Grand Slams, just extracts a lot of motivation and inspiration to always play your best, to get ready to start of the season in best possible fashion.   
As you mentioned, this was my first Grand Slam trophy back when I was 20 years old, and that opened a lot of doors for me.  Obviously that was a huge confidence boost.  Springboard for the rest of my career.   
I have the greatest memories from this court and from, you know, fans that have been supporting me here over the years, and it's always a pleasure to come back.   
 Q.  You're moving into the semifinals, I believe this is something like your 34th semifinal in a major.  I think it's remarkable.  I think only Roger has more semifinals.  And you're playing against someone that not only have you never played before, it's also going to be his first semifinal.  Lucas Pouille is playing exceptionally well in this tournament.  Had a great win today over Milos Raonic.  What are you looking forward to in competing against Lucas?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm looking forward for a battle.  Obviously it's his first semifinals at a slam, but he has won against Nadal in New York some years ago, and he's made a couple advances at the big tournaments.  He's not afraid to play his best at the biggest stage in sports.   
So I expect him to come out, you know, be very confident as he always is, and looking forward to it.   
 Q.  I have been asked to keep you here for a few minutes while the doubles -- if you need to go, you tell me.  We'll stop.  They have asked me to keep you.  I wanted to get your thoughts on the other side of the draw, the other semifinal.  There is another experienced, amazing champion like yourself, Rafa Nadal, playing another player playing in his first semifinal, Stefanos Tsitsipas.  I'd love to know your thoughts on that match and wondering if you're going to be watching.  7:30 tomorrow night.  You may be at dinner.  Give us the rundown.  I've got to call that match.  I'll take any tips you've got on it.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Are you inviting me to come to the commentary box with you?   
 Q.  You're more than welcome any time.  High time we have someone who knows what they're talking about in there.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I won't take the spot from Lleyton.  Lleyton is somewhere around.  Yeah.  Lleyton is doing much better job than I would.   
 Q.  He's doing a great job.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, absolutely.  Do you want to get couple of chairs and we have a seat, have a drink?   
 Q.  I have nowhere to go.  You've got things to do.  I will stay here as long as you want.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: What did you ask me?  Oh, Nadal.   
Yeah, I mean, obviously Stefanos is one of the leaders of the next generation, and, you know, he's had some outstanding tennis during this tournament, especially against Roger.   
That was one of the really best quality tennis matches that I have seen here over the years, and, you know, credit to him for playing so maturely and so well under pressure.  It's never easy playing the greatest player of all time, playing him on this court where he has won many times.  So credit to Stefanos for getting to semifinals.   
Considering how he's playing, I'm not really surprised he's in semis.  He's been playing some terrific tennis in the last 12 months.   
Oh, my God, I have been talking a lot.   
 Q.  It's almost longer than the match.  (Laughter.)  
 A. Yes.  Nadal.  Good forehand.  A lot of spin.  Yes.  Very good serve.  Great movement.  Amazing backhand.  Great volleys.  He's just too good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT