ROLAND GARROS
October 1, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/R. Berankis
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. We have seen a lot of underarm shots more and more.  I want to have your opinion on whether or not this is a disrespectful shot.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I saw what Nadal said about it, and I agree 100% with him.  So I don't want to repeat his statement.  If you see his statement, I agree every word he said.
Q. Today you recorded your 70th victory at Roland Garros.  You are now tied with Federer on the second place behind Nadal.  You are also the second man with Federer to win 70 matches at every slam.  Wonder what this means to you.  Could you just say a few words about it.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, Grand Slams are obviously the biggest tournaments in our sport.  Historically, you know, they count the most.  So of course winning that many matches on each slam is a great achievement, and of course it makes me proud, makes me happy.
I always aim to play my best tennis in Grand Slams.  I think Federer, Nadal, the biggest players in the last 10, 15 years, aim to always play their best in slams.  So, you know, playing a Grand Slam and best-of-five is the only tournament where we basically play best-of-five.  Over the two weeks it takes a lot of energy and effort to invest into winning a Grand Slam.
Obviously those records are great.  I mean, they don't, so to say, determine my day in terms of how I feel on the court, if I broke the record for most matches won on slam or not, but of course it's nice to hear.  It's kind of a confirmation for me that, you know, I have been able to play my best tennis throughout my career on the biggest tournaments.
Q. While reflecting on the events of the past, you said for you it's a time to rise and a time to grow.  We all have ups and downs.  Could you reflect on that comment.  How do you think you have grown from the events?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You have to repeat the first part of the question.  I heard everything you said but rise and grow from which event?  Sorry.
Q. You said that when reflecting on the past events that you had gone through in New York and before that it is now a time for you to rise and to grow.  And that was the basis of my question, of what did you mean by that and how have you grown from these experiences?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I feel like it's always time to rise and to grow.  I mean, at least I have that kind of mindset.  Especially, you know, if you are experiencing certain hard moments, you know, in your career and in your life, whatever it is, professionally or privately, that's when you get challenged the most and that's where, you know, those circumstances can either make you stronger or can break you down even more.
So that's what I meant, basically.  You know, after New York I had a tournament the week after, so it was a great opportunity for me to get out on the match court and try to feel better, you know, and not have that kind of a negative trace that I took from New York and not let it distract me or bother me.
You know, I got over it fully.
Q. You will face Daniel Galan on third round.  He's a Columbian guy, playing his first major at Paris.  Do you know anything about him?  What can you tell us?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know much about him, to be honest.  I have never seen him play, so I'll have to obviously look at his matches, the videos, and try to prepare myself with my team.
You know, I know he played qualifications here, so he's got quite a lot of matches already in these conditions, which definitely helps.  It's going to be the first time that we get to face each other.  He doesn't have much to lose.  We will most likely play on Chatrier or Suzanne Lenglen, which probably will be his first match on the big courts.
It's always dangerous facing opponents you never face before.  On the big stadium they can really relax and play their best tennis of their lives or it can go a different way.
I have to be alert and prepare myself well.
Q. Just talking about somebody you have never played before or seen before, it's all fine to be able to try and track something on YouTube, et cetera, but it's never the same as actually being on court.  So how long might it take you to get a grasp of what their weaknesses are when you've actually got into a match and understand what to do against them?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It depends really.  Sometimes it just takes few games.  Sometimes it takes maybe a set or few sets.
It depends really.  Depends how you feel, whether you're comfortable, confident on a given day, that you're striking the ball well.  Obviously I don't rely solely on the preparation for my opponent, but on execution primarily of the game that I really want to execute well from my side.
But yes, you're right.  When you actually start hitting the ball against each other and playing some points, you get a sense of I guess the depth of his shots, the speed, the spin, his movement.  You know, you have to get on the court in order to experience that.
So I think the experience that I have in my career of playing so long and so many matches and being in this kind of particular situation too many times before I think helps adjust myself very quickly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT