QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 4, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/N. Djokovic   
3-6, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in English.   
 Q.  Can you talk a bit about the match?  How were you feeling?  Were you tired?  What happened?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, what happened, I lost the match.  That's it.  He managed to turn things around, obviously at the end of the second set.  I thought I was pretty much in control of the match, set and a break, serving 4-3.  He played a good game.  I missed some easy balls and that's what you get as a result of losing the focus in the most important moments and it happens, it happens.   
I want to congratulate him.  Especially in the third set he played well.  I thought he was hitting the ball very clean and not making a lot of errors.   
 Q.  Do you think you played too many matches this week?  Were you tired this evening?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I wasn't the freshest, you know.  This is what I was looking forward to, to get from this tournament, as many matches as possible, to get ready for the Australian Open, so I'm very pleased.   
Obviously, I'm not pleased that I lost the match today, but I lost to a better player in the end and I have to turn the next page.   
 Q.  It's your first tournament of the year, do you think need more training, more competition to be at your best?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I'm fine.   
 Q.  You lost - you are an emotional player and yesterday you said was an emotional match and you lost with your brother.  Does some of that stay on with you when you go on to the court, or are you able to put that out and go and play another match today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, it was a tough tournament for me, considering the amount of matches I played, both singles and doubles.  Playing with my brother is a pleasure but also you care a lot.  I care playing with him more than with anybody else, so that's why it took a lot out of me emotionally.  I don't think it affected me negatively too much prior to this match.   
As I said, I was very close to winning the match.  A few points decided the winner.  He was the one.   
 Q.  Next it's the Australian Open.  What is your goal for this tournament after this week?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: A trophy.   
THE MODERATOR: Anymore English questions?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Why, do you think after this week I don't deserve to be contender for trophy?  You said even after this week.  I don't understand that comment.   
(Response indiscernible).   
Sorry?   
(Response indiscernible).   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You asked me what my goal is and it's a trophy.  Thank you.   
(Questions in Serbian).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT