ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 3, 2018
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/R. Federer
7-6, 5-7, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. You had a few matches against Federer over the years but where does that one rank?  And second part of the question, did you see his shot, off-balance volley?  I mean, quite extraordinary.  So if you could comment on both of those.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we had epic matches throughout our rivalry but this one definitely ranks as one of the best matches we played.  High quality tennis.  Next to the match I played against Nadal in semis of Wimbledon, this was definitely the most exciting match I was playing this year, and probably the best quality tennis match that I was part of.
So it was kind of also expected, you know, because when I get to play Roger, I know I have to get the best out of myself in order to win.  And that's why our rivalries and matches are so special.
I saw his shot and then I just actually met someone from ATP to ask what, you know, because I wasn't clear on the rule.  And everything was clean even though he hit it twice, but it was in one motion so the rule approves it.  So yeah, it was quite a shot on a break point.
Q. Quick turnaround for the final.  Completely different player to play.  How do you see that one and how do you recover for tomorrow?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I've been in worse situations, I think, in terms of the time between the matches and the way I felt.  You know, of course it's been three hours of really intense match, and so it did take some energy out of me.  But, you know, I know myself.  I know I can recover and I'll make sure I do.
Q. [Off microphone.]
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.  Karen deserves to be where he is in the finals.  Except for one of his matches, he won all of them in straight sets and he's first time in the finals of Masters.  He's been playing some really good tennis.  Very solid from back of the court.  Very strong.  Great serve.
Just I think this is the best that I have seen him play ever match to match.  So I'm sure he's going to be very motivated tomorrow to win the title.  He has nothing to lose.  And I expect an exciting final.
Q. You had a lot on your forehand today and especially on the deuce side.  You seemed to struggle a bit more than usual.  Was it just because of his quality of serve?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, the quality of his serve tonight was quite amazing, to be honest.  You know, his serve was always his weapon.  But, you know, tonight he was just hitting the spots beautifully.  He was mixing it up.
And, yeah, I mean, even though usually on the return I feel comfortable, but, you know, at times you have matches where just the opponent is on a roll.  He's feeling good.  He's serving well.  There's not much you can do.  Just wait for your opportunities and, when they are presented, you try to capitalize on them.
I just thought maybe I should have done better on his second-serve returns.  I haven't really been hitting the return on his second serve as clean as I usually do.  But, again, credit to him.  He served well.  He played well.
Q. How much of that win was also kind of a mental victory because you saved 12 break points as you say?  And also you had that 15-40 when you smashed your racket because he saved those two break points right near the end?  How much of it was a mental victory?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Hasn't happened too many times that I don't break a serve of anyone that I get to play against, especially if I have 12 break points.  You know, most of the break points he just served well.  And he just played great shots.
I thought there were a couple of points where I was in the point and where, you know, also couple of really lucky shots that he played and let calls.  So it happens.  It happens.
Again, credit to him.  You always expect him to come up with the best shots when it matters.  That's why he is who he is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT