ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 4, 2018
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. KHACHANOV/N. Djokovic   
7-5, 6-4   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  It was a tough match this final.  Did you recover well from the semifinals, from the three hours?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I didn't unfortunately.  But I don't want to talk about that.  I want to talk about how well he played all week and, you know, absolutely deserved to win the match today.   
So all the credit to him.  He deserves it.  He's a young player up and coming.  But already established player, top player.  And he showed great quality today and he showed why we're going to see a lot of him in the future.   
 Q.  Which part of his game did you find particularly troubling?  He's a big guy but he moves quickly and also those two-handed backhands landing at your feet.  Which part of his game was particularly troubling?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He was playing big from the back of the court.  Flat backhands and forehand.  He can really hurt you.  That's a big weapon.  And serve.  I mean, serve is really, really strong and precise.  So his overall game was really, really great all week.   
 Q.  Do you think the 3-1 game in the first set could have changed the momentum?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it could have.  But you know, I make a couple of unforced errors and just played a bad game.  And unfortunately, I just didn't have that little extra I think activation on the shots that I needed, you know, that I had all week.  And, you know, that's what was lacking tonight for me.   
 Q.  How do you look back on a week like this?  You obviously had an amazing match yesterday.  Beat Cilic while you were sick.  Can you be satisfied?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I'm satisfied of course and I'm going to be No. 1 tomorrow officially.  And what more can I ask for?  I mean, I won 20-plus matches in a row and had a most amazing last five months of the year.   
So I'm getting into season finale with a lot of confidence and feeling good about my game.  Hopefully health-wise, physically I'll be fine in a week time when it all starts in London.   
 Q.  Unfortunately you couldn't recover.  Some of that was emotional.  Because it must have been extremely draining that match emotionally and psychologically.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Karen played really well and he deserved to win that match.   
 Q.  Over the next couple of days, hopefully you will be fit enough, have you already decided you are not going to be playing tennis for two or three days?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, now it's recovery time half of the week and half of the week training.  So that's how it used to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT